October 2, 2020||Chennai||Remembering Gandhi: Madras & the Mahatma||Gandhiji’s visits to Madras not only changed his political pathway, but also shook the city from the slumber of its British loyalty. The first time he visited Madras was in 1896. He wasn’t the Mahatma yet. He was quite a spendthrift back then and splurged on laundry, shopping, hotels and meals. In fact, he would have spent more money on his first trip to Madras than the other 13 trips to the city put together. He had also watched a play on King Harishchandra at the Victoria Public Hall, but its playwright Pammal Sambandha Mudaliar did not even mention it in his autobiography. Maybe because it was not a special show and Gandhiji, in 1915, was not the Mahatma. Gandhiji was very particular about the ideals he had chosen for himself. That was evident on many occasions during his visits to the city. In 1916, the students of the Victoria Hostel requested him to visit their premises and he agreed on one condition — he would come at 4.30am, before dawn. He had a crammed schedule and the students gladly agreed. Another incident pertains to when he was invited to the Cosmopolitan Club in 1925. Even today, the club follows a very strict dress code. Gandhiji insisted that he would come in his usual attire — clad in a dhoti, bare-chested. The then president of the club, Theagaraya Chetty (T Nagar is named after him), boycotted the function. Later, the club installed a bust of Gandhiji and an oil painting to commemorate his visit. In the 1930s, he visited Royapuram to inaugurate a reading room on the first floor of a building. The crowd blocked the staircase just to get a glimpse of him. Finally, Gandhiji had to sit on a chair, which was then lifted using ropes to the first floor. The people of Madras loved him. However, opposition, too, came his way once. Gandhiji was once released early from Yerawada Prison. He said he would not do any political activity till his proposed date of release, considering he was supposed to be still in jail. But he made a Harijan emancipation visit to Madras in 1933. Freedom fighters were angry as there was an overwhelming crowd and he was talking only about social issues. He was shown placards that read ‘Go back, Gandhiji’. Even the walls were full of such slogans for the first time. Interestingly, Gandhiji also had a family connection with the city. He sent his son Devdas to Madras to serve as a Hindi pracharak. Devdas fell in love with a local girl by the name Lakshmi, who was Rajaji’s daughter, and he married her. One of his closest friends in Madras was GA Natesan. Even before the latter met Gandhiji, he wrote a book on him in 1910. As Gandhiji was not hostile to the British at that point, the then Madras governor, Lord Ampthill, wrote its foreword. Another friend of Gandhiji was Srinivasa Sastri, who helped him edit his autobiography, The Story Of My Experiments With Truth. Gandhiji would call Srinivasa Sastri, ‘Anna’. During his last visit, Gandhiji boarded a bus in T Nagar, much to the surprise of the staff and other passengers. Another incident that left a mark during this visit was when he refused to speak in English, saying “I reserve my English for Englishmen”. He didn’t even allow a translator for his Hindi speech. When Gandhiji died, there was a flurry of activities to pay tribute to him. Someone even suggested naming the city as Gandhijipattinam, another group suggested renaming Ripon Building and the beach road after him. Incidentally, Gandhi Nagar in Adyar was established and named after him just a week before his assassination. By Venkatesh Ramakrishnan(The writer is a historian and a novelist)Picture credit: National Gandhi Museum, New Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/remembering-gandhi-madras-the-mahatma/articleshow/78430664.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Delhi high court refers Anwar to AIFF’s medical panel||PANAJI: The Delhi High Court has asked the All India Football Federation (AIFF) to convene a meeting of its medical committee and give Anwar Ali a fair hearing. Anwar has been diagnosed with a rare condition known as apical hypercardio myopathy (HCM). The diagnosis was made last year when he moved from Indian Arrows to Mumbai City FC in the Indian Super League (ISL). The defender who played every minute of India’s campaign in the Fifa U-17 World Cup 2017 joined Mohammedan Sporting last month but was stopped by AIFF from training on September 7. He has since taken the federation to court over his right to play. “The judge said it’s a prima facie opinion. It should go back to the (medical) committee. The committee will decide. Anwar has the liberty to bring all the video evidence, testimonies, reports of any doctor who has cleared him to play,” Anwar’s lawyer, Amitabh Tewari, told TOI on Thursday. The AIFF is expected to convene a meeting of its medical committee led by Dr Vece Paes next week. Anwar had first refused to attend the hearing after being provided with a four-hour notice. The AIFF later asked him to choose a date and time for the hearing which he ignored. “The AIFF has to convene a meeting before October 11 and give Anwar a fair hearing. The committee has to consider the evidence he produces and then take a decision,” said Tewari. The 20-year-old defender who played every minute of India’s campaign at the Fifa U-17 World Cup 2017 has joined Mohammedan Sporting but it was not clear whether he would have any role to play in the upcoming I-League qualifiers to be played between October 8 and October 19. Anwar wanted to join the bio-secure bubble and start training so that he does not lag behind, if the medical committee gives the go ahead. However, the court has left that decision to his club. “We said if we are cleared to play, it will be difficult to enter the bio-bubble again. The court has no issues; that is between the player and the club. If the club feels, he can come back,” said Tewari. Asked if Anwar can start training with Mohammedan Sporting, his lawyer said although the order – not public yet – was open to interpretation, it wouldn’t be “advisable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-high-court-refers-anwar-to-aiffs-medical-panel/articleshow/78435286.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 2, 2020||World||WikiLeaks' Assange won't get US extradition ruling this year||LONDON: WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will likely spend the rest of 2020 inside a British prison cell before finding out whether he can be sent to the United States to face espionage charges, the judge in his extradition hearing said Thursday. After hearing nearly four weeks of evidence at London's Old Bailey courthouse, District Judge Vanessa Baraitser said she would deliver her decision on whether to grant a US extradition request for Assange at 10 a.m. on Jan. 4. Assange is fighting extradition. The judge's ruling won't necessarily end the proceedings. Whichever side loses is expected to appeal. There's also the possibility of a change in US policy should Joe Biden defeat President Donald Trump in the Nov. 3 US presidential election. ``Unless any further application for bail is made, and between now and the 4th of January, you will remain in custody for the same reasons as have been given to you before,'' Baraitser told Assange, who was sitting behind a security screen at the back of the hearing courtroom. The judge previously denied Assange bail over fears he is a flight risk. Assange jumped bail in 2012 when he sought asylum at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London, where he stayed for seven years before being evicted and arrested. He has been in custody at Belmarsh prison in London since April 2019 and is expected to appear in court via video link every 28 days between now and the Jan. 4 ruling. US prosecutors have indicted the 49-year-old Assange on 17 espionage charges and one charge of computer misuse over WikiLeaks' publication of secret American military documents a decade ago largely relating to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Following the adjournment on Thursday, Stella Moris, Assange's fiancee and the mother of his two young children, said, ``Julian and I would like to thank everyone for the kindness that has been shown over the past few weeks.'' ``It's a fight for Julian's life, a fight for press freedom and a fight for the truth,'' Moris said outside the court. Now that lawyers have finished presenting evidence, Assange's defense team has asked for another four weeks to submit its closing argument. That will be followed two weeks later by the closing argument of the lawyers prosecuting on behalf of the US government. The judge has an abundance of evidence to trawl through in a hearing that was delayed by the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. Except for an early virus exposure scare and occasional outbursts from the usually face-masked Assange, the hearing proceeded smoothly. The charges against Assange carry a maximum sentence of 175 years in prison. Lawyers acting on behalf of the US government say Assange committed serious crimes that put people's lives in danger, allegations his fiancee disputed. ``Under oath, the prosecution concedes that it has no evidence that a single person has ever come to any physical harm because of these publications,'' Moris said. ``Let me repeat that: there is no evidence that a single person has ever come to any physical harm because of these publications.'' Assange's defense team argued he is entitled to First Amendment protections for the publication of leaked documents that exposed US military wrongdoing and that the extradition request was politically motivated. The London court heard from an array of witnesses, who pronounced on issues of huge importance and substance, such as the freedom of the press and government-sanctioned torture. ``Julian Assange actions, which have been characterized as criminal, are actions that expose power to sunlight,`` renowned US linguist and scholar Noam Chomsky said. Other witnesses relayed more shadowy _ and sometimes comic _ matters of intrigue during his time at WikiLeaks and at the Ecuadorian Embassy, According to one witness, Assange ``binge-watched'' the suicide of the former Bosnian Croat general, Slobodan Praljak, at a UN court three years ago. Defense lawyers said Assange was suffering from wide-ranging mental health issues, including suicidal tendencies, that could be exacerbated if he is placed in inhospitable prison conditions in the US. They said Assange's mental health deteriorated while he took asylum inside the embassy and that he was diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder. His legal team argued that Assange would very likely face solitary confinement in the US immediately that would put him at a heightened risk of suicide. They also said that if convicted, Assange would most likely be sent to the notorious ADX Supermax prison in Colorado, a facility labeled by a former warden as a ``fate worse than death'' and inhabited by the likes of Unabomber Ted Kaczynski and Mexican drug lord Joaquin ``El Chapo'' Guzman. Lawyers acting on behalf of the US government argued that Assange's mental state was not as poor as described and said he wouldn't be subject to improper conditions before or after any trial. Assange has attracted the support of high-profile figures, including actress Pamela Anderson and rapper M.I.A. The dissident Chinese contemporary artist Ai Weiwei also staged a silent protest outside the court. Daniel Ellsberg, perhaps the most famous whistleblower in living memory, argued that they had ``very comparable political opinions.'' The 89-year-old, widely credited for helping to bring about an end to the Vietnam War through his leaking of the so-called Pentagon Papers in 1971, said the American public ``needed urgently to know what was being done routinely in their name, and there was no other way for them to learn it than by unauthorized disclosure.'' There are clear echoes between Assange and Ellsberg, who leaked over 7,000 pages of classified documents to the press, including The New York Times and The Washington Post. He was subsequently put on trial on 12 charges in connection with violations of the Espionage Act, which were punishable by up to 115 years in prison. The charges were dismissed in 1973 because of government misconduct against him. Assange will be hoping that developments within the US government over the coming weeks will lead to a similar outcome for him before any judgment from the London court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/wikileaks-assange-wont-get-us-extradition-ruling-this-year/articleshow/78435930.cms||---
October 2, 2020||India||SAD leaders Sukhbir Badal, Harsimrat, briefly detained while marching to meet Punjab guv over farm laws||CHANDIGARH: SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Prem Singh Chandumajra and other senior Akali leaders were detained by the Chandigarh police on Thursday night while they were going towards the residence of the Punjab governor to protest the contentious new agri laws. The police even used water cannons and resorted to cane charge to disperse the Akalis at the Chandigarh-Mullanpur and Chandigarh-Zirakpur borders, party leaders said. There was heavy police deployment, including jawans of the Rapid Action Force, along the two borders. Barricades were put up to stop the Akalis going towards Chandigarh. The SAD leaders wanted to hand over a memorandum to Governor V P Singh Badnore, seeking revocation of the three new farm laws. The Chandigarh administration had imposed Section 144 of CrPC, banning assembly of five and more people at one place. The police wanted only a few leaders to meet the Punjab governor to submit the memorandum but the SAD leadership demanded that all Akali members be allowed. "We detained them (Akali leaders) for a brief period and they were later released," Chandigarh Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Chahal said. Among the leaders who were detained were Bikram Singh Majithia, Parambans Singh Romana, Daljit Singh Cheema, Manjinder Singh Sirsa and a few others. Sukhbir Singh Badal was leading a 'Kisan march' from the Akal Takht in Amritsar, while Harsimrat Kaur Badal was leading another procession from Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda. A third procession was led by senior Akali leaders Prem Singh Chandumajra and Daljit Singh Cheema from Takht Keshgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib. The march led by Sukhbir Badal was joined by the one led by Bikram Singh Majithia, Chandumajra, Jagir Kaur and Cheema and it reached the Chandigarh-Mullanpur border at around 9:30 pm. From there, the police took Sukhbir Badal, Majithia, Chandumajra and Jagir Kaur into preventive custody as they tried to enter Chandigarh. "We wanted to hand over a memorandum to the governor but it is sad he did not meet us. We were lathi-charged which we strongly condemn. It is an injustice. They tried to suppress the voice of farmers," Sukhbir Badal said. The procession led by Harsimrat Kaur reached the Chandigarh-Zirakpur around 8 pm. When the police stopped the Akalis from going towards Chandigarh, Harsimrat Badal and MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder sat on a dharna on the road. They were later detained by the police. The Akali leadership was taken to the Chandigarh sector 17 police station and released around 10:45 pm. Meanwhile, Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal strongly condemned the use of force on "peaceful" Akalis by the Chandigarh Police and said that the "brutal" lathicharge made this a "painful and dark day" for democracy in the country's history. Last week, the SAD had announced to part ways with the NDA, the third major party to walk out of the BJP-led coalition in the last couple of years. On September 17, Harsimrat Kaur Badal had quit the Union Cabinet after the SAD chief strongly opposed the farm bills in Lok Sabha, claiming the legislations will "destroy" the agriculture sector in Punjab. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to the three contentious bills -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sad-leaders-sukhbir-badal-harsimrat-briefly-detained-while-marching-to-meet-punjab-guv-over-farm-laws/articleshow/78436782.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Al fresco dining, live music, fewer tables: City restobars prep for festive biz||Hitting the dance floor with friends, chilling at the bar with buddies over a drink or partying till wee hours seem to be a thing of the past. With Covid-19 cases on the rise, most people are still hesitant about heading to a restopub to unwind — with or without liquor. Meanwhile, the remaining few are opting for open-air restopubs over closed spaces with air-condition. However, bars and restopub owners are hopeful that footfall will increase during the festive week. No compromise on sanitisationSo what if the turnout is poor right now, city pubs are pulling out all stops to amp up the sanitisation on their premises. Amlan Chowdhury, owner of Club Barocks, said, “There’s temperature check with sanitisation at the entry point and no one is allowed to enter without masks. Staff members are also wearing masks, gloves and face shields. The cutlery is sanitised, sealed airtight and then kept on the tables. They are replaced again before the next guest arrives. We have reduced our capacity so that proper spacing of the tables can be done for guest satisfaction. The new peak hoursWith professionals from IT sectors and various other fields still following the WFH module, many restopubs in Salt Lake Sector V, central or south Kolkata are missing their regular patrons. Samim SK, head of operations, Refinery 091 at Salt Lake Sector V, said, “We do not see a decent turnout at our pub during lunch hours since IT employees are working from home now. However, evenings are better. The prime time for revellers is between 6 pm and 10 pm now.” Some restopubs have seen business meetings or corporate lunches taking place after the permission to serve liquor was granted. Kamalesh Roy, a businessman, said, “I recently went to The Grid to meet some of my clients over lunch. Even on a weekday, the place was moderately full. There was no compromise on sanitisation, food or beverage quality.” When asked, Tanmoy Roy, the manager of the restopub, added, “As per guidelines from the government, there’s no DJ playing in the restopub, so we are playing jazz numbers on our music system. In the evenings, we witness small groups or couples.” On the other hand, Levels - The Club, at Salt Lake Sector V, is wearing a deserted look as revellers are not turning up much. “Presently the growth in sales is very slow as most of the offices in this area are shut. I am being very optimistic about Durga Puja for a turnaround,” said Subramanyam, the owner. Thumbs up for rooftop venuesKeeping in mind the risk of crowding in enclosed spaces, rooftop restopubs are the go-to options for Kolkatans now. Pratiti Banerjee, an HR professional, who visited WhatsUp! Café recently, said, “After being confined at home for over six months, the re-opening of pubs was definitely exciting news. Although we were a little sceptical, we felt safe with the arrangements. Since it is a rooftop pub and quite spacious, tables have been reduced in number. Sanitisers are placed on the table too. The cutlery was given to us in vacuumed sealed packs and was disposable.” The live music performances at this al fresco pub is on hold temporarily, though plans are afoot to start them soon. “We have a meeting with local authorities this week to discuss permissions and guidelines. Once we get permission, we will start our live gigs soon. But unlike before, we will stick to solo or duo performers instead of a full band in action,” said Anirban Sengupta, partner, What'sUp! Café. Filmmaker Satrajit Sen, who is one of the partners of the newly opened alfresco restopub, Café Offbeat Up There, feels that there are a lot of advantages of starting a rooftop pub right now. He said, “We had plans to open it last year, but couldn't. Covid-19 made everyone innovate and we just went ahead with a DIY theme and threw it open just a few days back, primarily to help ourselves get over the depression of this pandemic.” Pandal hopping Vs pubbingWith festive spirit already in the air, most people are not in the mood to stay at home. Though Akshat Chaubey, a resident of Beliaghata, is not willing to head to any restopub now, he wants to visit one during the Pujas. He said, “This year, I will not go pandal-hopping much. I’d rather spend the Pujas doing house parties with friends or go to a restopub in Salt Lake, Sector V. But I am in two minds, as the pubs might be overcrowded during Pujas.” Hopeful pub ownersRestopub owners are hopeful that the upcoming festive season will help them make up for the losses incurred during the lockdown. Anirudh Poddar, co-founder of Truly Publik, said, “People are now taking the pandemic as part of their lives. Once the festive season is at its peak, we are hoping that the business will look up too. Due to certain restrictions, we can’t have live band performances and even the dance floor is not operational. So, guests are few as of now.” Another reveller, Shabnam, who recently visited Five Mad Men at Salt Lake, Sector V with her friends, told us, “I loved the ambience of the place. Since the restopub is spacious, social distancing wasn’t an issue. The dance floor is not operational now, but the music they played was groovy. I also plan to come here during Durga Puja.” Five Mad Men also used to host live gigs every week before the pandemic. Talking about plans of resuming live shows, Sourav Sinha, one of the owners, said, “There are a lot of guidelines that one needs to keep in mind now. We hope to start live gigs again during Pujas. For the time being, we are playing upbeat music for our patrons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/al-fresco-dining-live-music-fewer-tables-city-restobars-prep-for-festive-biz/articleshow/78422810.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
October 2, 2020||---||Cong decides to field 7 sitting MLAs in Bihar polls||NEW DELHI: The Congress screening committee for Bihar held its first meeting on Thursday and decided to field seven sitting MLAs in the upcoming assembly polls, sources said. The Congress on Wednesday had held internal discussions over the distribution of party tickets and sharing of seats other parties. Among those who participated in the meeting included the chairman of the screening committee Avinash Pande, AICC in-charge for Bihar Shakti Sinh Gohil, Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha and CLP leader in Bihar Sadanand Singh. The party had called its Bihar unit chief and the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) to Delhi on Wednesday. The notification for 71 seats going to polls in the first phase of Bihar Assembly elections was issued on Thursday. The first phase of elections will be held on October 28, with the second on November 3 and the last phase on November 7. The counting of votes will be held on November 7. The seat-sharing agreement in Grand Alliance is held up amid differences between the main constituents RJD and Congress. The two parties have failed to reach an understanding on allotment of seats among partners. Sources say the differences between the major partners RJD and the Congress is getting wider. The Congress is contesting the Bihar polls as part of the 'Mahagathbandhan' with the RJD, Left parties and some smaller state parties. The three-phase assembly election in Bihar will start on October 28 and end on November 7, with the results to be declared on November 10. The sources said the seat-sharing arrangement is not being worked out as the RJD, which is the bigger partner in the alliance, is not ready to offer more than 55 seats to the Congress, which wants to contest on 75 seats out of a total of 243. The sources said the Congress, being a national party, is keen to contest on at least 70 seats and talks are on with the RJD leadership. The Congress had contested the last assembly polls in 2015 in Bihar as part of the Mahagathbandhan with the RJD and the JDU. While the Congress got 41 seats as part of the seat-sharing arrangement in 2015, the RJD and the JDU contested on 101 seats each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/cong-decides-to-field-7-sitting-mlas-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/78437357.cms||---
October 2, 2020||World||Biden campaign to start in-person voter outreach as US election nears||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden's campaign said on Thursday it would launch an in-person voter-canvassing operation in several battleground states, shifting tactics in the final weeks of a race upended by the coronavirus pandemic. Some of Biden's Democratic allies have expressed concern the campaign has been too cautious about getting boots on the ground for voter mobilization in the states that will decide the Nov. 3 election. The campaign had put safety first in light of the pandemic, choosing to forgo door-knocking in favor of remote contacts even though President Donald Trump's campaign has been running an extensive in-person effort. But in coming days, the Biden team will send several hundred volunteers to Nevada, Michigan, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania to focus on contacting voters who may be difficult to reach by phone or computer, with plans to expand the effort to more states ahead of the election. "We’re now expanding on our strategy in a targeted way that puts the safety of communities first and foremost and helps us mobilize voters who are harder to reach by phone now that we're in the final stretch," said Biden’s campaign manager, Jen O’Malley Dillon, who had dismissed criticism of Democratic field organizing. Democratic allies worried the lack of an in-person ground game could be a misstep given the close margins in several battleground states that helped the Republican Trump narrowly defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016. " Trump's running a full-blown get-out-the-damn-vote operation and the Democrats are doing a virtual get-out-the-vote effort by Zoom," said Brad Crone, an independent political consultant in North Carolina. "There's a world of difference." Some Biden supporters in Florida – a huge prize with 29 electoral votes – also have been uneasy about the campaign's quiet presence there, particularly with recent polling in the state showing Trump making gains with crucial Latino voting groups. On his first campaign trip of the year to the state last month, Biden barely interacted with voters. "We need to door-knock," said Jose Parra, a Florida-based strategist who heads the Hispanic-focused communications group Prospero Latino. "Even if it only manages to move 10,000 votes, that could be the difference in a state as close as Florida." Both Florida and North Carolina are among states that will see an expanded voter-canvassing operation in coming weeks, according to a person familiar with the matter. RAMPING UP SCHEDULE The Biden campaign maintained that its remote outreach was engaging voters and had already resumed dropping pamphlets at homes. Biden has consistently led Trump in national opinion polls, although the race is closer in the battleground states. Other indicators show Biden and Democrats generating momentum as voters begin to cast early and mail-in ballots. A Reuters/Ipsos poll in late September found 82% of registered Democrats and 81% of registered Republicans were "completely certain" they would vote, eliminating a traditional enthusiasm gap favoring Republicans. Spurred by opposition to Trump, a record-breaking surge of fundraising by Biden has also buoyed Democratic hopes for November. In August, Biden and the national Democratic Party outraised Trump and the Republicans by $364.5 million to $210 million, translating into a blitz of television advertising. Biden has begun to crank up his campaign schedule. The former vice president last week made his first trip of the general election to North Carolina, where polls show a dead heat with Trump, who racked up five visits there in a month's time between late August and late September. Biden and his wife, Jill, took a train trip through Ohio and western Pennsylvania on Wednesday after the debate in Cleveland, the kind of multi-stop battleground-state tour that some of his backers had pushed. Trump’s campaign, which for months has knocked on doors and hosted large rallies, often over the objections of local elected officials and public health experts, said its rival's efforts were too little, too late. "You can’t just parachute in a month before the election and hope to make up ground," Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/biden-campaign-to-start-in-person-voter-outreach-as-us-election-nears/articleshow/78438576.cms||---
October 2, 2020||World||Biden campaign to start in-person voter outreach as US election nears||Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden's campaign said on Thursday it would launch an in-person voter-canvassing operation in several battleground states, shifting tactics in the final weeks of a race upended by the coronavirus pandemic. Some of Biden's Democratic allies have expressed concern the campaign has been too cautious about getting boots on the ground for voter mobilization in the states that will decide the Nov. 3 election. The campaign had put safety first in light of the pandemic, choosing to forgo door-knocking in favor of remote contacts even though President Donald Trump's campaign has been running an extensive in-person effort. But in coming days, the Biden team will send several hundred volunteers to Nevada, Michigan, New Hampshire and Pennsylvania to focus on contacting voters who may be difficult to reach by phone or computer, with plans to expand the effort to more states ahead of the election. "We’re now expanding on our strategy in a targeted way that puts the safety of communities first and foremost and helps us mobilize voters who are harder to reach by phone now that we're in the final stretch," said Biden’s campaign manager, Jen O’Malley Dillon, who had dismissed criticism of Democratic field organizing. Democratic allies worried the lack of an in-person ground game could be a misstep given the close margins in several battleground states that helped the Republican Trump narrowly defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016. " Trump's running a full-blown get-out-the-damn-vote operation and the Democrats are doing a virtual get-out-the-vote effort by Zoom," said Brad Crone, an independent political consultant in North Carolina. "There's a world of difference." Some Biden supporters in Florida – a huge prize with 29 electoral votes – also have been uneasy about the campaign's quiet presence there, particularly with recent polling in the state showing Trump making gains with crucial Latino voting groups. On his first campaign trip of the year to the state last month, Biden barely interacted with voters. "We need to door-knock," said Jose Parra, a Florida-based strategist who heads the Hispanic-focused communications group Prospero Latino. "Even if it only manages to move 10,000 votes, that could be the difference in a state as close as Florida." Both Florida and North Carolina are among states that will see an expanded voter-canvassing operation in coming weeks, according to a person familiar with the matter. RAMPING UP SCHEDULE The Biden campaign maintained that its remote outreach was engaging voters and had already resumed dropping pamphlets at homes. Biden has consistently led Trump in national opinion polls, although the race is closer in the battleground states. Other indicators show Biden and Democrats generating momentum as voters begin to cast early and mail-in ballots. A Reuters/Ipsos poll in late September found 82% of registered Democrats and 81% of registered Republicans were "completely certain" they would vote, eliminating a traditional enthusiasm gap favoring Republicans. Spurred by opposition to Trump, a record-breaking surge of fundraising by Biden has also buoyed Democratic hopes for November. In August, Biden and the national Democratic Party outraised Trump and the Republicans by $364.5 million to $210 million, translating into a blitz of television advertising. Biden has begun to crank up his campaign schedule. The former vice president last week made his first trip of the general election to North Carolina, where polls show a dead heat with Trump, who racked up five visits there in a month's time between late August and late September. Biden and his wife, Jill, took a train trip through Ohio and western Pennsylvania on Wednesday after the debate in Cleveland, the kind of multi-stop battleground-state tour that some of his backers had pushed. Trump’s campaign, which for months has knocked on doors and hosted large rallies, often over the objections of local elected officials and public health experts, said its rival's efforts were too little, too late. "You can’t just parachute in a month before the election and hope to make up ground," Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/biden-campaign-to-start-in-person-voter-outreach-as-us-election-nears/articleshow/78438588.cms||---
October 2, 2020||World||Trump cancels Wisconsin rally amid surge in Covid-19 cases||MADISON, WISCONSIN: President Donald Trump canceled a planned appearance in western Wisconsin amid calls from the city's mayor and the state's governor, both Democrats, that he not hold a rally due to a surge in coronavirus cases. The director of the La Crosse airport said the event was canceled due to a lease issue, not concerns over the coronavirus. Wisconsin ranks third among states for per-capita increases in cases over the past two weeks. State health officials reported 2,887 newly confirmed cases on Thursday, a new daily record, along with 21 more deaths. The state has now seen 125,161 cases and 1,348 deaths since the pandemic began. Trump replaced the La Crosse rally with one in Janesville about 175 miles away where the virus is not spreading quite as rapidly. He's also holding a rally Saturday in Green Bay. Both will be outside at airports. Both La Crosse and Green Bay have been identified as a ``red zone'' for community spread of Covid-19 by the White House Coronavirus Task Force. Janesville is not on the list. The coronavirus task force report urged social distancing in ``red zones'' to the ``maximum degree possible.'' Trump rallies typically draw many thousands of people, who crowd closely together, shouting and cheering -- the vast majority without masks. A political rally violated the terms of the La Crosse airport's lease with Colgan Air Service, which planned to host the rally, airport director Ian Turner said. ``The tenant was notified of this, disagreed with the City of La Crosse' position, but opted not to host the event,'' Turner said in a statement. Kelly Colgan Hammen, president of the private air service where the rally was to be held, did not immediately return a message. ``The tenant was notified of this, disagreed with the City of La Crosse' position, but opted not to host the event,'' Turner said in a statement. He did not identify who the tenant was. Trump made a similar move last month, changing his plans for large airport rallies in Nevada after local officials warned they would violate the state's ban on gatherings of more than 50 people. There is no statewide limit on gatherings in Wisconsin after Republicans successfully challenged the Democratic governor's ``safer at home'' order this spring. State and local health officials in Wisconsin urged attendees to follow local guidelines but stopped short of asking Trump not to come. A collaborative of health care organizations in La Crosse, including Gundersen Health System, Mayo Clinic Health System and La Crosse County, recommends that people avoid anyplace where people aren't wearing masks or physical distancing. They also recommend limiting outdoor gatherings to no more than 100 people. ``Masks and physical distancing should be required,'' according to guidance released Wednesday by the health collaborative. ``Venues should consider cancelling or rescheduling any large gatherings planned for the next 14 days.'' As of Thursday, La Crosse County had reported 3,205 cases and three deaths. The state listed the activity level of Covid-19 as ``very high.'' Brown County, where Green Bay is located, has had 9,796 cases and 66 deaths. The number of positive cases over the past two weeks was up 24%, according to the state Department of Health Services. In Rock County, where Janesville is located, virus activity is listed as ``high,`` one level lower than Brown and La Crosse counties. Democratic Gov. Tony Evers said he hoped Trump would cancel his visit to the state. If Trump holds a rally in Wisconsin he should insist his supporters wear masks and not let them in if they refuse, the governor said. ``He can control this,'' Evers said. Wisconsin Republican Party Chairman Andrew Hitt defended the president coming to Wisconsin, saying his supporters get energized by his in-person appearances. ``We're going to take precautions,'' Hitt said. ``We're going to make sure we have masks, we're going to encourage people to wear masks. ... We need to make sure we're open and tell people, `Look if you think you've been exposed please do not come.'''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-cancels-wisconsin-rally-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78438612.cms||---
October 2, 2020||World||Trump cancels Wisconsin rally amid surge in Covid-19 cases||MADISON, WISCONSIN: President Donald Trump canceled a planned appearance in western Wisconsin amid calls from the city's mayor and the state's governor, both Democrats, that he not hold a rally due to a surge in coronavirus cases. The director of the La Crosse airport said the event was canceled due to a lease issue, not concerns over the coronavirus. Wisconsin ranks third among states for per-capita increases in cases over the past two weeks. State health officials reported 2,887 newly confirmed cases on Thursday, a new daily record, along with 21 more deaths. The state has now seen 125,161 cases and 1,348 deaths since the pandemic began. Trump replaced the La Crosse rally with one in Janesville about 175 miles away where the virus is not spreading quite as rapidly. He's also holding a rally Saturday in Green Bay. Both will be outside at airports. Both La Crosse and Green Bay have been identified as a ``red zone'' for community spread of Covid-19 by the White House Coronavirus Task Force. Janesville is not on the list. The coronavirus task force report urged social distancing in ``red zones'' to the ``maximum degree possible.'' Trump rallies typically draw many thousands of people, who crowd closely together, shouting and cheering -- the vast majority without masks. A political rally violated the terms of the La Crosse airport's lease with Colgan Air Service, which planned to host the rally, airport director Ian Turner said. ``The tenant was notified of this, disagreed with the City of La Crosse' position, but opted not to host the event,'' Turner said in a statement. Kelly Colgan Hammen, president of the private air service where the rally was to be held, did not immediately return a message. ``The tenant was notified of this, disagreed with the City of La Crosse' position, but opted not to host the event,'' Turner said in a statement. He did not identify who the tenant was. Trump made a similar move last month, changing his plans for large airport rallies in Nevada after local officials warned they would violate the state's ban on gatherings of more than 50 people. There is no statewide limit on gatherings in Wisconsin after Republicans successfully challenged the Democratic governor's ``safer at home'' order this spring. State and local health officials in Wisconsin urged attendees to follow local guidelines but stopped short of asking Trump not to come. A collaborative of health care organizations in La Crosse, including Gundersen Health System, Mayo Clinic Health System and La Crosse County, recommends that people avoid anyplace where people aren't wearing masks or physical distancing. They also recommend limiting outdoor gatherings to no more than 100 people. ``Masks and physical distancing should be required,'' according to guidance released Wednesday by the health collaborative. ``Venues should consider cancelling or rescheduling any large gatherings planned for the next 14 days.'' As of Thursday, La Crosse County had reported 3,205 cases and three deaths. The state listed the activity level of Covid-19 as ``very high.'' Brown County, where Green Bay is located, has had 9,796 cases and 66 deaths. The number of positive cases over the past two weeks was up 24%, according to the state Department of Health Services. In Rock County, where Janesville is located, virus activity is listed as ``high,`` one level lower than Brown and La Crosse counties. Democratic Gov. Tony Evers said he hoped Trump would cancel his visit to the state. If Trump holds a rally in Wisconsin he should insist his supporters wear masks and not let them in if they refuse, the governor said. ``He can control this,'' Evers said. Wisconsin Republican Party Chairman Andrew Hitt defended the president coming to Wisconsin, saying his supporters get energized by his in-person appearances. ``We're going to take precautions,'' Hitt said. ``We're going to make sure we have masks, we're going to encourage people to wear masks. ... We need to make sure we're open and tell people, `Look if you think you've been exposed please do not come.'''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-cancels-wisconsin-rally-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78438624.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Business||GST collections post first rise after 6 months||NEW DELHI: Goods and services tax (GST) collections grew 4% to Rs 95,000 crore in September — the first rise after six months of decline — indicating a recovery in economic activity. Exports rose 5.3% to $27.4 billion, initial estimates released by the government showed. This is the first increase in exports since February when the value of shipments from India rose 2.9%, indicating a pick-up in demand in Europe and the US. While it is still lower than the pre-Covid monthly average of over Rs 1 lakh crore, the latest numbers show a recovery in collections from domestic sales and imports. “During the month (of September 2020), the revenues from import of goods were 102% and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) were 105 % of the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” an official statement said. Collections in September are for sales and imports in August. While the improvement in collections will help ease the burden on states, the bad news is that compensation cess on luxury and sin goods such as cars, soft drinks, tobacco and coal fell 6.5% to Rs 7,124 crore. The GST Council is due to meet next week to discuss the vexed issue of compensating states for revenue loss as the Centre had promised to cover for all losses if annual collection growth was under 14%. Finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said a record number of 5.7 crore e-way bills were issued in September. “This a very affirmative sign of economic recovery with increased business activities since the lockdown due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic six months back,” he said. Despite the improvement, collections during April-September were still 25% lower. “A modest increase of 4% in the GST collections compared to the previous year indicates that the economic recovery process is underway, with some key large states also reporting increased collections. If the present trend of GST collections continues, we should be hopeful of significant increase in the coming months based on the unlock steps taken in various states and the festival season ahead,” said Deloitte India senior director M S Mani. Numbers from states showed that there was a healthy rise in collections in non-manufacturing states, with Nagaland leading the pack with a 43% jump in September and Jammu and Kashmir growing 30%. Among the so-called more industrialised states, Tamil Nadu and Haryana, saw collections improve 15% each. Sikkim, Goa and several Northeast states also saw double-digit growth. Delhi was among the laggards, with collections dropping 7% in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-collections-post-1st-rise-after-6-months/articleshow/78438733.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Business||PSU banks face Rs 6,000cr Sintex hit||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Public sector banks face a hit of close to Rs 6,000 crore on account of their exposure to Sintex Industries, which has been classified as a fraud by Punjab National Bank (PNB), the largest lender to the company. Although banks have already classified the account as a non-performing asset, they will now have to make full provision for the loan within four quarters, which is the requirement for fraud accounts. PNB on Wednesday had informed the stock exchanges that it has classified a Rs 1,203-crore loan to Sintex Industries (SIL) as a fraud. “A fraud of Rs 1,203 crore is being reported by the bank to the RBI in the accounts of the company (SIL). Bank has already made provisions amounting to Rs 215 crore as per prescribed prudential norms,” the bank said. According to a report by Brickwork Ratings, PNB has the highest exposure of Rs 1,176 crore followed by Bank of Baroda with Rs 649 crore. If the exposure of erstwhile Dena Bank and Vijaya Bank are consolidated, it rises to Rs 949 crore. Union Bank of India has a Rs 371-crore exposure, which rises to Rs 621 crore when loans of erstwhile Andhra Bank (which merged into Union Bank) are added. Bank of India has a Rs 614-crore loan facility, followed by Canara Bank (erstwhile Syndicate Bank) Rs 472 crore, Exim Bank (Rs 416 crore), Punjab & Sind Bank (Rs 333 crore), Central Bank of India (Rs 315 crore), Oriental Bank of Commerce (Rs 300 crore), and Andhra Bank (Rs 250 crore). SBI has a term loan of around Rs 150 crore. Of the private lenders, South Indian Bank has the largest exposure (Rs 250 crore) followed by Karnataka Bank (Rs 100 crore) and IDBI Bank (Rs 92 crore) In June 2019, the company had first defaulted on debt obligations, which were reported to the stock exchanges. In January 2020, SIL had informed the stock exchanges that PNB had filed a petition in the National Company Law Tribunal to initiate an insolvency resolution process for Rs 1,078 crore after the company’s resolution plan under RBI’s June 7, 2019 circular was rejected by lenders. Pending admission of the insolvency petition, the company had submitted yet another resolution plan in August. From May 2019, the company had stopped cooperating with rating agencies, which had classified the borrower as a defaulter. According to the report by Brickwork Ratings on April 17, banks have an exposure of Rs 6,586 crore, of which fund-based exposure was Rs 5,536 crore. In its Q1 result filing, the company reported a loss of Rs 707 crore on revenues of Rs 150 crore. The company said that it has $13.5 million of foreign currency convertible bonds outstanding and has defaulted in interest payment on these bonds. It has also defaulted in repayments of non-convertible debentures amounting to Rs 500 crore. The company has blamed changed industrial dynamics, time and cost overrun in completion of its projects, reduction in subsidies and incentive benefits with delay in disbursements — along with Covid-related disruptions — for the default. According to Brickwork, the company has not been cooperating with rating agencies since 2019. The company, whose name is synonymous with plastic overhead tanks in India, was created after the group demerged businesses into two companies Sintex Industries and Sintex Plastics Technology in 2017. SIL, a Gujarat-based Company, is a leading textile manufacturer. SIL’s textiles division focuses on niche products and specialises in men’s structured shirting for the premium fashion industry. Textiles plants are located in Kalol and Amreli, Gujarat. The promoters and key management persons of the company include.Dinesh B Patel (chairman), Arun P Patel (vice-chairman), Rahul A Patel (MD) and Amit D Patel (MD).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/psu-banks-face-rs-6000cr-sintex-hit/articleshow/78437092.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 2, 2020||Business||No improvement in loan recovery, will focus on capital raising: LVB director||Chennai: Loan recoveries at the private lender Lakshmi Vilas Bank remained subdued with little or no improvement during the second quarter, a senior official said on Thursday, pushing the case for an early merger with Clix Capital. Since its MD and auditors were voted out last week, the RBI has appointed a committee of directors (COD) to run the day to day affairs of the bank. Clix Capital and LVB are in merger talks which have reached the due diligence stage. “We have seen no improvement to the recovery of stressed assets and it will be a poor second quarter for us,” said Shakti Sinha, member of the COD set up by RBI to look after the daily affairs at LVB. On the liabilities side, “About Rs 100 crore of deposits have been withdrawn since Monday (when the COD took charge), which includes encashment of a single withdrawal of Rs 70 crore by a corporate depositor, who had informed us in advance. We do not see any significant movement of withdrawal by individual depositors or from savings bank accounts in the last four days,” Sinha said. Total deposits of the bank were Rs 21,161 crore as of June end. The focus will remain on raising additional capital not just to survive but also to grow. “We want the Clix Capital merger to be wrapped up as soon as possible,” he said. Bad loans or gross non-performing assets (NPA) leaped from 2.8% in 2017 to 15.3% in 2019 to 25.4% in March 2020, and remained at same level of 25.4% in June 2020, while the deposits shrunk from Rs 31,000 crore to Rs 21,000 crore in the same period. On speculations around merger plans with other PSU banks, “We are figuring out the current situation and cannot speculate on such rumors. We want to keep both the management and depositors and shareholders happy.” “Though the tier-1 capital is negative, we have enough capital to take care of our depositors, along with a strong liquidity ratio and capital reserves. Provision requirement stands comfortably at 72,” he added. Its liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) stands comfortably over 250% against the minimum 100 % required by RBI. He added, “Of the total asset base, we estimate less than 15% of existing customers were affected by Covid-19 pandemic and would lead to a restructuring as of September 30, 2020.” Last Friday, irate shareholders of LVB ousted seven directors, including its MD & CEO and auditors at the AGM. On Sunday, the board assured depositors stating that the bank’s liquidity situation was comfortable and assured the depositors that their monies were safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-improvement-in-loan-recovery-will-focus-on-capital-raising-lvb-director/articleshow/78436122.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 2, 2020||Business||Crisil: Outlook worsens for retail, airports||TNN Mumbai: Real estate, airlines, gems & jewellery, hotels, and auto dealers continue to be the most vulnerable segments after six months of the pandemic. Pharmaceuticals, tractors, specialty chemicals renewables and roads are some of the sectors where companies have seen upgrades, according to rating agency Crisil. Meanwhile, retail and airport operators, which have a moderate level of resilience, have seen their outlook worsening in recent months. Crisil on Thursday released its credit ratio (the ratio of companies that are upgraded to those downgraded) for the first half of the current financial year. According to the rating agency, this ratio has slipped to 0.54% — the lowest in over a decade with 269 companies being downgraded as against only 161 upgrades. “Interestingly, while the rate of upgrades plunged as expected with the pandemic crushing demand, the rate of downgrades did not surge as feared. That’s because credit profiles were cushioned by proactive regulatory measures such as liquidity window made available through the corporate bond market, a moratorium on debt-servicing permitted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and temporary relaxation in default recognition norms of credit rating agencies allowed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI),” said Crisil. The experience of another rating agency ICRA was worse. The company reported 582 negative rating actions, half of which were downgrades. As against this, only 94 entities were upgraded in the first half. In H1 of FY2021, the top five sectors — in terms of the count and the proportion of entities in the sector — that faced a negative rating action were textiles, real estate, hospitality, auto ancillaries and construction, ICRA said. Only 11 defaults were observed in ICRA’s rated universe in H1 FY2021 compared with 83 defaults seen in FY2020. “To a large extent, this is because many entities in ICRA’s rated portfolio (27%) availed a moratorium on payments on their bank loan facilities as permitted by the RBI, alleviating default risk during the period of moratorium,” the agency said in a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/crisil-outlook-worsens-for-retail-airports/articleshow/78437104.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Business||UPI, IMPS create record, FasTag up||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Latest data on digital payments indicate a gradual economic recovery in the country with multiple e-payment instruments now clocking pre-Covid level transaction volumes, or hitting new records surpassing February numbers. For example, after recovery to pre-Covid level transaction volumes in June, digital payments on the UPI saw double-digit growth of more than 12% over August to 1.8 billion. Similarly, official data shows IMPS transactions also grew over 13% to nearly 280 million in September, reaching a record high. FasTag, which indicates vehicle movement across the country, has matched pre-Covid numbers with 110 million transactions in September. In February, FasTag had seen 110 million transactions. After that, each month saw 80-90 million transactions till August. Further, online bill payments via Bharat Bill Pay also grew nearly 10% (month-on-month) to over 23 million in September — much ahead of the February number of just under 15 million. Online bill payments were one of the segments that saw a faster recovery in the past few months as more people made utility payments from home. The numbers on FasTag, IMPS and UPI indicate the broader economic activity. Merchant-focused payments startup BharatPe’s co-founder and CEO Ashneer Grover reiterated the growth in UPI. “UPI growth has been extremely good. It’s up by 23% for us in September and the reason is simple — it’s the unlocking of the market,” said Grover. BharatPe, which saw transactions worth $180 million on its platform in February, clocked $300 million in September, Grover added. The company, on the back of the recovery, now aims to disburse loans of nearly $150 million to merchants by March 2021, of which it has so far disbursed over $40 million through partners. BharatPe rival PhonePe also said last month that it clocked 660 million transactions in August and was eyeing 700 million transactions in September as digital payments continue to grow. For September, UPI transactions by value surpassed Rs 3 lakh crore, which was just under Rs 3 lakh crore in August. The share of peer-to-merchant transactions on UPI continue to be in the 40-45% range, while rest are peer-to-peer transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/upi-imps-create-record-fastag-up/articleshow/78437148.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||Farmers protest over non-registration at market yards||Rajkot: Hundreds of farmers on Thursday created a ruckus in Gondal town of Rajkot and Vanthali town of Junagadh, over non-registration of their names in local market yards for selling groundnut at minimum support price fixed by the government.In Gondal, the farmers from across the taluka arrived at the market yard on Thrusday with their produce. “However, when we came to know that the authorities at the yard were registering the names of those who had come from Gondal town and excluding those who had come from Gondal taluka, we lodged the protest,” said Vipul Raiyani, one of the agitating farmers. “After we made a representation before Kanaksinh Jadeja, Gondal Market Yard vice-chairman, the registration of those farmers from Gondal taluka could begin,” added Raiyani. Meanwhile in Vanthali, the farmers blocked the Junagadh-Somnath Highway, after the computer operator at Vanthali Market Yard joined the strike called by computer operators of different market yards to protest against the non-payment of their last year’s salaries.“We had to take a lot of trouble to convince the agitating farmers to call off their stir, after which they removed the road blocks. The Vanthali Market Yard authorities assured the farmers of an alternative arrangement,” said an official from Vanthali police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmers-protest-over-non-registration-at-market-yards/articleshow/78436145.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||Bihhar assembly polls: Bhojpur voters confused as parties yet to pick candidates||ARA: Even as the process of filing nominations for all the seven assembly constituencies of Bhojpur commenced on Thursday, voters here are yet to know the names of their candidates as no major political party has made any announcement regarding this. With all the constituencies going to polls in the first phase itself, hectic parleys are on among different political parties. The seven assembly constituencies are— Barhara, Agiyaon (reserved), Sandesh Tarari, Shahpur and Jagdishpur. After 2015 assembly elections, while the RJD has five sitting MLAs i.e. in Ara, Barhara , Sandesh, Jagdishpur and Shahpur, CPI(ML) had won the Tarari seat and JD(U) retained Agiyaon seat. The BJP had not been able to win even one seat, though it had lost two seats by a narrow margin (Ara and Tarari ). However, the BJP had won the Ara seat for four consecutive terms before 2015 . Meanwhile, the CPI(ML) on Wednesday, taking the lead, announced to contest five out of the seven assembly constituencies. CPI-ML town secretary Dilraj Pritam said, “We tried our best to forge unity among the opposition parties but how long can we wait when the filing of nominations has started. But if our demands are considered, there is still a possibility of an alliance. But right now we are firm on contesting the five seats that have been announced on Wednesday .” BJP Bhojpur district president Dr Prem Ranjan Chaturvedi told this newspaper on Wednesday, “We had lost two seats by a very thin margin, that is by less than 1,000 votes, while the Agiyaon seat was won by the JD(U) which is our ally. In Barhara too, our rebel candidate had secured 10,000 votes, while we lost it by 9000 votes. So this time we hope to perform well on all the seven seats .” HAM(S) spokesman Danish Rizwan said, “We will contest at least one seat as an NDA ally in Bhojpur .”  The total number of voters in all the seven constituencies of the Bhojpur district is: 21,13052 which includes 11,45,054 male voters, 9,67,897 female voters and the number of the third gender is 101.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhojpur-voters-confused-as-parties-yet-to-pick-candidates/articleshow/78440309.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||Unlock 5: Political gatherings beyond 100 allowed from October 15||PATNA: With the Centre authorising state governments to allow gatherings beyond the limit of 100 people outside containment zones with riders from October 15, it has evoked a mixed response from political parties in poll-bound Bihar. While the ruling parties have hailed the decision and vowed to follow all norms, opposition netas said there might be partiality with them and they would not be allowed to hold such gatherings. While there is no limit for such gatherings in the open, there is a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces. However, wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory in all such gatherings. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary said the local administration would ensure social distancing during such gatherings. “The DM concerned will finalise the venue and take a call on how many people can be accommodated. The decision will be taken as per the size of the field,” Choudhary added. BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the state government was sensitive enough and it would take care of people’s health. “The administration will issue permission for such gatherings only after visiting the site and analysing its capacity,” Anand added. However, Congress and RJD netas have urged the Election Commission to ensure that the state government does not deny them the permission to hold such gatherings in adherence to Covid norms. “We want a clear guideline regarding number of people to be allowed in a particular area. There should be clarity on this, instead of vesting the power to the state government to take a call on the matter. An FIR was lodged against several of our senior functionaries for gathering at the airport in violation of Covid norms. I have many videos of ruling parties holding such gatherings. However, no action was taken against them,” Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said. RJD state general secretary (headquarters) Nirala Yadav too said the EC should take a decision on the matter. “Barricading an area and ensuring social distancing should be the responsibility of the district administration,” he said. State IMA secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said gatherings should only be permitted if people use face masks and maintain social distancing. “Such gatherings might spread the virus further,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/political-gatherings-beyond-100-allowed-from-october-15/articleshow/78440325.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 2, 2020||---||Unlock 5: Political gatherings beyond 100 allowed from October 15||PATNA: With the Centre authorising state governments to allow gatherings beyond the limit of 100 people outside containment zones with riders from October 15, it has evoked a mixed response from political parties in poll-bound Bihar. While the ruling parties have hailed the decision and vowed to follow all norms, opposition netas said there might be partiality with them and they would not be allowed to hold such gatherings. While there is no limit for such gatherings in the open, there is a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces. However, wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory in all such gatherings. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary said the local administration would ensure social distancing during such gatherings. “The DM concerned will finalise the venue and take a call on how many people can be accommodated. The decision will be taken as per the size of the field,” Choudhary added. BJP state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the state government was sensitive enough and it would take care of people’s health. “The administration will issue permission for such gatherings only after visiting the site and analysing its capacity,” Anand added. However, Congress and RJD netas have urged the Election Commission to ensure that the state government does not deny them the permission to hold such gatherings in adherence to Covid norms. “We want a clear guideline regarding number of people to be allowed in a particular area. There should be clarity on this, instead of vesting the power to the state government to take a call on the matter. An FIR was lodged against several of our senior functionaries for gathering at the airport in violation of Covid norms. I have many videos of ruling parties holding such gatherings. However, no action was taken against them,” Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said. RJD state general secretary (headquarters) Nirala Yadav too said the EC should take a decision on the matter. “Barricading an area and ensuring social distancing should be the responsibility of the district administration,” he said. State IMA secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said gatherings should only be permitted if people use face masks and maintain social distancing. “Such gatherings might spread the virus further,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/political-gatherings-beyond-100-allowed-from-october-15/articleshow/78435780.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 2, 2020||---||Patna: Composers tweak songs to woo voters||PATNA: In the run-up to the state assembly polls, composers are tweaking popular Bhojpuri songs and creating jingles to motivate the voters to exercise their franchise. Many of them are also promoting their favourite political parties and leaders. A number of studios located in the narrow and dingy lanes of Bakarganj are making good money by charging high fee from the singers for recording songs. Vijendra Vig, the owner of a studio, told this newspaper that a Kankarbagh-based singer had recorded a song, ‘Teja ho Tejashwi, desh me mahanwa… Lalu bhaiya-Rabri Devi ke lalwan’, on Thursday. “Altogether 15 songs have been recorded at my studio since the announcement of the polls,” he added. The owner of another studio, Shailesh Singh, pointed out that Bhojpuri music had a greater impact on the people living in rural areas. Singer Khushboo Uttam, who has recorded more than eight songs based on the Bihar elections, said, “I tweaked some Bhojpuri songs and recomposed them in my own words. One of them highlights the achievements of the NDA government by praising chief minister Nitish Kumar and the other criticizes the opposition.” Khushboo’s latest song ‘Bihar mein NDA ki sarkar chahiye, phir se Nitish Kumar chahiye’ is trending on the internet these days. Another singer, Kundan Paswan, claimed that his song, ‘Abki Lojapa ke jhanda lehraiyan’, had garnered 752 views and 50 likes in a week. “This song praises LJP chief Chirag Paswan and urges voters to make him victorious,” he added. While Arif Raza’s ‘Bihar mein rozgar chahi… VIP sarkar chahi’, which has garnered 92 likes in a single day, talks about the burning issue of employment, Pushkar Singh’s ‘Tekari ki janta kare pukar, abki baar Anil Kumar’ praises prominent leaders of the NDA. Pramod Premi Yadav’s song on RJD leaders has 6 lakh views and 33,000 likes in just 5 days. “My composition, ‘Laltaiya jari’, tells people that a new Bihar will be born if Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is voted to power,” the singer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/composers-tweak-songs-to-woo-voters/articleshow/78435996.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 2, 2020||Allahabad||Enforce curbs in eateries strictly: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court issued a number of guidelines for restaurants and eateries and directed the state government to prescribe quality standards for manufacturing masks and sanitisers as per the directives of Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar, while hearing the PIL relating to Covid-19 on Thursday, said if restaurants permit people to have food in their premises then they should ensure that social distancing is maintained. Issuing guidelines for restaurants, eateries and small outlets in the state, the court said no eatery shall allow its customer to hang around and have food openly. Besides, no customer/ individual should be seen without a mask within five yards of every eatery, the court directed. “No person should be allowed to throw any used plate, spoon or glass near the eatery. If any customer/ individual is seen without a mask or having food within five yards of the eatery then suitable action would definitely follow. Besides, no roadside eateries and open air restaurants shall sell potable water,” it said. The court further directed that each eatery having a turnover of more than Rs.5,000 per day should have CCTV cameras installed in its premises. “All eateries would make arrangements for selling food articles in tightly packed/ sealed boxes which definitely would not be openable with ease and the customer should thereafter open it only at his residence,” the court directed. It further directed that in case a customer misbehaves and does not follow the guidelines, the owner shall be free to report the matter to police, who shall be duty bound to take action. “If there is any violation of these undertakings which would be given by owners of hotels, restaurants, eateries, the police administration shall take action against them,” it said. The court, however, made it clear that the guidelines for functioning with the undertaking would not be a permanent feature, but would remain operational for a period of six weeks from Thursday. It also directed the government to frame guidelines for manufacturing masks as per instructions issued by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “Likewise guidelines with regard to manufacturing of sanitizers shall also be issued by the state government in accordance with the ICMR Rules,” the court said, adding that a notification of “No Mask No Entry” may be published in various daily newspapers in all the districts throughout the state. The court posted the matter on October 7, 2020 when it would see the reports of the advocate commissioners appointed by it to look into the working of various wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/implement-covid-19-curbsstrictly-in-eateries-says-hc/articleshow/78434798.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 2, 2020||Business||Subscribed 157x, Mazagon most successful PSU IPO; sensex sees best weekly gain in 4 months||MUMBAI: With a subscription of 157 times, the IPO for Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders became the most successful PSU divestment opportunity in terms of oversubscription when it closed on Thursday. Against an IPO size of Rs 444 crore, the total demand was worth nearly Rs 70,000 crore, official subscription data showed. The success of the Mazagon Dock IPO was partly due to the border tensions with China, which has raised the prospects of faster approvals for building ships and submarines for the Indian Navy. The 157x subscription for Mazagon Dock IPO puts it ahead of IRCTC’s offer that was subscribed 111 times (see graphic). In terms of total book size, the 2010 divestment of Coal India through a Rs 15,500-crore IPO that had generated a total demand worth Rs 2.4 lakh crore tops the table. HUDCO’s at 79 times and Cochin Shipyard’s 76 times, data from Prime Database and merchant bankers showed. The IPO for UTI Mutual Fund, the oldest fund house in India, was subscribed 2.3 times when it closed on Thursday. Through the offer, five of UTIMF’s shareholders sold shares worth Rs 2,150 crore. Biggest single-day gain in a month for rupeeThe government’s decision to open up the economy further, better-than-expected GST collections and prospects of a stimulus in the US lifted markets. The sensex closed at 38,697 points — up 629 points or 1.7%. The sensex’s gain this week of 1,308 points, or 3.5%, made this its best weekly rise in nearly four months. The surge in the stock market lifted the rupee by 63 paise to 73.14 to a dollar — its biggest single-day gain in a month. LKP Securities head (research) S Ranganathan said positive global cues led by US stimulus hopes sent the indices off to a flying start on Thursday. “A 10% month-on-month rise in GST collections, coupled with unlock guidelines, lent strength to the rally with financials leading the way. Late afternoon trade also saw auto stocks joining the party, backed by better volume numbers,” Ranganathan said. According to BSE data, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Axis Bank together accounted for more than half of the sensex’s Thursday gain. On the other hand, profit-taking in Reliance Industries, ITC and NTPC limited the rise to some extent. The rally came on the back of strong buying by foreign funds with the day’s net inflows at Rs 1,632 crore. Domestic funds, too, were net buyers at Rs 259 crore, the BSE data showed. In the next few sessions, the market may continue with its positive trend in the near term amid hopes of a stimulus announcement — both from the US and Indian governments, a note from Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. The markets are closed on Friday on account of Gandhi Jayanti. Next week, markets would get direction from the decision on the loan moratorium case on Monday. The second quarter results would also start trickling in next week with TCS reporting its numbers on Wednesday, the note said. In the inter-bank forex market on Thursday, the rupee opened at 73.60, which was also the day’s low, touched a high at 73.07 and closed near that level. Market players said the recent inflows of money into Reliance companies also strengthened the rupee, along with the gains in the stock market. According to Mazagon Dock CMD Narayan Prasad, the planning for the IPO had started about two years ago. The company is now working towards sustaining its leadership position in building defence ships and submarines. It is also actively looking “at the repair & maintenance segment and export markets for adding additional revenue to the company”, Prasad, a retired vice-admiral with the Indian Navy, said. The final subscription figures showed that the institutional part of the offer was subscribed nearly 90 times, the high net worth individuals (HNIs) part 679 times, the retail portion 36 times while the employees’ part was subscribed 4 times. Against an offer of nearly 3.1 crore shares, total demand was for almost 482 crore shares. According to Dharmesh Mehta of DAM Capital (formerly IDFC Securities), one of the managers to the offer, the Mazagon Dock IPO generated record demand on the back of attractive valuations and solid business fundamentals. “It’s the perfect bet on the ‘Make in India’ opportunity,” Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/subscribed-157x-mazagon-most-successful-psu-ipo-sensex-sees-best-weekly-gain-in-4-months/articleshow/78437042.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Business||Abu Dhabi fund buys 1.4% in RIL’s retail company for Rs 6,000 crore||MUMBAI: Continuing with its fund-raising streak in the retail business, Reliance Industries (RIL) is selling a Rs 6,248-crore stake to Mubadala Investment Company, Abu Dhabi’s sovereign wealth fund. The deal will translate into a 1.4% stake in Reliance Retail Ventures and will be the first Middle Eastern investment in the RIL subsidiary. Mubadala, with a $229-billion portfolio, will be the fourth investor in the retail unit after General Atlantic, KKR and Silver Lake in the past 23 days. These funds together have agreed to put in Rs 24,798 crore, valuing Reliance Retail at Rs 4.3 lakh crore. The multiple transactions reinforce RIL’s consumer business to be the most sought after investment destination for global funds scouring for deals in a pandemic-disrupted world. Reliance Retail is Mubadala’s second investment in an RIL unit after it invested Rs 9,094 crore in the Indian company’s digital and telecom services arm Jio Platforms. The four investors in the retail business are the same parties who have invested in Jio Platforms. Jio Platforms raised Rs 1.52 lakh crore from 13 investors — two strategic players and 11 US and Middle Eastern funds. The financial investors of Jio Platforms have been given an opportunity to invest in Reliance Retail, which is in the midst of rolling out its ‘new commerce’ strategy. This strategy covers combining Reliance’s physical store network (RIL has announced the acquisition of India’s second-largest retailer Future Group) with its fledgling e-commerce play. It also involves millions of mom-and-pop stores as last-mile delivery agents to take on larger online rivals Amazon and Flipkart in the country’s $800- billion retail market. More financial investors are expected to be part of RIL’s retail unit, which plans to go for an IPO in the next few years. The listing could give the retail business a higher valuation and investors an opportunity to exit from the outfit. Meanwhile, Digital Fibre Infrastructure Trust, which owns the optic fibre assets of Jio Platforms, is raising Rs 14,706 crore from institutional investors, it said in a filing with markets regulator Sebi. The trust, sponsored by an RIL arm, is selling 147 crore units at Rs 100 apiece via a private placement. It also plans to borrow Rs 25,000 crore from two RIL companies. The money will be used to lower debt related to the telecom business, the trust said in its filing. The trust had borrowings of Rs 87,153 crore as on March 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/abu-dhabi-fund-buys-1-4-in-rils-retail-co-for-rs-6k-cr/articleshow/78437170.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 2, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Snubbed by big parties, smaller ones join hands||PATNA: After failing to get their demands met by bigger parties and alliances, smaller local parties in Bihar appear to be reaching out to each other to cobble up coalitions to present themselves as more viable options for the polls ahead. The fringe parties are applying all permutations and combinations and coming up with new alliances almost every day after the announcement of election dates last week. JAP chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav formed the “Progressive Democratic Alliance” with young Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party, M K Faizi’s Social Democratic Party and BPL Matang’s Bahujan Mukti Party on Monday. Earlier on September 19, the Asaduddin Owais-led AIMIM allied with Samajwadi Janta Dal Democratic-led by former parliamentarian Devendra Prasad Yadav to form the "United Democratic Secular Alliance". Similarly, Upendra Kushwaha announced the alliance of his party with former UP CM Mayawati-led BSP and Janwadi Party (Socialist) on Tuesday. Kushwaha blamed both his former allies Nitish Kumar as well as Lalu Prasad for the "underdevelopment" in Bihar over the past 30 years. Now, eyes are also set on NDA ally LJP, which continues to maintain suspense over its stand in the ensuing polls. “The party hasn’t been given a respectable offer in the NDA. Our party president will take a final call within a day or two,” LJP’s state minority cell president Ashraf Ansari said, adding his party is ready to contest on 143 seats. Political observers said even if they don't succeed in the polls, these newly formed alliances of smaller parties are most likely to cut some chunk of votes for both major alliances in the state — the NDA and the opposition Mahagathbandhan. “The smaller parties or alliances, which have been working at the ground level for quite some time, can cause a dent in the vote-share of bigger parties. As even a few hundred votes matters in an assembly election, these fringe parties will try their best, and bigger parties will also keep a watch on them at the local level,” social scientist and professor of economics D N Diwakar said. Asked why the smaller parties are not aligning with bigger parties, Diwakar said, “Bigger parties no longer consider them loyal as they switch side frequently, as per their convenience. Besides, most of these smaller parties did not do well in the last Lok Sabha elections so the bigger allies are refusing to give them a higher number of seats.” VIP chief Mukesh Sahni, on the other hand, claimed that his party is intact in the Mahagathbandhan. “RJD has given us a respectable offer, and I have given a green signal to our candidates to start campaigning. There are some glitches with Congress but all issues will be sorted out by Thursday,” Sahni told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/snubbed-by-big-parties-smaller-ones-join-hands/articleshow/78436134.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 2, 2020||Patna||Patna: Railways may increase speed limit of 10 more trains to 130kmph||PATNA: Railways has proposed to increase the speed limit of 10 pairs of mail and express trains up to 130 kmph on Pt Deendayal Updhaya Junction– Patna Junction–Jhajha route in the coming two months. The 400 km stretch between Patna Junction and Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction will thus be covered in about three hours instead of three-and-an-half hours. At least 13 pairs of mail and express trains are already running at a speed of 130 km per hour on this route. According to senior divisional railway manager (senior DRM), Danapur, Adhar Raj, “The speed limit of Rajendra Nagar–New Delhi Rajdhani Express special ( 02309/02310 ), Rajendra Nagar Terminal – New Delhi special ( 02393/02394 ), Patna–Lokmanya Tilak special ( 03201/03202 ), Patna– Howarh special ( 023023/02024 ), Patna– Ahmedabad special ( 02947/02948 ), Danapur – Secunderabad special ( 02295/02296 ), Muzaffarpur – Ahmedabad special ( 09083/09084), Howrah– New Delhi special ( 02303/02304 ), Darbhanga – Delhi special ( 05955/05956 ), Agartala – New Delhi special ( 02501/02502 ), Bhagalpur – Anand Vihar special ( 02367/02368 ) , Darbhanga – New Delhi special ( 02423/02424 ) and Madhupur – Anand Vihar special ( 02465/02466 ) has been increased to 130 km per hour on this particular route. “Railways has recently carried out a track renewal work on the Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction – Patna – Jhajha section at a cost of several crores replacing the old ones. It has been completed as the mainline section of the division has been declared as ‘Rajdhani route’, by the Railway Board,” he said. He added: “Several pairs of Rajdhani Express and super fast trains are running on the Jhajha –Patna – Pt Deendayal Upadhaya junction route. The booked speed limit of the Rajdhani Express train is 130 kmph . But the Rajdhani Express trains have been running at 110 kmph between Jhajha and Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction. Sampoorna Kranti Express and Garib Rath are two other fastest trains running on this route at the maximum permissible speed.” Special train between Motihari & Delhi:Railways has decided to run a special train (05219 /05220 ) between Bapudham Motihari and Delhi to clear huge rush of passengers on every Saturday. “While the special train will leave Bapudham Motihari at 9.10 am on Saturday, it will reach Delhi next day at 8.15 am . On its return it will leave Delhi on Sunday at 11.45 pm and reach Bapudham Motihari next day at 8 pm,” ECR CPRO Rajesh Kumar said . Intercity special run extended: Railways has extended the run of at least five pairs of intercity special trains till October 31 this month. The extended run of intercity special trains are Patna–Saharsa special (02567/02568), Patna–Katihar special (05713/05714), Patna–Babhua special (03243/03244), Rajendra Nagar Terminal–Jayanagar special (03225/03226) and Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Saharsa special ( 03227/03228 ), the CPRO said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-may-increase-speed-limit-of-10-more-trains-to-130kmph/articleshow/78434393.cms||Kumod Verma
October 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid tally reaches 1.84L with 1,370 new cases||PATNA: Altogether 1,370 Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,84,276. Officially, two deaths were reported, which took the toll to 906. However, with 1,70,867 recoveries, there are 12,501 active cases in the state. According to the state health department, one death each was reported from Patna and Araria, taking the toll to 213 and 15 respectively in the two districts. AIIMS-Patna, meanwhile, reported four deaths on Thursday, including that of a 55-year-old man from Gardanibagh area. The other deceased include a 70-year-old man from Biharsharif, a 70-year-old man from Fakhurpur in Arwal and an 82-year-old man from Kharauna in Vaishali district. The hospital’s Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 20 new patients got admitted and ten discharged on Thursday. Among those admitted with Covid-19 was a two-day-old baby. Those admitted were also from different localities of Patna, including Buddha Colony, Daryiapur and Strand Road. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported no deaths on Thursday. While three patients were admitted, six were discharged from there. Of the total 1,370 positive cases registered across the state on Thursday, 259 were from Patna, taking the tally to 28,143. However, with 25,868 recoveries, active cases stand at 2,062. Covid-19 cases registered in other districts include Purnia (96), East Champaran (80), Rohtas (46), Bhagalpur (44), Gopalganj (43), Jamui (43), Madhepura (42), Madhubani (42) and Nalanda (41). As per a tweet shared by health minister Mangal Pandey, 1,242 people had recovered in the past 24 hours, and the recovery rate of Bihar stood at 92.72%. He further stated that 1,20,371 samples tested in 24 hours, and so far, 7,38,6521 samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-covid-tally-reaches-1-84l-with-1370-new-cases/articleshow/78434358.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 2, 2020||Patna||‘Hospital stay longer for Covid patients with diabetes’||PATNA: Diabetes is among the most frequently reported comorbidities in Covid-19 patients. The mortality rate of Covid-19 patients in the medical ICU of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH)- Patna was 31% (out of 100 severe patients), out of which half of them were diabetics, while the remaining half had other comorbidities. This was revealed by the hospital administration in its recent audit report on ‘Mortality and Length of Hospitalization Among Diabetes and Non-diabetes Covid-19 Critical Patients at NMCH, Patna: A Retrospective Cohort Study.’ The duration of hospitalization for Covid patients suffering from diabetes also, was longer than patients with other comorbid conditions, mainly because they are at increased risk of infection and related-complications such as secondary bacterial pneumonia. Diabetes patients have impaired immune-response to infection both in relation to cytokine profile and changes in immune-responses including T-cell and macrophage activation. Most of the patients admitted in ICU were above 40 years, of which 67% were male and 33% were female. In the audit, Dr Ankit Abhishek of medicine department mentioned that 31% Covid-19 patients were diabetic and eight patients were diagnosed as stress hyperglycemic patients (transient elevation of the blood glucose due to the stress of illness) after their admission in medical ICU. Dr Ankit stated that Covid-19 infection is a double challenge for diabetics. “Diabetes has been reported to be a risk factor for the severity of the disease and at the same time patients have to control glucose. It was seen that glycaemia variability had no significant association with duration of hospitalization. A statistically significant association was seen between type2 diabetes and hypertension,” he said. Of 100 severe patients at medical ICU, 22% patients were hypertensive and 13 % had both diabetes and hypertension. Around 74% patients had suffered shortness of breath and 50 per cent had fever. Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha, medical nodal officer at NMCH- Patna told this newspaper that the purpose of the audit report is to determine the rate of mortality in critically ill Covid positive diabetic patients at the hospital. “The report include all the Covid patients admitted in medical ICU at NMCH during April 26 to September 12. In diabetic patients, we have seen that the immune system is compromised, making it harder to fight the virus and likely leading to a longer recovery period,” he said. He added: “In addition to diabetes, the other common comorbidities were hypertension, cardiovascular disease and lung disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hospital-stay-longer-for-covid-patients-with-diabetes/articleshow/78434291.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||State health dept puts on hold Covid test cost cap decision 72 hrs after issuing order||Kolkata: A circular on capping the price of RT-PCR tests for Covid confirmation issued by the state health department on September 28 was put on hold on Thursday. Private labs are relieved that the government has put the order — which sought to restrict the charge to Rs 1,201 — in abeyance and they expect inputs to be taken from stakeholders so that the revised cost is practical. On Thursday afternoon, private labs conducting Covid tests got a circular dated September 28 capping the cost at Rs 1,201. Some hospitals raised the issue with senior health officials saying that this charge was not feasible. By evening, the health department came out with a corrigendum saying the order was on hold till further notice. “It is a huge relief that the capping has been put on hold because that price would not have covered the cost of running samples. We hope the government comes up with a more practical cap,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. In the beginning of the pandemic, private labs were charging around Rs 4,500 for testing Covid samples. With the cost of reagents coming down, the state capped the price at Rs 2,250 on June 26. Since then, private labs had been following that with an additional cost of Rs 15 per km in case of home collection. “It is the government’s prerogative to review or cap the price of Covid testing as and when other costs, like that of reagents, drop. We have always abided by the government’s orders and will do so in future. Our only request is that different factors of costing be taken into account while deciding on the price cap,” said Somnath Chatterjee, director, Suraksha Diagnostics. Many states have been reviewing the Covid test cost on and off. A few days ago, the Karnataka government had capped it at Rs 1,600 from the earlier 2,500 while Jharkhand capped it at Rs 1,500. Delhi has fixed it at Rs 2,400 for private labs. “This is a pandemic and private sector healthcare units have to do their bit. Both the industry and patients have to survive. We appeal that all stakeholders be taken into consideration while deciding on a price that is feasible,” said Alok Roy, chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals. Those running the lab said even in RT-PCR, the cost is much higher for those deploying methods like CBNAAT and TRUENAT. They expect the government to consider this while fixing the price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-health-dept-puts-on-hold-covid-test-cost-cap-decision-72-hrs-after-issuing-order/articleshow/78435761.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||3 cops suspended after Covid prisoner escapes from hospital||Palanpur: Three guards posted in Dharpur Covid hospital in Patan were suspended after a prisoner escaped from their custody, said Akshayraj Makwana, superintendent of police, Patan, on Tuesday.Police have formed five teams to trace the absconding criminal which have been dispatched to Rajasthan, Sabarkantha, Ahmedabad (Gandhinagar) and Banaskantha. The absconding criminal Dayaram Ladhuram Vishnoi (32) of Navagam taluka in Vakoda Jalor district in Rajasthan was arrested on August 24 under Prohibition Act. He was lodged in the sub-jail. On September 22 he tested positive of Coronavirus and was brought to the Covid ward of Dharpur Medical College. “Vishnoi was to be discharged two days later, but early on Thursday morning at around 1.30am fled the hospital by breaking the grille of a wash-room window,” Makwana said. Besides Section 224 of IPC, Vishnoi has been framed under various sections of the pandemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-cops-suspended-after-covid-prisoner-escapes-from-hospital/articleshow/78436119.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||Family refuse to accept slain woman’s body in Bhuj||Rajkot: The family members of slain woman, Vijaya Bhudia (40), refused to accept her body, demanding the immediate arrests of the accused in Sukhpar village of Bhuj taluka in Kutch district on Thursday. Vijaya’s body was found in her house in Sukhpar village on Wednesday. Police said Budhia was stabbed multiple times on her chest, neck and head by sharp edged weapons, resulting in her death. “Vijaya and I had no enmity with anyone. It puzzles me as to who might have killed her that too so brutally. We demand an immediate arrest of the accused and we want to know reasons for the murder,” said Vijaya’s husband Pravin Bhudia. However, sources in the police said that Pravin figured in their list of suspects. “We have registered the murder case and started the investigation on the basis of call detail records of the victim and CCTV footage of the crime,” said an official from Mankuwa police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/family-refuse-to-accept-slain-womans-body-in-bhuj/articleshow/78436098.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||15 -year-old girl raped in Deodar village||Palanpur: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 23-old man in Dhunsol village in Deodar taluka of Banaskantha on Tuesday, however, the police complaint in this regard was filed only on Wednesday evening. According to complaint, the incident took place when the teenager was going to the village from the farms where her family lived in a make shift house. She was sent to buy vegetables when one Alpesh Thakor living in the adjacent field dragged her into the bushes and allegedly raped her. The girls two relatives who came in search of her saw Thakor while in the act. However, Thakor threatened to kill them if they told about the incident to anybody. After coming to her senses, the girl narrated the incident to her parents. Next day they approached Deodar police station. Police booked Thakor for rape and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/15-year-old-girl-raped-in-deodar-village/articleshow/78436322.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Wild ‘celebrations’ as tourism restarts in jungles||Nagpur: Tourists and other stakeholders on Thursday cheered the reopening of wildlife parks in Maharashtra and neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. All the parks were closed since March 18 owing to coronavirus pandemic. The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had allowed tourism with some stringent guidelines on June 6, but the state authorities did not start tourism as parks were to be closed on June 30 for monsoon and time was short to follow the guidelines. On Thursday, tourism in popular parks like Maharashtra and MP Pench, Tadoba, and Umred-Karhandla had a good start. In Tadoba, 80 safari vehicles with 320 tourists entered from Mohurli, Kolara, Navegaon, Khutwanda and Zari gates. In MP Pench, 40 vehicles entered from Turia. TATR field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar said, “Tourism started on a positive note and has encouraged stakeholders like guides and drivers. Women were seen in fewer numbers as children below 10 years were not allowed. Besides, vehicles had empty seats as only four tourists per vehicle were allowed. No visitor was allowed inside without mask and social distancing was maintained. Thermal scanning of tourists and tyre bath for every vehicle entering the park was done.” TATR deputy director (core) Nandkishore Kale said, “Staff donned face shields and we also checked tourists with oxymeter.” Siddhant Churi was thrilled to sight Telia queen Sonam with her four cubs. Some tourists also sighted Pandhrabodi queen Maya. There were others like Siddesh Mungekar whose group sighted a male tiger near Navegaon gate in morning safari. “We are eight who have come from Delhi and Mumbai, and will take eight safaris in Tadoba,” said Mungekar. The guides and Gypsy drivers were all smiles. “We are really happy that finally tourism has started. It gives some relief in the time of crisis. More tourists are expected if children below 10 years and citizens above 65 years are allowed,” said guide Pravin Jambhule, Kolara. Resort owner Nikhil Abhyankar said, “The opening has been good and for a week my resort is booked. The tiger sightings give an edge as there are decent bookings for October, November and December months. This will boost business fortunes and local employment.” ACF Atul Deokar said, “We apprehended tourists will not come but it is a good start as 15 vehicles entered Pench in morning safari. Tiger sighting was reported from Sillari and Umred-Karhandla too.” “In MP Pench, park deputy director was himself present to monitor all protocols. We were a group of 15 people entering from Turia gate. A lot of precautions were taken and both staff and tourists were with full protective gear. It was a safe and pleasant break from city hustle-bustle,” said Narendra Kaware, infrastructure consultant, Nagpur. Tadoba canters to go online from Oct 15 In a bid to curb malpractices, all the three canters operating in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) will go online. One canter has already been allocated to FDCM at Kolara gate and it is linked to room bookings. Canters were basically introduced for two reasons — they were economical and secondly their bookings used to be offline so that last minute tourists could get a chance. However, there were a large number of complaints from tourists that they never got bookings in Canter as staff always said they were booked. Talking to TOI, TATR field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar said, “From October 15, we are planning to make Canter bookings online. We want to make all the bookings paperless. We will gauge the tourism mood and take a decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wild-celebrations-as-tourism-restarts-in-jungles/articleshow/78437352.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 2, 2020||Business||SBI partners HUL for supply chain financing||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: State Bank of India (SBI) has partnered with Hindustan Unilever (HUL) to offer an instant paperless overdraft facility of up to Rs 50,000 to retailers of the FMCG multinational for their billings with distributors. The bank will also offer financing facilities to the company’s distributors. The retailers will first have to register on the company’s Shikhar app — a digital ordering platform. They will also need to download SBI’s Yono application. SBI has integrated its systems and processes with HUL in such a way that the bank’s software will instantly process credit requests made through its Yono app. Separately, SBI will install point-of-sale machines with the merchants and also acquire them for acceptance of payments using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). By acquiring the merchant account, SBI will have an improved visibility on the retailer’s cash flows and take better credit decisions for extending small loans under the government’s Mudra scheme. “SBI has always been working towards serving the last-mile customers and similar is the case with HUL, which caters to its customers in the remotest part of the country. We are glad that SBI has got an opportunity to leverage its strong geographic presence and strategic digital solutions to simplify the financial needs of HUL’s customers, retailers, dealers, and employees,” said SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar. Kumar said that this was part of the bank’s strategy to leverage relationships with large corporates who do not need credit for themselves. The bank would look at extending credit and service to the stakeholders of the corporate, including credit for the supply chain. Speaking at the event, MD Dinesh Kumar Khar, who has been recommended by the Banks Board Bureau as a successor for Kumar, said that the bank has created a corporate solutions group to provide solutions to companies. According to HUL chairman Sanjiv Mehta, the timing of the partnership could not have been better as this addresses one of the key needs for retailers and distributors, given the economic fallout of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-partners-hul-for-supply-chain-financing/articleshow/78437241.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||Numbers question ‘Safe Gujarat’ tag||Vadodara: Gujarat is considered to be one of the safest states for women in the country. But over the last few years, crime against women has shot up in the state. The data released by the National Records Crime Bureau (NCRB) for 2019 has revealed that complaints of crimes committed against women have been increasing steadily. While about three molestation cases were registered by women every day in the state, more then one rape complaint was filed daily last year. The figures may come as a surprise to many in the state but organizations working for women say that the cases of crime against women are much more than reported. “One of the major reasons for crime against women including domestic violence is the patriarchal mindset of the society. Gujarat is a progressive state but the outlook towards women is yet to change,” said Vaishali Zararia of Sahaj, that works in the area of gender sensitivity, women’s education and health. “The cases have also increased as women are now filing police complaints but still many incidents of violence go unreported,” she added. Out of the 8,799 cases of crime against women filed in Gujarat last year, 3,619 were cases of cruelty by husband or relatives. “Women are getting better education and they are now aware of their rights. So if they face any harassment or other crime, they are not shying away from filing complaints. I think it is one of the major reasons for increase in the number of complaints by women in Gujarat,” said Saroj Kumari, DCP (HQ), Surat who has undertaken several projects to protect and empower women in the state. “Apart from the NGOs that work for women’s upliftment, even the police have been encouraging the victims to file complaints. We have also been working on gender sensitization for reducing crime against women,” Kumari told TOI. “There are many reasons behind the increase in the number of crime cases against women. Many social institutions are now supporting the victims and the government too has started several cells for helping harassed women. Unlike in the past, the police also swiftly registers the complaints filed by women,” said one of the city’s prominent advocates, Shailesh Patel. He added that with the advent of social media, there is an increase in the cases of cybercrime against women. Advocate Sabiha Sindhi, who practices family, however said that in maximum instances, the section 498 (A) of Indian Penal Code is misused and the victims who really face cruelty are usually not able to approach the police due to lack of resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/numbers-question-safe-gujarat-tag/articleshow/78434716.cms||Tushar Tere
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ramesh Halari to be feted for 150m painting on Gandhi||Ahmedabad: Eminent artist Ramesh Halari, who had made a 150m-long painting on the life and works of Mahatma Gandhi, will be felicitated in the city on Friday to mark Gandhi Jayanti. The High Range Book of World Records has included his work as the biggest painting work on biography of Mahatma Gandhi.Seventy-year-old Halari said that this is one of his most prized works in over four decades. “However, I rue the fact that the painting cannot be displayed in a gallery for people to see, because it is over 450 feet long and there is not place available for its display,” said Halari.The painting, made on canvas, contains over 250 pictures of Mahatma Gandhi. “I have attempted to include all the major events of Gandhi’s life in the painting. It is almost like a biography of the father of the nation in pictures,” Halari said.Interestingly, he commenced the painting on October 2, 2019 (Gandhi Jayanti) and ended it on January 30 (Gandhi’s death anniversary) this year. “The attempt was to encapsulate the life of the Mahatma on to a canvas from his birth to death,” Halari said. Halari will be presented the award for the biggest painting on Mahatma Gandhi at the Navjivan campus on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ramesh-halari-to-be-feted-for-150m-painting-on-gandhi/articleshow/78437415.cms||---
October 2, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Eager to cast votes, but wary of corona||PATNA: Hundreds of non-resident Biharis, who had returned to the city due to the Covid-19 lockdown, will get an opportunity to exercise their franchise in the upcoming state assembly elections. While some feel that the announcement of polls is a significant step towards restoration of the electoral process, others question the need to conduct elections amid a raging pandemic. Boring Road resident Nikita Kumari is excited to cast her vote for the first time. The 24-year-old says, “Although I was eligible to vote in the 2015 elections, I could not do so because I was in another city. Luckily, I am at home this time and will finally be able to participate in the electoral process. It’s a great feeling.” Homemaker Ruby Sharma, who lives in A G Colony, is also eager to choose her favourite candidate in the upcoming polls. “My husband is excited too. After work, he is either hooked to the television watching political news or on a call with his friends discussing politics,” she claims. Sheikhpura resident Tushar Verma, on the other hand, is sceptical about the spread of Covid-19 during the voting process. “I flew from Mumbai to Patna only to protect myself from coronavirus. How can the government conduct elections and put people’s lives at risk?” he asks. Vicenarian Neha Bharti is also unsure about casting her vote amid the pandemic. The Lodipur resident says, “I had always dreamed of flaunting the electoral ink on my finger, but sadly it never happened because I moved out of Patna after school. Now that the time has come for me to exercise my franchise, I am confused. We should not take the pandemic lightly.” Meanwhile, few youngsters are not happy with the political landscape of the state and condemn parties for focusing on non-developmental issues. Expressing dismay over the use of the SSR case as a poll plank, Patliputra Colony resident Shivangi Verma says, “I returned to my native place after two years and was highly disappointed to see that nothing had changed. Netas may be misusing Sushant Singh Rajput’s case to gain political mileage, but my vote will solely be on the basis of development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/eager-to-cast-votes-but-wary-of-corona/articleshow/78435888.cms||Arunima Lal
October 2, 2020||Hubballi||Fund crunch stalls work on Gandhi museum in Hubballi||Hubballi: Five years ago, the government had taken up construction of Gandhi Darshan museum to preserve, exhibit and display the works of Mahatma Gandhi at a cost of Rs 1 crore. The project, however, hangs in limbo for want of funds. In 2015, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government had sanctioned Rs 1 crore to set up the hall and a centre to manufacture the national flag at Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangh’s (KKGSS) premises in Bengeri, Hubballi. Initially, the government had released Rs 33.5 lakh to start construction after which Karnataka State Khadi and Gramodyog Board initiated work on the museum. The work had to be stopped midway after the government failed to release funds in 2017-18. Now, the Sangh is preserving about 90 rare pictures of Gandhi in a dilapidated building. It had plans to shift them to the new museum but cannot do so yet. KKGSS secretary Shivanand Mathapati said that several letters and requests to the government to release the pending gant of Rs 66.5 lakh to complete the museum have gone in vain. KG Kulkarni, 94, a freedom fighter, said, ‘It is very unfortunate to hear that the government is reluctant to release funds for the establishment of Gandhi museum. It must release the money at the earliest to spread the message of Gandhi among today’s younger generation.” Among the photographs that are likely to interest those with a historical bent are those from his days in South Africa when he first conceptualised and launched the Satyagraha. There are also snaps of the famous Dandi Salt March in the museum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fund-crunch-stalls-work-on-gandhi-museum-in-hubballi/articleshow/78435416.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 2, 2020||Hubballi||Home department introduces ERSS first time in Karnataka||Haveri: The Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) will be implemented in three districts in Karnataka as a pilot project. The state government has selected Haveri, Davanagere, and Bagalkot for the scheme of unified ERSS which provides 112 emergency services in a fast and efficient way. Haveri SP KG Devaraj said all the emergency signals that are received via ERSS will be handled by PSAP which is set up in the state capital. The automated set-up which will receive the distress signals, will direct them to the concerned agency like police, fire, and rescue etc. The police department has allotted special vehicles with adequate technology for the purpose — 15 each for Haveri and Bagalkot, and 13 vehicles for Davanagere. He also added that four personnel — ASI, head constable, constable, and woman police constable — will operate each vehicle. “The ERSS can also identify the location of persons in distress, connecting through voice or data, and immediate assistance will be provided to the affected by our special squad through allotted vehicles,” Devaraj claimed. “ERSS tracks the rescue and our special vehicles in real-time on a digital map of the state and hence it will be possible to direct the right vehicle to reach the service requester and provide necessary support immediately. This is also called an e-beat system,” shared Bagalkot SP Lokesh Jagalasar. S Ravi, IGP Eastern Range Davanagere asserted that ERSS is one of the best systems for policing and under this system, all emergency numbers like 100 for police, 101 for fire, 102 for an ambulance, and disaster response have been integrated into one number i.e. 112. “The ERSS will help people who are in distress. Our special staff will reach them within 15-17 minutes at their door-step,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/home-department-introduces-erss-first-time-in-karnataka/articleshow/78435321.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Eager to cast votes, but wary of corona||PATNA: Hundreds of non-resident Biharis, who had returned to the city due to the Covid-19 lockdown, will get an opportunity to exercise their franchise in the upcoming state assembly elections. While some feel that the announcement of polls is a significant step towards restoration of the electoral process, others question the need to conduct elections amid a raging pandemic. Boring Road resident Nikita Kumari is excited to cast her vote for the first time. The 24-year-old says, “Although I was eligible to vote in the 2015 elections, I could not do so because I was in another city. Luckily, I am at home this time and will finally be able to participate in the electoral process. It’s a great feeling.” Homemaker Ruby Sharma, who lives in A G Colony, is also eager to choose her favourite candidate in the upcoming polls. “My husband is excited too. After work, he is either hooked to the television watching political news or on a call with his friends discussing politics,” she claims. Sheikhpura resident Tushar Verma, on the other hand, is sceptical about the spread of Covid-19 during the voting process. “I flew from Mumbai to Patna only to protect myself from coronavirus. How can the government conduct elections and put people’s lives at risk?” he asks. Vicenarian Neha Bharti is also unsure about casting her vote amid the pandemic. The Lodipur resident says, “I had always dreamed of flaunting the electoral ink on my finger, but sadly it never happened because I moved out of Patna after school. Now that the time has come for me to exercise my franchise, I am confused. We should not take the pandemic lightly.” Meanwhile, few youngsters are not happy with the political landscape of the state and condemn parties for focusing on non-developmental issues. Expressing dismay over the use of the SSR case as a poll plank, Patliputra Colony resident Shivangi Verma says, “I returned to my native place after two years and was highly disappointed to see that nothing had changed. Netas may be misusing Sushant Singh Rajput’s case to gain political mileage, but my vote will solely be on the basis of development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eager-to-cast-votes-but-wary-of-corona/articleshow/78442066.cms||Arunima Lal
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Two-storey Behala house yields Rs 7 crore UK fraud cash||KOLKATA: An investigation into a Rs 20-crore bank fraud detected in London led city cops to a two-storey house on Behala’s Jyotish Ray Road on Wednesday from where they recovered close to Rs 7 crore in cash stuffed in suitcases, almirahs, under mattresses and even hidden inside rice containers. “We had to call for a counting machine to count the money,” said an officer. The anti-bank fraud section of the detective department had teamed up with the internal fraud investigation unit of the private-sector bank after the fraud was detected at it’s London branch in in July. According to cops, Gaurav Sathwani and Arun Kumar Sahu had been duping British and Indian-origin British citizens for the past five years from a fake call centre in the Rashbehari Avenue area. Though Sahu had been on the police’s watch list since 2018 for cheating, the elaborate set up indicated there could be several big names involved too, police said. According to cops, the probe was launched in July after an 84-year-old British-Indian man reported that he had lost around Rs 86 lakh via four illegal transactions from his account. He had lost Rs 3.6 lakh in January, but did not complain at that time. The UK’s vigilance unit alerted Kolkata Police after the money was found to have been routed to Kolkata through four accounts. An official complaint was lodged with the Shakespeare Sarani police station, but they handed the case to the detective department. “The bank helped us trace the four account holders, all residents of Pyarabagan, but they refused to help, though it was clear that they were not involved. These were dormant accounts and got activated only when the money from Europe flowed in,” an officer said. “CCTV footage of ATM withdrawals of over Rs 42 lakh from these accounts were studied and we saw Sahu operating the four accounts. He led us to Sathwani, who would bait customers in the UK and ensure the complaints remained there. Sahu looked after the transfers and withdrawals,” he added. “They placed calls using VOIP applications, like Skype, and told the targets that their computers had been compromised and their personal data was on the verge of being hacked or destroyed if immediate action was not taken,” an officer said. They would offer a solution and charge them anything between $50 and $10,000,” another officer said. In this case, they asked the victim to download a screen-sharing app so they could access his banking details. “We had registered the case under Shakespeare Sarani police station in August under different sections of cheating, fraud and criminal conspiracy on August 11. Our team seized Rs 6.9 crore in cash from the house of Gourab Sathwani,” said joint CP (in charge of crime) Santosh Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-storey-behala-house-yields-rs-7cr-uk-fraud-cash/articleshow/78435844.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: JD(U)’s digital war room powers party’s poll campaign blitz||PATNA: With assembly elections less than a month away and the Election Commission restricting political parties from holding rallies in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the ruling Janata Dal (United) is trying to woo social media users with creative slogans. From ‘Nitish mei vishwas, Bihar mei vikas’ to ‘nyay ke sath tarakki, Nitish ki baat pakki’, the party has come up with some interesting slogans. Starting from May this year, JD(U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar has been communicating with his party cadres through the virtual platform. The party, in fact, kick-started its digital operations for assembly elections in May itself. A war room was set up and an extensive digital network created using social media and WhatsApp groups in order to appease the voters. “With around 400 dedicated WhatsApp groups with relevant data, content, info graphics and videos everyday, we are in direct communication with party cadres down to the booth level. Our comprehensive digital set up consists of an integrated mechanism of massive Facebook operations, weekly digital rallies, newsletters, monitoring, reporting, creative lines for slogans and other aspects of reach out to the masses,” said JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan on Wednesday. JD(U)’s weekly Facebook live ‘Sunday Samvad’ has completed 19 editions so far. “Every Sunday at 12 noon, our MPs, MLAs, MLCs, district presidents, spokespersons, presidents of prakoshtha, prakhand chiefs, media cell heads, prakhand presidents and booth level workers go LIVE from around 1,000 handles. They interact with people on concurrent issues, including floods and Covid,” Ranjan added. The party has altogether 53 Facebook pages that are updated with election-related videos and info graphics every day. A dedicated Facebook page by the name ‘Nitish cares’ was created on May 30 to highlight the development work done by the CM. More than 200 videos and 870 info graphics have been posted on the page till now. Regular content on several election-focused topics, including ‘CM’s Saat Nischay’, and his speeches feature on the page, which is followed by around 16,000 people. “The CM cares page has done exceptionally well in a short span of time. With a cumulative 2,68,91,443 per day visits till September 19, the page has gained a substantial traction of social media users. Videos on this page have been viewed over 1,08,00,000 times in 112 days since its inception,” said a JD(U) war room official on condition of anonymity. The JD(U) social media strategy is not only focused on wooing voters in the state, but also keeps a real-time tab on the digital activities of key opposition leaders too. From tracking their press conferences and visits to monitoring their social media handles, the party is leaving no stone unturned to ace the upcoming elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdus-digital-war-room-powers-partys-poll-campaign-blitz/articleshow/78440318.cms||Arunima Lal
October 2, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: JD(U)’s digital war room powers party’s poll campaign blitz||PATNA: With assembly elections less than a month away and the Election Commission restricting political parties from holding rallies in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the ruling Janata Dal (United) is trying to woo social media users with creative slogans. From ‘Nitish mei vishwas, Bihar mei vikas’ to ‘nyay ke sath tarakki, Nitish ki baat pakki’, the party has come up with some interesting slogans. Starting from May this year, JD(U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar has been communicating with his party cadres through the virtual platform. The party, in fact, kick-started its digital operations for assembly elections in May itself. A war room was set up and an extensive digital network created using social media and WhatsApp groups in order to appease the voters. “With around 400 dedicated WhatsApp groups with relevant data, content, info graphics and videos everyday, we are in direct communication with party cadres down to the booth level. Our comprehensive digital set up consists of an integrated mechanism of massive Facebook operations, weekly digital rallies, newsletters, monitoring, reporting, creative lines for slogans and other aspects of reach out to the masses,” said JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan on Wednesday. JD(U)’s weekly Facebook live ‘Sunday Samvad’ has completed 19 editions so far. “Every Sunday at 12 noon, our MPs, MLAs, MLCs, district presidents, spokespersons, presidents of prakoshtha, prakhand chiefs, media cell heads, prakhand presidents and booth level workers go LIVE from around 1,000 handles. They interact with people on concurrent issues, including floods and Covid,” Ranjan added. The party has altogether 53 Facebook pages that are updated with election-related videos and info graphics every day. A dedicated Facebook page by the name ‘Nitish cares’ was created on May 30 to highlight the development work done by the CM. More than 200 videos and 870 info graphics have been posted on the page till now. Regular content on several election-focused topics, including ‘CM’s Saat Nischay’, and his speeches feature on the page, which is followed by around 16,000 people. “The CM cares page has done exceptionally well in a short span of time. With a cumulative 2,68,91,443 per day visits till September 19, the page has gained a substantial traction of social media users. Videos on this page have been viewed over 1,08,00,000 times in 112 days since its inception,” said a JD(U) war room official on condition of anonymity. The JD(U) social media strategy is not only focused on wooing voters in the state, but also keeps a real-time tab on the digital activities of key opposition leaders too. From tracking their press conferences and visits to monitoring their social media handles, the party is leaving no stone unturned to ace the upcoming elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/jdus-digital-war-room-powers-partys-poll-campaign-blitz/articleshow/78435842.cms||Arunima Lal
October 2, 2020||Patna||Patna: Composers tweak songs to woo voters||PATNA: In the run-up to the state assembly polls, composers are tweaking popular Bhojpuri songs and creating jingles to motivate the voters to exercise their franchise. Many of them are also promoting their favourite political parties and leaders. A number of studios located in the narrow and dingy lanes of Bakarganj are making good money by charging high fee from the singers for recording songs. Vijendra Vig, the owner of a studio, told this newspaper that a Kankarbagh-based singer had recorded a song, ‘Teja ho Tejashwi, desh me mahanwa… Lalu bhaiya-Rabri Devi ke lalwan’, on Thursday. “Altogether 15 songs have been recorded at my studio since the announcement of the polls,” he added. The owner of another studio, Shailesh Singh, pointed out that Bhojpuri music had a greater impact on the people living in rural areas. Singer Khushboo Uttam, who has recorded more than eight songs based on the Bihar elections, said, “I tweaked some Bhojpuri songs and recomposed them in my own words. One of them highlights the achievements of the NDA government by praising chief minister Nitish Kumar and the other criticizes the opposition.” Khushboo’s latest song ‘Bihar mein NDA ki sarkar chahiye, phir se Nitish Kumar chahiye’ is trending on the internet these days. Another singer, Kundan Paswan, claimed that his song, ‘Abki Lojapa ke jhanda lehraiyan’, had garnered 752 views and 50 likes in a week. “This song praises LJP chief Chirag Paswan and urges voters to make him victorious,” he added. While Arif Raza’s ‘Bihar mein rozgar chahi… VIP sarkar chahi’, which has garnered 92 likes in a single day, talks about the burning issue of employment, Pushkar Singh’s ‘Tekari ki janta kare pukar, abki baar Anil Kumar’ praises prominent leaders of the NDA. Pramod Premi Yadav’s song on RJD leaders has 6 lakh views and 33,000 likes in just 5 days. “My composition, ‘Laltaiya jari’, tells people that a new Bihar will be born if Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is voted to power,” the singer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/composers-tweak-songs-to-woo-voters/articleshow/78440340.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 2, 2020||---||Seat-sharing talks: LJP ‘hurdle’ persists; JD(U), BJP on course||PATNA: As the filing of nomination papers for the first phase of assembly polls in the state began on Thursday, two major NDA partners – JD(U) and BJP – started their exercise to select candidates. The two parties, however, have not revealed the number of seats they would contest and the names of their prospective candidates. “There is no problem among JD(U) and BJP on the issue of seat-sharing. The details will be made public in one or two days,” state JD(U) working president Ashok Choudhary said, adding the seat claims made by the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan has been posing a little problem. “The BJP with which the LJP has aligned will sort out the issue,” he said. BJP’s election management committee (EMC) led by its national general secretary and Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav sat at the residence of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to discuss the twin issues of seat-sharing and candidate identification, sources said, adding the details would be discussed with the party’s core committee members. It is learned that single candidates for the seats on which there is no confusion would be decided and cleared at the BJP’s EMC meet. The preparation of the panels of the names of the prospective candidates for other seats was also on the agenda of Yadav. State BJP spokesman and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel said the party has a set protocol to be followed: First, the EMC and core committee members decide the seats and candidates and then the list is presented before the central election committee (CEC) for final clearance of the selected candidates. “Nothing can be said in concrete regarding the final seat or candidate selection to be done by the CEC,” Patel said, adding it should be done in two or three days. However, sources in the NDA said JD(U) and BJP have almost decided the number of seats and the actual seats in their share. It is learned that under the 50:50 formula, the JD(U) and BJP have actually identified the seats they would like to contest and the two parties are seized with the task of identifying the prospective candidates for the seats. As there is some problem on 15 of the 243 seats, the JD(U) and BJP have already shared the remaining 228 seats in the largely acceptable ratio: 118 for the JD(U) and 110 for the BJP. “If the JD(U) gets four of the 15 seats, its final share will be around 122 and that of the BJP 121,” a source said. Sources said the BJP is ready to give 23 seats to LJP from its share, but the latter is demanding 41 seats. LJP sources said the party has identified 20-25 seats and put them in A category as far as winnability is concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/seat-sharing-talks-ljp-hurdle-persists-jdu-bjp-on-course/articleshow/78436031.cms||Abhay Singh
October 2, 2020||Patna||Seat-sharing talks: LJP ‘hurdle’ persists; JD(U), BJP on course||PATNA: As the filing of nomination papers for the first phase of assembly polls in the state began on Thursday, two major NDA partners – JD(U) and BJP – started their exercise to select candidates. The two parties, however, have not revealed the number of seats they would contest and the names of their prospective candidates. “There is no problem among JD(U) and BJP on the issue of seat-sharing. The details will be made public in one or two days,” state JD(U) working president Ashok Choudhary said, adding the seat claims made by the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan has been posing a little problem. “The BJP with which the LJP has aligned will sort out the issue,” he said. BJP’s election management committee (EMC) led by its national general secretary and Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav sat at the residence of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to discuss the twin issues of seat-sharing and candidate identification, sources said, adding the details would be discussed with the party’s core committee members. It is learned that single candidates for the seats on which there is no confusion would be decided and cleared at the BJP’s EMC meet. The preparation of the panels of the names of the prospective candidates for other seats was also on the agenda of Yadav. State BJP spokesman and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel said the party has a set protocol to be followed: First, the EMC and core committee members decide the seats and candidates and then the list is presented before the central election committee (CEC) for final clearance of the selected candidates. “Nothing can be said in concrete regarding the final seat or candidate selection to be done by the CEC,” Patel said, adding it should be done in two or three days. However, sources in the NDA said JD(U) and BJP have almost decided the number of seats and the actual seats in their share. It is learned that under the 50:50 formula, the JD(U) and BJP have actually identified the seats they would like to contest and the two parties are seized with the task of identifying the prospective candidates for the seats. As there is some problem on 15 of the 243 seats, the JD(U) and BJP have already shared the remaining 228 seats in the largely acceptable ratio: 118 for the JD(U) and 110 for the BJP. “If the JD(U) gets four of the 15 seats, its final share will be around 122 and that of the BJP 121,” a source said. Sources said the BJP is ready to give 23 seats to LJP from its share, but the latter is demanding 41 seats. LJP sources said the party has identified 20-25 seats and put them in A category as far as winnability is concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seat-sharing-talks-ljp-hurdle-persists-jdu-bjp-on-course/articleshow/78440331.cms||Abhay Singh
October 2, 2020||Patna||No end to confusion in Mahagatbandhan||PATNA: Even though notification for the first phase of assembly elections in the state was issued on Thursday, two key alliance partners in Mahagatbandhan – RJD and Congress – has so far not come up with a solution as far as sharing of seats is concerned. Senior Congress members held a closed-door meeting at 15, Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, Delhi with the party’s screening committee chairman Avinsh Pandey. At the meeting, which lasted for over three hours, names of prospective Congress candidates were also discussed. Meanwhile, senior RJD MLA Bhola Yadav returned from Ranchi late on Wednesday night after meeting incarcerated party chief Lalu Prasad. Sources said Bhola has brought with him a list containing names 60 party candidates with Lalu’s signature. However, it’s still not clear whether these names are for the 71 seats going to polls in the first phase or for other phases as well. “The seat-sharing talks between the two parties are still inconclusive,” said a Mahagatbandhan functionary. “If the talks do not materialise, we may have to announce names of candidates for the first phase initially. However, this will be problematic for candidates also,” he said, adding absence of Lalu was one of the reasons for lack of coordination in seat-sharing talks. Sources said the RJD, which had initially offered 58 seats to Congress, has now agreed to give 60 seats to the grand old party. The Congress, which was demanding 70 seats, is not ready to accept anything less than 66-67 seats. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said talks between senior RJD and Congress leaders were on and everything would become clear in a couple of days. Even the issue related to CPI(ML) remains unresolved in Mahagatbandhan. CPI-ML state secretary Kunal said the party has so far not got any message from the RJD. However, Vikassheel Insaan Party chief Mukesh Sahni said all was well in Mahagatbandhan. “I can sacrifice one or two seats from my quota for the sake of alliance and give to other partners,” Sahni could be heard telling a television news channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-end-to-confusion-in-mahagatbandhan/articleshow/78436067.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 2, 2020||Business||July-Sept quarter likely to bring cheer to IT cos||Chennai: The July-September quarter is likely to bring first signs of a bounce back for Indian IT industry after a rough two quarters. With large enterprises getting back to business as usual and with return of discretionary tech spends, positive revenue trends have re-emerged for IT and IT-enabled services companies, analysts said. IT companies are expected to post a quarter-on-quarter revenue growth ranging from 1%-3% in cross currency (CC) terms, and margins are expected to benefit at the rate of almost 150 bps (1.5%) thanks to the depreciation of the rupee. Improving demand trends from financial services, telecom and insurance and emergence of digital opportunities is said to have benefited companies this quarter. “We expect sequential revenue growth of 1.8%-3.7% in cross currency terms. Revenues on a year-on-year comparison for tier-1 IT firms will range from a decline of 4.1% to growth of 1.7%,” analysts at Kotak Institutional Equities, said in a note. “Covid has acted as a catalyst for acceleration in IT spends. We believe that global outsourcing spending will accelerate from 4%-5% pre-Covid level numbers,” they add. The deal pipeline is strong across all IT players led by a mix of digital foundation and core transformation deals from across sectors. Cloud adoption has accelerated as clients are looking to reduce costs and capture the innovation of the cloud, analysts said. Kotak expects TCS, Infosys and HCL to post the strongest revenue growth among IT companies and gain from the digital transformation trend. “For the present, enterprises’ calming nerves as well as some near-term pent-up demand have started bringing back a part of revenue from business as usual,” Prashant Shukla, director, Everest Group, said. “While there are still no signs of large consulting projects, there is a consistent flow of carefully planned change requests in existing managed services relationships,” he added. The twin advantages of rupee depreciation and lower costs related to travel and operational expenses are likely to help margins stabilize and even increase. Analysts at Kotak expect margins to benefit around 70-170 bps quarter-on-quarter on cross-currency movements and around 50-170 bps benefit year-on-year. The rupee depreciated around 4% against the US dollar from the same quarter last year. With respect to commentary from tier-1 IT giants, almost all key service providers noted during the June quarter earnings that they had acquired greater clarity versus the March 2020 quarter and reported seeing improving demand trends. Earlier in September, HCL revised its September quarter guidance upward from 1.5-2.5% earlier to more than 3.5%. However, analysts at Emkay Global Financial Services also strike a note of caution. Uncertainties around the outcome of the US elections, healthcare crisis, and slowing global growth will keep the optimism in check, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/july-sept-quarter-likely-to-bring-cheer-to-it-cos/articleshow/78436107.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 2, 2020||Business||RIL makes up half of PE-VC investments in 2020||Chennai: Reliance Industries has single-handedly lifted the private investment market in 2020 despite a raging pandemic. Back-to-back deals sealed by RIL accounted for 45% of the total private equity-venture capital (PE-VC) investments in the first nine months of 2020, shows data from research firm Venture Intelligence. RIL’s fundraising has managed to keep the overall decline in PE-VC investment tally in 2020 to a marginal 2% despite the overall strain on the economy due to Covid-19. PE-VC firms invested $26.8 billion across 547 deals in the first nine months of 2020 compared to $27.4 billion across 750 deals in the same period last year. Global private equity and sovereign wealth funds invested around $12.1 billion in RIL’s Jio Platforms ($9.9 bn) and Reliance Retail ($2.3 bn). However with mega investments in Reliance Jio taking a pause in July-September, PE-VC investments in the quarter clocked at $7 bn across 168 deals — a 48% fall compared to the immediately previous quarter and 33% dip from the same period last year. Apart from RIL’s investments, top deals in the third quarter include the stressed assets investment by Varde Partners and Goldman Sachs in coal-based power plant operator RattanIndia Power ($567m) and $500m investment by EQT and Temasek in renewable energy platform O2 Power, among others. While the PE-VC investment figures are expectedly down on a year-on-year basis, recent weeks have shown that both foreign PE-VC investors as well as established India-dedicated funds are keen to make new investments, Arun Natarajan, founder and MD, Venture Intelligence, said. Falcon Edge Capital, in particular, has been an active VC investor in recent months, he added, noting that consumer tech ventures in areas like ed-tech, e-commerce etc are attracting lion’s share of investments. At $6.5 billion across 438 deals, VC investments fell 18% in value (and 26% by volume) in the nine months of 2020, compared to the same period last year. However VC investments picked up in July-September clocking $2 billion across 137 deals compared to $1.4 billion across 134 deals in the previous quarter.“The bounce back in the VC segment, especially the turnaround in seed capital deals, is quite encouraging,” Natarajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-makes-up-half-of-pe-vc-investments-in-2020/articleshow/78435862.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||Outsiders caught dining with Gondal jailbirds; jailer shunted, one held||Rajkot: It was a merry late night party where eleven people were having dinner — some in the garden and some in the conference hall and some more talking on cellphones! It was a common party scene except perhaps the odd venue, Gondal sub-jail, and the hosts — five prisoners serving sentences for various crimes. The flying squad under additional director general of police (jail) from Ahmedabad busted the supper party on Wednesday night, which included six “guests” from outside too, who had come in with tiffins, cellphones and of course, money. While the jail chief has been shunted for dereliction of duty, the squad is hunting for more moles inside the campus. They also arrested one person and seized five cellphones and one dongle believed to be of outsiders who managed to escape from the rear gate of the prison. Cops also found a purse containing Rs 15,000 in cash. Police said all the “guests” were identified as Jayesh Dave, Jitendra Vanraj, Ajay Boricha, Jignesh Bhuva, Kalpesh Thumar and Nikul Donga, who were having dinner with prisoners — Rajesh Shekhava, Nikhil Donga, Divyarajsinh Jadeja, Jayesh Gohel and Amit Padaria. However, getting to know that their merrymaking was busted, all the guests fled the spot except Nikul Donga who was later arrested by the flying squad inside the sub-jail. “When we raided the jail, we were surprised to find the outsiders inside the jail premises. While entering the premises, we had locked the main gate. However, someone opened the rear gate from where the “guests” managed to escape,” said D R Karanjia, jailer with the flying squad. After the incident, additional director general of police (jail), K N L Rao, transferred Gondal sub-jail jailer, D K Parmar, with immediate effect to Rajpipla sub-jail. Rao also ordered M L Gamara, jailer of Rajpipla sub-jail, to immediately take charge of the Gondal sub-jail. Officials of the flying squad raised suspicion on insider involvement in the ‘party’ as without involvement of jail officials, such illegal activities could not have been possible in the high security zone. “If the involvement of the jail staff comes to light, strict action will be taken against them,” said a member of the flying squad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/outsiders-caught-dining-with-gondal-jailbirds-jailer-shunted-one-held/articleshow/78436038.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||Outsiders caught dining with Gondal jailbirds, jailer shunted||Rajkot: It was a merry late night party where eleven people were having dinner — some in the garden and some in the conference hall and some more talking on cellphones! It was a common party scene except perhaps the odd venue, Gondal sub-jail, and the hosts — five prisoners serving sentences for various crimes. The flying squad under additional director general of police (jail) from Ahmedabad busted the supper party on Wednesday night, which included six “guests” from outside too, who had come in with tiffins, cellphones and of course, money. While the jail chief has been shunted for dereliction of duty, the squad is hunting for more moles inside the campus. They also arrested one person and seized five cellphones and one dongle believed to be of outsiders who managed to escape from the rear gate of the prison. Cops also found a purse containing Rs 15,000 in cash. Police said all the “guests” were identified as Jayesh Dave, Jitendra Vanraj, Ajay Boricha, Jignesh Bhuva, Kalpesh Thumar and Nikul Donga, who were having dinner with prisoners — Rajesh Shekhava, Nikhil Donga, Divyarajsinh Jadeja, Jayesh Gohel and Amit Padaria. After the incident, additional director general of police (jail), K N L Rao, transferred Gondal sub-jail jailer, D K Parmar, with immediate effect to Rajpipla sub-jail. Rao also ordered M L Gamara, jailer of Rajpipla sub-jail, to immediately take charge of the Gondal sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/outsiders-caught-dining-with-gondal-jailbirds-jailer-shunted/articleshow/78436004.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Business||2-wheeler cos hike prices up to 2%||Chennai: Two wheeler makers including Hero MotoCorp, Honda Motorcycles and Bajaj have increased prices of its models by nearly 2%, effective Thursday citing rising input costs. When contacted HMSI and Bajaj Auto were not available for comment. Hero Motocorp said in a statement, “To partially offset the rising input costs and commodity prices, the company has made an upward revision in the ex-showroom prices of its motorcycles and scooters by up to 2% with the exact quantum varying on the basis of the model and specific market. The revised prices are effective from October 1.” Royal Enfield took a Rs 1,500-Rs 2,500 increase in the beginning of September so there will be no more mark ups now. Others like TVS Motor have not yet announced any changes though dealers say they too are expected to release the new price list shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/2-wheeler-cos-hike-prices-up-to-2/articleshow/78436169.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||Two shot at over old enmity in Sihor, accused at large||Rajkot: Two persons were injured when they were shot at by an assailant following an old enmity in Sihor of Bhavnagar district on Wednesday night.Police said the accused, Altaf Dodi, allegedly fired two rounds from his 12 bore gun at Juned Qazi (21) and Faizal Chudesara (19).“The firing was the result of the enmity between Dodi and Qazi. For the past five months, both had been having frequent fights, threatening to kill each other. On the fateful night, when Qazi and Chudesara were at a paan shop on Pirvadi Road in Sihor, Dodi arrived there with a gun and opened fire at the victims,” said K D Gohil, inspector with Sihor police station. While Qazi, who was injured in his chest by the pallets of the bullet, fled from the spot, Dodi made Chudesara his next target and fired one round at Chudesara, injuring him in his head and hands. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Dodi who went absconding after committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-shot-at-over-old-enmity-in-sihor-accused-at-large/articleshow/78436162.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ashram never closed even when Spanish flu raged||Ahmedabad: Never in the history of Sabarmati Ashram has it closed its door visitor, not even after the death of Mahatma Gandhi or even while he was alive when the city was engulfed by the Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918. The book titled “The Spanish Influenza Pandemic of 1918-1919: New Perspectives”, edited by David Killingray and Howard Pillip, claims: “Influenza raged in Sabarmati Ashram, Ahmedabad, where Mahatma Gandhi, Charles Andrews and Shankarlal Parikh were all affected.” “The Ashram was never closed to the public. People joined the evening Sarva Dharma prayers. This time, the ashram has been closed ever since the lockdown,” says a senior official at the Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust. The Sabarmati Ashram will live stream the all-religion prayer on its website. “Only a small group of Ashram dwellers and those who are employed with the archives will be part of the prayer,” the official says. The Ashram has put up virtual 3D tours on the website. “These 3D pictures were taken during the lockdown and have been uploaded for a virtual visit,” adds the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ashram-never-closed-even-when-spanish-flu-raged/articleshow/78437365.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||Stray dog shot dead in Halvad, unidentified person booked||Rajkot: An unidentified assailant shot dead a stray dog in Halvad town of Morbi district on Wednesday. Police said they received a message from the residents living near Halvad Post Office, saying that a dog had been shot dead. “Thought the dog had been shot, the bullet that had killed it was not found during the postmortem. Nobody had seen the assailant. We have booked an unidentified person under section 11 (1) (L) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and section 27 (1) of the Arms Act. We are checking the CCTV footage from the crime scene to get a clue on the accused,” said B M Al, head constable with Halvad police station. There has been a spurt in the cases of cruelty against animals, especially dogs, in Saurashtra and Kutch.On July 23, two bikers shot dead a dog in Dhoraji of Rajkot district. On the same day evening, two dogs were clubbed to death with bats and iron pipes by two persons — Murtuza Sanghar and Firoz Sherwani — in Porbandar. Similarly, on June 29, the police arrested one Rahul Chawda for allegedly beating a puppy to death with a stick in Jhundala locality of Porbandar. Chawda said he was annoyed by the constant whining of the puppy.On June 26, a youth from Nagaland who served as a waiter at an Adipur resort in Kutch district had strangled his pet puppy. The accused, Khumkili Sangatam, told police that he got angry with the puppy as it had soiled the floor of his room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stray-dog-shot-dead-in-halvad-unidentified-person-booked/articleshow/78436227.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man gets life imprisonment for killing mother||Rajkot: A man was sentenced to life imprisonment on Thursday for brutally killing his mother in Faldang village on the outskirts of Rajkot. Taking into consideration the dying declaration of Mani Gohel (70), the Rajkot additional sessions court pronounced the judgement against Babu Gohel (45).According to the details of the case, Babu had hit Mani on her private parts, causing her severe injuries on October 26, 2017. Babu was angry with her mother when the latter refused to give him money to buy liquor.Additional Sessions Judge B A Vora pronounced the judgement through video conferencing from Rajkot Central Jail.COUNTERFEIT CURRUNCY RACKET: TWO GET FOUR YEARS IN JAILTwo accused of printing counterfeit currency notes were sentenced to four years imprisonment in Bhuj on Thursday. The additional sessions court in Bhuj pronounced the judgement against Amit Soni and Sagar Chawda. Soni and Chawda were arrested with a large cache of counterfeit currency worth Rs 68,760 in May, 2016 in Bhuj. The currency notes were in the denominations of Rs 1,000, Rs 500, Rs 100, Rs 20 and Rs 10. The accused were running the racket from a house in Sagar City Colony in Bhuj. Police had seized a colour printer, blank papers and cutter from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-killing-mother/articleshow/78436206.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Toll gallops from 4,000 to 5,000 in 17 days, first 1,000 deaths took 114 days||KOLKATA: Covid casualties in Bengal crossed 5,000 on Thursday, over six months after the first death was recorded on March 23. While the number of affected rose to 2,53,768 on Wednesday from just seven on the day of the first death, the number of daily deaths has touched 59, though there hasn’t been a sharp rise since early-August. With Unlock 5.0 taking off and the festive season coming up, experts fear a spurt in casualties over the next three-four weeks. On August 15, Bengal had recorded 58 deaths that slid to 55 on August 26 and 41 on September 10. On September 30, however, it spiralled up to 59. Doctors felt it could be wrong to assume that the figure has been restricted below 60. It took 17 days for the toll to go from 4,000 to 5,000. The previous 1,000 deaths had happened in 18 days while the 1,000 deaths prior to that had taken 19 days. It had taken 23 days for the toll to rise from 1,000 to 2,000. The first 1,000 deaths, in contrast, had been recorded in 114 days. The death rate, though, has dipped since mid-June from around 3.2% to just over 1%, said Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “But with Puja shopping underway and people returning to normal work schedules, a jump in cases may pull up casualties,” said Dhar. Cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar said, “We could possibly be staring at a spurt in deaths since there has been a rise in the number of affected over the last 8-10 days. What we have failed to do is ramp up the number of tests sufficiently so that more cases could be detected early. This is the only way to prevent deaths.” One of the reasons behind deaths not declining is delay in treatment, felt Dhar. “There are a number of patients being brought to hospitals late, when their condition has aggravated. These are typically patients from the districts who couldn’t travel early due to transport issues,” Dhar said. “The fact that more are seeking tests now indicates that more are getting infected,” added Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/toll-gallops-from-4k-to-5k-in-17-days-first-1k-deaths-took-114-days/articleshow/78435695.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 2, 2020||---||Bihhar assembly polls: Bhojpur voters confused as parties yet to pick candidates||ARA: Even as the process of filing nominations for all the seven assembly constituencies of Bhojpur commenced on Thursday, voters here are yet to know the names of their candidates as no major political party has made any announcement regarding this. With all the constituencies going to polls in the first phase itself, hectic parleys are on among different political parties. The seven assembly constituencies are— Barhara, Agiyaon (reserved), Sandesh Tarari, Shahpur and Jagdishpur. After 2015 assembly elections, while the RJD has five sitting MLAs i.e. in Ara, Barhara , Sandesh, Jagdishpur and Shahpur, CPI(ML) had won the Tarari seat and JD(U) retained Agiyaon seat. The BJP had not been able to win even one seat, though it had lost two seats by a narrow margin (Ara and Tarari ). However, the BJP had won the Ara seat for four consecutive terms before 2015 . Meanwhile, the CPI(ML) on Wednesday, taking the lead, announced to contest five out of the seven assembly constituencies. CPI-ML town secretary Dilraj Pritam said, “We tried our best to forge unity among the opposition parties but how long can we wait when the filing of nominations has started. But if our demands are considered, there is still a possibility of an alliance. But right now we are firm on contesting the five seats that have been announced on Wednesday .” BJP Bhojpur district president Dr Prem Ranjan Chaturvedi told this newspaper on Wednesday, “We had lost two seats by a very thin margin, that is by less than 1,000 votes, while the Agiyaon seat was won by the JD(U) which is our ally. In Barhara too, our rebel candidate had secured 10,000 votes, while we lost it by 9000 votes. So this time we hope to perform well on all the seven seats .” HAM(S) spokesman Danish Rizwan said, “We will contest at least one seat as an NDA ally in Bhojpur .”  The total number of voters in all the seven constituencies of the Bhojpur district is: 21,13052 which includes 11,45,054 male voters, 9,67,897 female voters and the number of the third gender is 101.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bhojpur-voters-confused-as-parties-yet-to-pick-candidates/articleshow/78436212.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Unlock 5.0: Status quo in Delhi ‘till further orders’||NEW DELHI: A status quo will be maintained in the capital with regard to further relaxations under Unlock 5.0 till October 31 or until further orders. This order was passed by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday, a day after the Centre allowed opening of multiplexes with 50% capacity, swimming pools, schools and entertainment parks from October 15. States and Union Territories have the final say in this regard. A decision on the relaxations would be taken by DDMA before October 15 after reviewing the Covid-19 situation. Under Unlock 5.0, now two weekly markets can be organised in each zone daily instead of one earlier. As of now, 24 weekly markets have been permitted in the city. Delhi government had requested lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the DDMA chief, to allow all weekly markets to function, but the proposal was rejected, said sources. The order signed by chief secretary Vijay Dev, the chairman of DDMA’s state executive committee, stated, “The Covid-19 situation has been reviewed and it has been decided that status quo with respect to prohibited/permitted activities (including activities on trial basis) may be maintained in Delhi till October 31 or further orders.” “It has also been decided that opening of two weekly markets per day in each zone of all three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board may be allowed instead of one,” the order added. A complete lockdown would be maintained in all containment zones. Directions were issued to district magistrates and other field authorities to ensure compliance to the DDMA order. While the Centre has allowed cultural, social, religious and similar functions with 200 participants after October 15, DDMA is yet to take a decision on the relaxations. A decision could be taken before mid-October. “A maximum of 50 people are allowed in marriages and 20 in funerals,” the DDMA order stated. Delhi government wants to permit all economic activities allowed by the Centre, except schools, colleges and educational institutes. Educational institutions would only be allowed to open if the government was satisfied about the safety of students. Delhi is among the most open cities in the country and malls, markets, hotels, gyms, yoga centres, serving of liquor in bars and dine-in services in restaurants have been allowed. If DDMA permits, almost all economic activities permitted by the Centre will resume. Watch Unlock 5.0: Status quo to remain in Delhi till Oct 31 or ‘till further orders’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unlock-5-0-status-quo-in-delhi-till-further-orders/articleshow/78436114.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Snubbed by big parties, smaller ones join hands||PATNA: After failing to get their demands met by bigger parties and alliances, smaller local parties in Bihar appear to be reaching out to each other to cobble up coalitions to present themselves as more viable options for the polls ahead. The fringe parties are applying all permutations and combinations and coming up with new alliances almost every day after the announcement of election dates last week. JAP chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav formed the “Progressive Democratic Alliance” with young Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party, M K Faizi’s Social Democratic Party and BPL Matang’s Bahujan Mukti Party on Monday. Earlier on September 19, the Asaduddin Owais-led AIMIM allied with Samajwadi Janta Dal Democratic-led by former parliamentarian Devendra Prasad Yadav to form the "United Democratic Secular Alliance". Similarly, Upendra Kushwaha announced the alliance of his party with former UP CM Mayawati-led BSP and Janwadi Party (Socialist) on Tuesday. Kushwaha blamed both his former allies Nitish Kumar as well as Lalu Prasad for the "underdevelopment" in Bihar over the past 30 years. Now, eyes are also set on NDA ally LJP, which continues to maintain suspense over its stand in the ensuing polls. “The party hasn’t been given a respectable offer in the NDA. Our party president will take a final call within a day or two,” LJP’s state minority cell president Ashraf Ansari said, adding his party is ready to contest on 143 seats. Political observers said even if they don't succeed in the polls, these newly formed alliances of smaller parties are most likely to cut some chunk of votes for both major alliances in the state — the NDA and the opposition Mahagathbandhan. “The smaller parties or alliances, which have been working at the ground level for quite some time, can cause a dent in the vote-share of bigger parties. As even a few hundred votes matters in an assembly election, these fringe parties will try their best, and bigger parties will also keep a watch on them at the local level,” social scientist and professor of economics D N Diwakar said. Asked why the smaller parties are not aligning with bigger parties, Diwakar said, “Bigger parties no longer consider them loyal as they switch side frequently, as per their convenience. Besides, most of these smaller parties did not do well in the last Lok Sabha elections so the bigger allies are refusing to give them a higher number of seats.” VIP chief Mukesh Sahni, on the other hand, claimed that his party is intact in the Mahagathbandhan. “RJD has given us a respectable offer, and I have given a green signal to our candidates to start campaigning. There are some glitches with Congress but all issues will be sorted out by Thursday,” Sahni told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/snubbed-by-big-parties-smaller-ones-join-hands/articleshow/78442150.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 2, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: EC team reviews election preparedness in Gaya||GAYA: A team of Election Commission of India (ECI) reviewed poll preparedness, including security, police action, voter awareness and the facilities at polling booths in the district on Thursday. Gaya DM-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh said it’s for the first time that ECI has given postal ballot facility to the voters above 80 years of age and differently-abled people. “To avail this facility, such voters will have to fill form 12 B by October 5 and hand over the same to the booth level officer (BLO). In Gaya, around 66,000 forms have to be distributed by BLOs for this purpose. The BLOs will collect the filled up forms and submit the same to the office of returning officer concerned so that required number of postal ballot could be arranged. The ECI team also stressed upon making available postal ballot to the voters,” Singh added He said with the notification for the first phase of elections, nominations are now open for the candidates till October 8. “However, on October 2 and 4, it will be holiday. The candidates can opt to file their nominations online and also make online payment. Only two people will be allowed to accompany the candidate at the time of filing of nomination papers at the office of the returning officer. The number of vehicles has also been restricted to two only,” he said. Polling in four segments – Gaya Town, Belaganj, Atri and Wazirganj – will be held from 7am to 6pm. In remaining segments, including Tekari, Imamganj, Barachatti, Bodh Gaya, Gurua and Sherghati, the polling time will be from 7am to 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ec-team-reviews-election-preparedness-in-gaya/articleshow/78436190.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: EC team reviews election preparedness in Gaya||GAYA: A team of Election Commission of India (ECI) reviewed poll preparedness, including security, police action, voter awareness and the facilities at polling booths in the district on Thursday. Gaya DM-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh said it’s for the first time that ECI has given postal ballot facility to the voters above 80 years of age and differently-abled people. “To avail this facility, such voters will have to fill form 12 B by October 5 and hand over the same to the booth level officer (BLO). In Gaya, around 66,000 forms have to be distributed by BLOs for this purpose. The BLOs will collect the filled up forms and submit the same to the office of returning officer concerned so that required number of postal ballot could be arranged. The ECI team also stressed upon making available postal ballot to the voters,” Singh added He said with the notification for the first phase of elections, nominations are now open for the candidates till October 8. “However, on October 2 and 4, it will be holiday. The candidates can opt to file their nominations online and also make online payment. Only two people will be allowed to accompany the candidate at the time of filing of nomination papers at the office of the returning officer. The number of vehicles has also been restricted to two only,” he said. Polling in four segments – Gaya Town, Belaganj, Atri and Wazirganj – will be held from 7am to 6pm. In remaining segments, including Tekari, Imamganj, Barachatti, Bodh Gaya, Gurua and Sherghati, the polling time will be from 7am to 4pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-team-reviews-election-preparedness-in-gaya/articleshow/78442257.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hubballi||In bid to woo OBCs, BJP mulling over Kuruba face for Belagavi LS bypoll||Belagavi: The untimely demise of Belagavi MP and Union minister of state for railways Suresh Angadi has placed BJP in a rather unexpected quandary. While there are many in the Belagavi unit clamouring for the ticket in the Lok Sabha bypoll to be given to a member of Angadi’s family, others are making a vociferous pitch to field a Kuruba candidate. The demand for a Kuruba candidate is noteworthy since the community is not represented at all in the Parliament. BJP’s landslide win in the Lok Sabha elections last year handed the saffron party 25 of the 28 parliamentary seats, but none of them was from the Kuruba caste. There are other compelling reasons that those pushing for a Kuruba candidate cite: Checking former chief minister and senior Congress member Siddaramaiah’s growing influence in North Karnataka. For decades, BJP has cultivated the support of the Lingayat community in the region, and reaped electoral dividends accordingly. However, as a BJP source told TOI, Siddaramaiah’s victory from Badami in the 2018 assembly polls, has compelled the saffron party to revisit its strategy. “Siddaramaiah’s hold over Kuruba and other OBCs in the region is tightening and it has not escaped our notice. BJP is determined to expand its voter base by reaching out to OBCs and this is an opportunity to achieve it,” said the source. The BJP member said the only prominent Kuruba face in the party was rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa. “However, he is not a leader with mass appeal. Hence, fielding a grassroots Kuruba worker will change the equations in Bombay Karnataka,” said the source, adding that Amar Singh Patil’s name was being floated as one of the many choices the BJP had. BJP’s Belagavi unit chief Sanjay Patil said Angadi’s death was too recent to be speculating about his successor. “Our national leadership will take a call and regardless of candidate, we will work for the party’s victory,” he said. Amar Singh Patil refused to react to the speculations, while state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s assistant said the MP could not respond as he was in a meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-bid-to-woo-obcs-bjp-mulling-over-kuruba-face-for-belagavi-ls-bypoll/articleshow/78434613.cms||Shreyas HS
October 2, 2020||Mysuru||Toy train at Raja Seat in a state of disrepair||Madikeri: In addition to plugging the influx of tourists, Covid-19 appears to have made the government machinery even more apathetic, a testament to which is the condition of the toy train at Raja Seat in Madikeri. The toy train was among the major tourist attractions in Madikeri, but official apathy has resulted in this mechanical device lying in a state of disrepair for months together after it developed technical snags. Kodagu deputy commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that a detailed project report on the need to get the toy train functioning again had been submitted to the Union ministry of railways. “However, no funds have been sanctioned for the project. We have entrusted the responsibility of following up on the request for funds to the Kodagu district tourism department.” However, Kodagu district tourism department assistant director Raghavendra said that an action plan on procurement of funds was yet to be finalised. On the other hand, the ‘Coorg Village’ project, work on which commenced a year ago is still incomplete. The Rs 98-lakh project was slated to be developed behind Raja Seat. The concept is to provide tourists an arena where they can purchase homemade local Kodagu delicacies in a natural ambience. Although the officials concerned maintained that 90% of the work on the project had been completed, the situation on the ground does not reflect this. Kodagu Chamber of Commerce general secretary AK Naveen said that the toy train was a key tourist attraction, and added that, once completed, Coorg Village too would become an addition to the list of hotspots among visitors to the hilly district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/toy-train-at-raja-seat-in-a-state-of-disrepair/articleshow/78435033.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||Cash seizure: Police begin investigation||PATNA/BAGAHA: Patna district  officer-cum-district magistrate Kumar Ravi on Thursday said a bio-data meant for contesting election was recovered from the SUV parked on the premises of Biscomaun Bhavan near Gandhi Maidan in Patna on Wednesday night. A sum of Rs 75 lakh was seized from the SUV. Ravi said the bio-data was of one Sanjay Kumar Singh. “The matter is being probed,” Ravi said, adding Singh is a businessman keen to contest assembly election from Sasaram assembly seat, as per the bio-data. Meanwhile, police seized Rs 3 lakh in cash from one Sikandar Azam at Bagaha in West Champaran district on Thursday. Police said Azam was returning on bike with the money when he was intercepted by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cash-seizure-police-begin-investigation/articleshow/78436165.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||Three file papers for first phase polls on Day 1||PATNA: Altogether three nominations were filed on the first day as the Election Commission issued notification for the first phase of assembly elections in the state on Thursday. Sources in the state CEO office said two nominations were filed in Aurangabad assembly constituency and one in Wazirganj assembly seat. Earlier in the day, the notification for the first phase of assembly polls to be held in 71 assembly constituencies in 16 districts, mostly affected by left-wing extremism, was issued by the Election Commission. October 8 is the last date of filing nominations while the scrutiny of papers will take place the next day. According to the notification issued by the EC, the last day of withdrawal of nominations is October 12. Sources in the EC said the first instalment of central armed police forces will reach the districts going to polls in the first phase in a day or two. On the other hand, 13 nominations were filed for biennial election to the state legislative council from the graduate constituency on the first day. Patna and Darbhanga accounted for five seats each, Kosi region two and Tirhut one. For the teacher’s constituency, altogether 11 nominations were filed. Four nominations each were filed from Tirhut and Saran, two from Darbhanga and one from Patna, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-file-papers-for-first-phase-polls-on-day-1/articleshow/78436116.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||Ticket seekers boost small hotels’ business||PATNA: With the Election Commission of India announcing the schedule for the state assembly elections, small and budget-friendly hotels near the Patna Junction area have witnessed a steady growth in customer footfalls. A 25% rise has been registered in room bookings in the last couple of days. According to hoteliers, ticket aspirants and party workers from different districts are coming to Patna, which has increased the rush at city hotels. The manager of a hotel near Buddha Smriti Park, Ajay Kumar, told this newspaper, “When the hotel reopened after the lockdown, the footfall was nearly 8%, which went up to 20% in one month. After the polling dates were announced, the bookings increased twofold.” An employee of a hotel near Dak Bungalow crossing, B K Singh, said, “A 15% rise has been seen in bookings in the last few days. Hence, all precautions are being taken to ensure the safety of customers amid the pandemic.” Another hotel near Patna Junction has been receiving almost 15 bookings daily for the last three days. The number was only six after it began operating in August. Hotel employee, Raman Singh, pointed out, “Since we have not increased the prices of the rooms and other services, we expect more footfalls till the elections are held.” Nishant Singh, the manager of a hotel near Fraser Road, said, “We have witnessed a 25% surge in bookings because ticket aspirants and party workers are travelling to Patna for election-related works.” He, however, admitted that the numbers would have been higher, had the state not been hit by the pandemic. Even the plush hotels in areas like Beerchand Patel Marg, Gandhi Maidan, Patliputra and Bailey Road have pinned their hopes on the upcoming elections. They expect the number of bookings to go up in October. Mohd Ziaul Haque, who owns two hotels on Bailey Road, said, “Bookings have increased from 12% to 30% in view of the elections and are likely to get better in October. People are coming to Patna along with others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ticket-seekers-boost-small-hotels-business/articleshow/78435948.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 2, 2020||Patna||All-round growth during Nitish’s rule: JD(U)||PATNA: Senior JD(U) functionary and water resources minister Sanjay Jha administered the oath of membership of the party to altogether 16 members and workers of Jagdev Sena at the JD(U) office here on Thursday. Talking to mediapersons on the occasion, Jha said the state has witnessed an all-round development during the 15-year-rule of the NDA government under the able leadership of CM Nitish Kumar. Hailing the recent passage of farm Bills in Parliament, Jha said the Bills were in favour of farmers, but opposition parties are trying to mislead them to suit their political gains. “Some provisions in the Bills have already been implemented in Bihar,” he added. Referring to the state’s agriculture road map, the minister said farm production has increased manifold. “Fish production in Bihar has also registered growth of nearly 2.5%. Similarly, makhana production has also increased,” he added. The minister said the CM has promised to provide irrigation facility to every farmland in order to increase the agriculture production in the state. “The work has already started and the database is being prepared for the purpose,” he said. He said a sum of Rs 33,164 crore has been spent on irrigation in the last 15 years. “Efforts are on to provide drinking water of the Ganga to the residents of Rajgir, Bodh Gaya and Gaya through pipeline. The work is already underway on the ambitious project,” he said. “Nitishji has kept the promises made to the people. His actions have proved it,” the minister added. Working president of state JD(U) Ashok Choudhary was also present at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-round-growth-during-nitishs-rule-jdu/articleshow/78435859.cms||Ramashankar
October 2, 2020||Goa||Goa govt rolls out programme to make villages self-reliant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday launched the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Swayampoorna Goa’ initiative as part of the state government’s economic revival plan to make villages self-reliant. Speaking at a function through video conferencing, Sawant said that the programme will be implemented for the next three years. In the first phase, 191 villages would be taken up, while from October 2, 2021, 14 municipalities will be covered as part of the second phase. Initially, the programme will be rolled out in 41 villages, and in the next one and half months, other villages will also be covered, he added. While emphasising on ‘griha udyog’, Sawant called for a collective effort and promised to fast-track projects under this scheme. Sawant said that he will visit villages with ministers every month, while the panchayat members will monitor the programme. “We should keep aside politics and aim to make the Swayampoorna Goa programme successful,” he said. Stating that Goa is entering its 60th year of Liberation, the chief minister said that the government aims to eliminate poverty in the state. “We don’t want to have poverty and hunger,” Sawant said. Efforts will be made to ensure government schemes reach the needy people, he said. Due to economic challenges in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has embarked on making state self-sufficient, the chief minister said. “We have to find opportunities during difficult times, for which we are making efforts,” Sawant said. He urged people to tap into the agricultural sector, and take up ‘neglected’ products which are cultivated in Goa. “We are yet to enter this business professionally. Now, we have to motivate people,” he said. Panachyats minister Mauvin Godinho hailed the initiative as an important step to make Goa self-sufficient. He also said that most of the essential commodities, like flowers, are sourced from outside the state, which must be produced in Goa. He also said that many schemes remain underutilised as people don’t take up agriculture. “We will encourage the youth to take up agriculture,” he said. The directorate of higher education (DHE) and Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) have submitted a report of 191 panchayats and 14 municipalities, including the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) to make them self-sufficient. The survey was conducted by the colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-rolls-out-programme-to-make-villages-self-reliant/articleshow/78438078.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Disconnected from studies, student sets up ‘Smart Class’||Kochi: When Anamika Sudheer (13) – a Class VIII student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Thiruvananthapuram – arrived at her home in the tribal hamlet of Anakkatty in Attapadi following the imposition of lockdown in March, she had no way to pursue online classes as her house lacked power, smartphone, TV and internet connectivity. When most of her classmates were attending online lectures, Anamika had nothing to do. But, instead of being upset, she set up her own classroom in an old thatched shed in front of her house and named it ‘Ente Natile Smart Class’ (My Village’s Smart Class). She teaches Hindi, Malayalam English and Tamil in her own innovative ways to 15 tribal students who have no accessibility to online classes. As her efforts gained attention, social workers and various NGOs came forward and gave her a TV and smartphone. Moreover, the house has also got power connection. “Initially I was a bit disappointed as lockdown affected my studies. All I could do was read the books available and help my parents with household work. Then I thought of sharing what I learnt from school with children in our village. The shed was our old home, where we lived until a new house was constructed last year. My parents helped me to do some maintenance works, we used cow dung to pave the floor. I made a blackboard using a plastic sheet and found some paint bottles to make a few seats. I have 15 students who study in Classes I-VII,” she said. Anamika is the elder daughter of Saji Sudheer and M Sudheer, a daily-wage labourer and folk song artist. Anamika’s sister Moulika, a Class V student at Agali GHS, helps her conduct classes. Sudheer, a Plus-Two dropout, is helping his daughters to teach students Malayalam using folk songs. As Anamika studied German as second language, she is also teaching kids its basics. Anamika also teaches gardening and vegetable cultivation. The students celebrated Onam by making Pookalam, playing games and having sadya. Teachers Anamika also gives lesson on personal hygiene in the backdrop of Covid-19. “All students enter the class only after washing their hands with soap and using sanitizer. Masks are mandatory and social distancing is ensured in class. Though a TV was donated by some social workers, DTH connection is yet to start. I have a smartphone and taking class has become easier. Network connectivity is weak here but still it is better to have something,” she said. The smartphone was gifted by her teachers after they understood what she was trying at her village. “Anakkatty is situated along Kerala-TN border and the village is yet to see development. I managed to build a house with the support of social workers last year but then we lacked power connection. Now, the efforts of my daughter have brought a TV, smartphone and power supply. But many homes here await similar basic necessities,” said Sudheer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/disconnected-from-studies-student-sets-up-smart-class/articleshow/78434636.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||MGLI holds online interviews for admission||Ahmedabad: Mahatma Gandhi Labour Institute (MGLI) announced on Thursday that it has started holding online interviews for admission to the Post Diploma in Industrial Safety (PDIS) and Post Diploma in Industrial Environmental Technology and Management (PDIETM). D. Suman Vaishnav, course coordinator (PDIS/PDIETM), MGLI, said that more than 800 candidates have applied for admission to the two courses. There are 153 seats for the PDIS course, and 62 seats for the PDIETM course. The first round of interviews for both courses have been completed, while the second round of interviews will be conducted from October 5-7. The interviews will be conducted by panels that will also comprise industry experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mgli-holds-online-interviews-for-admission/articleshow/78437422.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Allahabad||Women not safe in UP, says AAP MP||PRAYAGRAJ: Aam Admi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh targeted the government over the sudden spurt in crime against women and said the government which gives Beti Bachao Beti Padhao slogan is not working to protect daughters and women. There is mafia raj in Uttar Pradesh. The chief minister has failed in handling the state and should resign from the post immediately, Singh said while talking to the media at Circuit House on Thursday at the induction of new members in the party. He said there is public outrage across the country due to the death of the Hathras girl and people will give a befitting reply to the government in the coming days. The Rajya Sabha MP said BJP has come to power in the state by doing politics of caste and religion. The cases of rape are increasing and people of a particular caste are being protected. Dalit daughters and women are being raped increasing, Singh alleged. The police have failed in curbing crime and the Hathras incident clearly shows the difference between the state government’s words and actions, the AAP leader said. The government tries to save rape accused like Chinmayanand and Kuldeep Sengar, which the people will never forgive. AAP is emerging as an alternative in UP, and will field its candidates in upcoming panchayat elections, he said. On October 2, AAP will stage protests in tehsil, block and district headquarters against increasing crime and corruption, he added. Speaking on farm laws, he said, “Farmers have been cheated and will become puppets in the hands of capitalists. People like Ambani and Adani will benefit from these laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/women-not-safe-in-up-says-aap-mp/articleshow/78434826.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Photos: 30-year-old tree finds new home at Raj Bhawan in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) on Sunday successfully transplanted a full-grown Radhachura tree at Raj Bhavan, after it was uprooted from its original spot near Writers’ Buildings to facilitate the construction of the East West Metro station. With some KMRC officials feeling that the 30-year-old Peltophorum should not be axed, they approached the Metro executing agency, Afcons Infrastructure, to transplant it. The latter roped in Nature Mates, an NGO engaged in nature conservation activity, to carry out the transplantation. Arjan Basu Roy, an expert in tree transplantation who oversaw the operation, said the process started on Saturday night and ended around noon on Sunday. “It was a delicate process and we had to ensure minimal time loss between uprooting of the tree from its original spot and planting it again amid other trees on the sprawling Raj Bhavan premises,” he said. The tree, which weighs 8 tonnes, was transported under supervision of a horticulturist. A team has been watering it since Sunday and it will continue for the next two months to enusre its survival. According to Basu Roy, the prospect of survival of the transplanted tree is high but depends a lot on aftercare. “We need to ‘bathe’ the tree every day for a couple of months to ensure that it does not become dry and that new leaves sprout. We can’t pour much water on the root as that will prove detrimental,” he said, adding an anti-fungal treatment was carried out on the root. A hormone therapy was also done to save its trunk and root from damage. A KMRC official pointed out that they had already transplanted 25 large trees, which were uprooted from the area around Writers’ Buildings for the construction of East-West Metro station. “While 23 trees were transplanted around Laldighi, two were shifted to Maidan along Red Road and Town Hall,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/30-yr-old-tree-finds-new-home-at-raj-bhavan/articleshow/78436131.cms||Saikat Ray
October 2, 2020||Bhopal||IPS Purushottam Sharma writes to state govt to revoke his suspension||Bhopal: IPS officer Purushottam Sharma has sent a letter to the state government, seeking revocation of his suspension and calling action against him as uncalled for. He was suspended after a shocking video of him allegedly hitting his wife went viral.Sharma said, that he was asked to submit his explanation and within 30 minutes of submission, he was suspended, therefore this action is not lawful.He wrote that explanation given by him was not taken into consideration and there were no complaints against him. “The second video, which went viral is very clear that I was sitting in my room and it was my wife who instigated me by attacking with a sharp-edged pair of scissors,” he wrote in the letter.The video was also shot using a hidden camera as a part of a conspiracy against me, Sharma added. He also pointed out that there were other IAS and IPS officers whose videos ‘showing serious misconduct’ had gone viral , but they were not suspended. Mine was only a case of domestic feud, he wrote. Sharma also claimed that his daughter’s letter to the government was also not taken into consideration. Sharma is likely to file an appeal in the CAT on Friday.Sharma’s daughter had earlier written a letter to Chief minister, home minister and DGP, alleging that mother was suffering from ‘chronic psychiatric disorder' and had even tried to burn their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ips-purushottam-sharma-writes-to-state-govt-to-revoke-his-suspension/articleshow/78436125.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Varanasi||7-year-old girl raped by neighbour in Azamgarh||VARANASI: A seven-year-old girl was brutally raped by her 30-year-old neighbour Naushad (30) in a village in Azamgarh district on Wednesday and had to be rushed to Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi for a life-saving surgery. The mother of the minor rape survivor, resident of a village in Jiyanpur police station area of Azamgarh district, said the accused neighbour Naushad runs a tent house service and has a shop outside the village. He was familiar to the minor girl due to being their neighbour and her daughter used to go to his place to play. In her complaint to police, mother of the minor rape survivor said, “Naushad took the girl to his shop on Wednesday. Naushad came to my house later and asked me to give her clothes saying she was taking a bath at his house. When my daughter returned home she was bleeding profusely. I rushed her to the Government Women’s Hospital where doctors told me that she had been raped.” SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said Jiyanpur police registered a case against Naushad and arrested him immediately while the minor girl was rushed to Banaras Hindu University hospital in Varanasi as she needed to undergo a life-saving surgery. “The doctors at the Government Women’s Hospital referred the minor girl to BHU hospital as she needed to undergo a surgery and there was no pediatric surgeon in the hospital. The condition of the minor girl is stable after the surgery,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/7-year-old-girl-raped-by-neighbour-in-azamgarh/articleshow/78435182.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gang rapes, repeated rapes doubled in 2019: NCRB||Ahmedabad: The number of rape victims who said they were raped more than once by the same offender doubled in 2019 compared to 2018, revealed ‘Crime in India 2019,’ a publication by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The figure was 30 in 2018 which rose to 62 in 2019. Likewise, cases of gang rape rose from seven in 2018 to 14 in 2019, stated the report. Analysis of the rape cases revealed that 96.4% of the rape victims knew the perpetrators. According to the report, the rape victims included one pregnant woman and four women who had mental or physical disabilities. The two major cities of Gujarat recorded substantial rise in crimes against women. Surat recorded arise of 42% - from 712 in 2018 to 1,015 in 2019 – whereas crimes against women in Ahmedabad rose 15% — from 1,416 to 1,633. In comparison, the overall rise in Gujarat was 5.6% for the crimes recorded under sections of IPC, special laws and local laws. Ahmedabad recorded a rise of 22% in rape cases – from 68 to 83 – whereas Surat recorded a dip of 8.7% — from 46 to 42. The state also recoded a rise of 5% year-on-year in crimes filed under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The 2,227 cases included 1,539 cases of rape, 337 cases of sexual assault, 258 cases of sexual harassment and nine cases of child pornography. Data by the state police shows the state had recorded 307 rape cases till July in 2020, which roughly translates to 44 rape cases per month — the same monthly average of rape cases (44) as recorded in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gang-rapes-repeated-rapes-doubled-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/78436141.cms||Parth Shastri
October 2, 2020||Bareilly||Wildlife week begins in UP with messages of conservation, co-existence||Pilibhit: Wildlife Week, which is celebrated across the country in the first week of October every year, began in UP on Thursday with various messages and programmes for conservation of all wildlife species on earth, restoration of biodiversity for environmental sustainability, strengthening co-existence of humans and wildlife and reducing man-animal conflict. On the opening day of Wildlife Week, vice-chancellor of Lucknow University Professor Alok Kumar Rai released a poster on the conservation of monitor lizards on behalf of the university’s biodiversity and wildlife conservation lab. Professor of zoology Dr Amita Kanaujia, who is a key role player in Wildlife Week, toldTOI that a seven-day-long online lecture series has been organised jointly by the Institute of Wildlife Science and Environmental Information System, which will include eminent national and international experts to deliver lectures on various topics related to conservation of wildlife species, comprising avian and aquatic animals, herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, reptiles and insects. Restoration of biodiversity will be another crucial topic in the series. The opening day of Wildlife Week was dedicated to an expert lecture by Andre Botha, the programme manager of ‘Vultures for Africa - Endangered Wildlife Trust’ on conservation of vultures. The principal chief conservator of forest (Project Tiger) of UP, P K Sharma, who is also member secretary of UP Biodiversity Board, told TOI that comprehensive discussions were held with all chief conservators, conservators, field directors, divisional forest officers and other forest officials from across the state, over strategies of wildlife conservation — already enforced and to be launched in the near future, via a webinar arranged at the state forest headquarters. Forest officials were suggested to arrange various awareness programmes and competitions for students, to promote result-oriented conservation plans among common masses and local stakeholders, Sharma said. He further said, “The state government has approved in principle six rescue centres for rehabilitation of stray leopards and tigers, in view of increasing incidents of big cats’ straying into habitations. One of this is to be set up in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve.” “The state government has also approved the plan to relocate communities living in critical tiger habitats, especially in village Bharatpur in Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary, village Chaltua in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, and another in Kashi wildlife division in district Chandauli,” he said. Initial work has already begun. The forest department will convert vacated forest areas into grasslands to increase prey-base for carnivores, Sharma added. He said a tiger conservation foundation has recently been constituted in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, which will soon be inaugurated by UP forest minister Dara Singh Chauhan. The Wildlife Week was a buoyant occasion to share and discuss these ambitious plans with all forest officials in the state on a single platform, Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wildlife-week-begins-in-up-with-messages-of-conservation-co-existence/articleshow/78431304.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||State’s kharif ’20 groundnut crop pegged at 35 lakh tonnes||Ahmedabad: Gujarat is expected to harvest groundnut of around 35 lakh tonnes this kharif season, which is about 10% more than the 32 lakh tonnes output recorded in 2019, shows the Groundnut Kharif Crop Survey 2020 conducted by the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA).The production, however, is lower than the earlier expectations of the market participants, as the yield took a beating this year due to heavy rain, especially in Saurashtra region. Given the huge jump in the groundnut acreage, the production was initially estimated to rise up to 40-42 lakh tonnes. Even though rain affected the yield, the estimated production of 35 lakh tonnes is still the highest ever for Gujarat.With more farmers opting for the groundnut crop, the area under groundnut cultivation in the state surged 33% to 21 lakh hectares in 2020, fuelling the expectations of a massive jump in the output.“Although the area has increased by 33%, the yield is down by 17% mainly due to excessive rain and flooding,”said SEA, which is a national body of vegetable oil industry.According the groundnut crop survey, the overall yield in Gujarat is expected to decline at 1,715 kg per hectare this year as compared to 2,070 per kg hectare last year. Despite area under groundnut increasing from nearly 13 lakh hectares last kharif season to 16 lakh hectares, the crop is likely to be more or less the same as that of last year. The average rainfall in Saurashtra this year was more than doubled compared to normal average. The survey has pegged the production in Saurashtra at a little over 26 lakh tonnes. Thanks to normal rainfall coupled with increase in area, the groundnut yield is expected to improve substantially from 1,870 kg/hectare in 2019 to 2,140 kg a hectare in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-kharif-20-groundnut-crop-pegged-at-35-lakh-tonnes/articleshow/78437414.cms||Kalpesh Damor
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Chit-fund fraud: Couple collects Rs 50 crore over 20 years in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Hundreds of residents of Rohini staged a protest on Wednesday night after being duped by a couple who had accepted money from them for investment in a chit, or ‘committee’, fund. The couple had so far collected around Rs 50 crore from gullible people over two decades. People gathered at Sector 3 in Rohini demanding action against the accused duo. The cops admitted having received complaints from several Rohini residents, and investigations later showed Mahendra Chawla, 53, and his wife, Renu, 52, had conned around 250, having persuaded them to invest from Rs5,000 up to Rs10 lakh in their committee fund. According to police, the Chawlas were arrested on Thursday after the mover-and-packer service they had used during relocation identified their new shop and disclosed their mobile numbers. P K Mishra, DCP (Rohini) said, “We traced the accused through an inverter mechanic who had installed an inverter at the couple’s new house in Gurgaon. On Wednesday night, three PCR calls were received from residents of Sector-3 Rohini about a woman who fled with the money invested by them. Around 250 people had gathered there and were screaming the couple’s name. A team of police officers spoke to the residents and assured them of timely action.” Investigating officials discovered that the Chawlas, who also run a garment shop in Rohini, had been collecting money from people for a chit fund. The amount given by Rohini residents is around Rs 35 lakh, but more complaints are coming in. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they had been running this scam for the last two decades. One of the victims said, “In the last few months, my mother submitted around Rs 3.5 lakh to Renu Chawla. On Wednesday, there was news spreading like wildfire that she had fled the colony and was not traceable. It was our hard-earned money that we had invested in the committee fund hoping to get high returns. We needed the money at this time because we have a wedding in the family coming up.” He hoped that with the cops arresting the scamsters, the investors would now get back their money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chit-fund-fraud-couple-collects-rs-50cr-over-20-yrs/articleshow/78436157.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Delhi||NCPCR chief rebuts activist’s charge of raid on children homes||New Delhi: A fresh controversy erupted on Thursday as activist Harsh Mander alleged that the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) chief led a surprise “raid” on two children homes in Delhi with which he has been associated in the past - Ummeed Aman Ghar and Khushi Rainbow Home. He has alleged that the nature of questions posed by the NCPCR team raises doubts that whether the agency will be just “one more willing tool for the witch-hunt that is ongoing against independent dissenters in India today”. Reacting to his statement NCPCR chief Priyank Kanoongo objected to the use of the word “raid” and said he led a “routine inspection” on Thursday. He told TOI that he was not aware that Mandar had any connection with these homes. On the allegations regarding questions about anti-CAA protests and Rohingya children in these homes, Kanoongo said, “Let the report come, it will put out the facts. If everything is fine with these homes then why should anyone be anxious.” Mandar in his statement says that “the NCPCR team in its ‘raids’ on the two homes had four central focuses. The most important was whether the children participated in the anti-CAA protests. The second focus was about my association with the homes. The children spoke about the occasional visits to meet them. The third focus was on foreign funding.” Mandar has further alleged that the fourth question was “whether we had given shelter to any Rohingya children. My colleagues said that for us, we don't focus on the identity of any child; the only thing important for us is that she or he is homeless and in need of care and protection.” Mandar has stated that he is no longer formally associated with these homes but has close bonds of great love with the children in these homes which he continues to visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ncpcr-chief-rebuts-activists-charge-of-raid-on-children-homes/articleshow/78447809.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP police cite FSL report, say Hathras girl was not raped||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Police on Thursday cited conclusions of an Aligarh hospital medical report, postmortem report of the Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi and FSL, Agra, report to declare that the Dalit girl brutalised in Hathras was not raped. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar said the Special Investigating Team (SIT) has already begun a probe into the incident and further details will emerge once the investigations are completed within the next seven days. On the opposition uproar, police said investigations so far suggest a conspiracy to push the state into a caste turmoil by twisting facts presented by responsible and senior police officers. He said such mischief mongers will be identified and brought to book. The ADG said that police action was prompt to prevent untoward incidents. Through an intensive probe into the matter, the SIT is sure to unveil evil design behind the whole incident. He said the chief minister has already ordered strict exemplary action against the guilty. "The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report on the vaginal sample of the 19-year old girl of Hathras has revealed that she was not raped. This is the conclusive confirmatory report after the preliminary medical report and post mortem report both have concluded that no rape was committed," the ADG (LO) said. “The FSL report has clearly said that no sperm or ova were found in the samples collected from the vaginal swab. Along with the FSL report, the postmortem report has suggested that the cause of death of the deceased was due trauma following injury in the neck,” Prashant Kumar told reporters in Lucknow. The girl was assaulted on September 14 outside her village and was admitted to AMU hospital in Aligarh. The FIR lodged by the family immeditely after the incident mentioned assault by a youth, but didn't mention rape. However, in her statement to the police on September 22, the girl said that she was raped by four youths. All of them named by her were arrested and her samples were sent to FSL for forensic test on September 25. However, quoting reports from AMU hospital's medical report, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir then said that the the didn't confirm rape. "The report mentions that there were injuries but it didn't confirm rape," he told media persons. When her condition deteriorated, the girl was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on September 28 where she passed away a day later. The postmortem report of the hospital revealed that she was strangulated and had also suffered fracture in her spine. About allegations of rape, the ADG (LO) said the chief minister has already ordered strict exemplary action against the guilty. “Police will now probe as to who was responsible for this mala fide campaign and twist the facts despite the statements of the responsible officers otherwise. The state administration and the police - both are very sensitive about the cause of women and children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/police-cite-fsl-report-say-hathras-girl-was-not-raped/articleshow/78438230.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Recalling Mahatma Gandhi’s connection with Mussoorie||By Surbhi Agarwal Mahatma Gandhi’s Mussoorie connection dates back to the early 20th century, when the hill town finds mentions in his articles, letters etc. In fact, it was his preferred hill station for recuperation. Probably this was due to the fact that his friend and associate, Abbas Tyabji, fondly nicknamed ‘Chota Gandhi’ had moved to Mussoorie in the early 1920s for health reasons. But it could also be because Mussoorie was not the British summer capital. Hence, it gave more freedom to national leaders like Motilal Nehru, Abbas Tyabji etc to spend some summer months here. Whatever the reason, Mussoorie boasts of two long and one short visit by Gandhiji. In 1929, in the period between October 17 and 25, Gandhiji came to Mussoorie via Uttar Pradesh with his wife Kasturba Gandhi, Mirabehn and many of his followers, after attending a few day activities and inaugurations in Dehradun and Rajpur. His son Devdas Gandhi was in Mussoorie since the past few months, as he was recuperating from a surgery. This visit is notable as at the time, Mussoorie municipality had mostly European members, who had initially been suspicious of Gandhiji’s plans here. But after they attended his prayer meeting, they were open to have him address the European Mussoorie Municipal Council. This visit is also notable as it brought a fixed wage practice for the coolies and rickshaw wallahs. The other notable change was the opening of the Landour Temple, the only Hindu temple in town at that time, to all castes. Gandhiji also addressed the European Girl’s College, where he rebuked them for “allowing their men to indulge in alcohol consumption and thereby influencing the labourers to indulge in similar practices.” He also held regular prayer meetings at the Sylverton Grounds. In 1946, in the period between May 28 and June 9, Gandhiji again came to Mussoorie, this time to rest on medical advice. As earlier, he stayed at Birla House, and held regular prayer meetings at Sylverton Grounds. At the prayer meetings, he reminded the rich of the misery of rickshaw-coolies and advised them to build dharamshalas for the poor. Also, he spoke of the deplorable living conditions of labourers in Mussoorie and emphasised the need for sanitation. The writer runs the Mussoorie Heritage Centre, a social enterprise involved in showcasing and preserving the heritage of Mussoorie and adjoining areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/recalling-mahatma-gandhis-connection-with-mussoorie/articleshow/78434653.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarkahand records 365 new cases, 14 deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Thursday recorded 365 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths, taking the number of infected cases to 49,248 and the death toll to 625. Among those who tested positive include the personal secretary of state chief secretary Om Prakash due to which the CS has gone into home isolation. Whereas those who succumbed to the virus comprised mostly those people who are of above 50-year-old and suffered multiple ailments along with Covid-19. Of the fresh cases, Dehradun district reported the highest 62 cases, followed by Udham Singh Nagar with 53, Nainital 50, Haridwar 44, Chamoli 41, Pauri 39, Rudraprayag 26, Champawat 14, Almora 13, Pitgoragarh nine, Uttarkashi seven, Bageshwar six and Tehri one, the health department said. Six deaths were reported from AIIMS, Rishikesh, five from Doon Medical College, Dehradun, two from Sushila Tiwari government Hospital, Haldwani. Meanwhile on Thursday, 801 patients were cured, including Uttarakhand assembly speaker Premchand Aggrawal. The tally of cured patients has now reached 39, 836 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarkahand-records-365-new-cases-14-deaths/articleshow/78434658.cms||Shivani Azad
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Tormentor caught on camera in judicial custody||Kolkata: A 35-year-old driver of a mini truck, who was arrested late on Wednesday for allegedly threatening to rape a young woman at a Lake Town bus stand last week, was produced in a Salt Lake court on Thursday and sent to 14 days’ judicial custody. The woman filmed Ram Babu Paswan, a resident of Rasbehari Avenue, who reportedly sat beside her at the bus stand and initially made lewd comments and then, threatened her with rape. Apparently undeterred by the videographing, Paswan continued to make advances and even said on camera that he was not scared of anyone and that he lived near Kalighat. When the woman’s friend came to her rescue, Paswan reportedly brandished a knife at them, threatening them with murder. The woman and her friend drove away in a taxi and two days later, she posted her ordeal on Facebook, along with the video. She alleged a cop was present during her harassment but he left without helping her. The next day, Bidhannagar police contacted her, filed a complaint and passed on the video to all police stations while a team began a manhunt. Paswan was arrested from his home at Rashbehari Avenue on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tormentor-caught-on-camera-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/78436173.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Solanki recovers after 101 days||Ahmedabad: I thought that I would not contact Covid-19 and kept moving around, what followed was an arduous journey after getting infected, said Bharatsinh Solanki, former Union minister and two-times Gujarat Congress president. On Thursday morning, Solanki got discharged from a city-based hospital after 101 days of Covid-19 treatment, which according to the hospital authorities could well be one of the longest stretches of Covid hospitalization in India and abroad. Solanki appealed to the citizens to pay heed to all precautions and ensure that they don’t contract Covid-19 infection. “It started with a slight fever on June 19. I did not pay much heed for a day, but as the condition got aggravated, I sought medical attention and also underwent test. The result on June 21 was positive. I then got admitted to a hospital. Over the days, the situation got deteriorated and I got transferred to Ahmedabad,” Solanki told media. Talking about his ordeal, Solanki said that he was aware of his various medical complications and the efforts by the team of doctors. “Many don’t realize that it’s as much about the mental condition as it’s about physical well-being. Only those who undergo this phase can understand it – I’ve spent several nights just staring at the walls or night lamp,” said the former Congress president in a frail voice. Solanki said that at one point, his weight was just 58kg when he was hospitalized, which improved to 75kg on October 1. “I must laud the efforts of the doctors and all supporting staff. I underwent several complications – from diarrhoea to constipation, and muscle weakness to body ache – but they remained in solid support and encouraged me,” he said, adding that he feels more confident. “If I can come alive out of it, I can also fight other problems.” Answering a question on his political return, Solanki said that it’s a gradual process. “As it took some time for me to get healthy, it (political return) would also happen eventually. But I am thankful to all the supporters during those testing days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/solanki-recovers-after-101-days/articleshow/78436172.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Canteen supplying food to BHU Covid L-3 facility closes||VARANASI: Annapurna Seva Samiti (ASS), the charitable organization supplying food to Covid-19 Level-3 facility, patients admitted under Janani Suraksha and other indoor patient department wards of Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University, closed its kitchen from Thursday morning alleging non-payment of dues of around Rs 17 lakh. The BHU administration said that the payment was delayed due to technical reasons and claimed that alternative arrangements of food supply for Covid-19 L-3 facility and other IPD wards has been made. ASS president Tarun Kanti Pal said, “The canteen has been operating since 2004 to provide food to patients on nominal price. We had been asked to supply food to patients admitted under Janani Suraksha Yojana for Rs 100 and for Covid patients for Rs 140 for each patient per day. Food was also supplied to other IPD wards.” Since the establishment of L-3 facility on April 16, no payment was made, he said adding that in July, the ASS gave a letter requesting BHU to clear the dues as meeting the cost of canteen only with donations was becoming difficult. Pal said, “The authorities assured of payment by July 31 but when dues were not cleared we sent reminders and later gave an ultimatum on September 25 to close the canteen after September 30.” BHU spokesman Rajesh Singh said that payment of ASS was delayed as the bills did not mention prescribed taxes in it. On being asked to produce bills including all prescribed taxes, it submitted some bills in the name of other organisations, which could not be cleared as MoU was signed with only ASS. The BHU has started the process of clearing payment against all the bills, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/canteen-supplying-food-to-bhu-covid-l-3-facility-closes/articleshow/78435211.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Soon, use waste as currency at designated shops in Panaji||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji and TERI-GIZ are incentivising recycling with a barter system where citizens can exchange recyclable items for groceries. The ‘shop with your waste campaign’ which will be launched on Friday allows citizens to use their waste as currency. One shop, Roopacycle and general store opposite Pharmacy College, has become a part of the campaign and will accept a minimum of 35 milk pouches (clean and dried), a minimum of 30 pet bottles (crushed and dried) and cardboard boxes (flattened and dry). In exchange people can take away daily essentials, including bread, milk, eggs, rice, pulses from the shops. The campaign is in association with GIZ India and TERI under the Waste NAMA project. “You can exchange waste with whatever shopkeepers have in their stores. This barter exchange system will help the city in collecting recyclables. If children can see that its possible to buy a packet of biscuits by exchanging used milk packets and pet bottles, it will promote recycling and upgrade recycling rates in the city,” project consultant TERI-GIZ Dilshad Ahmad said. “This is a pilot project. Once it is successful we will implement it throughout the city. In the future we will target electronic and medical stores too so that people can go shopping depending on their needs,” he added. Panaji has only one MRF facility. “Many recyclables are disposed of by the side of the road and in nearby drains. After collecting them people can make some money,” he says. The rates he said are Rs 23 for 1 kg milk pouches (140 packets), Rs 9 for 1 kg pet bottles (around 140 bottles depending on size) and Rs 3 for 1 kg cardboard boxes. The Campaign is also supported by 21st century Polymers Private Limited, as a large scale buyer for recyclablest tradedby SWYW registered shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-use-waste-as-currency-at-designated-shops-in-panaji/articleshow/78438027.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Samta Parvu seeks justice for Hathras woman||Yavatmal: A delegation of women led by president of Yavatmal Samta Parvu met district collector on Thursday and submitted a memorandum of demands addressed to the President of India requesting him to ensure justice to 19-year-woman from Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras who was allegedly gangraped “by hanging the culprits”. “It has become very difficult for women to lead a dignified life. Women are often subjected to atrocities. There are laws to deal with rapists, but seldom implemented in it’s right prospective,” read the memorandum. “The perpetrators of the Hathras crime should be tried in a fast-track court and should be sentenced to be hanged,” said Samta Parvu president Pramodini Ramtake. Earlier, Samta Parvu members paid homage to the victim at the local Pattipura locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/samta-parvu-seeks-justice-for-hathras-woman/articleshow/78436160.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hubballi||People in Raichur want their own to replace late Ashok Gasti in RS||Raichur: There was much hope riding on Ashok Gasti, a grassroots BJP worker, who was a surprise pick for the Rajya Sabha seat from Karnataka in July. The people of Raichur, Gasti’s home district, had hoped his nomination would bolster development of one the most backward areas of the state. However, his untimely death from Covid-19 has brought their dreams crashing. Residents want the BJP top brass to keep in mind the backwardness of the district and ensure Gasti’s successor is from Raichur. The demand for a party worker from the district to fill the now vacant Rajya Sabha seat assumes significance against the backdrop of chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s recent announcement of setting up a branch of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Kalaburagi, much to the chagrin of the people of Raichur who had hoped the premier institute would find a place among them. Many organisations in the district are also drumming up support for an airport in Raichur, which they believe will give a fillip to the industrial sector. Raichur BJP member Trivikram Joshi said the nomination of Gasti, a grassroots worker from a backward district to the Rajya Sabha had enthused the cadre. “A Rajya Sabha member from our district will make a difference when the state is slated to become home to AIIMS. It will help tilt the scales in favour of our district. We hope the party leadership continues to encourage leaders from our backward district,” he added. However, sources in the BJP said senior members who had failed to clinch the nomination in July have begun lobbying for the seat. Ramesh Katti, who had been among the aspirants in July, denied that any such efforts were afoot. “Nomination of a worker from Raichur was done for a specific reason and the party leadership must select a new candidate from here, given that it is a backward district,” Katti told TOI. Venkatesh Patil, a local politician in Raichur, said Gasti had been the first Rajya Sabha MP from the district in 35 years. “It is now up to the BJP to fill this vacancy by choosing a worker from Raichur again,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/people-in-raichur-want-their-ownto-replace-late-ashok-gasti-in-rs/articleshow/78434650.cms||Shreyas HS
October 2, 2020||Varanasi||Laws will bring revolutionary changes in farmers’ lives: Minister||GORAKHPUR: Uttar Pradesh agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi on Thursday, during a press conference in Gorakhpur, said that the recently passed farm bills would bring “revolutionary changes” in the lives of farmers and empower them. He said that the Opposition was misleading the farmers by saying that they would lose their land to industrialists. Shahi said the Opposition’s contention is totally wrong. “Firstly the law is obligatory and not mandatory, and secondly, there will be a contract of produce between the investor and the farmer, and the lease of land is restricted in the law,” he added. Defending the farm bills, the agriculture minister further said, “The investors will bring technology and seeds for farmers which will accelerate the produce, improve the of quality of crops and also profit farmers. Farmers can now sell the produce to anyone they want—either in Mandi or to the investors or in the local market or anywhere else. The new farm bills will enhance the bargaining strength of farmers. Moreover, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Mandis are not shutting.” Shahi termed the protest of Opposition parties against farm bills as misleading, and congratulated PM Modi for taking a “historical and daring decision”. “Farmers were in the clutches of the former government’s policy paralysis. During the regime of UPA, in Maharashtra alone, 68,000 farmers died by suicide in 10 years. Congress promoted license, agent and quota politics. At present, farmers are paying 8% Mandi tax in UPA-ruled Punjab, while in UP, they are paying only around 2.5 % tax. The BJP government is ending Mandi tax. Now, farmer’s produce can be purchased on MSP, and the money will be deposited directly in the farmer’s account within three days. This beneficial policy is disturbing the politics of opposition parties, and hence, they are misleading the farmers,” said the state agriculture minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/laws-will-bring-revolutionary-changes-in-farmers-lives-min/articleshow/78435256.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fought pneumonia, renal failure, coma||Ahmedabad: It was a medical challenge like no other for the team of doctors as Bharatsinh Solanki, former Union minister and two-times Gujarat Congress president, battled for life. His hospitalization consisted of seven days in ICU, 44 days on ventilator and seven days on BiPAP (non-invasive ventilator). In a matter of 101 days, Solanki battled pneumonia, renal failure, coma, paralysis and sepsis along with viral infection. The medical team mentioned that Solaki got shifted to Ahmedabad on June 30. “He was administered remdesivir, repeated doses of tocilizumab, multiple convalescent plasma, and tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) for dissolving blood clots,” said Dr Bhagyesh Shah. Dr Vipul Thakkar added that ECMO was kept on stand-by to ensure that his systems don’t fail. PM wishes Solanki on phone Gandhinagar: PM Narendra Modi on Thursday called Bharatsinh Solanki to congratulate him on defeating Covid-19. “PM Narendrabhai in the evening called me and congratulated me for recovering from Covid-19. He said that it’s great example nationally for defeating Covid in the country and wished me speedy recovery,” Solanki told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fought-pneumonia-renal-failure-coma/articleshow/78436198.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||6 Covid deaths in Amravati; recovery rate 81.32%||AMRAVATI: A spike of 224 cases on Thursday took the district’s Covid caseload to 13,557 even as 169 patients recovered today. With these patients getting discharged from Covid Hospital, the number of recovered patients reached 11,025 for a healthy recovery rate of 81.32%. The doubling rate rose to 51.7 today from 42.7 a day ago. The district also recorded six deaths on Thursday to take the toll to 293. The district now has 2,239 patients under treatment, including 1,169 in Covid Hospital, 12 taking treatment in Nagpur and 1,058 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-covid-deaths-in-amravati-recovery-rate-81-32/articleshow/78437475.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Varanasi||Woman killed in Gorakhpur, body found stuffed in box||GORAKHPUR: The body of an unidentified married woman was found stuffed in a box lying in Maniram area of Gorakhpur on Thursday morning. Police rushed to the spot on being alerted by locals and sent the body for postmortem. “Prima facie, the woman was killed at some other place, after which her body was stuffed into a box, which was thrown near the Gholhawa embankment of Gaighat Tola in Maniram area of Gorakhpur. The woman appears to be married as she there was vermilion and bindi on her forehead. There was also a tattoo on her hand. Some clothes, medicines and a mangalsutra were also found in a packet inside the box,” said SP (North) Arvind Pandey.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-killed-body-found-stuffed-in-box/articleshow/78435239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may visit Gujarat on October 31||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Gujarat on October 31, the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, which is celebrated as national ‘Ekta Divas’ (Unity Day). Sources in the state government said the PM is likely visit the state on October 31 and is expected to visit the Statue of Unity (SOU) at Kevadiya. He is also expected to visit Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar. The PM is expected to inaugurate a series of tourist facilities at the SOU site and launch the seaplane service between Ahmedabad and Kevadiya. “The government will ensure that the PM’s visit does not face any issue regarding code of conduct for the assembly byelections. As the PM is going to inaugurate projects of national importance, there should not be any issue regarding code of conduct,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-may-visit-state-on-oct-31/articleshow/78437516.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Bon Appétit: 7 months on, restaurants gear up to serve diners from October 5||Nagpur: Restaurants in the region are gearing up for opening after a shutdown of seven months. Even though they will have to bear extra cost for following the standard operating procedure (SOP) they are unlikely to jack up their prices. Most owners won’t shift tables out of the restaurants. Customers will be seated by leaving alternate tables vacant. Most restaurants may not serve cold dishes like salads due to the advisory against them. Some may serve only bottled water. There is no uniformity as no collective decision has been taken. The owners are apprehensive that they may not get sufficient customers. According to BS Dave, president of Nagpur Restaurant Owners Association, business is expected to be between 25% and 30% of pre-lockdown levels. Another problem is timing of permit rooms. Buldhana district administration has permitted bars to remain open only till 7pm. Piyush Rathi, a hotelier of Khamgaon, said that people go to bars after 7pm and the district collector’s decision was most impractical. Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakare had not issued an order for bar timings till filing of this report. Restaurant owners in some cities have decided to jack the prices by 10% to 15% but not in Nagpur. “The paying capacity of people is already down due to Covid. We can’t increase prices now. It will prove to be counterproductive,” said Dave. Not all owners will move out chairs and tables out of their restaurants. “It is impractical to do so. We will place red and green cloths on tables alternately. Customers won’t be allowed to sit on tables with red cloths,” said JS ‘Micky’ Arora, owner of Hotel Centre Point. Mohabbat Singh Tuli of Tuli Group also said that it was impractical to remove tables and chairs. Salads may not be served in all restaurants. Arora said that he would serve salads but not cold dishes. He further said that both bottled and restaurant water would be available and the choice would be that of the customer. Owners feel that it would take at least two to three months for business to pick up. Dave said that it would be only 25% to 30% of pre-lockdown levels. “There is fear among many customers that they will get infected. So there won’t be great rush. People did not demand reopening of restaurants. They were opened on request of the industry,” he added. Arora said that if his business was 50% of pre-lockdown levels he would be very happy. Rathi said that banks had started demanding loan repayment as the moratorium period was over. “The moratorium should be extended by another two years for the hospitality industry to survive. The central government must understand that we won’t get business immediately after opening. The sector has incurred a loss of Rs80,000 crore in past six months. It employs 60 lakh people in the state only,” he added. Allowing restaurants to home deliver food had not helped much as the business was down to between 10% and 15% at the most, owners said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bon-apptit-7-months-on-restaurants-gear-up-to-serve-diners-from-october-5/articleshow/78436182.cms||Ashish Roy
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||No flouting of environmental norms, says construction firm helming Singoli-Bhatwari hydel project||Dehradun: The construction firm helming the Singoli-Bhatwari hydel power project has said that there has been no flouting of environmental norms in the project. Reacting to a news report ‘Hydel Project Gets Ready But Is Environmental Nod In Place?”published in TOI recently, representatives of L&T, the engineering and construction firm involved in the project, claimed that work at the project site had been completed much before August 23 (the date till which the environmental clearance obtained by them was valid). “We had intimated the completion of work to the government of Uttarakhand via a letter dated June 27, 2020. We also informed the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) via a letter dated August 19, 2020, about the completion of all works including environmental obligations and requested them to inspect the site,” a representative from the company said. Further, reacting to the allegations that the project has not complied with construction of fish ladders, the representative added, “A Multi-Disciplinary Committee (MDC) having senior members from the environment & forest departments, responsible for monitoring the project, observed that as the project is a run-of-the-river scheme with increased e–flows, there is no expected impact on fish migration. The committee also expressed satisfaction on the various environmental compliances undertaken by the project. The comments are reflected in the Minutes of the Meeting of the MDC dated Dec 24, 2019.” To recall, the matter of environmental clearance for the project had come up when on September 21, the day L&T announced “100% completion and readiness for commissioning of the 99 MW power plant,” the deputy director of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) wrote to the secretary of the MoEF citing a petition received by them which claimed that the environmental clearance for the hydroelectric project had expired on August 23 but the project work was carried on nonetheless. The official, through the letter, asked secretary, MoEF to “take appropriate action in this regard and provide updated status of the project and the action taken”. Meanwhile officials of the MoEF regional office in Dehradun, when contacted about the issue said, “We had received a communication from L&T on August 29, which was dated August 19, wherein they said that they had completed all the works. We are planning to conduct the inspection of the site either in the first or second week of October,” said Krishnendu Mondal from the MoEF office, Dehradun. Regarding compliance to environmental norms, Mondal said, “Last that we inspected the site was in 2018 and thereafter we haven’t been there. Once we inspect the site in the coming days, then only we will be able to comment on the environment-related aspects of the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-flouting-of-environmental-norms-says-construction-firm-helming-singoli-bhatwari-hydel-project/articleshow/78434679.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||DMs to take feedback from stakeholders regarding reopening of schools||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education minister Arvind Pandey took a meeting with senior officials of the education department in Dehradun on Thursday and asked all district magistrates to give their feedback within a week to help the state cabinet take a call on reopening of schools.The education department has asked the DMs to consult with parents’ bodies, schools, education institutions and other stakeholders in their respective areas regarding the reopening of schools. The district magistrates have been asked to submit a feedback report within a week’s time. Once the feedback report is submitted, the proposal to reopen schools will be presented in the next cabinet meeting.According to sources, it is likely that the schools will open gradually and in different phases starting with the students of higher secondary classes.Notably, in the latest Unlock 5 guidelines issued by the Union home ministry, the states have been allowed to reopen schools from October 15 after due consultation with all the stakeholders. In addition, the guidelines state that the parents should be given a choice of not sending their ward to the school if they don’t find it safe.The education department has also asked the schools not to hold events like debates, cultural events, sports events and others on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dms-to-take-feedback-from-stakeholders-regarding-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78434668.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||272 new cases, 5 Covid deaths in Chanda||CHANDRAPUR: With surge of 272 Covid patients on Thursday, the district’s total patient count climbed to 10,514. While five deaths in the last 24 hours took the district’s Covid toll to 157, with the discharge of 143 patients, total recoveries have gone up to 6,190. There are now 4,167 patients under treatment. The five deceased include 75-year-old from Vivekanand Nagar, 61-year-old woman from Mahakali Collieries, 57-year-old from Uttam Nagar and 80-year-old woman from GMCH in Chandrapur city and a 45-year-old man from Bhisi in Chimur tehsil. They all were comorbid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/272-new-cases-5-covid-deaths-in-chanda/articleshow/78437481.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Doon residents worried over inadequate restrictions on people in containment zones||Dehradun: Even as Dehradun district surveillance committee has proposed 15 days lockdown and strict compliance of safety protocols in containment zones among other suggestions to the Uttarakhand high court (HC), the residents in the city alleged laxity on part of the officials in imposing containment zone restrictions when a patient is tested positive in the area.A similar incident took place in Satya Vihar where two members of a family tested Covid-19 positive on September 26 and even after five days, the movement of the family was not restricted as they continued to move around, the residents claimed.Satya Vihar’s RWA president RS Rana said, “I am surprised to see infected people and their family members moving around in the area putting everybody at risk. I have been personally requesting people to keep themselves safe as residents from the infected family are roaming around. The area was declared a containment zone and the same was also published in newspapers, but no restrictions are visible.”Another incident took place in Race Course Valley where a couple was tested positive for Covid-19 and were moving out instead of isolating themselves. It was only after the other residents reported the matter to the officials that a notice was pasted outside their house yet again after five days.A local resident, who did not want to be named, said, “The other residents were directly put at risk for five days as the notice was pasted that late and after much follow-up.”Doon residents welfare front president Mahesh Bhandari said, “The RWA's are actively participating in keeping a watch on people who are being tested positive for corona in the interest of other residents. But, our efforts go waste if the officials do not take action on our repeated complaints and patients violate guidelines.”Sadar’s sub-divisional magistrate Gopal Ram Binwal told TOI, “The teams are constantly following up with people in the containment zone. I will check on the specific complaints to ensure everyone’s safety. In case anyone is found violating home isolation norms, suitable action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-residents-worried-over-inadequate-restrictions-on-people-in-containment-zones/articleshow/78434687.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Varanasi||14-year-old girl bludgeoned to death in Bhadohi||VARANASI: A 14-year-old girl was found brutally murdered in Tiwaripur village under Gopiganj police station on Thursday afternoon. All accused have been arrested. The girl had left home for some work but did not return till late afternoon. In the meantime, some passersby found her body lying in a pool of blood on the outskirts of the village and raised an alarm. Locals gathered at the spot within few minutes and started claiming that the girl had been murdered after rape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/14-year-old-girl-bludgeoned-to-death-in-bhadohi/articleshow/78435226.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Weekend getaway awaits a high||NEW DELHI: The ambitious Chhawla-Kanganheri eco-tourism park, which was unveiled by Delhi government in 2015, had promised a weekend getaway with camping, boating and soft adventure sports in the lap of nature far from the madding crowd. However, the project, spread over 16 acres in southwest Delhi, never quite took off. Moreover, no plans are afoot to revive the park by adding attractive features, like a bar, which might attract campers. Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), which was tasked with executing the project, is now looking for an operator with the “vision” to operate, maintain and manage the facility, apart from marketing the project. Sanjay Goel, managing director and CEO of DTTDC, said, “We will lease the area for adventure tourism or camping sites for three years. We are looking for an innovative operator with a vision for the place. Theme-based parties and picnics are becoming popular. If the project can be promoted for such get-togethers, except marriages and wedding receptions, more people will be able to discover this beautiful eco-tourism park.” Chhawla is in the shape of an island between two channels of Najafgarh drain. The nearby Kanganheri is much bigger in size and has space for camping sites and a balloon plaza. No permanent concrete structures have been built in this green area. The operator selected by DTTDC would only be permitted to set up temporary structures. “The operator will be allowed to run a bar without any permanent structures as long as all permit conditions are met. If excise rules permit the operator to get a licence, the bar can function from a limited area. Even in states with prohibition, five-star hotels are allowed to serve liquor. Without patrons, Delhi Tourism properties can become dead,” Goel said. There are also plans to allow canoeing and kayaking on a larger scale in Najafgarh drain, but Goel said that would take some time. “There are plans to have many big and small sewage treatment plants upstream. Once the water is clean, kayaking can take place. But right now the water is thick and dark coloured. Kayaks can turn over, which is why water quality has to be good,” he added. Since the eco-tourism park is located on the fringes of the capital and the area is green and serene, DTTDC also plans to recreate a village setting to give visitors a feel of rural Delhi. “Apart from eco-tourism, the operator can have a balloon plaza with the required permissions. We need someone who is serious about the project,” said Goel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/weekend-getaway-awaits-a-high/articleshow/78436201.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||Sexual predators mostly targeted underage girls||Vadodara: Minor aged girls were the highest victims of rapes in Gujarat last year. Incidents of rapes and sexual harassment in Gujarat last year saw a decline compared to the previous year, but sexual offences against the girl children saw a rise. Increase in the rape of minor girls led to a rise in cases being registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The report of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Crime in India 2019 revealed that in 2019, 1,539 rape cases of girl children were reported, which were 1,455 in 2018 and 1,233 in 2017. On the other hand, the number of rape cases where an adult woman was involved was 528 last year and 546 in 2018. In all, 2,227 cases under the POCSO Act were registered last year and 2,243 girls victimized. In 2018, the number of cases was 2,127, while a year before that it was 1,671. The number of cases registered last year saw a jump of 33.27% since 2017. Cases of sexual harassment of girls too increased from 333 and 533 in 2017 and 2018 respectively to 595 last year. Similarities were also seen in Ahmedabad and Surat where 83 and 42 rapes of adult women were reported in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sexual-predators-mostly-targeted-underage-girls/articleshow/78434829.cms||Jay Pachchigar
October 2, 2020||Goa||Goa first state to provide tap water to every household: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday that Goa has become the first state in the country to provide tap water to every household under the Har Ghar Jal Yojana. Achieving the target ahead of schedule, the chief minister said, “I congratulate all sarpanchs, director panchayats and PWD engineers to make Goa the first state in the country to provide tap water to every household whether it is from government water connect or from their own source.” The state government will receive Rs 150 crore under Jal Jeevan Mission to upgrade and set up new water treatment plants in all 12 talukas of the state to ensure 24x7 drinking water supply to all households by 2024. Sawant said he had briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the milestone when he met him on Wednesday. Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat had stated in a letter to Sawant in June that Goa’s entire rural population will have household water connections by 2021 and the state could be one of the first to achieve the Centre’s Har Ghar Jal mission. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, which will operate till 2024, the government will put up 1 MLD, 2 MLD and 5 MLD plants in each taluka, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar had said. The state government has to bear 50% of the share to set up and upgrade these plants PWD officials said the government has started upgrading water treatment plants in Canacona, Sattari, Bardez, Dharbandora and Sanguem. Works are at the tendering stage for plants in Podocem and Assonora, they said. Once the works are completed, it will remove the anomaly in the quantity of water reaching households in the state, officials said. Launched by the Prime Minister in 2019, the Jal Jeevan Mission aims to ensure that every rural household has drinking water supply in adequate quantity (55 litres per person per day) on a regular basis. The Jal Shakti ministry is working closely with states and Union territories to achieve the mission objectives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-first-state-to-provide-tap-water-to-every-household-cm/articleshow/78437982.cms||Murari Shetye
October 2, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: 166 test positive for Covid-19, 190 cured||VARANASI: As many as 166 more persons tested positive for Covid-19, while 190 recovered from the infection in Varanasi district on Thursday. With two more deaths, the number of fatalities rose to 220 in the district. According to the medical bulletin, the Covid tally reached to 13,594 in the district. So far 11,717 patients have recovered and there are 1,657 active cases in the district. According to the medical bulletin of Ballia district, 44 more persons tested positive on Thursday increasing the tally to 5,612 and 51 patients were declared cured. So far 5,049 patients have recovered, and 83 patients lost their lives. Presently, the district has 480 active cases of Covid-19. Mirzapur district reported 13 new positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday while 42 patients recovered from illness. According to the medical bulletin, the tally rose to 2,504 of which 2,232 have recovered and 29 have died so far. Earlier on Wednesday, 30 persons tested positive in Jaunpur district while 34 patients recovered. The total count of cases reached to 5,111 of which 4,455 patients have recovered while 65 patients have died so far. In Chandauli, 24 new positive cases were reported on Wednesday taking the tally to 3,190 with 317 active cases. As many as 38 patients were declared cured. So far, 2,840 patients have recovered and 31 patients died in the district. The Sonbhadra district too reported 42 new positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/166-test-positive-for-covid-190-cured/articleshow/78435269.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Hindu Mahasabha wants KSRTC Jn to be named after Veer Savarkar||Mangaluru: Days after a road in the city was officially named after Mulky Sundarram Shetty and the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) council referred a proposal to rename Lady Hill Circle after social reformer Sri Narayana Guru to the Standing Committee, Akhila Bharatha Hindu Mahasabha - Karnataka has urged the urban local body to rename a major circle in the city after Veer Savarkar. The Mahasabha has submitted a memorandum to mayor Diwakar with a demand the junction opposite KSRTC bus stand in the city be named after Savarkar. In addition to renaming, they also have requested the mayor to consider installing a bust of Savarkar at the junction. Mahasabha district working president Rajesh K Ekkuru said, Vinayak Damodar Savarkar, a poet, writer and a freedom fighter, has been an inspiration for all. “Savarkar, who is a founding member of Mahasaba, has created a new chapter for revolutionary freedom fight. His patriotism remains unquestionable that he had spent his life in the Cellurar Jail of Andaman for two decades. Though Savarkar was a champion, he was not allowed to live peacefully. The Dakshina Kannada district unit of the Mahasabha has resolved that a bust of Savarkar should be installed at the junction near KSRTC bus stand,” he said. The Mahasabha has requested the mayor to develop the junction where Kunitkana Road, KPT Road and KSRTC bus stand cross converge as a major circle and it be named after Swatantryaveer Vinayaka Damodar Savarkar Circle. The city corporation also has been requested to provide a space for the installation of Savarkar’s bust, said Mahasabha Karnataka state president L K Suvarna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hindu-mahasabha-wants-ksrtc-jn-to-be-named-after-veer-savarkar/articleshow/78434696.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Four Covid deaths in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: The district recorded four more deaths, of which two are from Yavatmal city and include 70 and 31-year-old men. The remaining two deaths, a 54-year-old man from Arni and a 77-year-old man from Darwha. According to sources, there are 219 active positive patients and 262 are in the isolation wards. Since there is no update from the civil surgeon, the latest figures are not available, informed the Government Medical College authorities. That is the case since the rural hospital doctors and other staffers went on indefinite strike to press their demand for the transfer of the district collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78437515.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Tackling cyber fraud discussed at SLBC meeting||AHMEDABAD: Mitigating cyber banking fraud was one of the key discussions at the 166th meeting of State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) earlier this week. The virtual meeting was held to review the performance of banks under various parameters for the first quarter of 2020. The meeting was chaired by Vikrmaditya Singh Khichi, executive director, Bank of Baroda and was also attended by Dakshita Das, additional secretary, department of financial services. Inspector general of police, law and order, Narshimha Komar was present as a special invitee to guide banks about the increasing incidents of fraud in the banking system, particularly cyber fraud. Komar advised bankers to be extra-cautious in their approach, especially during this pandemic, as digital banking products are increasingly being adopted. Moreover, job losses and the economic slowdown due to the pandemic, may cause a spike in fraud cases. He also emphasised creating more awareness among the masses and improving safeguards for digital banking platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tackling-cyber-fraud-discussed-at-slbc-meeting/articleshow/78437508.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||2 Covid deaths & 99 new cases in Wardha||WARDHA: Two men aged 45 and 89 from the city died due to coronavirus and new 99 Covid cases were detected while 86 patients were discharged after recovery on Thursday. Total 595 test reports were received on Thursday of which 99, including 48 women, were positive. The new cases reported on Thursday include Wardha 53, Deoli 16, Hinganghat 15, Selu 6, Samudrapur and Karanja 3 each, Arvi 2 and Ashti 1. As on date, the district’s total Covid patient count reached 4,710 and recoveries are 2,525. While 2,059 patients are under treatment, the Covid toll of the district is at 126.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-covid-deaths-99-new-cases-in-wardha/articleshow/78437507.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Capture order for dreaded Rajura tiger extended third time, till Dec 31||Chandrapur: Principal chief conservator of forest and chief wildlife warden NH Kadokar has given third extension to the capture order for problem Rajura tiger (RT-1). Chandrapur forest circle has now got three more months (up to December 31) to capture the dreaded tiger responsible for seven human kills in last 21 months. The menacing tiger had killed the first human back in January 2019, when it killed Varsha Todase from Khambada village. Since then it has killed seven people, the last two coming in a span of just five weeks in August and September. Efforts to capture RT-1 were renewed under the leadership of DCF, Central Chanda forest division, Arvind Mundhe after a farmer was killed in Virur range on August 18. CCF NR Pravin informed that the chief wildlife warden had issued first capture order for RT-1 on February 14, which was valid up to April 30. It got first extension up to July 31. But as officials failed to capture the tiger, the deadline was extended up to September 30. As the problem tiger continued to elude the hunting team, the third extension was granted on September 30, which is valid up to December 31. Sources involved in the operation claim that the tiger is intelligent and is avoiding hunting parties shrewdly. The problem tiger is said to be an eight-year-old male basically residing in Rajura range, but its territory spans adjoining Virur and Kothari ranges on either side of Rajura. It often makes forays to both neighbouring ranges to mark its territory. The last two victims were killed during such trips to Virur range. Despite continuous tracking and baiting, the tiger has managed to escape all attempts made to tranquillize it. The hunters are in awe of the feline, as it killed many baits and even came back to the kills. But somehow it is capable of sensing human presence in surroundings and avoids coming close to killed bait in such a situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/capture-order-for-dreaded-rajura-tiger-extended-third-time-till-dec-31/articleshow/78436200.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,351: Fewest daily cases in fortnight||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday recorded 1,351 new positive cases, taking the total to 1.38 lakh. It was the third consecutive day of 1,300-plus cases and the state’s lowest daily tally in the past 16 days. On September 15, Gujarat had recorded 1,349 cases. The new positive cases included 288 from Surat, 193 from Ahmedabad, 155 from Rajkot, 134 from Vadodara, and 92 from Jamnagar. Cumulative cases in Ahmedabad crossed 37,000 with 37,126. The cases in Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 29,372, 12,220 and 9,406. The state also recorded deaths of 10 positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,463. The deaths in Gujarat included four from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, and one each from Vadodara, Panchmahal and Sabarkantha. The deaths in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 1815, 769, 186 and 141 with the update. Gujarat in 24 hours recorded discharge of 1,334 patients, taking the total to 1.18 lakh. The discharges included 299 from Surat, 256 from Ahmedabad, 188 from Rajkot, and 122 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active cases in Gujarat reached 16,717.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1351-fewest-daily-cases-in-fortnight/articleshow/78436211.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 1 death, 59 fresh cases, 111 cured in Ambala||AMBALA: A 71-year-old man of Sector 8, Ambala City, died of Covid-19 and 59 residents tested positive on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 22 were from Ambala City, 14 from Ambala Cantt, eight from Chourmastpur, five from Shahzadpur, four from Barara, three each from Mullana and Naraingarh. The toll tally now stands at 94 and the case count at 7,969, including 649 active cases. As many as 111 patients were discharged on the day, taking the recovery count to 7,226 (90.68%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-death-59-fresh-cases-111-cured-in-ambala/articleshow/78436207.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Wildlife Week begins with launch of new Corbett gate, online outreach planned for all||Dehradun: Uttarakhand marked the beginning of the annual Wildlife Week with a new entry gate for Corbett Tiger Reserve — Garjia Gate — on Thursday. The announcement was made by chief minister Trivendera Singh Rawat, while inaugurating an interpretation centre at Ramnagar. “Our focus is on taking wildlife appreciation to the common men, while also enhancing livelihood opportunities for Uttarakhand locals. The Garjia Tourism Zone will rekindle life in this area with multiple ventures,” said the CM. Corbett currently has five entry gates — Dhela, Jhirna, Bijrani, Durga and Dhangarhi. Booking for guest houses of the reserve is slated to open on October 15. Though no official announcement has been made, forest department sources have informed the reserve’s gates will be thrown open to tourists on October 15. Speaking with TOI, chief wildlife warden J S Suhag said, “We want to open the gates to deploy locals in forest department projects, so that they develop a sense of ownership about the forest and wildlife. As this will create job opportunities, it’s bound to be a win-win situation for both villagers and the department.” In view of pandemic-induced restrictions, the state’s Wildlife Week celebrations have gone digital this year. The department is organising several online competitions for school-going children, colleges-goers and nature lovers. “The theme of this week is RoaR, ie Respect and Revive, in which we’re giving an opportunity to everyone to explore their relationships with animals. Starting from digital painting, mobile photography to face-painting, various competitions are being organized online for everyone,” said P K Patro, director, Dehradun Zoo. The department has also come up with a Whatsapp number (9027070682) for people to stay connected with the forest department this week, as they mark the occasion with full zest, online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wildlife-week-begins-with-launch-of-new-corbett-gate-online-outreach-planned-for-all/articleshow/78434711.cms||Shivani Azad
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||34k engg diploma candidates allotted colleges||Ahmedabad: The first round of diploma engineering admissions witnessed the enlisting of 33,933 students in various colleges across the state. The Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) started the process of enrolling candidates for 55,950 seats. A total of 40,301 students registered in the first round. The merit list issued by the committee included 38,983 students. Based on the choice filling exercise, 33,833 candidates have been allotted colleges, said sources in the admission committee. As many as 8,000 seats are to be filled under the management quota. The committee has extended the registration deadline multiple times. Earlier, it had set August 8 as the deadline for registration. However, only 35,795 students got themselves registered in this duration. So the committee decided to extend the deadline to August 31. Sources in the admission committee say that 4,350 students had registered after the extension of the deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/34k-engg-diploma-candidates-allotted-colleges/articleshow/78437518.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kanpur||Woman, three daughters found hanging in Auraiya||KANPUR: Bodies of a 28-year-old Dalit woman, her three daughters including a 15-day old infant were found hanging from a ceiling inside their house in Sehud locality under Dibiyapur police area in Auraiya district on Thursday morning. The bodies were discovered by the woman’s husband after he returned home for lunch in the afternoon hours, said the police. Inspector Dibiyapur Kotwali, Ram Sahai, said, “Going by the preliminary investigations, it seems that the woman, identified as Sadhna, committed suicide after killing three her daughters including her 15-day-old infant. Bodies have been sent for postmortem at the district hospital.” The investigation, so far, has revealed that Sadhna’s husband Kuldeep Kumar, who works as a painter, had an argument with his wife on Thursday morning. Later, Kuldeep left for work in Dibiyapur area, police said. “It appears that Sadhna, upset with the fight, apparently locked herself in one of the rooms and hanged self after killing her three daughters. In the afternoon, when Kuldeep returned for lunch, he found the door of his house locked from inside. After repeated knocks he peeped through the window and saw the bodies hanging from the ceiling,” said a police officer. He then alerted his neighbours, and with their help, broke open the door. The police was informed. Police said Kuldeep and Sadhna had married nine years ago. “Locals said that Kuldeep was not happy after their third daughter’s birth and used to quarrel with Sadhna, said police. Police said that they are probing the case from all possible angles. Kuldeep, who has been detained for questioning, said that they used to have petty fights but denied the villahgers’ allegations of being upset over his third daughter’s birth. He said, he would not have left for work if he had slightest hint of his wife’s extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-hangs-self-after-killing-three-daughters/articleshow/78435313.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||NMC eases Covid curbs ahead of festivities, ends odd-even||Nagpur: While several Covid-induced restrictions have been eased phase wise under Unlock since June, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has further relaxed curbs for October — which holds significance since it marks the beginning of a long festive season. Though the NMC has decided to implement Maharashtra government guidelines under Unlock-5 phase until October 31, the civic body on Thursday allowed more activities to start in the city. While the lockdown restrictions have been extended in containment zones, more activities have been opened up in other areas. After four months into lockdown, the NMC has withdrawn the odd and even rule for shops situated along the roads without dividers. “Now, along with essential shops, non-essential shops will also be allowed to open on all days along the roads whether it has dividers or not,” municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI. Activities to remain prohibited include schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions, which will remain closed till October 30, online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres (including that in malls and market complexes), auditorium, assembly halls and similar places too will continue to remain prohibited. On the lines of state government’s Covid guidelines, the NMC too has stressed on frequent sanitization of workplaces, common facilities and all points which come into human contact like door handles, stair railings etc. “The NMC has once again stressed on the use of face mask, Covid distancing, following Work From Home as far as possible and staggering the work hours,” said the municipal commissioner. Radhakrishnan said NMC will form flying squads to monitor all guidelines of Mission Begin Again 5.0 are being followed. “Legal action will be taken against persons violating the containment measures as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” he said. According to NMC’s notification, easing of restrictions and opening up of economic and other activities, which remain prohibited across the city, will be done in phased manner along with standard operating procedures and guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-eases-covid-curbs-ahead-of-festivities-ends-odd-even/articleshow/78436260.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admin allows cinema halls to raise curtains from Oct 15||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration on Thursday issued orders for the implementation of Unlock 5 guidelines issued by the Union government. As per the orders issued by UT adviser Manoj Parida, cinema halls and multiplexes in the city, which have remained closed for nearly seven months, will reopen with up to 50% seating from October 15. The administration has also allowed business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions, swimming pools for training purposes and entertainment parks from the day. The Centre, on Wednesday evening, had issued fresh guidelines for reopening of various activities, such as schools, colleges and swimming pools for training, but only outside the containment zones. A senior UT official said the ministry would issue standard operating procedures (SOPs), which would be implemented in Chandigarh. Under the Unlock 5.0 guidelines, the Centre has allowed the UT administration to take a call on reopening of schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a phase-wise manner. However, the decision will be taken in consultation with the institutions, subject to the SOPs prepared by the UT. Parida said a decision in this regard would be taken soon. As per the Centre’s guidelines, the department of higher education (DHE), government of India, may take a decision on the timings of the opening of colleges and higher education institutions in consultation with the MHA, on the basis of an assessment of the situation. Online and distance learning will continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and encouraged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-allows-cinema-halls-to-raise-curtains-from-oct-15/articleshow/78436196.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh declares 20 micro-containment zones||CHANDIGARH: UT adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday declared 20 new micro-containment zones in the city. To contain the spread of novel coronavirus, restrictions have been imposed in parts of sectors 7, 15, 20, 22, 23, 27, 28, 37, 38, 40, 44, 47, 63 and Mauli Complex. The zones were declared on the recommendations of the affected area committee, comprising municipal commissioner, district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, director (health services), sub-divisional magistrate (east), state surveillance officer and superintendent of police. The recommendations were placed before the UT adviser, who took those up with the UT administrator for a final decision. Restrictions liftedThe UT administration on Thursday ordered lifting of containment zone restrictions from parts of sectors 32, 35, 37, 38, 41, 44 and 52. While issuing the orders, it directed that regular screening and monitoring of Sector 63 by medical teams would continue. The municipal corporation would ensure regular sanitization of the areas and the residents would be advised to follow the pandemic protocols. The orders came into force with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-declares-20-micro-containment-zones/articleshow/78436203.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 2, 2020||Delhi||IP University warns students on touts promising admission||NEW DELHI: Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University has issued a warning to applicants to be wary of touts and frauds promising admission to the varsity. In a notice, the university said it has received several complaints from candidates who have been approached by alleged representatives of the university promising them ‘direct admission’ for a price. The varsity has now stated that they will file an FIR in this matter. The varsity asked applicants to be cautious of such touts. “Admission in the university and all its affiliated colleges are through a centralised counselling process, which is purely on the basis of merit of the candidates in the Common Entrance Test (CET). The admissions are through a complete transparent merit-based process through a centralised counselling held online.” The varsity has asked all candidates to “not fall prey to such messages and inform the university in case they are approached by any agents claiming to be representatives. In some of the messages, accessed by TOI, touts are claiming to give counselling to students who have cleared the CET or are promising direct admission to IP’s many affiliated colleges. Speaking to TOI, PK Upmanyu, the joint registrar for admissions at IP University stated that “the university will take serious action against these people who are cheating and misleading candidates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ip-univ-warns-students-on-touts-promising-admission/articleshow/78436224.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard kills 10-year-old in Chanda village, 2nd attack in 22 days||Chandrapur: A 10-year-old boy Santosh Kuthe from Vandra village in north Bramhapuri range was killed in leopard attack while he was out for morning walk with others on Thursday morning. This is 24th human kill by predators in Chandrapur this year. Sources said Santosh was walking with others along Chichghat road passing through a zhudpi forest patch. When the boy fell behind the group, a lurking leopard pounced at him and took him away into the shrubby area. Terrified friends and onlookers fled to the village and raised an alarm. Soon, hundreds of villagers rushed to the spot and started searching for Santosh. They found the boy’s mutilated body a few metres deep inside the forest. Officials of north Bramhapuri forest range reached the spot and removed the body. Foresters have warned people against venturing out alone, particularly during dawn and dusk hours. They have installed camera traps at the place where Santosh’s body was found to identify the killer beast. A 12 year old boy from Kapsi village in Saoli range was killed by a leopard in similar fashion on September 9. With 24 human kills, Chandrapur has surpassed the previous year’s high of 23 deaths in predator attacks. So far, 20 people have been killed in tiger attacks, while four were killed by leopards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-kills-10-year-old-in-chanda-village-2nd-attack-in-22-days/articleshow/78436233.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records a dip in crime against senior citizens||CHANDIGARH: City recorded a dip in crime against senior citizens of the city in 2019. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reveals that 50 cases of crime against senior citizens were registered last year. However, 64 FIRs were registered related to crime against old people in the city in 2018. In 2017, UT police had registered 53 cases on the complaint of senior citizens. The NCRB data reveals that a maximum 20 cases were registered of theft on the complaints of old people. 16 old people were cheated by the fraudsters on the pretext of insurance policies, loan settlement, sale and purchase of house in 2019. One senior citizen was murdered while one person was booked for extorting money from old people last year. One senior citizen also reported criminal trespassing while 18 FIRs were registered of snatchings, brawls, grievous injuries, assault on the complaints of senior citizens. Data says 35 persons were arrested on the complaints of old people in 2019. 18 people were convicted in the courts, while 16 accused were acquitted. However, 19 cases ended up as untraced. As many as 44 cases were still facing pending investigation till December 2019. Data also states that the city recorded less crime against children in the city last year. As many as 264 cases of crimes against children were registered in 2019 , while 288 cases were lodged in this category in 2018. Data reveals that as many as 2,819 FIR’s were registered under different sections of IPC in 2019 as compared to 3,072 in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-records-a-dip-in-crime-against-senior-citizens/articleshow/78436228.cms||Pawan Tiwari
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||18% drop in crime cases in U’khand, but those against SCs nearly doubled: NCRB report||Dehradun: While overall crime cases reported in Uttarakhand dropped by 18% in 2019 when compared to the preceding year, crimes against those from the Scheduled Caste (SC) community witnessed a rise of over 44%, the latest report of National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) has revealed. The Crime in India 2019 report released on Wednesday stated that a total of 28,268 crime cases — including 12,081 cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 16,187 others under Special and Local Laws (SLL) — were registered in 2019 as against 34,715 cases in 2018, a reduction of 18.57%. But reported cases of crime against members of the SC community have shot up. A total of 84 cases of crime against SCs were registered in 2019, up from 58 such cases in the previous year. Cases of atrocities against Scheduled Tribes (STs) marginally rose from seven in 2018 to eight in 2019. Crime against SCs have risen across the country by 7.3%. While 45,935 cases were registered as crime against Scheduled Castes (SCs) in 2019, 42,793 cases had been recorded in 2018. Ashok Kumar, director general (law and order), Uttarakhand, said that effective policing and sustained campaigns against criminals had led to the crime graph in the state showing a downward trend but added that the rise in reported atrocities against SCs was due to increased awareness. “Police have carried sensitisation drives among the community to make them aware of their rights. This has led to more cases being registered in police stations. Strict action has been taken in all cases," said the DG. Meanwhile, reported cases of crime against women were down as well by 9%. The Himalayan state registered 2,541 cases of crime against women compared with 2,817 in 2018. A reduction of over 9% was recorded in violent crimes with 2,845 such cases registered last year against 3,137 in 2018, the report stated. There was also a significant decline of over 17% in kidnapping and abduction cases with 967 cases of such crimes reported in 2019 as against 1,177 in 2018. A marginal drop in murder cases was also witnessed as 199 murder cases were registered in 2019 against 211 cases in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/18-drop-in-crime-cases-in-ukhand-but-those-against-scs-nearly-doubled-ncrb-report/articleshow/78434736.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Molestation, rape cross-complaints||Ahmedabad: Sabarmati police on Thursday registered two offences after an 19-year-old girl was allegedly raped one year ago by a 23-year-old man who lives in her neighbourhood, while the victim’s father molested the accused’s mother and threatened to kill her and her family members on Wednesday. The first complaint filed by the girl, a third-semester BA student, says that the accused, a musician, had befriended her three years ago. “During our initial meetings, he proposed marriage but as I refused to enter a relationship with him, he threatened to commit suicide. At times he also slashed his thighs saying that he would commit suicide,” she stated in the FIR. She alleges that as he kept pressuring her to enter a relationship with him, she agreed and they went to various places together. She further stated, “In August 2019, he had taken me to a secluded place in Motera and as it started raining, he took me to a nearby hotel where he had raped me and filmed me.” In September 2019, he told her that he would not marry her. One year later, she approached police and filed a complaint of rape . On the other hand, the accused’s mother also filed a complaint against the girl’s father, stating that he had barged into her house on Wednesday evening and molested her over the dispute between his daughter and her son. Sabarmati police registered a complaint of molestation and criminal intimidation as he allegedly also threatened to kill her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/molestation-rape-cross-complaints/articleshow/78436234.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ambulance charges Rs 11k for 2km||Ahmedabad: A video has gone viral on social media where Janak Panchani, a resident of Nikol, is heard saying that an ambulance service charged him Rs 11,000 for transferring a Covid patient for 2km. The video couldn’t be verified independently. Panchani claims in the video that his grandmother, Champaben Panchani (82) was admitted to Kakadia Hospital in Bapunagar on September 25. “The hospital conducted several tests including that of Covid-19, and my grandmother tested Covid positive on September 28,” he alleged in the video. Panchani said the hospital management told him to shift her to a designated Covid hospital. The management, according to Panchani, asked the family to shift Champaben to Kothiya Hospital, 2km away. “Since my grandmother was critical, I asked the hospital to arrange an ambulance. After shifting the patient, the ambulance driver demanded Rs 11,000 from me. Since the process to admit her in the hospital was going on, I gave the money,” he is heard saying in the video. He claimed that the hospital had promised to issue a receipt for Rs 11,000. According to the viral video clip, when Panchani demanded the receipt from Jai Mataji Ambulance Service it was not given to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ambulance-charges-rs-11k-for-2km/articleshow/78436220.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||RSU extends choice-filling deadline||Ahmedabad: After the central government’s recent decision to upgrade Raksha Shakti University as an institution of national importance, the varsity has been exempted from carrying out its admissions process according to a set schedule. The admission process for engineering colleges is currently underway. The choice-filling round for students applying for admission to Raksha Shakti University has been extended till October 4 due to the recent change in the varsity’s status.  The admission process for the first round will be announced on October 7. The Lok Sabha recently passed a bill that sought to upgrade the Raksha Shakti University to an institution of national importance and also change its name. According to the proposal, the Rashtriya Raksha University (in place of Raksha Shakti University) will be a multi-disciplinary institution to create new knowledge through research and collaboration with different stakeholders in the security domain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rsu-extends-choice-filling-deadline/articleshow/78437591.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kanpur||Over 40% Covid cases in Kanpur detected in September||KANPUR: The highest rise in the number of Covid-19 cases detected in the city since March was witnessed in September with over 10,000 new Covid cases reported in past one month. As per the records, over 40 per cent Covid positive cases were recorded in September. The Covid tally had reached 25,071 till September 30, of which 10,133 persons were tested positive in September alone. Similarly, Over 32 per cent Covid deaths took place in September. In past six months, a total of 663 deaths were reported till September 30 of which 213 Covid patients died in September alone. However, if two fortnights of September are compared, the number of cases witnessed a decline in the second fortnight. In first fortnight of the month 6,067 persons were tested positive for coronavirus, while in the second fortnight, 4,066 cases were reported. The case fatility rate in September stood over two per cent, while cure rate stood over 83 per cent. The health department data shows that while in first fortnight 1,123 persons were discharged, in the second fortnight only 819 were cured. More number of persons completed home isolation in the second fortnight. While 4,702 persons completed home isolation in second fortnight, only 3,190 persons completed home isolation in the first fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/over-40-covid-cases-in-district-detected-in-sept/articleshow/78435360.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Covid recovery rate improves to 83%||CHANDIGARH: Over 10,000 patients have defeated Covid-19 in Chandigarh. With 10,009 cured cases recorded to date, the recovery rate has improved to 83%. Thursday, too, saw recoveries outstripping positive cases with 196 patients getting discharged and 119 testing positive. The recovery rate on September 20, when city crossed the 10,000-mark of positive cases, was 69.99% after a 13% improvement. On the day, two deaths were reported, taking the toll to 164. The casualties included a 75-year-old man of Sector 47 with coronary artery disease and hypertension and a 45-year-old man of Maloya with pulmonary tuberculosis and hydropneumothorax. Of the positive cases, 14 were from Manimajra, six each from sectors 40 and 41, five each from sectors 23, 37 and 47, four each from Daria, sectors 20, 48 and 56. The case count now stands at 12,057, including 1,884 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-recovery-rate-improves-to-83/articleshow/78436222.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: 3 die, 148 positive and 155 recover from coronavirus||MOHALI: Three patients died of Covid-19 and 148 tested positive in Mohali on Thursday. The day also saw 155 patients getting discharged, taking the recovery rate to 81.86%. The district toll tally has mounted to 197, case count to 10,535, including 1,714 active cases, and the recovery figure to 8,624. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the casualties included a 58-year-old man of Kumbran village; a man, 67, of Jastna Kalan near Derabassi; and a 65-year-old man of Kambala. All three had co-morbidities. Of the positive cases, 135 were from Mohali urban, three from Kharar, six from Kurali, two each from Derabassi and Lalru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-3-die-148-ve-155-recover/articleshow/78436219.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nashik||‘Rising cases in rural areas a concern’||Nashik: The semi-urban areas in Nashik rural have contributed to more than 45% of Covid-19 cases in the region, a senior official from the rural health department said on Thursday.These semi-urban areas are Sinnar town (industrial hub in Sinnar taluka), Bhagur municipal council, Igatpuri, Ghoti, Pimpalgaon (Baswant), Ozar, Manmad and Nandgaon."We are concerned about the rise in number of cases in these areas as they are acting as hub for spreading the infection in rural areas," the official said."Since these are industrial or market areas, people from villages often come here for trade and carry back the infection resulting in rise in cases in the villages," he added.Since lockdown is not the solution for the current situation, the administration is now stressing on starting the information education and communication (IEC) campaign through various means, including distribution of brochures through health surveyors who are going door-to-door under the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign.One such campaign was inaugurated by collector Suraj Mandhare that focused on preventive measures by underlining three basic rules — physical distance between two people, washing of hands at regular intervals with soap or sanitizer, and wearing of masks ."This has started yielding results given that the cases are plateauing at this point in time and it is unpredictable which side the graph would go from here. The testing intensity has also been increased to cut down on the chances of spreading of the disease," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rising-cases-in-rural-areas-a-concern/articleshow/78433568.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||82 contract coronavirus in Panchkula||PANCHKULA: Eighty-two persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula on Thursday. With this, the district case count has increased to 6,074, including 765 active cases. The recovery figure stands at 5,224 and the toll tally at 86.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/82-contract-virus-in-panchkula/articleshow/78436214.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kanpur||Police file chargesheet in Bikru case||KANPUR: Chaubeypur police filed the chargesheet against 36 accused of the Bikru ambush case in court on Thursday. As many as eight cops, including a deputy SP rank officer, were brutally killed allegedly by slain gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen on the night of July 2, 2020. SP Rural Brijesh Srivastava said, the investigation officer filed the chargesheet in court against the 36 accused saying the cold-blooded murder of the eight policemen was pre-planned. Addressing mediapersons, SP Rural said all the accused have been charged under sections 302 and 120 B IPC and the chargesheet was of around 1,600 to 1,700 pages. “The investigation officer had collected all the available electronic, forensic and scientific evidence in his investigation and submitted the chargesheet today,” Srivastava said. The accused have been booked under sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 307, 394, 396, 504, 506 and120B of IPC, 34 and 7 of CLA Act and 3/25 Arms Act and Explosive Act. Gangster Vikas Dubey was killed in an encounter on July 10 when a police vehicle ferrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident at Bhaunti in Sachendi and he tried to escape. Dubey’s five associates too were killed in separate encounters. Over 44 accused were identified out of which 36 were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-file-chargesheetin-bikru-case/articleshow/78435293.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Industries at IDA Nacharam leaking gases, say locals||Hyderabad: Residents living near the IDA Nacharam have been complaining of air pollution over the past fortnight. They say industries are surreptitiously leaking gases at night when no one is there to monitor. Speaking to TOI, Navoday Kumar, a resident, said, “there is a faint chemical smell during the day time, but after 10 pm, we suffer badly. Industries are releasing polluted air at a time when few people are out or can monitor what is happening.” A resident of Boddupal said: “We are sneezing and coughing during the day. With several pharma firms located a stone’s throw away, we assume they are responsible for the smell.” Kumar alleged that it is not just air pollution, but even water is contaminated. “The local Raa Cheruvu has foam in it. I registered a complaint with the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) a few months back, but there was no response. I have tweeted tagging them again on Wednesday,” he said. Also complaining about air pollution, Gowtham Valiveti agreed that the problem was most intense at nights. “We have been raising this issue as clean air is our primary right.” He, however, stressed that it was also basic hygiene that was lacking in the area. “There are pigs strolling around the area all the time. When municipal officials cannot deal with this, it seems unlikely they are going to deal with tougher challenges such as pollution,” he said. M Venkanna, executive engineer, TSPCB said: “We received complaints and are investigating the matter. Our night patrol teams are keeping an eye out.” Apart from Boddupal, residents of Mallapur, which is also close to the industrial belt, have been suffering due to foul smell. “I have seen a plume of black smoke from industries on several occasions this week. After years of bearing the brunt, I feel it is time to move out of the area considering the health of my children,” said Sabita Jayakiran, a resident of Mallapur. The complaints come a few weeks after the state human rights commission took notice of pollution-related problems faced by a large swathe of the city from Bachupally till Nallagandla. PCB officials said it is impossible to identify the source in such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/industries-at-ida-nacharam-leaking-gases-say-locals/articleshow/78436245.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Two die as unidentified vehicle rams into bike||Rudrapur : Two men were killed after their motorcycle was hit by an unidentified vehicle in Udham Singh Nagar district. The accident took place around 10 pm on Wednesday near Bagaura village at national highway-87, when they were on the way to their home from Nanakmatta town. The deceased have been identified as Kalu Sikdar (56) and Jeevan Mandal (48), both residents of Rajnagar Ratan village, the police said. The police were informed by another biker who noticed the bodies lying on the road. The bodies of the deceased were handed over to family members after the post-mortem. A case was registered against an unidentified accused and further investigation is underway, said Salauddin Khan, station house officer of Sitarganj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-die-as-unidentified-vehicle-rams-into-bike/articleshow/78434773.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Edu dept helps NCC get flight simulators||Ahmedabad: Major General Roy Joseph, Additional Director General, NCC Directorate Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu inaugurated the first Zen Air Microlight Flight Simulator at No 2 Gujarat Air Squadron, Ahmedabad on Thursday. For the first time in Gujarat Directorate, two flight simulators have been installed for training of cadets at Ahmedabad and Vadodara. This has only been possible due to the continued support and assistance of the state education dept. NCC Directorate Gujarat has been operating two types of microlights ZEN Air CH701 and Virus SW80 which are under Air Units at Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Bhavnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/edu-dept-helps-ncc-get-flight-simulators/articleshow/78437596.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Photo of dead woman from Chandigarh goes viral as Hathras victim||CHANDIGARH: The picture of a city woman who died due to illness in 2018, has gone viral on social media as that of rape victim of Hathras, UP, and people are protesting with her photographs on placards seeking justice for her. Father of the city woman has filed a complainant with the cyber cell and appealed to the people to stop showing his daughter’s picture as that of rape victim on social media. The cyber cell of UT police recorded the statement of father and have started a probe. Talking to TOI over phone, Mohan Lal Yadav, a resident of Ram Darbar and working in a factory in industrial area, phase-I, said er daughter Manisha Yadav had died during treatment in a private hospital of Sector 33 in 2018. Mohan Lal said he came to know about the photo of his daughter getting viral when her friend called up and told him. Later, he also got calls and messages from his friends and relatives in this regard. People also informed him that some people in Mohali also took out a candle march while carrying her daughter’s pictures in their hands in support of the rape vicitm of Hathras in Mohali on Wednesday. On this, Mohan lal decided to go to the police. Cyber cell police said that they had received his complaint and recorded his statement on Thursday. Police said some people might have downloaded the picture of Manisha Yadav from internet and circulated on the social media as a rape victim of UP. When Manisha died, her parents had accused doctors of the private hospital of negligence and news was published with her pictures in the newspapers. People may have picked her pictures from there, the family said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pic-of-city-woman-who-died-2-years-ago-goes-viral-as-hathras-victim/articleshow/78436271.cms||Pawan Tiwari
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Dalit woman files rape case against neighbour||AHMEDABAD: A woman from a scheduled caste (SC) community on Wednesday filed a complaint of rape at Vejalpur police station against a man who lives in her neighbourhood, alleging that he raped her repeatedly with the false promise of marrying her. In her FIR, the 23-year-old woman stated that she met the accused, Bunty Sharma, 25, around six years ago and he befriended her. She alleged that he proposed marriage to her in their initial meetings which she accepted. They entered a relationship during which Sharma had sex with her several times, said a Vejalpur police official. The accused recently refused to marry her and threatened her with dire consequences. She then told her family members and approached police to file a complaint of rape against Sharma. The police officer said Sharma was detained and sent for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rape-case-filed-by-dalit-woman/articleshow/78436266.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Ensure water connection in govt schools within 100 days, says CM||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday held a meeting with district magistrates (DMs) through video conference and directed them to ensure time-bound implementation of the Jal Jeevan Mission in the state. The CM told DMs to give highest priority to the mission adding that they must work on daily deadline. He said that each DM must know the number of water connections installed in the district each evening. He also said that as directed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, each government school and anganwadi centre must have a water connection within 100 days from October 2 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ensure-water-connection-in-govt-schools-within-100-days-says-cm/articleshow/78434761.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||No. of crimes committed by foreigners jumps by 341% in Uttarakhand: NCRB||DEHRADUN: The NCRB report has showed an increase of nearly 341% in the number of crimes committed by foreigners in Uttarakhand in 2019. According to the NCRB report, the Uttarakhand police registered 53 cases of crimes committed by people of foreign origin against just 12 cases of this nature in 2018. Out of the total crimes by the foreigners, 3 were murder cases, theft (9), cheating (1), foreigners act (5), NDPS act (4), passport act (4), arms act (5) and local laws (13). West Bengal has topped the list of states in the country with 744 cases of crimes committed by the foreigners, followed by Maharashtra (237), Karnataka (167), Himachal Pradesh (121), Goa (110), Tamil Nadu (76), Mizoram (54), Aasam (54) and Uttarakhand (53). Police officials said 53 crime cases when compared to the number of foreigners visiting the state is nothing, and added that the majority of the cases are of petty nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-of-crimes-committed-by-foreigners-jumps-by-341-in-ukhand-ncrb/articleshow/78434754.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 2L degree seats vacant after 2nd phase of admissions||Hyderabad: As many as 2.41 lakh degree seats are vacant in various government and private colleges after the second phase of degree admissions concluded on Thursday. According to figures released by the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE), response for degree courses in Telangana was lukewarm in the second phase as only 65,719 allotments were made. With commencement of the third and final phase of admission, two lakh seats are likely to remain vacant even this year. Total 1,07,645 seats were confirmed in phase 1. Of the 65,719 seats allotted in the second phase, 39,829 were allotted in private unaided colleges, 19,309 in government colleges, 5,163 in private aided colleges, 1,376 in university constituent colleges and 42 in railway degree college. College managements attributed the drop in degree seat admissions to pending common entrance tests (CETs) results. “Students who are waiting for results of Eamcet among various other CETs may forego their degree seats even if they are allotted. Since the third phase of degree admissions shall conclude before the admission notification for various CETs is released, the TSCHE should plan to have more admission phases,” said Shankar Ramaraju, faculty member at a private degree college. According to sources, the engineering, agriculture, medical common entrance test (Eamcet) result is likely to be released on October 6. “Earlier, the plan was to release the result on October 5. However, since the joint entrance exams (advanced) results are scheduled to be released on October 5, we are planning to release the Eamcet result the subsequent day,” said a TSCHE official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-2l-degree-seats-vacant-after-2nd-phase-of-admissions/articleshow/78436239.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||SDPI submits memorandum at collectorate||Ahmedabad: A delegation of workers of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) met officials at the Ahmedabad district collectorate and handed over a memorandum seeking stringent action against the culprits behind the Hathras gang-rape, the murder of all-India Backward and Minority Communities Employees Federation (BAMCEF) leader and advocate Devji Maheshwari in Kutch, and the alleged inflammatory statements against prophet Mohammed in Petlad. The delegation demanded that the culprits be arrested and also sought protection for all advocates in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sdpi-submits-memorandum-at-collectorate/articleshow/78437581.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Residents raise concern over saplings’ survival on pavement||HYDERABAD: Saplings for large trees planted near the Domalguda stretch abutting Tank Bund has raised eyebrows. Some residents are concerned if the saplings that were planted on the pavement will survive. “The pavement was broken a few days ago to plant these trees. The saplings are not going to get any space to become the large trees because there is no space for their roots to grow. There is hardly two feet left between each sapling,” said Mahima Reddy, a resident. Further, there is very less spacing between the trees that look like peepals,” she said. Not just on this stretch, but pavement tiles on the entire Tank Bund area are being removed. Passers-by are perturbed over the manner in which the work is being carried out. “Despite Covid-19 and the economic crisis, in the name of welfare, the GHMC is continuing to waste tax payers money,” said activist Harish Daga, who passes by the area while travelling to work. He said the pavement will be removed and discarded when it should be reused. Revathi R, another local, agreed. “The pavement bricks were not in a bad condition. Is this work being taken up only in light of the GHMC polls or was there a genuine reason for these to be replaced? There needs to be more transparency when pavements are removed.” GHMC officials, on condition of anonymity, said the works were for routine maintenance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-raise-concern-over-saplings-survival-on-pavement/articleshow/78436289.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||2 yrs on, no report on lake formation near Gangotri submitted to HC; show cause notice issued to chief secy||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday issued a show cause notice to the chief secretary directing him to explain why contempt proceedings should not be initiated since the state government had failed to submit reports on the formation of an artificial lake near the Gangotri glacier even two years after the court’s order. The state government has been given two weeks to respond. The petitioner in the case, Ajay Goutam, had submitted that the lake could potentially result in a tragedy more devastating than the 2013 Kedarnath disaster in which the Chorabari lake had burst causing widespread damage in the area. Goutam had filed an affidavit arguing that the snout of Gaumukh from where Bhagirathi —a headstream of Ganga — emerges had been impacted by debris from landslides so much so that the river has altered its course. The state government had, however, argued that the lake was not permanent and that falling boulders and diversion of streams and rivers were normal phenomena. This had led the court to ask the state government to submit periodical reports on the lake formation. In July 2018, the division bench of then Chief Justice K M Joseph and Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma had passed an order directing the state government to submit a report by August 31, 2018 explaining the prevailing conditions near the glacier and to submit such a report every three months till the court dispenses with it. On Thursday, the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma observed that despite the court’s orders not a single report has been submitted in the past 26 months. “The court has directed the registry to issue a show cause notice to the secretary to explain why contempt proceedings should not be initiated since they have failed to comply with the court’s orders. The court has given the government two weeks’ time to respond,” said an advocate who was present in the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-yrs-on-no-report-on-lake-formation-near-gangotri-submitted-to-hc-show-cause-notice-issued-to-chief-secy/articleshow/78434822.cms||Prashant Jha
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Woman killed, 2 still missing and feared dead after car falls into Tehri lake||Dehradun: A 23-year-old woman was killed while her brother and two others are still missing and feared dead after the car they were travelling in plunged into Tehri lake near Zero point late Tuesday. According to officials, there were four people inside the car. They were travelling from Dehradun to Ukhimath in Rudraprayag via Tehri. They had left Dehradun at 10 pm on Tuesday. After they did not reach their destination and their mobile phones out of reach, the family members back in Dehradun raised an alarm and filed a missing complaint at Raipur police station. On Thursday morning, traces were found of a car falling into Tehri lake near Zero point on Tehri-Bipuram road, following which a rescue operation was launched. A state disaster response force (SDRF) team recovered one Diksha Rawat’s (23) body from the lake, while other three persons — Abhishek Rawat, Avtar Singh and Ashu Kumar — are still missing. “A search operation is underway to find the other three missing persons who were believed to be inside the car," said a SDRF official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-killed-2-still-missing-and-feared-dead-after-car-falls-into-tehri-lake/articleshow/78434795.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 2, 2020||Nashik||Team to probe alleged sale of civil hospital’s remdesivir vial in open||Nashik: The district civil surgeon has set up a four-member team to probe into allegations of clandestine sale of remdesivir injections from the civil hospital in the open.The move comes after Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare on Thursday directed civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande to investigate the issue and furnish a report within 24 hours.The enquiry team comprises a Class-1 officer, a pharmacist, a nurse and an assistant. The team will find out if there have been any leaks of the remdesivir injections from the government facility.A section of media had conducted a sting operation to highlight how a vial of remdesivir was sold to a Covid-19 patient’s relative on Wednesday — at Rs 1,000 less than the maximum retail price — without any bill.The media report claimed that the relatives got in touch with an employee of the civil hospital on Sunday and placed an order for the injection for a Covid-19 patient admitted to a private hospital.After making the arrangement, the employee called up the relatives and asked them to collect the vial from a spot far from civil hospital on Wednesday. It is suspected that the relatives collected the medicine for a Covid-19 patient, but it was not administered to the patient. Mandhare said it must first be ascertained if the vial came from the civil hospital or was procured from some other place and delivered in the name of the hospital.“We will be able to comment only after we have the inquiry report. No one will be spared. If needed, a police complaint will also be filed,” Mandhare said.Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said that when an injection is issued, it is directly handed over to the pharmacist in the Covid-19 ward. The nurses pick it up from there to administer it to the patient. “The entire Covid-19 facility is under CCTV coverage and we will scan the footage to find out if the vial had come out of the hospital,” she said.She added that they had received the batch number of the vial and it will throw more light on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/team-to-probe-alleged-sale-of-civil-hospitals-remdesivir-vial-in-open/articleshow/78433667.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Kuldeep Chahal takes charge as Chandigarh SSP||CHANDIGARH: A 2009 batch IPS officer of Punjab cadre, Kuldeep Singh Chahal took over the charge as SSP, UT (law & order), at UT police headquarters on Thursday. Before joining the UT police force Chahal was posted as SSP, Mohali. After taking charge, Kuldeep Singh Chahal met UT DGP Sanjay Baniwal and DIG Omvir Bishnoi. Later, Chahal, along with DIG Bishnoi, reached at Mullanpur-Chandigarh barrier to check the arrangement of police deployment to control the farmers and also visited other entry points of the city. Chahal said he would interact with the media in a day or two. However, earlier he had said that his priority would be providing safety to women, girls, children and senior citizens of the city. Before being selected for IPS, Chahal was an ASI with Chandigarh Police but later was able to crack the civil services examination. He belongs to Haryana. The Union home ministry had turned down UT administrator V P Singh Badnore’s recommendation of 2011batch IPS Vivek Sheel Soni for the post, which is reserved for Punjab cadre IPS officer. On June 9, the administration had received a panel of the IPS officers from Punjab government for the post. The panel comprised names of Chahal, Mohali SSP; Patil Ketan Baliram (2010 batch), AIG, counter intelligence, Amritsar; and Vivek Sheel Soni, SSP, Ludhiana rural. The UT administration while forwarding three names to the ministry had pitched for Soni. Earlier, Nilambri Vijay Jagdale, a 2008 batch IPS officer, was holding the charge of SSP, Chandigarh, since August 22, 2017. She had recently completed her tenure and had joined her parent cadre of Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kuldeep-chahal-takes-charge-as-ut-ssp/articleshow/78436315.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s first integrated resource park to be inaugurated today||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s first integrated resource park (IRP) will be operational from Gandhi Jayanti on October 2. Spread over an area of five acres in Bhuvanagiri (Bhongiri municipality), the park consists of two wet waste composting units, a dry resource collection centre, a bio-mining unit (BMU) and a faecal sludge treatment plant (FSTP). The BMU has been set up to clear the legacy waste dumped for the last seven to eight years at the IRP. The park was earlier used as a dump yard. The capacity of the two composting units is 10 tonnes each and the capacity of the plant is 15 kilo litre per day. The dry resource collection centre consists of an automatic baling machine and a plastic recycling unit. On-site composting is also part of the park. “The park will be inaugurated on October 2 by municipal administration & urban development (MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao,” said an official from Bhongiri municipality. Three months ago, Rao threw a challenge to municipal commissioners and municipal chairpersons (excluding GHMC) to convert a dump yard in their respective jurisdictions into a resource park. “The minister said that he will inaugurate only the resource centre/parks which were earlier dump yards. Bhongir municipal commissioner B Vamshi Krishna took up that challenge and readied the park by Gandhi Jayanthi,” said an official from MA&UD. The park also has a nursery, a tree park, a garden and a lotus pond. Officials said that the ministry wants to set up similar parks in other municipalities and corporations. “The aim is to reduce the transport of garbage and decrease pollution levels. If such parks are set up in multiple locations, wealth out of waste will be generated and transport expenses will also be saved. A plan to set up more such units is in the pipeline,” said an MA&UD official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/states-first-integrated-resource-park-to-be-inaugurated-today/articleshow/78436319.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Asked to be attentive for online class, boy, 12, hangs himself||Mangaluru: Annoyed with his parents, who kept insisting that he pay more attention while attending online classes and be more serious in his studies, a 12-year-old student of class VII ended his life by hanging from the ceiling on Wednesday morning in Udupi district. The victim, Thanush, 12, was a resident of Kajralli in Shiriyara village, which falls within Kota police limits. Police said Thanush used a sari to hang from a hook in the ceiling of the old building behind his new home. Police said the prolonged closure of schools had resulted on the boy’s interest in academics wane gradually. Observing this, Thanush’s parents reprimanded him a few times asking him to be more attentive during online classes. “The boy grew weary of this and committed suicide on Wednesday” said police, adding that a case had been registered in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/asked-to-be-attentive-for-online-class-boy-12-hangs-himself/articleshow/78434775.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Only 3 allowed, but autos brazenly ferry more than six passengers||Nagpur: Those solely dependent on public transport for their daily commute are being forced to travel at great peril in crowded autorickshaws even as Covid cases are rising. In the absence of the most affordable mode of public transport — Aapli Bus — almost all autorickshaws are exploiting the helplessness of commuters by throwing traffic and Covid distancing norms to the winds. Auto drivers are plying with more than six passengers against the stipulated three, being blatantly careless about their own and passenger safety. From June 5 (when autorickshaws were allowed to ferry passengers) to August 31, the traffic police have penalized 247 autorickshaw drivers for ferrying excess passengers. Yet, violations by autorickshaw drivers is a common sight. On Thursday, TOI found autorickshaw drivers brazenly flouting every traffic and Covid safety rule by allowing passengers to sit along with them on the driver’s seat. For commuters, it is a compulsion and for the drivers – time to make hay. Blatant violation by autorickshaw drivers was noticed even at the city’s busy junctions like Variety Square, Rani Jhansi Square, Munje Chowk, LIC Square, Indora Square, Agrasen Bhavan, Sakkardara Chowk etc, and busy stretches including Central Avenue, Kamptee Road, Wardha Road, Umred Road, Hingna Road, and Amravati Road. TOI found almost all three-wheelers ferrying excess passengers. TOI spoke to a few passengers who alighted at Rani Jhansi Square, Variety Square, Munje Square and LIC Square, and the common refrain was that they have no option but to take autos in the absence of buses. “If I travel alone in an autorickshaw, I will have to shell out more money. Being the only earner in my four-member family, I prefer to travel in shared autorickshaw,” said Rajesh Sahare, a resident of Indora. Similar views are expressed by other passengers commuting in shared autorickshaws. Shiv Sena corporator and former deputy mayor Kishore Kumeriya too submitted a letter to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B to resume Aapli Bus service. Kumeriya said since September all offices, shops, industries and business houses have resumed functioning. “People have started reporting to work and most don’t have private transport. Due to non-availability of Aapli Bus service, the people are being forced to commute in shared autos exposing them to Covid-19,” he said. Traffic cops at busy junctions admitted to autos plying in the city were violating guidelines and claimed that whenever they spot any overcrowded three-wheeler they discourage auto drivers from ferrying more than three passengers in one trip. In this calendar year (from January to September 30), the traffic police have penalized 16,250 autorickshaw drivers and recovered Rs22.47 lakh fine from them. As most commuters are daily-wagers and autorickshaw drivers too hail from poor families, the traffic police said they have adopted a lenient approach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-3-allowed-but-autos-brazenly-ferry-more-than-six-passengers/articleshow/78436333.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Double joy: Lake at Lodhi Garden gets fountains, lights||NEW DELHI: Two months after rejuvenating Lodhi Garden lake, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has installed four fountains surrounded by colourful lights to further beautify the waterbody, which will be inaugurated and open to the public on Friday. “The fountains, which will go up to the height of 25 feet, will be open for visitors from 6am to 9am and 4pm to7pm. From 6pm, multicolour LED lights around them will be on display. The lake already had two fountains and with the four new installation on the other side of the bridge, all the six fountains will be made operational to give an aesthetic look to the entire area,” said an NDMC official. The official added that in winter, people gather in large numbers around the lake to enjoy the sunset. “Ducks can also be seen swimming in the evenings, making the place more visually appealing,” he added. The lake, which is spread over 6,712 square metres and is 1-4 feet deep, contains about 50 lakh litres of water. For the rejuvenation work, NDMC had installed a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) and used natural enzymes and microbes to control the foul smell. “With the installation of the STP, we won’t have to empty the water from the lake at frequent intervals as its quality will automatically improve. After a period, the same water will be used for horticulture purposes,” said the official. Besides the treatment plant, NDMC has also been carrying bio-remediation of the lake water using natural microbial or enzymes to control the foul smell and growth of harmful algae without affecting the aquatic life. “We are also checking mosquito breeding for the safety of the visitors. To collect the sludge from the corners and the base, we use a boat fitted with a vacuum machine for the purpose,” said the official. Watch Delhi: Lodhi Gardens lake gets a facelift with LED fountains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/double-joy-lake-at-lodhi-garden-gets-fountains-lights/articleshow/78436340.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court gets three new judges||AHMEDABAD: The President of India on Thursday appointed three practising advocates as judges in the Gujarat high court with effect from the day they assume charges of their offices. The members of the Bar - Vaibhavi Nanavati, Nirzar Desai and Nikhil Kariel - have been elevated to the bench upon recommendations made by the Supreme Court collegium on August 14. Their appointment will take the HC strength to 30. The three lawyers have legal practice of more than two decades. Advocate Desai has been a standing counsel for the central government. Advocate Nanavati has been on panels of various institutions and her area of practice includes constitutional law, civil law, company law, educational and land related laws. Similarly, advocate Kariel too has got wide practice in various fields of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-gets-three-new-judges/articleshow/78437602.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||Social media makes women more prone to cyber crime||Vadodara: The increase in use of social media seems to have led to a spike in the number of cyber crimes against women in the state. The police said that in the majority of the complaints filed by women, social media is one of the key causes of the crime. “Women share their photos on the social media. It is easier for the mischief mongers or criminals to access such photos and tamper with them. Also, the cases of stalking on social media too have increased,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime), Vadodara. Earlier, women shied away from filing complaints but now many youngsters are approaching the police. The Vadodara cyber crime has also started an online campaign to make citizens aware of cyber frauds and how to prevent getting duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/social-media-makes-women-more-prone-to-cyber-crime/articleshow/78434864.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials gear up to conduct UPSC prelims||Hyderabad: Hyderabad Collector and UPSC coordinating supervisor Swetha Mohanty on Thursday directed officials deputed to oversee the conduct of UPSC prelims to ensure that all 99 centres that have been identified for conducting the exams on October 4 in the city follow Covid-19 preventive measures. At a coordination meeting held with the officials, she said that social distancing must be maintained in the seating arrangements. “No candidate will be allowed into the exam centre without a mask,” she told the officials. A total of 46,171 candidates will appear for the UPSC prelims in two sessions— morning and afternoon—and admit cards have to be downloaded from the UPSC portal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-gear-up-to-conduct-upsc-prelims/articleshow/78436331.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Dehradun||Youth mauled to death by leopard, second case in a week in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: A day after a ‘man-eater’ leopard was eliminated after it killed a 11-year-old girl in Pithoragarh, another leopard attack case has come to the fore where a youth, believed to be 14-year-old, was mauled by a big cat in Pauri Garhwal on Thursday morning. The incident took place in Okhiyum village of Khirsu area in Pauri forest division. Notably, this is the second leopard attack in a week in Uttarakhand. The victim had gone out to graze cattle with his friends when he was suddenly ambushed the leopard, according to his friends. They said they ran from the spot to call the elders, but the leopard had escaped by then, leaving the boy heavily bleeding. “He was taken to the district hospital where he was declared brought dead by the hospital authorities. Our scanning teams had reached the spot and they are monitoring the area to understand the actual reason behind the attack,” said Akash Kumar Verma, DFO, Pauri. The village is enclosed by forest from all the sides and no such incident had taken place in the past. “We are yet to find out whether it was a male or a female leopard,” added another forest official. Incidentally, Uttarakhand has already lost over a dozen lives to leopard attacks this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/youth-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-2nd-case-in-a-week-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/78434842.cms||Shivani Azad
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC to cover open drains||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will commence capping work on open drains this month. The decision was announced by the GHMC standing committee members and a resolution was passed to this effect at the standing committee meeting held on Thursday at its head office. Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao had on Wednesday accorded administrative sanction of Rs 298.34 crore for the drain capping work. The GHMC will cover open drains and construct box drains with the sanctioned amount. The drains that are less than two metres wide will be capped and the works pertaining to nalas that are more than two metres wide will be taken up as per National Green Tribunal Act and Supreme Court guidelines. As per GHMC records, there are 382 drains across the city with width less than two metres and 90 drains in the city are more than two metres wide .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-cover-open-drains/articleshow/78436328.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman, brother held for stabbing husband in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Police arrested a woman and her brother for stabbing her husband with a scissors in Sector 25 on Thursday noon. Both accused will be produced before a local court on Friday. Police said both attacked as the woman had an estranged relationship with her husband. However, police are verifying the facts and investigating the matter thoroughly. A passerby recorded the incident of stabbing the man on his mobile phone and circulated it social media. Both accused have been identified as Renu and his brother Ankit Rohilla of Sctor 56. The viral video shows accused Ankit stabbing his brother-in-law Deepak Chand of Sector 56 with a scissors in full public view in the parking area of his office in Sector 25. People were standing near the crime scene and making video instead of stopping Ankit from stabbing. Renu was also seen assaulting his husband, along with Ankit. In his statement Deepak alleged that he worked in a coaching centre in Sector 25 and Ankit called him to come out of office around 1.30pm. Deepak reached the parking of his office and was talking to Ankit and Renu when Ankit allegedly put chilli powder in his eyes and started assaulting him with the scissors on his neck and other body parts. People gathered on the spot and informed the police on 112. A PCR reached the spot and rushed Deepak to GMSH-16, where his condition was stated to be stable by the doctors. The Sector 11 police also reached the hospital and recorded his statement. Police registered a case of attempt to murder against Renu and Ankit and arrested them. In his preliminary investigation police found that Renu and Deepak had a marital dispute, however, investigation is going on to ascertain the exact cause behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-brother-held-for-stabbing-husband/articleshow/78436325.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chennai||Tirupur units struggle to mend their labour issue||The Tirupur garment hub is at a crossroads. Post-Covid inquiries for garments have begun flooding and orders are trickling in from domestic as well as global buyers. There is a high level of optimism that the quantum of orders would soon match the number of inquiries. But just as business is looking up, the textile town is going through possibly its worst phase of labour shortage. Pls read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/indias-biggest-garments-hub-is-short-of-hands-but-it-has-a-plan/articleshow/78459316.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tirupur-units-struggle-to-mend-their-labour-issue/articleshow/78436345.cms||V Mayilvaganan
October 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Sarpanch, villagers booked for attacking health team in Patiala||PATIALA: A number of villagers, along with the sarpanch of a village in Patiala, have been booked under various sections of the IPC for allegedly attacking a health team that reached the brick kiln in the village to collect Covid samples of migrant labourers. The panchayat, according to the police, had recently passed a resolution to support the health teams in getting conducted the Covid samplings. However, the panchayat after attacking the health team told the police that they had only given consent that their villagers, if found positive, will be home-isolated. The incident took place at Khedi Malla village of Pasiana block in Patiala district on Wednesday when the villagers reached the brick kiln to prevent the health team for taking samples of labourers. “After heated arguments, the villagers attacked our health teams, that included doctors, pharmacist, ANMs and others. They also thrashed female staff members and later attempted to damage the vehicles of the health team. The police was called on the spot and health team was rescued. We have lodged the complaint against the sarpanch and others. If our teams will be attacked and feel unsafe, we will not be able to work properly,” said, Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra. He revealed that 100 workers as migrant labourers had reached a brick kiln in the village, following which the owners of the brick kiln informed the health authorities to collect samples. The video of the incident has also gone viral over social media. A case has been registered on the complaint of Patiala civil surgeon. Those accused who have been identified are Avtar Singh, Darshan Singh, Gurmeet Singh, Balvir Singh, Nikka Singh, along with some other unidentified vpersons of Khedi Mallan village of Patiala district. SHO, Pasiana police station, Sohan Singh Virk, said that no arrests had been made so far. He said the village A week ago the police in Patiala had got passed resolutions from around 750 village panchayts and 285 colonies in favour of Covid testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sarpanch-villagers-booked-for-attacking-health-team-gone-for-sampling/articleshow/78436342.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD rally: Tough time for commuters as Chandigarh entry points sealed||MOHALI: Commuters had a tough time negotiating traffic jams and diversions caused due to the massive protest rally called by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in support of farmers opposing the farm bills as the entry points on the highways approaching Chandigarh were sealed for around 10 hours on Thursday. The entry points at Zirakpur and Mullanpur were sealed, where serpentine queues of vehicles could be seen for miles till late in the evening. Chandigarh police had sealed the Zirakpur border at 1.30pm and till the filing of this report the borders were not opened. No vehicle was allowed to go past the Zirakpur flyover as well. The incoming traffic from Ambala was diverted at Derabassi towards Panchkula to reach Chandigarh. MP and former minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal reached Zirakpur border with a rally count of approximately 4,000 supporters and was stopped there. Similarly, Chandigarh entry from Mullapur side was also sealed by the evening when SAD president Sukhbir Badal’s rally reached Kurali at 6pm while he was supposed to reach Mullanpur border by 2.30pm. All incoming traffic from Kurali-Siswan-Mullanpur was diverted towards Kharar and traffic from Patiala to airport road and then to Mohali and Chandigarh. Due to this traffic on Kharar-Mohali road came to a standstill for few hours. Commuters stuck in snarl-ups made unending phone calls to TOI reporting that they have been stuck in traffic jam for the past 70 to 90 minutes. Rajni Bala, a resident of Zirakpur, said, “I have been making rounds of roads to reach Zirakpur from Chandigarh after finishing my office in the evening. These protesters must think about common people as after day’s work we long to reach home but such rallies make if tough.” Similarly, Rajat Jain of Kharar said, “The scenario in Kurali was worst. I have been waiting for 40 minutes for my turn to change the route to the other side of the highway to join the moving traffic to reach Kharar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tough-time-for-commuters-as-city-entry-points-sealed/articleshow/78436347.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC worker dies, union holds protest||Hyderabad: Members of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Employees’ Union, affiliated to TRS Karmika Vibhagam, on Thursday protested against the GHMC after a GHMC staffer, K Swamy (42) who worked at Khairatabad parking yard passed away. “He was not given work for three months following which he died on September 30,” said K Balakrishna, the union president. Karthik, GHMC deputy executive, who was transferred after the protest, could not be reached on phone by TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-worker-dies-union-holds-protest/articleshow/78436343.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Mumbai||Property registrations in Mumbai double in September||MUMBAI: Property sale registrations in Greater Mumbai more than doubled (112%) in September over the previous month thanks to the 3% reduction in stamp duty. In fact, September saw the highest number of registrations this year across the state, reports Nauzer Bharucha. Last month, Greater Mumbai recorded 5,597 apartment sales compared to 2,642 registrations in August when stamp duty was 5%. The latest data is from the Inspector General of Registration and Controller of Stamps.Overall sale registrations across Maharashtra also recorded a huge rise in September. There were 1,19,834 sale registrations in September compared to 82,100 in August. September has, so far, been the best month for the state this year. Before the pandemic broke out, sales registration was the highest in January (1,16,647). “We are almost back to pre-Covid level sales,’’ said a property expert. Pankaj Kapoor, MD of property research firm, Liases Foras, said, “Growth in number of registrations can be attributed to reduction in stamp duty charges to 2% coupled with offers and discounts developers have doled out. Interest rates are also at their lowest level in the past 15 years.’’ He added, “Developers have also offered flexible payment plans and subvention schemes which are drawing the fence sitter to the market. It is a buyers’ market and they have ample options. This is the first time since 2005 such a conducive scenario has arrived where everything is working for a buyer.’’ In August, in a major decision to revive the stagnant property market, the state cabinet cut stamp duty on flats for seven months starting September. Duty was lowered from 5% to 2% for September 1 to December 31 and will be pegged at 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The reduction, though temporary, could be substantial for a prospective home buyer. A flat costing Rs 1 crore attracts a duty of Rs 5 lakh. It will now be Rs 2 lakh from September to December-end, and Rs 3 lakh from January 1 to March.31, 2021. Developer Abhishek Lodha said there is a lot of interest in buying ready homes and the cut helped boost registrations. “We believe that the next three months will see a big boost to the housing sector, especially for ready homes, said the MD of Lodha Group. Mitesh L Raikundalia, a stamp duty and registration expert, said the state also mopped up a fair amount of stamp duty revenue in September. “Many developers started a 0% stamp duty scheme wherein they paid the stamp duty out of their own pockets to boost sales,’’ he said. With duty cut to 2%, government earned less in September (Rs 763 crore) compared to Rs 815 crore in August (when it was 5%) and Rs 1,603 crore in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/property-registrations-in-city-double-in-sept/articleshow/78438366.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
October 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada gets its plasma donors registry today||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada (DK) will now have its own plasma donor’s registry. A link will be activated on the district administration’s portal www.dk.nic.in on Friday for this specific purpose. The link can also be used by those who are willing to voluntarily donate blood. The blood and plasma registries will be useful for the administration to provide these lifesaving items to the needy, said deputy commissioner K V Rajendra. ‘Registry will help needy’ Inaugurating the National Voluntary Blood Donation Day 2020 organised by Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS), DK, here on Thursday, Dr Rajendra said these registries will help roll out plasma therapy for the needy. With the process for setting up plasmapheresis unit at Wenlock Hospital in the final stages, Dr Rajendra said a push from IRCS will give a big fillip to both blood and plasma donation. “The Covid-19 recovery rate in DK is around 80%. Even if 50% of those who have recovered are ineligible to donate plasma due to age and health related issues, there is still a large chunk of youth who can be encouraged to do so. The IRCS should take the lead and get youths to register on the portal. The administration also announced 9916262459 as the WhatsApp number where plasma and blood donors can indicate their willingness to donate,” he said. “Various organisations that are actively involved in organising voluntary blood donation camps can also play a vital role in spreading awareness among potential donors. While the district administration cannot share the list of people who have recovered from Covid-19 due to patient confidentiality, the organisations through their grassroots networking have the wherewithal to find out such persons and encourage them to donate,” he said. Exhorting the IRCS to increase their membership base across categories, Rajendra said the society should also take up fund-raisers that will help it roll out socially oriented activities. “There is a strict SOP for plasma donation and the cost involved. IRCS has the capacity to mobilise funds to undertake this activity on par with efforts in providing blood and blood components to the needy for free, and for other recipients at a nominal cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-gets-its-plasma-donors-registry-today/articleshow/78434867.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Now, Crime Branch gets three-day custody of Umar Khalid for questioning||NEW DELHI: Former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University Umar Khalid was arrested by the Crime Branch of Delhi Police on Thursday in connection with a case of violence in Khajuri Khas area of northeast Delhi in February. He was produced before a court and police were granted remand of three days for his custodial interrogation. Earlier on September 13, Khalid was arrested by the Special Cell in a case of conspiracy behind the northeast Delhi riots. The second case was lodged under sections of rioting, Arms Act etc. in February. The Crime Branch had questioned Khalid on September 3 in connection with this case. Apart from Khalid, suspended AAP politician Tahir Hussain, Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan and Khalid’s close associate Khalid Saifi have been arrested as well in the riots case. Khalid was in Tihar Jail since his arrest on September 13, so the Crime Branch had to seek a production warrant from court to arrest him in this case. Khalid is already on trial under sedition charges for his provocative and anti-national sloganeering on the campus in 2016, during a ceremony to commemorate Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru. He had come under the scanner of intelligence agencies and Delhi Police after giving a speech provocative speech on February 17 in Maharashtra’s Amravati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/now-crime-branch-gets-three-day-custody-of-khalid-for-questioning/articleshow/78436354.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chennai||Soon, workers from other states can draw ration from PDS shops in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is all set to launch supply of food grains and other commodities through the public distribution system to benefit several lakh migrant workers in the state. A government order has been passed in this regard and the scheme could be rolled out soon. Additional chief secretary Dayanand Kataria, in September 29 order, asked the civil supplies department to create an option in the TNPDS web portal to enable people from other states working in Tamil Nadu to register to draw food commodities under the PDS system. “They (migrants) can also indicate their preferred fair price shops for drawing commodities, to enable the department to monitor the ration cards emigrated from other states,” Kataria said in the order. “We will soon launch the portal to register the inter-state migrants and extend the facility to them under the One Nation One Ration Card scheme,” commissioner of TNCSC Sajjansingh R Chavan told TOI. It will be a boon to several lakh migrant workers like 28-year-old L Sanoj Kumar of Bihar’s Begusarai district, working as a quality control employee at a garment unit in Tirupur. With a salary of Rs 15,000 per month, his family of three is struggling to make ends meet. “I have been working in Tirupur for almost 11 years. We spend more than Rs 10,000 per month on accommodation and food. We buy everything from the market. Once we are eligible to avail PDS in Tirupur, our monthly expense could come down by at least Rs 2,000,” he said. The intra-state portability would facilitate more than 2 crore ration cardholders within the state to lift the entitled food grains from any PDS outlet. “Since the integrated PDS system is computerised and equipped with a biometric system, the minute a cardholder collects the food grains, the details will reflect in the system. It will help avoid misuse or duplication of cards,” said Chavan. The intra-state portability of the ration cards, as part of the Centre’s One Nation One Ration Card policy, was launched in Tuticorin and Tirunelveli on a pilot basis on February 1.  Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday launched the one nation one ration card scheme in the state, initially in 32 districts. It will be launched in the other six districts from October 16. For now, the portability of ration cards is intra-state. Palaniswami distributed subsidised foodgrains to three families as a token gesture. Palaniswami inaugurated the scheme at the secretariat and distributed the subsidised foodgrains to three families as a token gesture. If the PDS cardholders in the state could not establish the biometric authentication due to technical reasons, arrangements have been made to provide the entitlements through one time password (OTP) sent to phone linked with smartcard and Aadhaar card. The elders and ailing individuals, who cannot visit the PDS outlets, could avail the entitlements through individuals authorised by them, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/soon-workers-from-other-states-can-draw-ration-from-pds-shops-in-tn/articleshow/78436357.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Feb riots: Man denied bail after ‘digital identification’ by cops||NEW DELHI: A man accused of rioting has been denied bail after a Delhi court took into account his “digital identification” by police. “The charges against the applicant are serious. The public witness(es) in the matter are residents of the same locality and the possibility of the applicant threatening or intimidating them if released on bail at this stage cannot be ruled out,” said additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav. Advocate Mehmood Pracha, the counsel for the accused, Mohd Arif, opposed the submission on the grounds that it was impermissible in law, especially after a chargesheet had been filed, but the court observed that the investigating agency was not barred from using “technical tools to conduct further investigation”. Seeking bail for his client, Pracha argued that the investigation in the matter was partial and people belonging to a particular community had been falsely roped in by the investigating agency. Pracha added that in the CCTV footage submitted before the court, Arif was seen an hour before the alleged incident, and the police had no material to prove his nexus with other accused or the “so called conspirators/protesters/organisers/rioters”. He has been identified in the matter only by three constables, he claimed. However, after special prosecutor Amit Prasad played the CCTV footage, the court noted, “The demeanour of the applicant, who can be seen carrying a stick in his hand and looking at the CCTV camera, is a very suspicious.” Arif can also be seen damaging the CCTV camera. Prasad submitted that Arif’s “digital identification” was made at the scene of crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/feb-riots-man-denied-bail-after-digital-identification-by-cops/articleshow/78436363.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Arms supplier held in joint operation||AHMEDABAD: In a joint operation by Gujarat ATS and Jamnagar police, Balvirsinh Patva alias Ballu of Madhya Pradesh was caught on Wednesday late night. Ballu is the main supplier of firearms to Jayesh Ranpariya alias Jayesh Patel of Jamnagar. Ballu has confessed to ATS investigators that he has supplied more than 100 small firearms to buyers in Gujarat. According to ATS sources, in 2019, Jayesh Patel had given a contract to Iqbal alias Bhathiya to kill one Rajani Professor to extort ransom of Rs 1 crore. “It was Ballu who had supplied a pistol and five rounds of ammunition to Jayesh to kill Rajani. Iqbal was arrested later on while Jayesh is still on the run,” said an ATS investigator. DIG, ATS, Himanshu Shukla said that they had a tip-off that Ballu is based in Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh.“We made a joint team of Jamnagar’s special operation group (SOG) and ATS and dispatched it to Dhar. We first surrounded his house and then asked him to surrender. Seeing his house surrounded by the cops, he surrendered,” Shukla said. “The accused said he has supplied arms in Rajkot city, Ahmedabad city and Morbi town. Offences have been registered against him earlier too and he was earlier held by Gujarat ATS on one occasion,” said an investigator. An ATS official said Ballu was in contact with Jayesh, who is still on the run. “We are trying to track Jayesh. He was also caught earlier by crime branch in 2017 when he had come to the city with his girlfriend to watch a film,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/arms-supplier-held-in-joint-operation/articleshow/78436360.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chennai||NLC’s lignite thermal power station from 1960s powers down||CUDDALORE: NLC India’s thermal power station I, which was commissioned between 1962 and 1970 in three stages was decommissioned on September 30. The power generated by South Asia’s first and only lignite-fired thermal station was supplied exclusively to the Tamil Nadu generation and distribution corporation (Tangedco). The 600MW power station established with Indo-Soviet collaboration — six units of 50MW capacity each and three units of 100MW capacity each — was commissioned at an initial cost of Rs77.8 crore. The first unit was synchronised with the grid on May 23, 1962, and the last unit on February 21, 1970. President S Radhakrishnan dedicated the first unit to the nation on August 5, 1962. The company decided to decommission the TPS I in a phased manner from March after it commenced the commercial operation of unit 1 of the Neyvelu New Thermal Power Station (NNTPS), which is the replacement plant for the TPS I. Accordingly, all units of the TPS I have been decommissioned and the last unit (unit 6) was ceremoniously retired at 4.04pm on September 30. The TPS I generated a 1,86,390 million units of power since inception. The NLCIL management and employees bid an emotional farewell to the ‘mother power plant’, which showcased the company’s efficiency, when the boilers, turbines and generators fell silent at the TPS I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nlcs-lignite-thermal-power-station-from-1960s-powers-down/articleshow/78436353.cms||Bosco Dominique
October 2, 2020||Surat||Surat’s thali restaurant owner caught in drug soup||Surat: Owner of a famed Gujarati thali restaurant in the city was arrested for his alleged involvement in the flourishing mephadrone trafficking racket busted by the city police on September 22. On Thursday, the crime branch sleuths arrested 41-year-old Adil Salim Nurani, who owns the popular ‘Kansar’ restaurant. “Nurani was himself addicted to drugs and we suspect he had also started trafficking in partnership with the prime accused Salman alias Aman Mohammed Hanif Zaveri. But his exact role will be clear only after detailed questioning,” a police official said. Nurani from near the family-owned Neelam weighbridge at Saroli. Salman was earlier arrested on September 22 with 1,011.82 gm mephedrone in his car on Dumas Road. Salman was using an apartment in Dumas to store drugs that is owned by Nurani, police said. During questioning, Salman had named Nurani as his partner. Nurani, who lives on Ghod Dod Road, told police that he had met Salman at a party and later they developed friendship. Salman started supplying the drug and Nurani later became a regular user. However, he has denied playing any other role in the racket or trafficking. Cops are yet to give him a clean chit though. Besides restaurants, Nurani also helps his father Salim run hotels and petrol pumps. The family owns a hotel and restaurant on Kadodara highway, petrol pumps in Kadodara and Katargam and a weighbridge on Surat-Kadodara road. “We suspect that he has contacts in Mumbai as well from where he often procured drugs,” said a police officer. Nurani was remanded to police custody by a local court till Sunday. Salman’s arrest had led to the nabbing of 22-year-old Sanket Aslaliya, who runs an online garment business, from his shop in Sayona Plaza Shopping Centre and seized 304.98 gm mephedrone worth Rs 30 lakhf from. He was selling the contraband drugs in partnership with Salman. Later, they arrested Pragnesh Thummar of Varachha and Manojkumar Bhagat from Vapi. Aslaliya and Thummar have claimed that they jointly made mephedrone drug at a rented room in Kadodara. Bhagat was arrested for supplying 400 gram mephedrone to Salman. Thummar had allegedly trained Aslaliya in making mephedrone by providing sources material from various chemical units and taught him how to sell the finished product. Salman also allegedly sexually exploited young girls by befriending them with different names and luring them into mephedrone addiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-thali-restaurant-owner-caught-in-drug-soup/articleshow/78434886.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Agra||Forensic report of 11-day old samples finds ‘no evidence’ of rape||AGRA: The forensic report based on samples received 11 days after the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras was hospitalised has found no evidence of rape. The postmortem report found evidence of strangulation but did not identify it as cause of death. “The forensic report clearly stated that no semen was found. We think some people took advantage of the situation, tried to disturb communal harmony and create caste conflict. We are examining this and will arrest those who try to vitiate the atmosphere,” ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI. The samples were taken on September 22 at Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, where she had been first admitted on September 14, and received by Agra’s lab three days later on September 25. The forensic report stated 13 samples had been taken — “no semen” was found in the nail, anal, control swab samples, while “blood stains” were found in samples of vaginal swab and her salwar. The post mortem report said there were “multiple old healed tears” in her private parts. It was not clear how old the tears were. The autopsy report attributed the death to injuries to her cervical spine due to indirect blunt trauma. The report added that the ligature mark over her neck is consistent with attempted strangulation but did not contribute to her death. Severe injuries to her spinal cord were due to an attempt to strangulation. Union health ministry guidelines for collecting samples for central or state forensic science labs in cases of sexual violence states, “The likelihood of finding evidence after 72 hours (3 days) is greatly reduced; however it is better to collect evidence up to 96 hours in case the survivor may be unsure of the number of hours lapsed since the assault.” Evidence on the outside of the body and on materials like clothing can be collected even after 96 hours. Referring to a video on the day of the girl’s hospitalisation, who died in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital on Tuesday, ADG Kumar said, “The girl was conscious when she had given her statement at a local police station in Hathras to a journalist and she categorically said there was one person who tried to strangulate her. Later, three persons were named for gang-rape,” adding, “The SIT has already begun a probe. Details will emerge once the investigation is completed within the next seven days.” A senior police official told TOI on condition of anonymity that the investigation will take its own course and if the findings suggest the "rape charges will be dropped from the FIR". (With inputs from Pathikhrit Chakraborty in Lucknow) (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/forensic-report-of-11-day-old-samples-finds-no-evidence-of-rape/articleshow/78434869.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 2, 2020||Nashik||FIR against Nashik hospital for excess bill||NASHIK: The civic body has lodged an FIR against a major private hospital for its alleged refusal to refund inflated bill amounts to four Covid-19patients. Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav told TOI that they were forced to lodge the FIR as the private hospital failed to refund the excess amount of Rs 3.8 lakh despite two notices from the NMC. The hospital had issued bills collectively amounting to nearly Rs 30 lakh. NMC’s special audit teams found Rs 3.80 lakh as excess charges. The four patients already paid the amount. When contacted, hospital sources denied the allegations and called them baseless. They said the four patients also had other serious illnesses which needed to be treated. The hospital is exploring legal remedies now, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fir-against-pvt-hosp-over-excess-bill-refund/articleshow/78433706.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU unclear on external candidates||Ahmedabad: After conducting two rounds of pen and paper exams and with the first round of online exams under way, Gujarat University (GU) is yet to decide on the fate of external students who are in their first or second year of undergraduate courses. The varsity has, following the University Grants Commission’s guidelines, exempted students who are in their intermediate semesters from taking college exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-unclear-on-external-candidates/articleshow/78437610.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Mumbai||12% fewer slumdwellers have antibodies, finds 2nd sero survey in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The city’s second sero survey for the Covid-19 pandemic has thrown up a surprise, with the percentage of slumdwellers having antibodies dipping from 57% in July to 45% in August. BMC administrators said the survey didn’t indicate a drop in antibody levels in the community as much as a drop in infection rate in slum areas in August. “As the caseload was low in August, we found a lower percentage of people with antibodies,” additional civic chief Suresh Kakani told TOI. The survey found a minor rise in the percentage of people with antibodies living in buildings—from 16% in the first survey to 18%. “Marginal increase in sero-positivity of non-slum areas correlates with an increase in reported cases in August from non-slum areas,” said the BMC press release. “If the survey had been done post-Ganpati, we would’ve seen higher presence of antibodies in the non-slum areas too,” Kasturba Hospital’s Dr Jayanthi Shastri said. Dr Shastri heads the molecular diagnostic laboratory in BMC-run Kasturba Hospital. The survey was conducted by the BMC along with the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research and Niti Aayog. Emerging scientific evidence hints at a fall in antibody levels in recovered/asymptomatic patients over a period of time and might have contributed to the trend between two rounds of sero survey. The impact of this on immunity, if any, is still unknown, said BMC officials. TIFR’s Dr Ullas Kolthur said, “The two sero surveys show how antibodies pan over time and are consistent with emerging evidence from other studies.” BMC officials said another reason for the surprise results could be that this time, they collected samples of also those who had recovered from Covid-19 and asymptomatic. Also, no sampling was done in active containment zones (slum areas where cases were reported during the survey period). In both rounds, the BMC collected samples of locals from three of the 24 civic administrative wards in the city: R-North (Dahisar), M-West (Chembur) and F-North (Sion). The samples collected in the second round were 1,552 fewer than in the first round, when 6,936 people were tested for antibodies. The BMC said only around 2% of the total collected samples were of those who had been tested in the first round. August was the city’s least troubling month during the pandemic, with cases reducing overall. Kakani said, “There was substantial reduction (in August) in the number of cases coming from slums, and we collected samples mainly from different people in the second round, which are the reasons behind the drop in antibodies among slumdwellers. Overall, the finding is similar to the earlier one.” Like the earlier round, sero-prevalence in women was marginally higher than in men. However, in the second round, sero-prevalence in the age-group above 40 was slightly higher. The BMC stated that sero-positivity from the second round, taken together with the Covid-19 cases from slum areas in the three wards, indicates there could be a reduction in the spread of infection in slum areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/12-fewer-slumdwellers-have-antibodies-finds-2nd-sero-survey-in-city/articleshow/78438375.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Radiologists in HC over state govt capping HRCT scan rates||Nagpur: Aggrieved by Maharashtra government’s decision to cap high resolution computerized tomography (HRCT) scan charges, radiologists have moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court praying for quashing the order. The petition, under the banner of Indian Radiologists and Imaging Association, Vidarbha chapter, challenged the government’s September 24 notification that imposed restrictions on medicos operating diagnostic centres. A division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala issued notices to Union ministry of health and family welfare and state secretary of public health department and others asking them to reply within a week. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Radhakrishnan B and collector Ravindra Thakre are the other respondents. Through counsel Kartik Shukul, the petitioner body has prayed for setting aside the health department’s September 24 notification capping fees to be charged for HRCT scans by private doctors. The association insisted on staying the effect and operation of the notification issued by the deputy secretary. On September 15, the government had constituted a committee to evaluate and quantify the cost to be imposed by private diagnostic centres for HRCT scan. On September 24, the government capped HRCT rates at Rs2,000 for less than 16-slice machine, Rs2,500 for 16 to 64-slice machines and Rs3,000 for multi-detector machines. The order was issued under Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. According to the association, there is no one in the committee to represent doctors running diagnostic centres. Moreover, the committee’s recommendations aren’t available in the public domain. Terming the notification illegal and arbitrary, the petitioner questioned government’s powers to issue it. The association also pointed out the government’s April 30 notification issued by principal secretary and a revised one on May 21 to fix rates of all private hospitals for treating Covid-19 and non-Covid patients. It added that the high court had granted interim stay on Clause 4 of the May 21 notification prescribing rates for non-Covid patients. The petitioner claimed that this notification is identical to the one issued on September 24. During his visit to the city on September 25, health minister Rajesh Tope had announced capping the rates of HRCT scan and plasma therapy and also directed authorities to take action against those charging more than the rates prescribed by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/radiologists-in-hc-over-state-govt-capping-hrct-scan-rates/articleshow/78436364.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 2, 2020||Surat||Register SMC HQ as Waqf property: Petition in HC||Surat: A petition has been filed in the Gujarat high court seeking registration of the Surat’s ancient monument Mughal Sarai, which currently houses the city civic body’s headquarters, as Waqf property.Abdul Vadood Jarullah (70), trustee of Humanyun Sarai mosque has approached the high court with a special leave application (SLP) which was admitted on Wednesday. Jarullah had stated in his petition that he first filed the application before Gujarat State Waqf Board for registering the Mughal Sarai as Waqf property under the provisions of section 36 and 41 of the Waqf Act. He had also submitted certified copies of deed of Waqf and other documents on April 10, 2015. It was after the Gujarat Waqf Board failed to register the property under Waqf Act, he represented it to the Central Waqf Council for intervention. Since 2016, the Central Waqf Council has directed the Gujarat Waqf Board on three occasions to register Mughal Sarai as Waqf property based on the valid evidence dating back to the 1644 AD, but the property was not registered. Jarullah moved the Waqf Tribunal in 2019, but the tribunal did not have supervisory jurisdiction over Gujarat State Waqf Board for issuing directions. According to Jarullah, the present day ancient structure housing SMC headquarters was built by Ishaqbeg Yazdi alias Hakikat Khan in the area known as Mulla Chakla in 1644 AD during the period of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan and was popularly known as ‘Mughal Sarai’. It was an inn for Surat’s Hajjis. Hakikat Khan had Waqf the property in the name of Allah. The detailed description of the sarai was inscribed on two marble plaques each 3.65m long which were placed at the entrance gateway of the Sarai till middle of 19th century. But later, these plaques were dumped in a room and left unattended. Thanks to the efforts of RD Banerjee, superintendent of Archaeological Survey of Western Circle, Pune, that these inscriptions were transferred to the Prince of Wales Museum in Mumbai in 1921, which was renamed as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya in 1998.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/register-smc-hq-as-waqf-property-petition-in-hc/articleshow/78434965.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: School cancels exams after it gets threatening email||AHMEDABAD: Midterm exams at a reputed school in Satellite were cancelled after someone emailed the school authorities a threat, saying if they conducted the exams, compromising pictures of girl students of the school would be published on social media. The school has cancelled the exams and told parents to be extra cautious. The school authorities have lodged a police complaint about the email. A school trustee confirmed that they had received such an email and have cancelled the exams. In the complaint, the school principal, stated that the school has 600 students, 64 teachers and six other staff members. The complaint says they are taking online classes through an application. On August 20, all students were sent their exam syllabus via their registered mobile numbers and the exam was to be held from September 14 to September 28, for Classes VIII to XII. At 1.48am on September 9, the school administration got an email in English telling them to cancel the midterm exam failing which ‘nude pictures’ of girl students of the school would be published on social media and the school’s reputation would be besmirched. According to sources, the principal informed the school management after which parents of the students were told about the email and told be careful. The exams have also been cancelled. The school administration also wrote a letter to the parents dealing with the exams and their cancellation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-cancels-exams-after-it-gets-threatening-email/articleshow/78436382.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Agra||Sanitation workers rise in protest, block roads, refuse to work||New Delhi: Holding brooms and banners, lakhs of people from the Valmiki community, who form the backbone of sanitation work in northern India, poured onto the streets of cities in UP, neighbouring Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and MP on Thursday to express their anger at the alleged gang-rape and murder of a teenager in Hathras. They were upset also that the brutalised girl was cremated, “in haste and without her family’s consent”. Valmiki leaders called it an insult to the entire community. Protests were reported from Jaipur, Bhopal and parts of Punjab too. There was sloganeering in Chandigarh as well and the Chandigarh-Ambala highway was blocked, affecting road traffic movement for hours. Cities and towns in western UP, including Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Moradabad, Mathura, Firozabad, Kasganj, Etah, Bareilly, Hapur and Saharanpur, witnessed large-scale protests. Garbage was piled up at major intersections as sanitation workers refused to work for the day. In eastern UP, sporadic protests were seen in places like Allahabad and Kanpur. The protesters demanded that the case be heard by a Supreme Court-monitored fast-track court after a CBI probe. Leaders of sanitation workers’ association also called for action against those police officers who “mishandled” the case. They plan to go to Hathras on Friday and stage a demonstration against district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar. A prominent Valmiki leader in Agra, Hari Babu Valmiki, said, “The entire community is feeling insulted and is angry. See how police and administration behaved with the family of the victim. She was not provided treatment on time. And later, they didn’t allow kin to perform the last rites. Her body was burnt in a field, in the night, in violation of Hindu rituals. Even criminals get more respect.” President of Uttar Pradeshiya Safai Kamgar Sangathan, Shyam Kumar Karunesh, said, “The Hathras DM has been threatening the victim’s family, asking them to give statements in favour of the district administration and the state government. Our fight will continue till the family gets justice.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had washed the feet of five sanitation workers during the Kumbh last year, ahead of the general elections. Dalit leaders from the BJP have said the anger could have political ramifications. Young men and women were seen raising slogans against the BJP and the state government headed by the party’s Yogi Adityanath. Monika Valmiki, a sanitation worker in Agra, said, “I voted for the BJP in both the state and Lok Sabha elections on the suggestion of my elders. I am deeply pained by the disgraceful behavior of the administration and police.” In Prayagraj, sanitation workers have decided to go on strike from October 2. “All 3,000 members of Allahabad Nagar Nigam Safai Majdoor Sangh will boycott work from Friday till our demands are met,” said Pradeep, president of the union of the sanitary staff. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania, Maria Khan, Ishita Bhatia & Rajiv Mani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sanitation-workers-rise-in-protest-block-roads-refuse-to-work/articleshow/78434907.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Cops cuff five, foil dacoity bid||Pune: The crime branch of the city police on Wednesday foiled a dacoity attempt at a petrol pump along Sinhagad Road with the arrest of five criminals on police records and seizure of two country-made pistols, three cartridges and an air gun, collectively worth Rs1 lakh, from them. A crime branch team led by inspector Sunil Takawale arrested the suspects — Mandar Darvatkar (24), Ameya Marne (25), Jayesh Bhuruk (22), Rahul Kamble (22) and Hritik Waghmare (21) from Vadgaon Budruk. Constable Sachin Jadhav received a tip-off that a gang of criminals was planning to rob cash from a petrol pump. The crime branch team laid a trap and took the suspects in custody. The suspects have cases of murder, attempted murder and illegal possession of weapons against them, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-cuff-five-foil-dacoity-bid/articleshow/78437624.cms||---
October 2, 2020||India||SC: Can’t cite pandemic to deny workers overtime||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that Covid-19 pandemic is no grave public emergency threatening security of the country to enable the governments to suspend provisions of Factories Act mandating employers from paying workers overtime at double the normal wage rate for increased daily work hours. To allow the factories and production houses to tide over the loss of revenue during the lockdown period, the Gujarat government had issued a notification allowing employers to increase working hours from 9 to 12 hours six days a week. However, it allowed the employers to pay normal wages for the extra three hours put by workers daily, instead of the statutory double the normal rate of wages for additional working hours. The notification issued was initially applicable from April 20 till July 19 and now extended to October 19. Times ViewEveryone has been financially hurt by the coronavirus. But the Gujarat government’s notification seems to ignore the fact that it’s not only factory owners, but workers too, who have been adversely affected by the outbreak. The truth is that both have lost. And what has been lost cannot be compensated by fleecing the other. The Supreme Court’s order is a welcome move.Hearing petitions by two trade unions challenging the validity of the notification, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph said, "The question before the Court in this petition is whether the COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown imposed by the Central Government to contain the spread of the pandemic, have created a public emergency as defined by the explanation to Section 5 of the Factories Act." Writing the 41-page judgment, Justice Chandrachud said, "we find that the economic slowdown created by the COVID-19 pandemic does not qualify as an internal disturbance threatening the security of the state. The pandemic has put a severe burden on existing, particularly public health, infrastructure and has led to a sharp decline in economic activities... However, it has not affected the security of India, or of a part of its territory in a manner that disturbs the peace and integrity of the country." The bench said no doubt the pandemic has disrupted the economic activities and posed danger to the health of citizens. But this cannot be an excuse for the state government to rob the workers of their right to statutory wages by equating the health emergency with a grave emergency threatening the security of the country. "It cannot be interpreted to provide a free reign for the State to eliminate provisions promoting dignity and equity in the workplace in the face of novel challenges to the state administration, unless they bear an immediate nexus to ensuring the security of the State against the gravest of threats," the bench said. "As a consequence of this judgment, and in the interest of doing complete justice under Article 142 of the Constitution, we direct that overtime wages shall be paid, in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of the Factories Act to all eligible workers who have been working since the issuance of the notifications," the court directed. The court said the notifications did not serve any purpose, apart from reducing the overhead costs of all factories in the State. It said had the factories manufacturing PPE, life-saving drugs or sanitizers been exempted from paying double the ordinary rate wages to workers for overtime, it would have been fathomable during the pandemic. "However, a blanket notification of exemption to all factories, irrespective of the manufactured product, while denying overtime to the workers, is indicative of the intention to capitalize on the pandemic to force an already worn-down class of society, into the chains of servitude," it said. The SC said workers suffered the most during the pandemic and the state government notification cannot be allowed to legitimise subjection of workers to onerous working conditions knowing fully well that they have feeble bargaining power when pitted against employers. "Clothed with exceptional powers under Section 5, the state cannot permit workers to be exploited in a manner that renders the hard-won protections of the Factories Act, 1948 illusory and the constitutional promise of social and economic democracy into papertigers. It is ironic that this result should ensue at a time when the state must ensure their welfare," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-cant-cite-pandemic-to-deny-workers-overtime/articleshow/78438765.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic staff want action against Hathras rapists||JAIPUR: Around 8,000 sanitation workers of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) staged a protest in memory of the Hathras gangrape victim outside the civic body headquarters at 1pm on Thursday. Sanyukt Valmiki Evam Safai Shramik Sangh, the association of sanitation workers, shouted slogans and demanded strict punishment against the accused. The protest ‘jhadu down, pen down’ signified no office work and no sanitation work for the day. Suresh Dabodiya, a member of the association said, “It was a preposterous act against a dalit woman. We want justice and a promise from the government that they will provide better future for our daughters. As an association we demanded strict action against the accused and if justice is not served as soon as possible, then next time our agitation will be larger than this.” The Panch Patels of the association including Nandkishore Dandoria, president of Sanyukt Valmiki Evam Safai Shramik Sangh, demanded the Yogi government in Uttar Pradesh and the Centre that the culprits should be punished. A memorandum was submitted to collector Antar Singh and a few members of the association are planning to meet chief minister Ashok Gehlot as well. In view of the protests, policemen were deployed at the corporation office. Valmiki Samaj also protested in Hindaun City of Karauli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-staff-want-action-against-hathras-rapists/articleshow/78434970.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||HC warns advocate general to remain present for hearing||Nagpur: Peeved over Maharashtra government’s failure to reply on its competency to fix rates for non-Covid patients in private hospitals, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has warned advocate general that it wouldn’t hear any excuse for skipping the hearing. “We fix this matter on October 6 at 10.30am and we wouldn’t hear any excuse from advocate general that he’s busy in some other court. If he’s not present, an alternate arrangement can be made or we can proceed to hear the matter in his absence,” said a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Pushpa Ganediwala. While continuing its interim stay on Clause 4 of May 21 notification that prescribes rates for non-Covid patients in private establishments, the bench flayed the state government for its failure to make a statement to transfer case to principal seat in Mumbai. Earlier, additional government pleader informed the bench that chief justice’s order regarding case transfer was still awaited. He submitted that if hearing is to continue in Nagpur bench, it could be heard by virtual mode on October 6, as the date is convenient to advocate general. The petition, filed by Dr Pradeep Arora, a paediatrician running a nursing home, and Vidarbha Hospital Association, challenged Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) notices to private hospitals over alleged over-charging of fees from Covid-19 and non-Covid patients in violation of May 21 notification. Questioning the legality of NMC’s move, the petitioners had termed it as gross abuse and misuse of power by civic officials. The petitioners, along with amicus curiae Subodh Dharmadhikari and Deven Chauhan, pointed out that the government is neither competent nor has authority to fix rates for non-Covid patients in private hospitals. The government argued that it was vested with powers under Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. According to the petitioners, the civic body’s notices were issued without any jurisdiction and would hinder medical services offered to patients, at a time when entire medical fraternity is battling the deadly virus while risking lives. “This is an unwarranted interference in running medical facility that leads to harassment,” they contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-warns-advocate-general-to-remain-present-for-hearing/articleshow/78436432.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 2, 2020||Mangaluru||MLA Kamath revives 9-month-old school zone project in unlock phase||Mangaluru: Mangaluru city south MLA D Vedavyas Kamath is all set to revive a nine-month-old idea to set up school zones in the city. While the initial timeline for implementation, when he mooted the idea in January, was May, the Covid pandemic pushed back the same to May 2021. The idea is borne from the fact that a lot of educational institutions dot major road junctions in the city and often end up as traffic choke points. To make motorists aware The concept of school zone, the MLA told TOI, is to make a motorist aware of presence of a school at least 50-100m in advance. This involves children who are oblivious to dangers that lurk on the road. Motorists tend to overlook the fact they are operating in the vicinity of educational institutions, and need to maintain certain decorum, he said. The concept that will be implemented on a pilot basis in four zones (see box) to start with, and entails having signage, markings and speed- breakers. I will moot the proposal for these works to the Mangaluru City Corporation for approval, for it will be implemented on their land, said the MLA. May cost Rs 50 lakh “I have approached corporates to fund the project which may cost around Rs 50 lakh under their corporate social responsibility initiative,” he said, adding that the response he has received has been positive.  “There is uncertainty about schools starting. So we will try to execute and complete this project by May 2021, before the next academic year starts,” he shared on his Facebook page. Traffic police committed to safety of kids: ACP M A Nataraj, assistant commissioner of police (traffic) said that the idea was not discussed at the recent coordination committee meeting involving the MCC, Mangaluru City Traffic Police (MCTP) and other stakeholders. “MCTP is committed to the safety of students at all costs, and will coordinate with the MLA in implementing the same,” he noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mla-kamath-revives-9-month-old-school-zone-project-in-unlock-phase/articleshow/78434933.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: IT professional held for robbery at doctor’s house||AHMEDABAD: City police late on Wednesday evening arrested a 27-year-old man from the Ellisbridge area for allegedly entering a nephrologist’s house in Thaltej on Monday and robbing his son of valuables worth Rs 52,000. The accused was identified as Nirav Patel, an MSc in information technology, who had lost his job due to the lockdown, police officers said, adding that he carried out the robbery to fund his lavish lifestyle. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said Patel, who had lived in New Zealand where he worked for an IT firm, had planned the robbery by watching crime web-series. “He had worn multiple layers of clothes — a jacket, jeans, a full-sleeved T-shirt, bermuda shorts and a half-sleeved T-shirt — when he set out to carry out the robbery. He first went to a mall in Thaltej on his motorcycle. He left it there and stole another motorcycle with a duplicate key. He removed his jacket and then went to Dr Prakash Darji’s house on the stolen motorcycle,” said Jadeja. Dr Prakash Darji said that the local cops had done a commendable job of apprehnding the robber within 36 hours of the crime. “The criminal had undertaken series of things to throw cops off the track but the cops could identify him from the way he sat on the motorbike and the time. Such quick action makes one feel safe in the law of the land,” said Dr Darji. Jadeja said that Patel had carried a door handle that was bent to look like a pistol before entering Somvilla Society in Thaltej. He told the cops he planned to use it to scare the victims of the robbery. “He picked Darji’s house randomly, as it was open. He carried out the robbery and then took off the full sleeved T-shirt, leaving himself wearing the half-sleeved T-shirt and jeans. He then went back to the mall, put back the stolen motorcycle. He then removed his jeans leaving himself wearing the bermuda shorts and half-sleeved T-shirt and rode his motorcycle home,” said Jadeja. While he had hoped the multiple layers of clothing would fool the police during their scrutiny of CCTV footage, he was identified on bits of footage based on his style of riding the motorcycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/it-professional-held-for-robbery-at-doctors-house/articleshow/78436679.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Jaipur||BSF launches anti-drug campaign in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: The BSF has launched a campaign to spread awareness among people about drug abuse here on the eve of 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Under the guidance of BSF IG Ayushmani Tiwari, many battalions in various border areas not only made people aware but also informed about the ill effects of using drugs. According to sources, an awareness rally and other programmes were organised in many areas of Jaisalmer. Under the leadership of 139th battalion second command officer Narendra Kumar Yadav, a rally was taken out from Ramgarh main market to Longewala Road. During the rally, officers, subordinate officers and jawans were carrying placards and banners with anti-drug slogans.161 BN BSF took out a motorcycle and cycle rally to make people aware to stay away from drugs where battalion commandant Surendra Kumar flagged off the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-launches-anti-drug-campaign/articleshow/78434985.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Surat||DCB to probe land fraud case with ‘links’ to Patel family||Surat: The Mulad land fraud case having alleged links with the family of deceased businessman Durlabh Patel’s family was transferred to Surat detection of crime branch (DCB) on Wednesday. The case involving forgery of documents to convert ownership of Rs 100 crore government reserve land into that of private ownership was being investigated by local crime branch (LCB) of Surat rural police. The orders for transfer of probe was issued buy Gujarat DGP Ashish Bhatia.The land fraud case was filed on September 11, four days after Patel committed suicide by jumping in a water-filled quarry in Khanjroli village in limits of Mandvi police station of Surat.Earlier on Tuesday, DGP Bhatia had ordered transfer of Patel’s abatement of suicide case to DCB. It was alleged that accelerated investigation in Mulad land case could benefit accused in the suicide abetement case. So far, seven out of 10 accused, including four cops, have been arrested. “The Mulad land case has been transferred to city police and it will be investigated by the crime branch,” said city police commissioner Ajay Tomar. The complaint into the alleged land fraud at Mulad was registered at Kim police station by Olpad mamlatdar Nagar Madhu Chauhan, who had named Abdul Latif Nabi Shaikh and Harish Patel as accused. After police arrested Latif, names of two other accused, Mohommadali Malek and a land broker Ismail Shaikh emerged during questioning. They too were arrested.Latif had allegedly forged papers related to 45 acre of reserved government land worth Rs 100 crore in Mulad with help of Malek and Ismail. Police also recovered a sale agreement pertaining to the land with name of deceased Patel’s sons and their wives as one of the parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dcb-to-probe-land-fraud-case-with-links-to-patel-family/articleshow/78434994.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 2, 2020||Nashik||Dhule sheds hotspot tag to post best recovery rate||Nashik: Dhule district in north Maharashtra has scripted a Covid-19 turnaround through concerted efforts from all authorities and supportive public participation. The district was a hotspot in the state in May but has now reported the best recovery rate and doubling rate in the state for the past two weeks. It has, so far, recorded 12,316 Covid-19 cases, of which, 727 patients are currently under treatment. The recovery rate has jumped from 78% on September 13 to 89% by September 27. Similarly, the doubling rate was 38 days on September 13 and it has gone up to 94 days on September 27. District novel coronavirus nodal officer Vishal Patil said the daily Covid-19 cases in hotspots like Shirpur and Dhule city have dipped considerably. “Earlier, we used to have around 250 positive cases from urban parts of Shirpur taluka. But now, there are hardly 100 per day,” he said. The district is conducting over 400 tests a day. He added that huge efforts put in by various departments under the guidance of district collector Sanjay Yadav have helped curb the spread of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-sheds-hotspot-tag-to-post-best-recovery-rate/articleshow/78433723.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Physical rallies OK with Covid norms, says CEC||PATNA: Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora categorically said on Thursday that apart from virtual campaigning, physical election rallies will also be allowed during Bihar assembly polls with appropriate Covid19-related restrictions. Talking to media persons on the concluding day of the EC team’s three-day visit to the state, the CEC said the poll panel received the list of halls and grounds, which has been earmarked by the district magistrates in each constituency for election rallies. “While the seating arrangements in halls with social distancing norms are already complete, the capacity of the grounds for election rallies will be finalized by the DMs concerned in a day or two and the list furnished to the EC. The panel will not make any changes in the list sent by the DMs through the office of the CEO, Bihar,” Arora clarified. He further said that he would visit one or two constituencies during his next visit to the state to oversee whether Covid19 norms were being followed strictly during campaigning. “But I will visit the constituencies secretly without mentioning the area,” he said. The CEC said detailed guidelines about roadshows and election campaigning by candidates would be issued by the CEO’s office separately. As per the guidelines, only five people, including the candidate, can carry out door-to-door campaigning in their respective constituencies. The number of vehicles has been restricted to five, but the Covid-19 guidelines have to be followed. At the time of submission of nominations, candidates may be accompanied by only two people and two vehicles. “Nominations have to be filed online also but printouts have to be submitted to the returning officers concerned,” he added. He said that social distancing norms have to be followed strictly both at the polling booths and during electioneering. “The commission is very serious about concerns expressed by political parties about the safety of electors at the polling booths,” the CEC said. The suggestions of political parties to reduce the number of voters to less than 1,000 at each polling booth were not feasible due to lack of enough polling personnel. “We have reduced the number of electors from 1,500 to 1,000 per booth. So suggestions of some political parties were not accepted. We have certainly taken some positive steps on the safety of voters on the recommendations of political parties,” he said. About the postal ballots, the CEC said the commission has decided to deploy BLOs and section magistrates to collect ballot papers of electors above 80 years of age and those with physical disabilities if they were unable to visit the polling booths. On Covid19 positive electors, Arora said they can cast their votes in the last hour of polling. Those in containment zones, who have not been detected corona positive, can exercise their franchise normally. However, those found with the virus have to wait for the last hour to cast their votes. Referring to the role of social media, the CEC said that the poll panel would not hesitate to initiate stringent action if social media posts were found to be instigating communal or caste violence during the polls. He said two special expenditure observers Madhu Mahajan and Bala Krishnan will be sent to Bihar to oversee the inflow of money during the polls. “If required, the commission may also send special police observers to oversee law and order issues.” He said the polling hours have been extended by an hour from 7 am to 6 pm. But it will not apply to constituencies hit by Left-wing extremism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/physical-rallies-ok-with-covid-norms-says-cec/articleshow/78440300.cms||Ramashankar
October 2, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Physical rallies OK with Covid norms, says CEC||PATNA: Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora categorically said on Thursday that apart from virtual campaigning, physical election rallies will also be allowed during Bihar assembly polls with appropriate Covid19-related restrictions. Talking to media persons on the concluding day of the EC team’s three-day visit to the state, the CEC said the poll panel received the list of halls and grounds, which has been earmarked by the district magistrates in each constituency for election rallies. “While the seating arrangements in halls with social distancing norms are already complete, the capacity of the grounds for election rallies will be finalized by the DMs concerned in a day or two and the list furnished to the EC. The panel will not make any changes in the list sent by the DMs through the office of the CEO, Bihar,” Arora clarified. He further said that he would visit one or two constituencies during his next visit to the state to oversee whether Covid19 norms were being followed strictly during campaigning. “But I will visit the constituencies secretly without mentioning the area,” he said. The CEC said detailed guidelines about roadshows and election campaigning by candidates would be issued by the CEO’s office separately. As per the guidelines, only five people, including the candidate, can carry out door-to-door campaigning in their respective constituencies. The number of vehicles has been restricted to five, but the Covid-19 guidelines have to be followed. At the time of submission of nominations, candidates may be accompanied by only two people and two vehicles. “Nominations have to be filed online also but printouts have to be submitted to the returning officers concerned,” he added. He said that social distancing norms have to be followed strictly both at the polling booths and during electioneering. “The commission is very serious about concerns expressed by political parties about the safety of electors at the polling booths,” the CEC said. The suggestions of political parties to reduce the number of voters to less than 1,000 at each polling booth were not feasible due to lack of enough polling personnel. “We have reduced the number of electors from 1,500 to 1,000 per booth. So suggestions of some political parties were not accepted. We have certainly taken some positive steps on the safety of voters on the recommendations of political parties,” he said. About the postal ballots, the CEC said the commission has decided to deploy BLOs and section magistrates to collect ballot papers of electors above 80 years of age and those with physical disabilities if they were unable to visit the polling booths. On Covid19 positive electors, Arora said they can cast their votes in the last hour of polling. Those in containment zones, who have not been detected corona positive, can exercise their franchise normally. However, those found with the virus have to wait for the last hour to cast their votes. Referring to the role of social media, the CEC said that the poll panel would not hesitate to initiate stringent action if social media posts were found to be instigating communal or caste violence during the polls. He said two special expenditure observers Madhu Mahajan and Bala Krishnan will be sent to Bihar to oversee the inflow of money during the polls. “If required, the commission may also send special police observers to oversee law and order issues.” He said the polling hours have been extended by an hour from 7 am to 6 pm. But it will not apply to constituencies hit by Left-wing extremism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/physical-rallies-ok-with-covid-norms-says-cec/articleshow/78436296.cms||Ramashankar
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||Farmer kills wife for beating their 10-yr-old daughter||Vadodara: A farmer in Desar taluka was detained on Thursday for murdering his wife as she was beating their daughter who suffers from learning difficulties.The accused Chandu alias Tolo Solanki and his wife Manjula (42) had an altercation at their home in Valavav village on September 29 evening. The couple had an argument as Manjula was beating their 10-year-old daughter, who is their only child. The girl suffers from learning difficulties, police said. Enraged by Manjula’s action and the heated arguments that followed, Chandu picked up a wooden log lying nearby and hit it on his wife’s head. On hearing commotion inside the couple’s house, the villagers rushed to their help. But it was too late by then as, Manjula had become unconscious and was lying on the ground. The villagers took her to the health centre in Desar and from there she was referred to a private hospital in Vadodara. Police said that Manjula succumbed during treatment .On Wednesday, Manjula’s father Ramesh Parmar, who lives in Anand, was informed about the crime and he gave a complaint against his son-in-law. Based on Parmar’s complaint, Desar police registered an offence against Chandu. “We have kept the accused under quarantine as his Covid-19 test report is awaited,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-kills-wife-for-beating-their-10-yr-old-daughter/articleshow/78434893.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||BJP leader Rajesh Kumar Jha shot dead in Patna||PATNA: Unidentified armed men shot dead a 45-year-old local BJP leader near Bypass Road in the state capital early on Thursday morning. The incident took place near Sitaram Utsav Hall in Beur around 6 am when Rajesh Kumar Jha alias Raju Baba was on his routine morning walk, said Beur police station SHO Phuldev Choudhary. “The killing took place hardly a kilometre away from his residence in Tej Pratap Nagar under Beur police station area,” the SHO added. Choudhary said Jha was a BJP worker and was a property dealer. The SHO denied having any information on Jha’s official position in BJP. However, Jha’s Facebook profile describes him as “vice-president of BJP’s ‘Jayant Mandal’ in Digha assembly constituency of Patna metropolitan area”. Several posters and videos of Jha are shared on the timeline. Giving details of the murder, the SHO said, “According to eyewitnesses, two men had approached him during morning walk near the hall. One of them was interacting with Jha while the second man standing next to him suddenly pulled out a pistol and shot him in the head from a very close range. No empty cartridges were recovered from the spot.” “It is not yet clear if both assailants were accompanying Jha after he left home for his morning walk or had intercepted him at the spot on the pretext of some conversation,” the SHO added. The SHO said none of the onlookers could tell the police which way the shooters fled after killing Jha and whether they were on a bike. “Police strongly suspects that the killing was a fallout of a dispute arising out of Jha’s property dealing business,” he said. “We are awaiting a written complaint or statement from the family to know if they suspect anyone and to register an FIR,” he said. Choudhary said the body was sent to the Patna Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem after which it would be handed over to the family. The incident comes even as the model code of conduct is in force in the state for the three-phase assembly polls starting October 28 for which the police are on high alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-leader-shot-dead-in-patna/articleshow/78436352.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 2, 2020||Mysuru||Bannur drowning incident: ‘Officials, contractors were negligent’||Mysuru: The Karnataka Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) has sought a detailed report into the tragic death of the children of labourers in Ballari. Rohit, Sanjay Kumar and Kaveri, aged 2 to 4 years, drowned in a pond in Ankanahalli, Bannur hobli, T Narasipur taluk on September 22 when their parents were at work in a sugarcane field. KSCPCR chairman Anthony Sebastin told TOI that the commission, following the tragedy, did a spot inspection and investigated the matter. “We have found lapses on the part of officials in ensuring safety measures when a large number of children are present at a place,” he said. The commission will issue direction to departments concerned to invoke specific provisions of law and bring those responsible for the death of children, the chairman added. KSCPCR member ML Parashuram explained that their investigation has revealed that the labourers were hired by a factory to harvest sugarcane crops. Nearly 900 workers had arrived from Ballari alone and were working in fields in Bannur hobli. “About 80 children, including 40 school-going kids below the age of 14 years, had also arrived with their parents, according to our assessment,” he added. The commission observed that the labourers— mostly from scheduled castes and tribes— were kept in an unhygienic condition and were living in tarpaulin sheds erected in revenue lands at five different locations. Electricity connection was given by laying live wires on the ground thus exposing children to danger, while potable water was not arranged for the families. “Officers of all departments concerned including CESC, education, revenue, police, panchayath raj and health have failed in their duties in protecting the interest of children. A meeting was held with officers concerned during the visit. A report has been sought from deputy tahsildar of Bannur region with regard to migration of labourers and those engaged in bringing and providing them work and shelter,” stated the member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bannur-drowning-incident-officials-contractors-were-negligent/articleshow/78434843.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 2, 2020||Nashik||Infection rate among youth drops to 38%||Nashik: The Covid infection rate among the youth in the 21-40 years age group, which was around 46% in August-end, has now dropped to 38% due to increased awareness. The high infection rate among the youths had become a major problem for the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). Even the district guardian minister had expressed concerns. Two months later, the infection rate among young people has dropped significantly. Now, 38 of every 100 positive cases are from this group. However, the infection rate in the 41-60 years age group has increased from 29.8% in August to about 36% now. NMC officials said earlier, young people were not taking the pandemic seriously. With more awareness, the situation has now changed. Also, the NMC and the police have been taking action against erring citizens for not wearing masks or failing to maintain social distancing. Mayor Satish Kulkarni has directed civic officials to conduct such drives at market places during peak hours. He has also asked for more awareness drives. Hoardings are to be put up at around 250 places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/infection-rate-among-youth-drops-to-38/articleshow/78433743.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Governor wants ACB probe into Jodhpur cop university hirings||JODHPUR: One of the three police universities in the country, Sardar Patel University of Police, Security and Criminal Justice in Jodhpur is in the news for the wrong reasons. Charges of financial corruption and favoritism in recruitment have constantly pushed the institute in the news rather than for its academic feats. After the removal of the then financial controller (FC) on charges of misappropriation, the governor has written to the ACB for initiating an inquiry into allegations of recruitment of the deputy registrar and controller of examinations. Both of these recruitments had taken place in 2013 by twisting the eligibility criteria for selection in an arbitrary manner. “Governor has written to the ACB for initiating an inquiry into the allegations,” a source from the governor office said. TOI has accessed the documents, pointing to these allegations, after the intervention of the governor in the matter. Sources said the governor had sought explanations from the university regarding these allegations, failing which the letter was written to the ACB. Documents suggest that the eligibility criteria for the post of controller of examinations had neither the qualifications nor he had the qualification to hold his previous position as associate professor. With masters in media management, he had obtained his PhD from Jodhpur National University, which was shut for distributing 25,003 fake degrees, which are under scrutiny. Similarly, eligibility criteria of deputy registrar were also interpreted arbitrarily to recruit her for the post with previous position of HR manager in a private college. Interestingly, her job and PhD progressed simultaneously. Former minister Nathu Singh Gurjar had also written to then CM Vasundhara Raje in February 2014 questioning the entire recruitment process and its timing. Interestingly, based on the similar allegations by an RTI activist, an inquiry was conducted by the deputy registrar herself in the capacity of the registrar before she completed two years of probation giving clean-chit. With no permanent VC since 2015, the university has been run arbitrarily for last five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/guv-wants-acb-probe-into-jodhpur-cop-varsity-hirings/articleshow/78434999.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Constable held for raping, blackmailing woman for 3 years||Nagpur: Constable Vikramsingh Banafar, 30, posted at city police headquarters, was arrested by Beltarodi police on Wednesday for allegedly raping a 33-year-old divorcee for around three years by blackmailing her. Police have also slapped charges under the Atrocities Act against him. The complainant woman alleged Banafar had allegedly filmed her in compromising position after spiking her food with some drugs in 2017. The cop later started using the clip to force her repeatedly to have sex with him, she claimed. The constable, then working with a private firm, was introduced to the woman in 2016. The woman, a divorcee with a 13-year-old child, used to stay alone. Her child stayed with her estranged husband. Banafar, who got recruited in police department in 2016, lured the woman to his friend’s place at Manish Nagar in 2017 where he for the first time forced himself upon her after spiking her food. After waking up, Banafar showed her the video clip of their physical relationship, she stated. She alleged Banafar used to force her to have physical relations with him threatening her with making the clip viral if she refused. Banafar got married to another woman around six months ago. After his marriage, Banafar used to still force the woman to have relations with him and torture her if she refused. Senior inspector Vijay Akot of Beltarodi police station said Banafar had forced himself upon her on September 22 during which he assaulted her too. “The constable started harassing her even more than earlier after his marriage including assault which prompted her to approach police,” said Akot. He said the constable had been remanded to police custody till October 3 by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/constable-held-for-raping-blackmailing-woman-for-3-years/articleshow/78436488.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 2, 2020||Ajmer||Three women sell fake gold coins in Beawar, arrested||AJMER: Police in the district’s Beawar town on Thursdsay arrested three women for selling fake gold coins claiming that those were given by some kings to their ancestors years ago. The women from Rajkot in Gujarat said lost everything due to the pandemic and were compelled to sell off their ‘treasure’ to survive. The three were identified as Lata (42), Usha (50) and Rinku (25) — all residents of Tharola village in Rajkot. According to police, Shyam Soni, a resident of Madhopuria colony of Beawar, lodged a complaint claiming about the three women selling fake gold coins. He bought one for Rs 5,000 and they were ready to make a deal of 847 gold coins worth Rs 30 lakh in just Rs 10 lakh. The women allegedly cooked up a fake story and said their ancestors worked for royal families and they got these coins for serving the kings. Now, during Covid, they lost everything and were left only with this ‘treasure’ of gold coins. They wanted money to survive and therefore were selling the coins at a low price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/three-women-sell-fake-gold-coins-in-beawar-arrested/articleshow/78434980.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nashik||Cidco divn reports highest number of cases in 12 days||Nashik: The Cidco division of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) remains a major Covid-19 hotspot in the city as the number of new cases is still increasing drastically in the division.Even though the Panchavti division has the highest number of Covid patients, Cidco division has reported the maximum number of cases in the past 12 days among all the six divisions.Cidco division has reported 3,156 of the total 12,878 cases across the six divisions in the past 12 days, followed by Pancahvati division with 2,986 cases and Nashik Road with 2,427 positive cases.NMC officials said Cidco division is the most populated division among the rest. It includes 1.05 lakh of the total 4.40 lakh houses across the six divisions and has 4.25 lakh of the total 19 lakh population of the city.A section of residents are not maintaining the safety protocols in Cidco division with many people not wearing masks nor maintaining social distancing in the division, said NMC officials.“Moreover, the Cidco division also houses industrial estate and industrial workers resident in the division at large. This overall has led to the rise in Covid patients in the division,” said NMC officials.Pawan Nagar, Old Cidco and Pathardi Phata area have emerged as the major hotspots in Cidco division. The Old Cidco hotspot includes Rana Pratap Chowk, Shivaji Chowk and Lekha Nagar areas.NMC officials said they have increased tracing and testing of suspected patients of Covid-19 for early detection to provide immediate treatment.The officials said, “Our objective is to break the chain of coronavirus in the city. Hence, we have also increased the rapid antigen testing in the division for early detection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cidco-divn-reports-highest-number-of-cases-in-12-days/articleshow/78433758.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 2, 2020||Surat||Seven-year-old girl raped by her father||Surat: Police arrested a 37-year-old embroidery unit worker for allegedly raping his seven-year-old daughter in Varachha on Thursday. The girl’s mother had caught the accused in the act on Sunday, but she could gathered courage to lodge a complaint only after her brother and father came from Maharashtra.The accused had allegedly raped his daughter when she was alone on the terrace of their rented accommodation in Varachha. “The girl’s mother did not report the crime fearing assault by her husband. She informed her father and brother about the incident. It was only after they arrived, she contacted the police,” said a police officer at Varachha police station. The girl was sent for medical examination on Thursday.During investigation police found that the mother of the accused and his wife are sisters. The survivor is the only child of the couple. Police said that the accused has maintained that he did not do anything. Investigation further revealed that the accused used to watch pornographic material on his mobile phone and used to show it to the survivor too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-year-old-girl-raped-by-her-father/articleshow/78435016.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolhapur||309 new patients in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district added 309 new Covid-19 patients to its overall tally on Thursday along with 13 fatalities. As many as 76 new cases and two deaths were recorded in the city alone. According to the official data, in Kolhapur city, an 80-year-old man from Kasba Bawda and an 85-year-old man from Devkar Panand succumbed to the infection. Four of the deaths were in the Shirol taluka. The rural parts of the district added 209 new cases while the urban areas recorded 63 new patients. Karveer and Hatkanangale added 43 and 24 new cases, respectively. Gaganbawda did not record a single patient on Thursday. Ajra, Chandgad, Kagal, Radhanagari and Shahuwadi tehsils did not cross the double-digit mark. So far, the Kolhapur district has had 44,743 positive cases, and 34,529 patients have been discharged. Currently, there are 8,760 active cases. The district had recorded 1,454 deaths till Thursday night. The city’s tally stands at 13, 561 cases with 335 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/309-new-patients-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/78433770.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nashik||1,108 new cases in Nashik district||Nashik: The district reported 1,108 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 647 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 76,984. A total of 21 patients have succumbed to Covid-19 in the district, including four in the city. The death toll stands at 1,391 in the district, including 742 in the city. Meanwhile, 801 patients were discharged from across the district on Thursday, of which 547 are from Nashik city. The district has 8,401 active cases, of which 3,604 are in the city.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1108-new-cases-in-nashik-district/articleshow/78433777.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC stays single bench order on fees, next hearing on October 5||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Thursday stayed till October 9 the single bench order asking parents to pay 70% of tuition fees in three instalments for the academic year 2020-21 while posting the matter for hearing on October 5 along with other petitions. The division bench of chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty gave the interim stay on an appeal by Sunil Samdaria challenging the single bench order. The single bench in an interim order on September 7 directed parents to pay 70% of tuition fee in three instalments for 2020-21 till a final decision was taken. The court direction came following a petition by several private school organisations including Catholic Education Society challenging the government order on April 9 directing deferment of fees for three months which was extended up till re-opening of schools in July. The appeal petition said the single bench order had allowed the writ petition in part at the interim stage, directing the institutions to demand 70% of tuition fees from parents during the period for which schools had remained closed or for the period schools would remain close, thus imparting no effective education to children except through online medium. He said the order had been passed without granting any effective opportunity of audience to the affected parties. Meanwhile another petition has been filed in the court by Shashank Agarwal and others seeking directions to the state government to include pre-primary education in the purview of Rajasthan School (Regulation of Fees) Act, 2016. The other pleas in the petition include direction to the state government to constitute a committee to review the existing online education system, financial aid to budget private schools and ensuring compliance to RTE Act, 2005, in terms of online classes, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-single-bench-order-on-fees-next-hearing-on-oct-5/articleshow/78435009.cms||Joychen Joseph
October 2, 2020||Jaipur||Why reservation is not rotated in municipalities,asks high court||Jaipur: The high court on Thursday issued show cause notices to chief secretary, principal secretary LSG and state election commission on a writ petition challenging the procedure adopted by the state government for reserving seats of chairman/mayor in 193 municipalities of the state alleging that in the last 40 years the said reservation has been provided only in a few selected areas of state where the population of SC and ST is higher, while others still await their turn.The petition filed by Yogendra Kumar and Kamal Rathore, ex-chairman, Baran nagar palika, through their advocate Abhinav Sharma argued that due to the wrong procedure adopted by the state, about 67 seats of the municipalities have been reserved in perpetuity for SC and ST only.Challenging the constitutional validity of the Rajasthan Municipalities Act and Election Rules, it has been argued that SC and ST of all the 193 municipalities must get equal opportunity of reservation and the rules provides for rotation of reservation in the descending order of SC/ST population, however, no such reservation has been provided in state. It has been stated in the petition analysing the municipal acts of various states that as per Article 243T of the Constitution of India the reservation of SC and ST must reach every municipality with post of mayor/chairman reserved at least once. The state of Rajasthan framed a procedure in November 1999, but failed to implement the same resulting into perpetual reservation in only a few seats and areas depriving other constituencies the benefit for the downtrodden section of society. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/why-reservation-is-not-rotated-in-municipalitiesasks-high-court/articleshow/78435025.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolhapur||411 new cases take Solapur rural’s Covid count to 25,413||Kolhapur: The total number of Covid-19 cases reported from Solapur rural in the month of September have surpassed those that have been registered in first five months of the pandemic. According to official data, Solapur rural has reported 11,521 patients by August end. However, the number rose by 13,503 in September. By September 30, Solapur rural had a total of 25,024 positive cases. While the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the district are rising by the day, rural parts have also been recording increasing number of deaths. Solpaur rural had recorded 330 deaths till August end, but it added 349 deaths in September. By September 30, the death toll of Solapur rural stood at 679. Authorities of the district administration said that Akkalkot and South Solapur talukas, which witnessed a rise in the number of patients initially, have shown some recovery, but Pandharrpur and Barshi talukas continue to report new cases. Malshiras has emerged as a new Covid-19 hotspot in the district. Pandharpur taluka has 4,928 positive cases and has reported 119 deaths. Barshi tehsil 4710 positive patients and has registered 150 deaths. Malshiras, currently has 4173 positive cases and has seen 82 deaths. Solapur rural on Thursday registered 411 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of positive cases to 25,413. The region also reported nine Covid-related deaths on Thursday. District administration officials said that five of nine deceased were senior citizens. Malshiras and Sangola talukas reported three and two deaths respectively. Meanwhile, Solapur city identified 54 patients on Thursday, taking the total of confirmed patients to 8,159, of which, 910 are currently active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/411-new-cases-take-solapur-rurals-covid-count-to-25413/articleshow/78433792.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district reports 512 new cases||KOLHAPUR: Satara district recorded 512 fresh Covid-19 cases and 20 patients succumbed to the infection since Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 37,812. The death has risen to 1,160. A total of 27,458 patients have recovered from the contagion while 9,194 cases are active. Satara and Karad tehsil registered 108 and 84 new cases, respectively. Of the 108 cases, Satara town recorded 71 patients. Karad town reported 16 cases out of the 84 cases. Of the other fresh cases, Phaltan tehsil added 47 patients, Koregaon reported 43 cases, Wai recorded 59 cases, Patan tehsil recorded 20 cases, Mahabaleshwar added 19 cases among others. Of the deceased, which includes four women, 17 are elderly. Satara tehsil and Karad tehsil reported seven and four deaths respectively while Wai and Jawli tehsil recorded two deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-512-new-cases/articleshow/78433804.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Surat||Surat teacher donates plasma thrice to Covid patients||SURAT: A 51-year-old school teacher donated his plasma thrice in last three months to help in recovery of Covid-19 patients. Shridhar Contractor is a regular blood donor and has donated blood over 25 times. Moreover, he has also donated Single Donor Platelets 150 times as well. “I had donated blood for the first time in 2001 when I was a college student. In 2005, my father had a cardiac arrest and he needed eight units of blood. At that time we had to struggle to get blood for his treatment. This struggle motivated me to become a blood donor and help patients so that do not suffer like I did,” said Contractor. “Single Donor Platelets are required for treatment of blood cancer and dengue and I have been donating it regularly,” he added. “I got infected with the virus in July. When I was under treatment, I had decided to donate my plasma to help other infected patients,” said Contractor who had donated plasma for the first time in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-teacher-donates-plasma-thrice-to-covid-patients/articleshow/78435049.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nashik||Best before date rule for milk-based sweets||Nashik: Ahead of the festive season, the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has made it mandatory for sweet manufacturers and sellers to display the “best before date” on all dairy-based sweets sold in loose by them. Chandrashekhar Salunke, the Nashik division joint commissioner of FDA (food), conducted a meeting of sweet manufacturers/sellers and office bearers of the sweet sellers’ association and informed them about the state government directive. Speaking to TOI, Salunke said, “There is a provision of imposing fine of up to Rs 2 lakh on sweet sellers not adhering to government guidelines. The order in this regard comes into effect from October 1,” he added. The officials said they would start checking sweet marts soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/best-before-date-rule-for-milk-based-sweets/articleshow/78433826.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolhapur||40% of total Covid cases reported in September||Kolhapur: Even though Kolhapur district has registered a decline in identifying new Covid-19 patients for the past two weeks, around 40 % of the total positive cases were reported in the last month. The number of deaths reported in September has also increased sharply. According to the official data, Kolhapur district recorded as many as 18,820 positive cases in September. On September 1, the number of cases was 25,614 while on the last day of the month it increased to 44,434. The district crossed the four-digit mark on four occasions last month and on September 9, it registered 1,314 cases — highest single day tally. Also, of the total cases, Kolhapur city added 5,634 in one month. On September 1, the city had 8,211 cases, but by the end of the month the cases increased to 13,845. Hatkanangale and Karveer tehsils have also been showing rise in recording new cases, a trend which was observed since beginning. Karveer had 5,141 cases on September 30 while it had recorded 2,763 cases on the first day of September. Similarly, Hatkanangale added 1,825 cases in one month. The tehsil had 2,988 patients on September 1, but on the last day of the month the cases went up to 4,813. As per official data, 676 out of 1461 took place in the month of September. On September 1, the district had registered 785 deaths and the number rose up to 1,461 by the end of month. Kolhapur city alone saw 123 deaths in the last one month — from 210 to 333. Other urban areas, governed by the municipal councils witnessed 78 deaths. It had 235 deaths on September 1, that increased to 313 by the end of the month. At 85, Hatkanangale tehsil reported highest number of deaths in rural areas followed by Karveer (71). The number of deaths in rural areas increased by 386 in a month. Rural Kolhapur had reported 694 deaths by the end of September while the number at the beginning of the month was 308. According to official data, as many as 17,640 patients got cured and discharged from hospitals across Kolhapur in September. Despite sharp increase in September, the number of active cases remained stable in the district. The district had 8,929 active patients on September 30 from 8,405 on the first day of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/40-of-total-covid-cases-reported-in-september/articleshow/78433812.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nashik||Goods worth Rs 8.4L stolen||Nashik: In two incidents of burglaries reported in Nashik city, goods worth Rs 8.4 lakh were stolen collectively. In the first incident, stock of goods including 1,200 units of fuses, switches, earthing sets and others worth Rs 7.30 lakh, and cables and equipment valued at Rs 41,000 were stolen from the godown of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) in Ambad between August 30 to September 30. An employee of the MSEDCL lodged the complaint. In a house break-in incident, cash, gold and silver ornament worth Rs 70,900 were stolen between 6 pm on Monday and 7 am on Wednesday. The house is located in Hanuman Nagar in Panchavati.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/goods-worth-rs-8-4l-stolen/articleshow/78433843.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Meerut||Raped & continuously harassed, girl, 17, consumes poison in UP’s Baghpat||MEERUT: Raped and continuously harassed, a 17-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district attempted to kill herself by consuming some poisonous substance on September 27. An FIR under relevant sections of rape and the POCSO Act was registered at Baghpat Kotwali on September 29 when family approached the local police. The accused in the case -- also a minor -- has been arrested, police said. In a complaint to police on Wednesday, the father of the rape survivor alleged that her daughter was raped by a youth from the village and consumed poison over alleged harassment by her tormentor who has been threatening her. According to police, an FIR based on the complaint was registered and the accused, also a minor, has been arrested. “We received a complaint on September 29 where the father of the survivor alleged her daughter consumed poison after she was raped by a youth from the same village. Soon after, an FIR was registered and the accused was arrested,” Abhishek Singh, superintendent of police (Baghpat), said. “The victim is completely stable. Her medical examination is being conducted following which she will be produced in court where her statement will be recorded,” Baghpat SP said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/raped-continuously-harassed-girl-17-consumes-poison-in-ups-baghpat/articleshow/78435064.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Reverse swings on bypoll pitch||BHOPAL: Ahead of the assembly polls in 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh, it is noteworthy to mention that in the 2018 elections, the difference between Congress and BJP was just five seats. Technically, Kamal Nath was ahead because Congress got 114 seats as opposed to BJP’s 109 in a House of 230. But BJP led by Shivraj Singh Chouhan received more votes at 41.02% while the Congress received 40.89%. So, unlike the assembly election results in neighbouring Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, it cannot be said that the mandate was totally against BJP and Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The upcoming bypolls of November 3 will decide if the broken mandate situation will continue or a clear-cut mandate will come in favour of a chief minister and his government. The main advantage for BJP was voiced by women and child development minister and party’s likely candidate from Dabra seat, Imarti Devi. In a video that went viral and courted controversy, she said, “BJP has to win only nine seats to form the government, they (Congress) have to win all.” In the people’s court, the campaign will be focused around betrayal and turncoats. The toppling of an elected government by betrayal of one faction. And then will arise the question: Whose candidate is the real `dal-badlu’? In 25 of the 28 assembly seats, old rebels of the Congress party will fight on BJP tickets. These were the former rebel Congress MLAs who proved their loyalties to the ‘maharaja’ and brought down the Nath government. ‘Mool karikartas’ (original workers) of BJP are not going to get tickets in these seats and most are still groping in the dark about their own future after the entry of Jyotiraditya Scindia and his supporters. Congress is prepared to take on each of the 25 rival party candidates in their constituencies with ‘dal-badlu’ and betrayer allegations. However, at least a quarter of Congress’ candidates are also dal-badlus like Kanhaiyalal Agarwal (former minister in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government), Satish Sikharwar (BJP’s 2018 candidate from East Gwalior seat), Parul Sahu (former BJP MLA from Surkhi), Ajab Kushwaha (BJP’s 2018 candidate from Sumawali) or Phool Singh Baraiyya (former BSP MLA). In seats like Surkhi where it is a contest between Govind Singh Rajput and Parul Sahu, the people will have to choose between one ‘dal-badlu’ against another. The party that can build a perception that its candidate is a victim of circumstances while the candidate on the other side is the real turncoat, will get advantage. Is Govind Singh Rajput the offender turncoat or is he the victim? Is Parul Sahu the offender or the victim? This will also be the election where people will decide between 15-months of Nath government versus the 15 years of Chouhan regime. The differentiation for choice of who should lead the state was very slim in 2018, both by number of seats and votes. The voter will now reflect on the working of Nath versus Chouhan. The contest will be between the implementation of Fasal Rinn Maafi Yojana and PM/CM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. Most importantly, the bypolls will decide the acceptance of Rajya Sabha MP Scindia both within the BJP organisation and the people. The mandate will decide if voters, especially in the 16 seats in Gwalior-Chambal region, still stand with him after toppling of the Congress government or if they hold him responsible for it. And in his political career of 40 years, this will be former chief minister Nath’s toughest electoral battle. Congress’ only magic wand for 2020 bypolls is the face of Nath. Can he wrest 22 seats in the bypolls for Congress to return to power in Bhopal?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/defectors-hold-the-key-to-bypolls/articleshow/78436578.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||MSU student elected prez of Ivorian students’ body||Vadodara: A student of MS University’s economics department was elected as the president of the Ivorian Students’ Association of Gujarat. Kassiama Sibiri, a third-year student of Bachelor of Arts Course, is a native of Ivory Coast will be the official interlocutor and spokesperson for all Ivorian students living in Gujarat for the academic year 2020-21. A letter by the Embassy of Ivory Coast stated that Sibiri will be assisting all Ivorian students who may be facing difficulties or any other issue in Gujarat. Sibiri was elected following the general assembly of the association which was held on August 23. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-student-elected-prez-of-ivorian-students-body/articleshow/78435089.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Surat||Brain-dead Surat woman saves seven lives||Surat: In dying, 41-year-old brain-dead woman donates life to seven people with her heart, lungs, liver, two kidneys and two eyes.It was not the end of her story after Ilaben Patel, a resident of Kosad village of Surat, suddenly fell unconscious and collapsed at her home at around 9 pm on September 27. Rushed to to Venus Hospital in Surat, doctors found her to have suffered a brain-hemorrhage. Two days later, however, they declared her to be brain-dead on September 29. But Illaben graduated to live seven different lives with the supreme donation of her organs. “After the grief-stricken family members of Ilaben contacted us, we met her sons Tanvir and Aaryan and explained the process and with their consent informed the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) convener Dr Pranjal Modi at the Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC), Ahmedabad,” said Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life. an NGO engaged in cadaver donation in the city, told TOI. “We accepted the cruel destiny of our mother’s untimely demise. We knew that she would not recover from that stage and so decided to pay tribute to her by donating her organs and saving seven others’ precious lives,” said son, Tanvir Patel, a farmer. "Ilaben’s heart was transplanted into a 15-year-girl from Delhi at Chennai’s MGM Hospital while her lungs were transplanted into 61-year-old Mumbai-based woman at Chennai’s Apollo hospital,” Mandlewala said, adding that the organs were airlifted to Chennai in 180 minutes. Earlier, a special green corridor was created from Venus Hospital to Surat Airport to help the organs reach the airport swiftly. A team of IKDRC harvested the two kidneys and liver which too were transported via special green corridor to Ahmedabad. “Police of seven districts and cities including Surat city, Surat Rural, Bharuch, Vadodara Rural, Anand, Ahmedabad rural and Ahmedabad city to facilitate the organs cover 261 km in three hours only. One kidney was transplanted into 18-year-old youth from Surat while the other was transplanted in an 18-year-old girl from Anand. Her liver was transplanted into a 54-year-old man from Surat at IKDRC,” Mandlewala said. The eyes have been donated to Surat-based Lok Drishti Bank. "Till now, 35 hearts have been donated from Gujarat, of which 28 have been donated from Surat and South Gujarat region alone. Till now, 766 people have got fresh lease of life with organ transplantations through Donate Life,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/brain-dead-surat-woman-saves-seven-lives/articleshow/78435080.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 pushes March deadline ofautomated driving tests in Meerut||Meerut: The deadline of the enthusiastic plan of automated driving tests in Meerut - on the lines of Delhi – has been pushed from March 2020 to November 2020 now.Meerut was supposed to get “smart tracks”, also called automated tracks, by March this year on which licence seekers’ driving skills will be put on test. However, the Covid-19 outbreak and a pause on all construction activities along with the closure of offices have pushed the deadline to November.The new tracks to test the driving skills will be in the shape of "8" and cameras will record and feed every move to computers, which will then take a call if the driver is worthy of getting a licence to drive on road, or not. The system is expected to weed out touts and curb corruption.“The automated driving track was supposed to get completed and handed over to us by March 2020. However, due to Covid-19 the deadline has been further pushed to November 2020. The entire project will be handed over to us soon and will be opened for the masses,” Vijay Kumar, Meerut's regional transport officer, said.The project was launched in 2015 with a target budget of Rs 4.46 crore. Initially, plans were on to construct it on the RTO premises itself. But, later, a land at Industrial Training Institute in Meerut was finalised.Earlier, the plan got delayed due to the pending instalment of Rs 54 lakh which was supposed to be released by the state government.As of now, the driving skills of licence seekers are tested first through a road safety norms test on computers and then by checking their driving skills on a limited patch of land at the RTO office and around it. Questions are often raised on the transparency of these tests and allegations are made about bribes being taken to get a green signal in these tests.Once the computerised driving track, in the shape of the number 8, is in place, human intervention is likely to come down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-pushes-march-deadline-ofautomated-driving-tests-in-meerut/articleshow/78435094.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 2, 2020||Nashik||4 booked for cheating 24 people of Rs 2.5L||Nashik: About 24 people, mostly shopkeepers, were alleged duped by four people claiming to be running firms ‘Planet Technologies Pvt Ltd’ and ‘Kuber Shakti Multipurpose India Nidhi Investments’ promising quick loans for their investments with the financial institutions. According to Sarkarwada police where a case of cheating has been registered, the suspects opened up two firms where ‘Planet’ would conduct marketing for a loan scheme promising Rs 1 lakh loan on payment of Rs 10,000 and Rs 2 lakh loan on payment of Rs 21,000 from ‘Nidhi’ investments. The firms were housed in a building opposite to the Rajeev Gandhi Bhawan in the city. Police said that the victims were asked to deposit Rs 500 to Rs 900 daily with the firm to improve their CIBIL score so as to qualify for loan on the 31st day. However, the said firms failed to give any loan money to the victims as promised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-booked-for-cheating-24-people-of-rs-2-5l/articleshow/78433859.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Low-key celebrations for Gandhi Jayanthi in Madurai due to Covid||Madurai: Gandhi Jayanthi celebrations at the Gandhi Museum here will be a low-key affair as it lacked the usual grandeur without the decoration and lighting. The building which was previously the summer palace of Rani Mangammal who had ruled Madurai, is decorated and spruced up with colourful lights from its dome to the beautiful garden for the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. As people come in large numbers to pay their respects to the father of the nation, the Mahatma’s statue is given a thorough cleaning.This is the first Gandhi museum to be set up in India in 1959 and was inaugurated by late Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on April 15 the same year. It has many interesting show pieces from Gandhi’s belongings and also the blood stained cloth that he was wearing when he was assassinated.Gandhi Museum director K R Nanda Rao said that they had decided to settle for some focus lamps this year as public entry would be restricted on October 2. Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay will garland the statue and distribute prizes to students who won them in competitions held by the museums a few months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/low-key-celebrations-for-gandhi-jayanthi-in-madurai-due-to-covid/articleshow/78437721.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Bhopal||Deepak Joshi & 200 supporters at Madhya Pradesh CM door for ‘honour’||BHOPAL: In a major show of strength ahead of bypolls, former BJP minister Deepak Joshi on Thursday reached CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan's official residence along with 200 supporters to stake claim for the ticket from Hatpipliya assembly constituency in Dewas district, where from the party has unofficially announced Manoj Chaudhary as a candidate. Joshi, a three-term MLA and former minister in Chouhan government is a strong contender from Hatpipliya assembly seat which is also the home turf and a stronghold of his father and former CM, late Kailash Joshi. In the 2018 assembly elections, he had lost to Congress’ Manoj Chaudhary by a margin of over 13,500 votes. Chaudhary later quit the Congress and resigned from the seat to follow his mentor Jyotiraditya Scindia's footsteps to join BJP. The ‘sacrifice’ made by 22 Scindia loyalists helped BJP retain power in Madhya Pradesh with Chouhan back at the helm of the affairs. BJP has promised tickets to all Scindia loyalists including Chaudhary, which Joshi has objected to, citing resentment among his supporters. The BJP leader had earlier called on party's national president JP Nadda and Minister of Home Affairs (MHA) Amit Shah to voice the resentment of supporters who want him (Deepak) to contest from Hatpipliya. But, the BJP refused to field Joshi, replacing Chaudhary. "There is no resentment. I have come to meet chief minister Chouhan with the party workers of Bagli and Hatpipliya to discuss issues related to the grassroot level workers. We want to restore the honour of the party workers who are committed to the BJP and want a respectable treatment. We also want to remove the differences between newcomers and the old workers," Joshi told TOI after the meeting. He however, denied that it was a show of strength to get a party ticket for the upcoming bypoll. "It was true that I was in touch with the Congress, but we are not going anywhere. We have nurtured the BJP from generations and would continue to support the party at any cost. We want that party workers should not feel alienated and dejected in the BJP stronghold. CM wanted to meet the workers hence we planned the meeting. I am also ready to support Manoj Chaudhary," he clarified. A BJP worker said, "We have requested the chief minister that the honour of Deepak ji and BJP workers of the district be retained and Deepak ji should be assigned an important position in the party or the government. After outsiders joined the party, the old loyalists feel sidelined.” BJP, however, said that it was a casual meeting. "Deepak ji is a senior leader with a political lineage. He can talk to the chief minister on issues related to the party and its workers. During discussions he never uttered a single word against the party. The reports of resentment are baseless," said BJP state spokesperson, Rajneesh Agrawal. Congress reacted to Joshi's show of strength with a pinch of salt and said that Joshi and his loyal BJP supporters are feeling dejected after outsiders joined the party and sidelined them. "Joshi has taken the right step to spell out his vows. The BJP loyalists were sidelined in their stronghold after some outsiders who betrayed the Congress, joined the saffron party. BJP will have to retain the honour of its loyal workers against the turncoats," said former Congress minister Govind Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/deepak-joshi-lands-at-cm-house-for-ticket/articleshow/78436622.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nashik||NMC places additional demand of water for city for July-October reservation period||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has demanded 300 mcft more water from the water resources department (WRD) due to the increasing demand in view of the rising population in the city. The WRD allocates water to civic bodies and other agencies like Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) for water reservation period between July 15 and October 15. The allocation is made from October 15 to July 31 next year. Some of the major sources of water for Nashik city are Gangapur dam complex, Mukane and Darna dams. Gangapur dam complex includes three dams — Gangapur Kashyapi and Gautami. The Gangapur dam caters to 90% of the water requirement of the city while the remaining 20% of the supply comes from Mukane and Darna dams. This year, the NMC has demanded 5,500 mcft water from the WRD as against 5,200 mcft capacity in three dams. This includes 3,800 mcft of water in Gangapur dam, 1,300 mcft in Mukane and 400 mcft in Darna dam. Presently, NMC is supplying 510 MLD of water, including 382 MLD from Gangapur dam complex and the rest from Mukane dam. There has been a by 10 MLD per day rise in the city during the last six months due to Covid-19. Presently, the population of Nashik city is estimated at 19 lakh. Besides, the floating population of the city is estimated at 5 lakh annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-places-additional-demand-of-water-for-city-for-july-october-reservation-period/articleshow/78433864.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 2, 2020||Meerut||Budding wrestler shot dead in UP's Baghpat||Meerut: Crime-prone Baghpat once again reverberated with the sounds of gunshots that claimed the life of a promising 19-year-old state-level wrestler who died on the spot while his friend is in a critical condition. In the past three weeks, more than two dozen police encounters have taken place in the district with the arrest of at least 26 criminals.The latest incident occurred in Lohari village of Baghpat, late on Wednesday. According to police, the killing of Akash Singh, who had participated in various competitions in the state, was the result of a failed compromise attempt between local youths who were at loggerheads over possibly "practice sessions".The slain wrestler worked as a cane weighing clerk at Malakpur sugar mill while his friend, who has been referred to a Meerut-based hospital, has been identified as Bharat Singh, 22. Akash received two bullets in his chest and Bharat was shot in the shoulder.Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh said, "Four youngsters have been named in the FIR. They are Atul, Akshay, Vishal and Sumit. According to the family, Akash was called out on Wednesday night. Preliminary probe has revealed there was some ongoing dispute between the accused and these youths. It was during compromise talks the two were fired upon. All four accused are on the run and several police teams have been formed to arrest them at the earliest. The body has been sent for postmortem."Village Pradhan Sudhir Singh said, "There was a long standing dispute between the two groups that arose over practice sessions and attempts were on to reach a settlement. On Wednesday night, the two were called near the cremation grounds where bike-borne opponents fired shots at them."Ever since the sensational murder of local ex-BJP president on August 11, police have been on an encounter spree with an aim to rein in the lawless hinterland of Baghpat. However, murders still continue, unabated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/budding-wrestler-shot-dead-in-ups-baghpat/articleshow/78435075.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||ICMR-Bio E develop purified animal antisera to treat virus||Hyderabad: As the race to come up with a cure for Covid-19 hots up, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Hyderabad-based Biological E Limited have developed a highly-purified, animal antisera for treatment of Covid-19. The antisera, which is blood serum containing anti-bodies against specific antigens that is injected into patients to treat or protect them against specific diseases, was raised in horses in this case. The SARS-CoV-2 strain was isolated from the swab of a Covid-19 positive patient at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology (ICMR-NIV). Pune. “The inactivated virus was formulated with an adjuvant and then 10 horses were immunized to generate hyperimmune plasma. The plasma was processed further to obtain purified immunoglobulin that demonstrated consistent neutralization of Coronavirus,” said Biological E Ltd managing director Mahima Datla. Over a dozen scientists from ICMR, ICMR-NIV and Bio E are involved with the study to develop antisera from a purified inactivated form of the Covid-19 virus. Pointing out that such measures have been used in the past to control many viral and bacterial infections such as Rabies, Hepatitis B, Vaccinia virus, Tetanus, Botulism and Diphtheria, ICMR said though the plasma recovered from Covid-19 patients could serve a similar purpose, the profile of their antibodies, efficacy and concentration vary from patient to patient, making it an unreliable clinical tool for patient management. “Standardization achievable through equine sera-based treatment modality thus stands out as yet another remarkable public health initiative supported by ICMR in the time of Covid-19,” ICMR said in its tweet. Datla said they have applied to Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for approval to conduct human clinical trials and will kick off Phase I trials as soon as they get permission. “If the Phase I results are exceptionally good, the government would have to decide if they want to use it as an intervention right away. It’s an extremely promising idea but needs to be given to the patient within three days of getting infected. It reduces the viral load in the body and gives it time to raise antibodies naturally,” she explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/icmr-bio-e-develop-purified-animal-antisera-to-treat-virus/articleshow/78436628.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 2, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar Nagar Palika chairperson ditches Cong, joins BJP for city’s ‘development’||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Congress' Muzaffarnagar Nagar Palika chairperson Anju Agarwal switched to BJP, just months before civic body elections. Agarwal had contested Muzaffarnagar Nagar Palika elections in 2017 and defeated BJP’s Arvind Raj Sharma by a huge margin. BSP leader Zia Ur Rehman, whose wife Mudassir Begum had fought against Agarwal, said a large number of Muslims had cast their vote for Agarwal. “But she left them. Her decision to join BJP is a betrayal with voters who had cast their vote for her,” he said. After taking membership of BJP on Wednesday, Agarwal told media persons, “I want development in the city. And with BJP I can do more development of Muzaffarnagar city. BJP is a big party and works with the slogan ‘Sab Ka Sath Sab Ka Vikas’.” Agarwal joined BJP in presence of senior leader Sanjeev Balyan and state minister Kapil Dev Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-nagar-palika-chairperson-ditches-cong-joins-bjp-for-citys-development/articleshow/78435116.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Only 6% of households have got PNG connections in 5 yrs||KOCHI: The five-year term awarded to Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL) by Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) for implementing gas project in the city will end in a fortnight. But only 2,500 households in Kochi have received the piped natural gas (PNG) connections so far against the actual target of 40,000. Following the intervention of state government, the gas company has decided to expedite the work and provide PNG connections to around 12,000 households in three months. With the project implementation progressing at snail’s pace, the government has issued an order to all local bodies asking them to permit road cutting for laying pipelines within 21 days of submitting an application in this regard. The order also stated that agencies like IOAGPL should complete the work in three months at local bodies where nod has already been issued. “As of now, Thrikkakara municipality has given the nod to dig up roads in 13 wards. We will give at least 12,000 connections in these wards in three months,” an official with IOAGPL said, adding that authorities with Eloor municipality have informed us that they will be giving approval for road digging in three wards in a day or two. However, applications submitted by IOAPGL for digging roads in local bodies like Kochi corporation are pending for years. “We had submitted applications seeking permission for digging up roads in 18 divisions of Kochi corporation, which are close to the national highway,” the official said. “But authorities haven’t given us approval. So, we will be submitting fresh applications. We expect to start the work in corporation limits in a month,” he said. The government also instructed the agencies like IOAGPL to complete the backfilling of roads that were dug up within 48 hours and ensure complete restoration of such roads in 30 days. Agencies may do the restoration jobs on their own or entrust it to the local bodies by paying the restoration charges. The agencies should ensure that no utilities on the shoulders of the road are being damaged during the pipe laying work. They will be liable for accidents, if any, occurred due to road digging. It was in October 2015 that PNGRB awarded Kochi city gas project to IOAGPL. As per the agreement, PNGRB’s tenure will end by mid-October. The board will have to give an extension to IOAGPL to complete the work. “We expect that PNGRB would give us an extension to complete the project. We are yet to receive a formal communication in this regard,” an official with IOAGPL said. According to state government, the delay is because of the lackadaisical attitude on the part of IOAGPL as well as the local bodies’ reluctance to give road cutting permissions for laying distribution pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/only-6-of-households-havegot-png-connections-in-5-yrs/articleshow/78433892.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Police boys’ clubs to be revived in Madurai city||Madurai: Madurai city police is planning to revive police boys’ clubs in order to channelize the attention of adolescents in more meaningful ways and to prevent them from getting diverted towards crimes. Except for one or two clubs, rest of them has become defunct, say officials. Police boys’ clubs were opened across the state in order to prevent youths from involving in criminal activities. The involvement of youngsters at the age group of 16-22 in crime activities including violent crime has been a cause of concern for city police. Although the overall crime rate has come down in the city, the number of crimes with involvement of youngsters has been increasing, officials said. Deputy CoP, Madurai city (law and order), R Shiva Prasad said that works to revive and operate boys’ clubs will take off once the lockdown comes to an end. They will be started as soon as students start to go to schools and colleges. There are plans to involve children in sports activities and turn them into professional sportsperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-boys-clubs-to-be-revived-in-madurai-city/articleshow/78437744.cms||V Devanathan
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Lack of tourist footfall affects revenue of major TN temples||Madurai: Major temples in the state started allowing public darshan after nearly five months on September 1, but the lack of tourist footfall, which also is a major revenue source, has made a dent in the income of temples after the lockdown.Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, which is a major tourism attraction in the entire region, had allowed people in after following the norms laid down by the government for precautions after it announced the restrictions. Earlier, around 10,000 people visited the temple per day, but now the footfall has come down to just around 2,000 per day, and most of them are locals coming for darshan.Usually, the temple earns around Rs 70 lakh on average through hundi collections per month, but the 28-day collection of the temple and its 11 satellite temples counted just Rs 38 lakh on September 29. Temple sources said that the temple now has only a trickle of devotees and it would need a big boost in revenue, which is crucial for its daily rituals and pujas.The Palani Dandayudhapani temple in Dindigul counted its hundi collection in mid-September as it was not counted before the lockdown. The collections amounted to Rs 2.2 crore.Another temple which depends on tourism is the Sri Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram. Temple sources said that they are seeing a footfall of about 2,500 on average per day, which was one tenth of its daily average before the lockdown. This temple is yet to count its post lockdown earnings. It had an average hundi collection of around Rs 70 lakh to Rs 80 lakh before the lockdown, but now they say it would be much less. Many people come here to perform rituals for ancestors. The tourist spots around the temple are deserted now.Secretary of the Madurai District Tourist Guide Association, K Pandiarajan said that temple tourism was never affected like this before. “I do not see tourism picking up immediately, and now we are waiting for lifting of travel restrictions to see at least domestic tourists,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lack-of-tourist-footfall-affects-revenue-of-major-tn-temples/articleshow/78437740.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Eco-illogical: Forested land cleared to plant saplings||NEW DELHI: Planting thousands of saplings after mauling existing forested land? This is the allegation made by environment experts against Delhi government’s forest and wildlife department, which they accuse of clearing several hectares in the central Ridge of dense flora using earthmovers to not only flatten the area, but also to dig two-feet deep pits for new saplings. The forest department has apparently been hard put to find vacant space on the Ridge to implement the Delhi High Court order issued last year asking it to plant 1.4 lakh saplings in the city’s green lung. When TOI visited the area in question on Thursday, which lies a few hundred metres within the wooded expanse abutting Sardar Patel Marg, it was evident that what had earlier been a dense forest had been cleared and new saplings planted six feet of each other. Every sapling had a number tag, to keep count in order to comply with the high court’s order. Times ViewThe court’s order was intended to help improve the environment. The forest department's mindless steps could have instead ended up hurting the area's ecology. Planting saplings barely 5 feet from each other and introducing species which are not native to the area, not to mention bulldozing the area to clear it, are signs of environment illiteracy. One expects better from the forest department.Pradip Krishen, environmentalist and author of Trees of Delhi, who was one of those to object to the forest department’s action, claimed not only had a large chunk of the central Ridge been damaged by the earthmovers, but also that the species planted were not native to the rocky Aravali terrain and would require constant watering. “The affected area is around 10 hectares or even more,” said Krishen. “Not only the vilayati kikar, but also other native species growing there have been removed to make space for new sapling. A natural forested area is now being re-planted and the saplings chosen may not survive if watering is stopped.” The tree expert identified species like jamun, gular, siras and kassod as those that require extensive watering, with only amaltas capable of naturally surviving in the mountainous extension of the Aravali range. Vijay Dhasmana, an ecologist who too inspected the area, pointed out that shrub and ground plants such as arna, bistendu, jungli karonda, chamrod and heens and several ephemerals had also been uprooted. “Ground vegetation exists in relationship with the large trees and shrubs present in a forest,” he said in regard to these plants. “They are very integral to the forest ecosystem which is a sum total of trees, shrubs, climbers, herbs and grasses, and the wildlife and smaller animal life.” Dhasmana warned, “Once you remove or erode the ground flora, you disturb the basic tenants of forest ecology. You may have standing trees, but that does not make it a forest.” The loss of biodiversity is a serious issue and planting the appropriate natives was crucial, argued tree activist Padmavati Dwivedi. “We can no longer ignore setting up nurseries under experts to create a reservoir of suitable saplings for city planting. The plea to set up such nurseries has, however, fallen on deaf ears,” said Dwivedi, ruing the lack of attention given in Delhi to planting the native species most suited to a particular terrain. When TOI contacted the forest department, officials said in order to comply with Delhi High Court order in the Aparna Bhatt vs Sakshi Singh & Ors case, smaller shrubs had to be cleared so pits could be dug for saplings that were 6-8 feet in height. They claimed no tree was damaged or felled. “We filed an affidavit in Delhi High Court that 1.4 lakh saplings could not be planted in the central Ridge because that would require 140 hectares of land when only small patches were available,” disclosed Ishwar Singh, principal chief conservator of forests, Delhi. “So far, we have planted 32,000 saplings and have dug another 9,000 pits. The parties in the high court cases brought these saplings, but they were sub-standard and we returned most of them. According to the court order, only saplings that are more than three years old and higher than 6-8 feet will be planted.” Singh also refuted allegations of wrong choice of species and mauling of forest land through use of heavy machinery. He maintained that the species planted were chosen according to the court order and earthmovers were used only where required. “Most planting work was manual,” Singh asserted. “But in some places where the stratum was hard and rocky and a pit had to be dug for the saplings, we had to use earthmovers.” The environment department also clarified that the pit digging was in compliance with the court order, species suggested by the court were being planted and earthmovers were used only when necessary. “The scheme of plantation is such as to allow Ridge species to accelerate ecological restoration,” said an environment official. The official also countered Krishen’s concern about watering, stating that two borewells had been approved to implement the court order. “The department has also constructed check dams to arrest water run-off and force percolation, thus increasing soil moisture,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eco-illogical-forested-land-cleared-to-plant-saplings/articleshow/78436684.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 2, 2020||Goa||Special court at Netravali to decide on forest rights claims||Poinguinim: A special court was inaugurated in the premises of the government high school at Netravali in Sanguem on Tuesday. This court will decide on the forest right claims filed by the villagers residing inside the Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary. The villagers, who reside in the remote hilly areas, had to otherwise travel nearly 30km to Sanguem town to attend the hearings. There are a total of 415 claims filed. The hearings in this designated special court will be held twice a week, on Tuesdays and Fridays, in the afternoon. The proceedings will be conducted by the designated collector for Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary, Ajay Gaude, who is also the deputy collector of Sanguem. If the papers of the villagers who have filed cases are in order, their land be left out from the Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary, minister for law, environment and power Nilesh Cabral, who inaugurated the court, said. He appealed to the villagers to attend the hearings without fail and even volunteered to provide transportation if they faced difficulty due to lack of transport. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar thanked the chief minister and Cabral for ‘setting up the court at the doorsteps of the residents’. He also thanked the education department for providing the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-court-at-netravali-to-decide-on-forest-rights-claims/articleshow/78436639.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Illicit liquor worth over Rs 4.5 lakh seized by excise officials in poll-bound Sanwer||INDORE: Ahead of the bypolls in Sanwer assembly constituency, local excise team seized 25 boxes of illicit liquor worth around Rs4.5 lakh and a four-wheeler on which it was being transported during a drive against bootlegging on Thursday.  Assistant excise commissioner Raj Narayan Soni said, “With the implementation of the model code of conduct in Sanwer, the excise department has formed six teams to keep a close watch on borders of the constituency. We are also keeping records of daily sales at liquor shops in Sanwer and sending a report to the state election office on a daily basis”. “Any unusual difference in sale of liquor will lead to thorough investigations”, Soni added. The senior excise official said that in the last one week, the department has registered nine cases under the Excise Act and seized around 887 litres of illicit liquor worth around Rs7 lakh. This apart, the teams have also seized three four-wheelers and two-wheelers worth Rs20 lakh, which were used by the bootleggers for transporting illicit liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/illicit-liquor-worth-over-rs-4-5-lakh-seized-by-excise-officials-in-poll-bound-sanwer/articleshow/78436635.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Farm laws: SAD takes out protest marches from 3 Takhts||BATHINDA: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has been rather upfront about taking on the Union government on the issue of the new agri laws, took out protest marches from the three Takhts. The march which started from Akal Takht in Amritsar was led by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. The one which started from Takht Damdama Sahib at Talwandi Sabo in Bathinda was led by former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and the third march which started from Takht Kesgarh Sahib, Anandpur Sahib was led by former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and former Punjab education minister Daljit Cheema. After paying obseisance at Takht Damdama Sahib on Thursday morning, Harsimrat Kaur Badal rode an open canter and headed for Chandigarh. By the time the procession reached Barnala in the afternoon, party workers in the thousands had become part of it. Harsimrat Badal said, “SAD is for farmers and will remain with them. For us, the interests of farmers are foremost. We can make any sacrifice for the sake of farmers and we have already proved it by resigning from the Union council of ministers and withdrawing support from NDA.” She said the party would decide on future course of action after this protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/agri-laws-sad-takes-out-protest-marches-from-3-takhts/articleshow/78437748.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Cong condemns UP govt’s inaction in Hathras case||Panaji: The nation has lost its soul, Congress said on Thursday as it condemned the heinous rape and murder of a 19-year-old girl in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. The party said that the NDA government, which claims it wants to establish Ram Rajya in the country, has turned a blind eye to crimes against women. Congress office bearers also said that BJP has ignored the exploitation of Dalits in the country. “How will India become ‘Atma Nirbhar’ when there is a feeling that the nation has lost its atma,” Congress office bearers Shambhu Bhau Bandekar said. Bandekar was accompanied by social media incharge Pratibha Borkar Dhage, Congress spokesperson Vithu Morajkar and Royla Fernandes. “I feel pained to read reports of exploitation of dalits in India when the Modi government is talking about bringing Ram Rajya,” said Morajkar. The victim was gang-raped and tortured in Hathras and was allegedly forcefully cremated by UP police while her family and relatives were confined to their homes. “BJP has always used the name of Ram to gain political mileage and hence their party cadre never understood the pains of Sita,” said Dhage. “In today’s modern India, there are Dushasans, who are exploiting women while the likes of Dhritarashtra, like Modi, Shah, Yogi, are turning a blind eye to such crimes.” Congress also condemned BJP and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for not swiftly arresting the culprits almost for a week after the incident. “I had participated in the nationwide protests and had also been to Delhi demanding justice for Nirbhaya and strict punishment for the gangrape accused. The government had assured that no such incidents will be repeated again in the country. Unfortunately, crimes against women are on the rise. I demand that stringent laws are implemented for safety and security of women,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-condemns-up-govts-inaction-in-hathras-case/articleshow/78436662.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Youth arrested for bid to smuggle ganja to Dubai||KOCHI: Central police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly trying to smuggle ganja to Dubai through a courier service by stuffing the drug among garments. The arrested has been identified as Ajeesh Sasidharan of Vagamon, Idukki. The accused had submitted packages containing the contraband at a courier service at Broadway. He had submitted the consignment to a courier agent claiming that they were tracksuits and t-shirts to be sent to Dubai. The accused had carefully kept the ganja packets within the clothes in small packets and police seized a total of 3.5kg of ganja from the consignment.  Police said they have launched a probe to identify the person to him the consignment was addressed to. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/youth-arrested-for-bid-to-smuggle-ganja-to-dubai/articleshow/78433912.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Two arrested for raping minor girls in Madurai||MADURAI: The AWPS Town police have arrested two 19-year-old men for raping two minor girls in Madurai. The accused were identified as C Raja alias Kannan and his friend E Ashok Kumar from Melathoppu in the city. Police sources said that two accused got introduced to two 16-year-old girls, who were friends, a few months ago. They fell in love and both couples were involved in sexual relationship at the backyard of one of the girl’s house on Wednesday. The girl’s father, who was sleeping inside the house, came out of the house and saw them. He beat up the men before informing the police. Based on a complaint, a case was registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) and the accused were arrested. The girls were taken to Government Rajaji Hospital, where medical examinations were conducted. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-arrested-for-raping-minor-girls/articleshow/78437787.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Central region reports 689 cases, 594 in southern dists||Madurai/Trichy: The Covid-19 tally in the central region of the state climbed to 52,604, with the eight districts reporting 689 cases on Thursday. The region also recorded seven deaths, taking the toll to 722. Meanwhile, the southern districts reported 594 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 1,12,284, which include 4,922 active cases. The region also recorded four deaths pushing the toll to 1,863. The central region has 5,400 active cases with Thanjavur (1,709) reigning at the top. For the second straight day, Thanjavur district registered 200-plus cases. The district recorded 232 cases on Thursday taking the tally to 11,427, the highest among other districts in the region. A couple of days after a dip, cases again peaked in Tiruvarur with 123 testing positive on Thursday, taking the tally to 7,315. Meanwhile, in the south, Kanyakumari reported 118 new cases, the highest in the region. The district has been reporting more than 100 cases continuously for the past seven days. Madurai and Tirunelveli were the only two other districts to have more than 80 cases. Tuticorin reported 75 cases, Theni 65, Tenkasi 49, Dindigul 43, Sivaganga 36 and Ramanathapuram nine. Dindigul reported two deaths, and Kanyakumari and Tenkasi one each. In the central region, Trichy district continued to maintain the cases below 100 for the past few days. On Thursday, the central district recorded 89 cases pushing the tally to 10,612. Pudukottai recorded 87 adding to its tally of 9,167, the third highest numbers after Thanjavur and Trichy in the region. Rest of the districts was far behind the three in terms of total cases. Perambalur is at the bottom of the list with 1,863 cases. The region so far discharged 46,482 patients. A 38-year-old man from Trichy was among the casualties on Thursday. A 50-year-old man from Tiruvarur died at a private hospital despite having no comorbidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-region-reports-689-cases-594-in-southern-dists/articleshow/78437779.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Sawant has made HBA scheme an ego issue: GFP||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Thursday said that it would support government employees who availed of the House Building Advance (HBA) scheme to fight for justice.  Employees with home loans found that with the closure of the HBA scheme, their monthly salary has come down to Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000. GFP said that many government employees had to pay penal interest because the government failed to deposit the instalments for the previous three months with Bank of India. “Government employees have only one source of income that is their salary and it matters for them. The government should immediately roll the back the decision to stop HBA,” said GFP vice president Durgadas Kamat. “Come what may we will fight to get justice for the government employees.” The party has accused the BJP of taking government employees for granted by treating them with a use and throw mentality. Kamat said that GFP will provide legal support to any government employee who decides to challenge the state government’s decision in court. “This government will fall in one year so there is no need to be afraid and we need to challenge this government. We are ready to support these government employees, we will help them with advocates,” said Kamat. GFP general secretary Mohandas Lolienkar said that chief minister Pramod Sawant has ignored the concerns raised by the opposition and government employees. “This government is stubborn and power has gone to its head. This has become an ego issue and it is clear that chief minister doesn’t understand the pulse of the common man,” said Lolienkar. Kamat claimed that several government employees have approached the party with salary statements showing Rs 2,700 to Rs 4,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-has-made-hba-scheme-an-ego-issue-gfp/articleshow/78436683.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Cop suspended for links with sand smugglers||Madurai: A woman police inspector was placed under suspension based on the orders of Madurai range DIG S Rajendran, for her alleged links with sand smugglers. Police sources said that the inspector Parameswari took money from sand smugglers to let them carry out illegal activities in and around Tirumangalam. A police officer said Parameswari had not only taken money from sand smugglers, but also got sand free of cost for her house, which is under construction in Aathikulam in Madurai city limits. She received the bribe and sand from Pandiarajan from Kalligudi, a notorious sand smuggler. Madurai district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar said strict action would be initiated against police personnel if they had links with sand smuggling incidents. “Sand mining is viewed as a serious offence and appropriate actions are being taken to curb it,” Kumar said. The SP had earlier warned that sand smugglers would be detained under the Goondas Act. V Vignesh, 22, of Viraganoor, a habitual sand smuggler, was the first person in Madurai district police limit to have been detained under the Goondas Act. Madurai district collector T G Vinay on Tuesday issued orders for the same. Several cases were being registered against illegal sand smuggling. Police vigilance was increased along the Vaigai river bed, where illegal sand mining is frequent. Apart from sand, silt was also stolen from various water bodies in the district. Police patrolling had been increased to protect water bodies, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-suspended-for-links-with-sand-smugglers/articleshow/78437756.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm acts: Rahul to hold tractors rallies in Punjab from Oct 3 to 5||CHANDIGARH: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will lead tractor rallies across Punjab from October 3 to October 5 to protest against the Centre’s agriculture laws. Apart from chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Punjab ministers and Congress MLAs will participate in the protest rallies, along with AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat and PPCC president Sunil Jakhar. In the course of three days, the tractor rallies will cover more than 50 kms across various districts and constituencies, said a Punjab Congress spokesperson. Tractor rallies are scheduled at around 11am on each of the three days and will be conducted amid strict Covid-19 protocols. The protest rally on Day 1 (October 3, Saturday), will cover a distance of 22 kms, starting with a public meeting at Badni Kalan (Nihal Singh Wala, district Moga), before moving through Lopon (Nihal Singh Wala). The rally will then move into Jagraon (district Ludhiana), where it will be received at Chakar, Lakha and Manoke, culminating in a public meeting at Jattpura (Raikot, district Ludhiana). On Day 2 (October 4, Sunday), a total of 20 kms would be covered, beginning with a reception at Barnala Chowk, Sangrur, from where Rahul and his team will travel by car to Bhawanigarh for a public meeting before embarking on tractors to Samana (district Patiala). Receptions will be held at Fatehgarh Chhana and Bahmna and the day will end with a public meeting at Grain Market, Samana. On Monday (October 5), the protest will begin from Dudhan Sadhan (Patiala) with a public meeting and tractors will travel 10 kms to Pehowa Border, from where Team Rahul will enter Haryana for a series of programmes there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-acts-rahul-to-hold-tractors-rallies-in-punjab-from-oct-3-to-5/articleshow/78437783.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||SGPC langar across Punjab and Haryana to Akalis triggers row||PATIALA: The langar organised by SGPC at some places across Punjab and Haryana for SAD (B) workers has irked farmers and others, who feel it is misuse of langar. In Patiala, Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib served langar at the national highway on Sangrur-Chandigarh road. Gurdwara authorities said the langar was installed for protesting farmers near Barsat village. However, farmers’ unions said no official protest was declared at Barsat village or Mehmadpur grain market of Patiala. A video highlighting the ‘langar’ organised at Sangrur-Chandigarh highway went viral on social media, including Facebook, on Thursday. “‘Guru di Golak’ has turned to the mouth of ‘Badals’ instead of the ‘poor’. The SGPC never organised langar for farmers who have been holding protests for many days. Farmers have been preparing langar on their own from the beginning. On Thursday, the langar by SGPC-run gurdwaras were held only to support the rally of SAD (B) as Harsimrat Kaur Badal was supposed to cross from this road to reach Chandigarh,” said Rajinder Singh, state executive body member, Panthic Akali Lehar, who circulated the video. Farmers’ unions also condemned the misuse of langar for the political party. “It was a political move of SAD (B) to hold a rally in support of farmers, though farmers do not want their agitation to be taken over by any political party for their personal benefits,” said BKU Ekta-Dkanunda general secretary Jagmohan Singh Patiala. Karnail Singh, manager, gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib, Patiala said they served langar only near Barsat village in Patiala district for farmers who were protesting near the grain market. “We organised langar for the Sangat, which may come from anywhere.” SGPC member A S Chawla, however, said the langar was served only inside gurdwaras. “Langar was not organised outside the gurdwara anywhere but was served only inside gurdwaras. I do not know about Gurdwara Dukh Nivaran Sahib but there are no issues if the Langar has been served to Sangat or farmers.” Food packets distributed Phagwara: Langar for Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders and workers who were part of the procession from Akal Takht or who had come from different constituencies to welcome it or join it was served from the SGPC-controlled gurdwara Sukhchainana Sahib. It is learnt that food packets were made and distributed to Akali workers along the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ire-over-langar-by-sgpc-to-sad-supporters/articleshow/78437763.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||Govt approves SPV for CETP in Padra||Vadodara/Gandhinagar: The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) and industries located at Padra in Vadodara have joined to form a new SPV (special purpose vehicle) company to establish a CEPT (common effluent treatment plant) at Padra and resolve the issue of water pollution. People residing along the banks of the Vishwamitri river have been facing health and other problems as the units are located along the Vadodara effluent channel and they discharged treated effluent into it. Recently, a unit here was issued a closure notice even as activists have been raising concern over the ground water quality in the area. Tube wells in some pockets also throw up coloured water. On Thursday, GPCB chairman Sanjeev Kumar and member secretary AV Shah approved to the new SPV and allocated membership for the CETP to local industries as the plan was finalized. In a statement, Kumar said, “There was need for starting a joint CETP plant at Vadodara’s Padra industrial area for zone-III type industries to treat industrial waste water before releasing it in the Vadodara effluent channel.” “The government has approved the proposal to form a new company with the local industries to establish and run the CETP plant at the Padra to resolve the water pollution issue on a permanent basis,’’ Kumar said.  He added that CETP membership allocation letters have been issued and the government intends to establish the plant in next two years. The plant will be used to treat polluted water, treatment of hazardous waste, disposal of concentrated polluted water through evaporation method and spray dryer method. “The CEPT will be designed considering the present and future needs of industries in Padra and surrounding region,’’ Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govt-approves-spv-for-cetp-in-padra/articleshow/78435610.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Oppose projects in Mollem, MLA urged||Panaji: Goencho Ekvott has urged Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias to oppose the three infrastructure projects expected to come up in the protected Mollem forest. Members of the group who met the MLA also told him that fugitive coal dust is affecting the mental and physical health of locals who live alongside the railway tracks. Goencho Ekvott’s founder Orville Dourado Rodrigues said that the state is being used as a corridor to transport coal to the hinterland of Karnataka for private thermal and steel plants, this despite the neighbouring state having eight ports from where the coal can be unloaded and transported. The NGO’s chairman, Creson Antao, said that cutting down of the trees in the protected forest and critical wildlife corridor, for widening of the railway line, highway widening, and laying of a power transmission line, would have serious repercussions on the climate and the wildlife ecosystem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppose-projects-in-mollem-mla-urged/articleshow/78436690.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man refuses treatment for daughter, wife files DV complaint||Ahmedabad: A 27-year-old woman, Sangeeta Sharma, on Wednesday lodged a complaint alleging mental harassment and physical abuse against her husband Bhavesh Sharma, mother-in-law Bhagudevi, brothers-in-law Pravin and Sohan, sister-in-law Lata and the husband of another sister-in-law Jawanji Sharma. The complainant, who is presently living at her parents’ house in Sardarnagar, alleged that though her younger daughter, who is 18 months old, had a hole in her heart, her husband does not want to pay for her treatment and says that she is not his daughter. The complainant has an older daughter who is seven years old. According to the FIR, the complainant married Bhavesh Sharma in February 2011. After the wedding, she lived with her in-laws in a joint family arrangement. She alleged that about six weeks after the wedding, her in laws started harassing her mentally over petty issues and would taunt her saying she had not brought enough of a dowry. The complainant stated that after the birth of their second daughter, who has a congenital hole in her heart, her in-laws started harassing her even more. She stated that her husband is an alcoholic and a smoker and does not give her enough money to run the household. She alleged that her in-laws would repeatedly tell her to get Rs 5 lakh from her parents and would fight with over the issue. She stated that at the end of 2019, her in-laws evicted her and her daughters from of the house and she has been living with her parents ever since. Police sources said as no solution was arrived at, an FIR has been lodged. “We have registered a complaint under Sections 498 (a), 323, 294(b) and 114 and are verifying the allegations made in the FIR and are gathering evidence before acting against the accused persons,” said a senior Sardarnagar police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-refuses-treatment-for-daughter-wife-files-dv-complaint/articleshow/78436696.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Show proof of SAD support: Sukhbir Singh Badal to BJP||AMRITSAR: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday dared BJP to show the evidence of his party’s endorsement of the three farm bills in the Parliament, as claimed by the former alliance partner. Talking to the media before leading the Kisan March from Akal Takht to Chandigarh, Sukhbir said, “Show our signature, show me. It’s easy to say.” His reaction came in reply to a query that former Punjab BJP president Shwait Malik had claimed that SAD(B) endorsed the farm bills in the Parliament. “Right from the beginning we have been saying that we were not asked, no meeting was held on farm legislations. We were sure that our concerns for the farmers would be included in the bills, but when that didn’t happen, we resigned from the Cabinet and parted our ways,” he said. Denying that the party was agitating for the farmers only to keep its vote bank intact, the SAD(B) president said his father Parkash Singh Badal had spent around 16 years in jail for the cause of farmers, so they could not even think of doing politics on such a sensitive issue. “We are not like other political parties,” he added. Talking about the Kisan March, he said according to the traditions of Khalsa Panth, they had arrived here to pay obeisance at Golden Temple and Akal Takht to seek Guru’s blessings before beginning the march, which would culminate at the Governor House in Chandigarh and they would hand over a memorandum to him. “We have appealed to the Centre, especially to the President, to convene sessions of both Houses and quash these ‘Kale Kanun’ (black laws), which are detrimental to the interests of farmers,” he said. Asked about the ongoing struggle of farm bodies, Sukhbir said, “One and one makes 11. There should be a united struggle to show our strength. We are ready to stand till the last in the struggle, but there should be some result in the favour of farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-dares-bjp-to-show-proof-of-sad-support-to-farm-billsorshow-proof-of-sad-support-to-farm-bills-sukhbir-to-bjp/articleshow/78437806.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Madurai||HC denies bail to 3 cops, says they played vital role||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday dismissed the second bail pleas of suspended policemen - head constables S Murugan, X Thomas Francis and constable Muthuraj - who were arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial deaths case. Justice V Bharathidasan, who dismissed their petitions, observed that prima facie materials are available on record that three policemen played a vital role in the custodial torture, which resulted in the death of two innocent people P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks. The judge observed that the Jeyaraj was taken to the police station by inspector Sridhar, sub-inspector Balakrishnan and Muthuraj. Thereafter, when Beniks came to the police station and inquired about the reason for his father’s arrest, there was a petty quarrel between him and Balakrishnan. The judge noted that based on the instigation of Sridhar to teach a lesson on ‘how to behave with police’, all the accused beat up both the deceased throughout the night, in which they suffered serious injuries and blood started oozing from their bodies. Both the deceased were asked to clean the blood that had oozed from their wounds and scattered on the floor. The judge observed that Murugan, Francis, Muthuraj along with others caught hold of the limbs of the deceased while Balakrishnan assaulted them. Francis guarded the closed main gate and once again they indiscriminately assaulted the father-son duo and they suffered severe bleeding injuries, especially in the buttocks. A false complaint against the father-son duo was lodged by Murugan which was attested by Muthuraj. The judge observed that though they sustained bleeding injuries, the police personnel managed to obtain a certificate from the doctor as ‘both of them were fit for remand’. The judge cited that the postmortem reports also clearly reveals that both of them died due to complications of blunt injuries. Two women head constables of the police station who were eyewitnesses gave their statements before the judicial magistrate under Section 164(5) of CrPC, which clearly reveals that all these petitioners along with the other accused have detained both the deceased illegally and also indulged in custodial torture. The judge said that since the petitioners are policemen, there is a reasonable apprehension that the witnesses are likely to be tampered with, especially, as some of the witnesses are police personnel working in the same police station. Taking into account the facts and circumstances and the gravity of the offence, the judge observed that the court is not inclined to grant bail to the petitioners and hence dismissed their petitions. During the course of hearing, the CBI informed that it had filed a final report before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate court on September 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-denies-bail-to-3-cops-says-they-played-vital-role/articleshow/78437805.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Soreng addresses UN summit on biodiversity||The president of the United Nations General Assembly convened the United Nations Summit on Biodiversity on Wednesday. Held at the level of heads of states and governments, with the theme ‘urgent action on biodiversity for sustainable development’, it provided the participants, including Odisha’s Archana Soreng, the opportunity to ideate on a post-2020 global biodiversity framework, which will be adopted at the 15th meeting of the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity to be held in 2021. The opening segment of the summit started with the address of Volkan Bozkir, president of the 75th session of the UNGA, followed by that of António Guterres, secretary-general, United Nations. Soreng, one of the seven members of UN Secretary General’s Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change and a member of the Khadia tribe, addressed the opening segment as the sole youth representative in the summit. “First, nurture indigenous practices and empower local communities within decision-making structures for biodiversity conservation. For centuries, being responsible stewards of biodiversity, we have confronted environmentally destructive projects pursued by states and corporations. Our rights are being violated in the name of biodiversity conservation,” she said at the summit, where she spoke after Prince Charles. Ahead of her participation in the summit, Soreng had initiated a consultative process with different stakeholders, starting with an inter-generational consultation process with her alma mater, Tata Institute of Social Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/soreng-addresses-un-summit-on-biodiversity/articleshow/78413582.cms||Amava Bhattacharya
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Satellite man beats sister for taking care of ailing father||Ahmedabad: A woman, 72, resident of Manekbaugh, filed a complaint on Wednesday against her son alleging that he had beaten her daughter as he was against her taking care of their ailing father, who has been suffering from cancer for a year. Allegedly, the accused claimed only he was qualified to take care of their father.Saraswati Chavda, resident of Saurashtra Vishwakarma Society in Manekbaugh, states in her FIR with Satellite police that her son Ajay Chavda, 45, beat her daughter Varsha Jethwa as he did not approve her taking care of their ailing father, a retired engineer, and even threatened to stab her. “My daughter had come to my house on Wednesday afternoon to attend my ailing husband Chiman Chavda. According to doctor’s instruction, she was about to offer him lukewarm water. At that time, Ajay, a tour operator, spotted her offering water to my husband and began scolding her while saying that no one except him can take care of my husband,” states Saraswati in the FIR.As Jethwa tried to pacify him, he slapped her and pushed her on floor. He then, asked his wife to bring a knife from kitchen so that he could stab and kill her. Hearing this hue and cry, Chavda’s neighbour rushed to her house due to which Ajay left the house. Meanwhile, Varsha called up 181 women’s helpline, and later she along with Chavda, filed a complaint of causing hurt and criminal intimidation with Satellite police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/satellite-man-beats-sister-for-taking-care-of-ailing-father/articleshow/78436691.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Lone wildlife inspector set to retire in December as posts not filled for 6 years||NEW DELHI: The forest department is now left with only one wildlife inspector who is set to retire in December this year, after another officer retired on Wednesday. The remaining five posts of wildlife inspectors have been lying vacant for over six years. Tasked with preventing wildlife crime, ensuring wildlife rescue and protecting the green cover, the forest department has been facing acute shortage of manpower on the ground. Apart from wildlife inspectors, the other posts lying vacant are of range officers, assistant conservators, wildlife guards and forest guards. Following an order of National Green Tribunal (NGT) last year, 290 new posts were created in the department but the process of recruitment was delayed due to Covid-19 and rules for appointment has to be framed in some cases. Times ViewPrevention of wildlife crimes is critical work for the forest department. Keeping posts vacant is not going to help. Besides that, when jobs are scarce, creative intervention is required to get around coronavirus in times of new normalcy. Many government departments are doing it, why not the forest department?A senior official told TOI that it will take around six months to one year to fill all the vacant posts. “As we are understaffed, the department is overburdened. For instance, if we get complaints about tree pruning, only a few ground staff are available to visit the spot and submit a report in the matter,” said an official. According to officials, the forest department had only 108 posts, but NGT created 290 new posts last year. Of the new posts — 66 foresters, one veterinarian, two compounders and one legal advisor have to be recruited for the first time. “We have to frame rules for appointment of staff at new posts,” said an official. Principal chief conservator of forests Ishwar Singh said, “We are planning to hire retired wildlife inspector on a contract basis. Besides, the first level exam for recruitment was conducted for appointment of three wildlife inspectors and second level exam will be organised soon.” He added, “Though the results have been declared after the exam was conducted for recruitment of four range officers, the candidates will now have to undergo physical test of walking 28km in four hours on October 7. Similarly, exam results for hiring of 11 wildlife guards are out and they will join this month. Besides, we have received 7.5 lakh applications for posts of 211 forest guards and online exams will be conducted at pan-India level.” However, even after range officers and wildlife inspectors are appointed, they won’t be able to immediately resume duty as they will have to undergo mandatory training of 18 months as their posts have statutory power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lone-wildlife-inspector-set-to-retire-in-dec-as-posts-not-filled-for-6-years/articleshow/78436740.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Woman, 21, kidnapped by gang of seven||Madurai: A 21-year-old woman was kidnapped by a seven-member gang from near Alanganallur in Madurai district on Wednesday night. The woman, identified as Soumya (name changed), had been working as a nurse in a private hospital till recently. She was returning home with her 19-year-old younger brother on a two-wheeler at around 9.30pm, when the gang intercepted their vehicle near a government school in a village near Alanganallur and kidnapped her after overpowering her brother. Based on a complaint filed her father, the Alanganallur police registered a case under IPC sections 366 (kidnapping a woman to compel her for marriage) and 344 (punishment for wrongful restraint). A police officer said Soumya was in love with a man from the same place, but her parents did not accept it. Her parents planned to conduct her marriage at the end of October. She quit her job recently and had gone to the hospital on Wednesday evening to meet her former colleagues. The officer said that an inquiry was conducted to ascertain whether her lover was involved in the kidnap, but the man was very much in his house after the incident. Police are yet to find out the people involved in the kidnap and the motive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-21-kidnapped-by-gang-of-seven/articleshow/78437799.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Wildlife expert bats for tiger reserve in Goa||Keri: Between 2009 and 2020, Goa lost five tigers with four deaths reported in January this year itself. The National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) report in February, while asking Goa government to declare the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary a tiger reserve, had found the state’s efforts severely lacking to protect its big cats. This, despite camera traps confirming tiger presence beyond doubt. As Goa celebrates wildlife week, former dean of Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, A J T Johnsingh told TOI that notifying a tiger reserve in the state will have vast benefits, not just for the big cats, but also for Goa’s human population. Johnsingh said that tiger reserves are known to ensure water security in the region. “Goa should constitute a tiger reserve to maintain water security. Protected area of 700sqkm of the three sanctuaries and one national park in the state should be merged together, with 150sqkm as the core tiger reserve area. Total protection should be given to the Sambar population here by maintaining grasslands and protecting water holes,” Johnsingh said. The area proposed as tiger reserve in Goa’s Western Ghats comprises semi-evergreen dense forests with steep slopes, and this area is the place of catchment basin for the Mandovi, Zuari, Talpona and Galgibaga rivers, apart from a number of streams. The four tiger deaths in January took place from poisoning, which is suspected to have been carried out by forest dwellers as revenge killing for the cattle the families lost as prey. Johnsingh said that payment of compensation needs to be immediate to the families in such cases to ensure that incidents like the January one do not reoccur. “Speedy steps have to be taken to provide necessary compensation for domesticated animals killed by tigers,” Johnsingh said. During chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar’s term in office, the Goa State Wildlife Board under him had taken a decision to constitute a tiger reserve in Goa. But no concrete steps have been taken since in this direction. Currently, after the deaths of four tigers in Golauli in Sattari, the presence of three other tigers has been identified by forest officials. Though Goa is far from declaring a tiger reserve within its geographical boundaries, assistant conservator of forests of wildlife division, Nandkumar Parab, told TOI that many measures have been taken since January to improve monitoring of tigers within the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. “We have initiated work of establishing four anti-poaching camps to work round the clock in the sanctuary. Trackers have been deployed to monitor tiger movement and wireless mechanism has been set up. We have given opportunities to local youths to work as trackers,” he said. However, as far as filing of chargesheet against those involved in poisoning and killing of the four tigers this year, the work is still in progress, said Parab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wildlife-expert-bats-for-tiger-reserve-in-goa/articleshow/78436698.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC raps officials over pending patta requests||MADURAI: Taking a serious view with regard to the pendency of lakhs of patta transfer applications across the state, the Madras high court observed that failure on part of the officials to dispose of the applications had made the people run from pillar to post and approach the courts. Justice D Krishnakumar, who made the observations while disposing of a batch of petitions with regard to patta transfers kept pending by the authorities, also gave a slew of directions to the state government for disposal of pending applications within a period of six months on or before March 2021. “Patta is one of the crucial documentary evidence for claiming the ownership of the property. Pattas can also be used to establish the right of ownership in a court of law,” the judge said. Lakhs of applications for granting of patta are kept pending for months and years together. Despite several measures taken by the government and this court, the same is not being implemented in letter and spirit by the officials concerned, the judge said. Citing that the data given by the government is really shocking, the judge noted that from a report filed by the director of survey and settlement, it is seen that as on July 31, there are 6,39,930 applications involving sub-division (ISD) and 1,46,907 applications not involving sub-division (NISD), pending across the state. Pursuant to the intervention of the court, the state informed that 1,68,482 ISD applications (26.3%) and 1,41,159 NISD applications (96.1%) were disposed of as on September 21. The judge then directed the commissioner of land administration to instruct all district collectors to conduct review meetings periodically based on the government guidelines. The director of survey and settlement shall also conduct review meetings periodically and submit the reports to the commissioner. “The commissioner or the collectors shall assign zonal deputy tasildars exclusively for dealing with the disposal of the applications for granting online pattas. The tahsildar concerned shall periodically submit a report to the collector during the first week of every month with regard to the delay on part of the officers for disposal of the applications,” the judge said. Based on the tahsildar report, the collector shall call for the explanation for the delay from the officer concerned. If the explanation is not satisfactory, then the collector shall initiate disciplinary proceedings against the officer for causing the delay, said the judge. The judge further directed the commissioner to issue instructions to all the collectors and revenue authorities to strictly comply with the aforesaid directions issued by the court to dispose of the applications within the specified time limit, as specified in the relevant GOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-raps-officials-over-pending-patta-requests/articleshow/78437812.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Madurai shows uptick in cognizable offences committed by children in conflict with law||Madurai: The number of cognizable offences committed by children in conflict with law in Madurai city has seen a marginal increase in 2019, compared to its previous year. On the other hand, there is a considerable drop in crimes committed by juveniles in rural police limits in 2019, compared to 2018, according to the data available with the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).While 101 crimes involving children in conflict with law was reported in 2018, it increased to 107 in 2019 in the city limits. But in the rural areas, it has come down from 89 in 2018 to 67 in 2019.While only three police units out of 11 police units in the southern Tamil Nadu have reported more than 100 cases involving juveniles, Madurai city is one among them.Juveniles have mostly involved in hurt cases (causing injuries to others) with 46 reported cases, which was followed by theft cases (17) and burglary cases (13) in Madurai city. There were eight murder cases and 16 attempts to murder cases with the involvement of juveniles in 2019, according to the data.Dr Dheep, a leading child psychiatrist from the city, says that Madurai city is known for involvement of adolescents in crime for long. Children, who migrate from rural areas to the city, easily get influenced by anti-social elements and involve in in crimes. Failure in agriculture is the primary reason for people from rural areas migrating to the city.“Children get introduced to abusive substances such as ganja, liqour and tobacco products. When they get addicted to them they require money to purchase them. At one-point time, they start selling the banned contrabands to make money. They slowly get involved in the vicious cycle of crime,” he said.A higher police official from Madurai city said that ganja is the most used addictive substance in the city. Those get addicted soon starts selling them. Many of the murder and attempt to murder cases involving juveniles take place to take control of an area, where they can sell it.The deputy commissioner of Police, Madurai city (law and order), R Shiva Prasad, said that efforts are underway to curb sales of ganja and other addictive substances. He said that lack of supervision from parents is also a reason why youths get involved in criminal activities, he said.Sivaganga and Tirunelveli district are the other two districts, where 100 or more cases with involvement of juveniles were reported in 2019. When contacted, a police officer from Sivaganga district said that he will study the phenomenon in the district and discuss with other officials, before commenting on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-shows-uptick-in-cognizable-offences-committed-by-children-in-conflict-with-law/articleshow/78437831.cms||V Devanathan
October 2, 2020||Bareilly||Fire breaks out in SBI ATM, cash saved||Bareilly: Massive fire broke out at an ATM of State Bank of India in Tilhar town of Shahjahanpur district late on Wednesday night. Fortunately, fire station officers arrived at the spot and doused the flames within half an hour. Had the fire department not acted on time, the fire would have spread to the adjacent private bank’s ATM and would have engulfed the house situated on the first floor of the building. The exterior part of the machine was burnt but all the cash inside it was found safe by SBI officials. Shahjahanpur chief fire officer Rehaan Ali said that a short circuit in the wiring of the air conditioner led to the fire. The ATM guard shared the information on time and three firefighters reached the spot and brought the situation under control. Tilhar SHO Jasveer Singh said, “Thought the cash was saved, the fibre exterior of the machine got damaged due to fire. A police team also arrived at the spot to support the firefighters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fire-breaks-out-in-sbi-atm-cash-saved/articleshow/78431768.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Slight dip in deaths of Covid-19 patients with no comorbidities||Hyderabad: While the state is observing lower positivity rate and higher recovery rate now, in another breather, there are now lower number of patients with no comorbidities dying from Covid-19. The death percentage of Covid patients has come down by 2% in last few days. Among the deaths, patients with comorbidities constitute nearly 56% while patients with no comorbidities stand at 44%. The same was at 54% and 46% respectively few days back. The trend is positive, considering that deaths due to comorbidities, including diabetes and cardiac ailments, which were around 80% in June, has come down to 58% in August. In the same period, about 42% patients who died from the virus were without comorbidities. Dr Rajendra, professor at Mamata Academy of Medical Sciences said compared to earlier days, number of patients recovering from comorbidities is increasing. ‘But healthy people can also have serious issues if they have anxiety during the same period. We have seen cases getting complicated as the anxiety leads to breathlessness,” he pointed out. If the viral load is high in a healthy person, then it can be dangerous. Doctors say they have observed some people using steroids without medical supervision and ending up in a serious condition. Health experts warn that even checking oxygen levels on oximeters at home on a small device can sometimes be risky. “Even if the oximeter shows that oxygen saturation level is good, it is important to walk 100 steps and then check again. Based on ease of breathing, one needs to rush to a hospital,” Dr Sridhar, a consultant with Apollo Hospitals said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slight-dip-in-deaths-of-covid-19-patients-with-no-comorbidities/articleshow/78436704.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Schools upset over rollback of govt order to allow students||MADURAI: Government and private schools in Madurai district have expressed displeasure at the rollback of a government order allowing students of classes IX to XII to come to school on a voluntary basis with consent of parents, for guidance in person. They pointed out that students appearing for board and competitive exams like Neet, JEE this year will be affected because of the decision. Teachers said that instead of a complete rollback of the order, tweaking of guidelines and SOPs and allowing only Class X and XII students, who will be writing their board exams, could have been considered. “This is going to be a big blow especially for government school students. Without online classes like in private schools, students were already feeling discouraged. Most parents are also unable to supervise their learning. We were hoping that this will help us reach students,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Teachers are also worried that if the schools continue to be closed, they would not be able to finish their portions in time. “Though 40% reduction in syllabus is expected, still it is going to be tough. Once schools reopen, we still have to teach all lessons again. It would be unfair for the students otherwise. If voluntary guidance was allowed we could have students finish their portions in a monitored manner at home, which would be useful for them when the actual classes begin,” said M Sudharshan, a Class XII biology teacher. Further, for students preparing for Neet and JEE, the full syllabus has to be completed. Government school teachers are worried that many students might opt out of Neet and JEE this year if they are unable to learn well. Aided and private schools also felt that voluntary guidance could have been helpful to restore some normalcy and perhaps be a trial for students returning to school. “We were expecting less than 50% of students to turn up if voluntary guidance was allowed. Students’ safety is priority and we were prepared. The government should have attempted to come up with a clearer SOPs and guidelines instead of completely rolling back the order,” said the principal of a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-upset-over-rollback-of-govt-order-to-allow-students/articleshow/78437849.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam’s daily Covid tally crosses 1k mark for first time||KOCHI: With the highest single-day spike of 1,056 cases, Ernakulam on Wednesday surpassed all other districts in the state in the daily tally of Covid positive cases. This is the first time the district is reporting more than 1,000 cases on a single day. The previous highest single-day spike was reported on Sunday (924). Of the total cases reported on Wednesday, 1,048 were contact ones and source of infection of 140 are still unknown. Six healthcare workers and INHS Sanjeevani staff also tested positive. As many as 263 patients were recovered on Wednesday when 231 were discharged from hospitals and Covid first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs). A total of 23,896 people are under quarantine in houses, Covid care centres and paid quarantine facilities. Ernakulam has 7,876 active cases, including 4,084 in home care. As many as 329 patients were admitted in hospitals and CFLTCs on Wednesday. As part of Covid testing, 1961 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday when results of 1,822 were received. Results of 1,417 samples are awaited. The control room received 540 calls including 217 from the public. Telemedicine team of doctors extended medical services to 215 people under quarantine, through video call. Also, 21 police personnel attached with the Ernakulam Armed Reserve camp have become Covid positive till Wednesday. As many as 50 policemen who were their contacts have been quarantined as a result. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to start eight more CFLTCs in the city. The centres will be at Kacheripady Community Hall at Palluruthy, SY Yogam Hall at Vyttila, Vaduthala Don Bosco, Kalvathy Hall at Mattancherry, AJ Hall at Kaloor, St Francis Church hall at Kathrikadavu, Edapally church hall and Pandit Karuppan Hall at Edakochi. Currently the city has only one CFLTC. In the review meeting held on Wednesday, collector asked health workers to extend special attention to places like P&T Colony, Cheranellore and West Kochi. MLAs asked the officials concerned to give awareness to people regarding CFLTCs. Collector admitted that the spread of Covid has reached a crucial stage and no lapse on preventive measures will be allowed. People stepping out of their houses unnecessarily will be discouraged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulams-daily-covid-tally-crosses-1k-mark-for-first-time/articleshow/78433981.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Caste, Aadhaar details must for registration on Dharani||Hyderabad: Non-agriculture property owners, who want to update or register their property details on Dharani land portal, will have to give their personal details like caste, mode of property acquisition, family details and their photograph apart from Aadhaar number and mobile number. Municipal administration and panchayat raj departments have instructed their municipal and gram panchayat staff to collect details and upload through a dedicated application (TS NAB) by visiting each and every household in their respective civic body limits and complete it by October 12 in all aspects. As per guidelines and user guide, gender, caste, Aadhaar and mobile number are mandatory. However, there is no clarity what should they (staff) do if any property owner refuses to share details like Aadhaar card, caste and family member details. Officials recall when the Telangana government had taken up Samagra Kutumba Survey (SKS) in 2014, it had sought details like nativity and other personal details. As it got embroiled in a major controversy, the state government said details of their nativity were not mandatory. Now, the government has announced that the exercise was being taken up to update or register unassessed properties, which were not in the municipal or panchayat records. However, officials of both departments have taken up updating details of even assessed property records as many have not updated their property details like mutations. Maroon colour pattadar passbooks would be issued to non-agriculture property owners once Dharani is launched officially. “Many property owners have not given correct details of their properties. In case of GHMC, mobile number, house number, property details are available with the civic body. Since the data will be used for even property registration purpose, details like Aadhaar number, family members, owner or joint owners’ photographs, pattadar passbooks details are being collected. Apart from them, details like property usage, plot survey number, extent, undivided area and built up area should be incorporated in the records,” a senior official of the municipal administration department said. The guidelines and user guide of the App, which is available with TOI, says the enumerator should seek pattadar passbook details of the owner, if he/she does not have any passbooks, food security card, or Jandhan account or Aasara pension or MGNREGA job card should be collected. The municipal and panchayat staff have been asked to collect details of power connection and water connection details. “Mode of acquisition of a particular property has been there in the mutation forms even for agriculture properties to know whether they got it through partition deed, sale deed or ancestral property,” a deputy commissioner of the municipal corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/caste-aadhaar-details-must-for-registration-on-dharani/articleshow/78436703.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Blood, plasma donation drive organised||Madurai: The Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) here on Thursday organised a blood and plasma donation drive for National Voluntary Blood Donation Day. The blood donation drive was inaugurated at GRH’s Department of Blood Transfusion by district collector Dr TG Vinay and district deputy director of health services Dr KV Arjun Kumar donating blood. Apart from usual blood donation, this year, convalescent plasma donation drive was also held separately. Convalescent plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients is being used in plasma therapy for severe Covid-19 patients at GRH. On Thursday, three potential convalescent plasma donors came forward for screening, of which only one donated. So far, 24 recovered Covid-19 patients have donated convalescent plasma at GRH. Two blood donation camps were organised by GRH on Thursday, one at the hospital premises and one at Bypass Road. The hospital was able to collect 42 units of blood from more than 30 volunteers. “The need for blood has definitely increased now. Though we are still missing students who donate blood since educational institutions remain shut, it is good to see more volunteers coming forward to donate blood. Even during the lockdown period, blood donors responded to our calls. It has been challenging at times but there was no shortage at any time,” said Dr M Sintha, blood transfusion officer, Madurai Medical College (MMC). Doctors urged for more blood and plasma donors to come forward to donate at GRH Blood Bank. According to data from GRH Blood Bank, 72 blood donation camps have been held this year in which 11,718 units were donated. Of the 72 camps, 48 were organised during the lockdown period and 5,911 units were collected. The average daily GRH requirement from the blood bank is 82 units of blood and products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/blood-plasma-donation-drive-organised/articleshow/78437839.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Madurai||Epilepsy surgery performed on 2 kids in Madurai||Madurai: Two children, who were suffering from drug refractory focal epilepsy or epilepsy uncontrolled even with drugs, underwent surgery at a private hospital in Madurai and have successfully recovered. Though 70% of people with epilepsy can get treated with anti-seizure drugs alone, 30% of them are resistant to medicines and are referred to as having drug refractory epilepsy. “One of the children, a seven-year-old boy, had focal cortical dysplasia, getting 100-200 seizures a day and other child had gliosis with 10-15 seizures a day and repeated falls and injuries every day,” said Dr S Muthukani, epileptologist at Apollo Hospitals, Madurai. “We carried out resection of the particular affected area of the brain where seizures happen. Then, intensive monitoring was done post-surgery,” said Dr Muthukani. Both the children are doing well in the postoperative period and are seizure-free so far. “There is no enough awareness about epilepsy surgery and many think such epilepsy is not curable. But, children, especially, can get a new lease of life post the surgery as they can remain seizure-free. The cost of treatment begins at around Rs 2.5 lakh,” she added.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/epilepsy-surgery-performed-on-2-kids-in-madurai/articleshow/78437843.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore logs 550 fresh cases of Covid-19||Coimbatore: The district recorded 550 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 32,620. With 511 people getting discharged, the number of active cases stood at 5,060. However, the district recorded eight deaths taking the toll to 444. The deaths include a man in his forties, a woman and a man in the fifties, four people in their sixties and a 72-year-old man.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-logs-550-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/articleshow/78436705.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Website to also register land values||Hyderabad: As property registrations in future will be done only through Dharani, the Telangana government has asked officials to incorporate land value of both agriculture and non-agriculture properties on the portal immediately. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Thursday directed district collectors and municipal administration to register basic value of land on the records against the land survey numbers before October 5. Based on these values, property buyers are asked to pay fee for registering their properties. As of now, basic value of agriculture properties is by and large based on survey numbers and divided into three categories, including those which could be converted into housing colonies, land abutting main roads and rest. “In GHMC, the sub-registrar (SRO) of the concerned jurisdiction will record basic values of house numbers in ward and blocks in the web application. When it comes to urban local bodies other than GHMC, SRO concerned and municipal commissioner will record the values of the non-agriculture properties,” the circular said. In panchayats, agriculture land values would be recorded and incorporated by SROs and revenue divisional officers and SRO and divisional panchyat officers for non-agriculture properties including houses and structures, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/website-to-also-register-land-values/articleshow/78436715.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 2, 2020||Bareilly||Postal staff and hobbyists mark 151st anniversary of the Indian postcard||PILIBHIT: Local postal authorities and members of Hobbies and Heritage Club, on Thursday, jointly celebrated the golden period of the Indian postcard — the most coveted and pervasive mode for sharing messages and emotions of its time, which has been abandoned by most people with the inception of internet and cell phones — on the occasion of its 151 anniversary. A cake resembling a postcard was cut and a resolution passed to promote the use of postcards in future. According to Parmanad Shrivastav, postmaster at Pilibhit’s head post office, the first postcard in India had been printed and circulated in 1879. Each post office used to sell hundreds of postcards everyday till only about 30 years ago, due to its popularity and low price. “Now, we sell hardly 20-25 postcards a day at the head post office. The total demand for postcards at all 14 post offices in the district is around 200 a day,” Shrivastav said. Recalling the days of the postcard’s wide circulation, Siyaram Sharma, an elderly postman attached to the head post office, said, “I alone would deliver around 150-170 postcards a day only around three decades ago, when I had just joined the service, but now, get hardly one postcard for delivery in a week.” Eminent criminal lawyer Vidyadhar Pandey (70) said the postcard was the most convenient and cheap mode of sending messages. “We, the lawyers, had a practice of informing our clients about the progress of their court cases and assigned dates for hearing through postcards. In addition, we would also get information from the high court regarding cases pending there, also through postcards.” “Nowadays, cell phone calls from clients are a big disturbance, especially when studying and make preparations for a serious criminal case,” Pandey said. The founder secretary of HHC, Kalim Athar, who has in his collection every post card circulated in India so far, said the first postcard from Pilibhit had been posted by a general merchant’s firm on March 3, 1944, which he had collected from its receiver, The Acme Thread Company Limited of Cawnpore, now Kanpur. A veteran letter writer, Vibhav Saxena of Pilibhit city said that “I still use postcards to send my letters to the editors of various newspapers for their publication in column ‘patra sampadak ke naam” (letter in editor’s name).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/postal-staff-and-hobbyists-mark-151st-anniversary-of-the-indian-postcard/articleshow/78431792.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||62-year-old woman murdered for gain||Coimbatore: The city police are on the lookout for suspects in the murder of a 62-year-old Kempatty Colony resident on Wednesday.The victim, S Dhanalakshmi, was staying with her son Manikandan. According to police, Manikandan returned to the house around 6pm to find his mother lying in a pool of blood and some gold ornaments and cash missing from the house, police sources said. “She was stabbed on the left side of her neck and had also sustained injuries on her head. According to Manikadan, Dhanalakshmi had pledged some jewellery for Rs 2 lakh a few days ago. The money was kept along with 20 sovereigns of gold ornaments in a cupboard,” said a police officer, who didn’t want to be named. The Big Bazaar police have filed a case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/62-year-old-woman-murdered-for-gain/articleshow/78436712.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Elderly couple found dead near rly track||Coimbatore: An elderly couple were found dead near the railway track near Vanjipalayam in Tirupur district on Thursday. Police said they were yet to ascertain whether it was a case of suicide or accidental death.The railway police identified the deceased as Thangavel, 68, and his wife Radhamani, 53, of Tharapuram in Tirupur district.A railway police officer said it was commuters on the stretch who found the bodies first and alerted them. The railway police subsequently recovered the bodies and sent them to the government hospital in Tirupur for postmortem.The officer said the couple had left their house on Wednesday night following a family dispute and spent the night at one of their relatives’ house.He said it was not known when they left the relative’s house. “Only after a thorough investigation we could ascertain whether they jumped in front of a train to kill themselves or were hit by a train accidently.” The railway police have registered a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elderly-couple-found-dead-near-rly-track/articleshow/78436710.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||2,200 new Covid cases, 8 deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 2,214 new cases of Covid-19 and eight deaths, raising the total number of cases so far in the state to 1,93,600. While the death toll rose to 1,135, so far 1,63,407 patients have recovered from the novel coronavirus infection in the state, and 29,058 patients are in hospitals and at homes undergoing treatment. The case fatality rate is 0.58% as of Wednesday. While the case fatality rate has been stable for the last one week now, the current average case fatality rate in the country is 1.56%. The recovery rate continues to improve and has now reached 84% in the state, as against 84% in the country. GHMC recorded 305 new cases on Wednesday. This was followed by 191 cases in Rangareddy, 153 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, 149 cases in Nalgonda and 131 cases in Warangal Urban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2200-new-covid-cases-8-deaths-in-t/articleshow/78436713.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||BSNL staff seek 4G spectrum||Coimbatore: BSNL employees observed October 1, the organisation’s foundation day, as a black day in protest against the Centre for not allotting 4G network to the state-owned telecom firm. They wore black masks at eight BSNL centres here.While private telecom firms are providing 4G service, BSNL is losing out to the competition, the protesters said. The Centre is trying to sabotage BSNL and force workers out, they said.District treasurer of BSNL Employees Union S Maheshwaran said the Centre failed to allot 4G network to BSNL despite demands in the last four years. “The Centre said it will not purchase equipment for implementing 4G network from China. But as no Indian firm makes the equipment, we have to buy them from China. Private firms purchased the equipment from there and are providing 4G services,” he said.Online classes and meetings are becoming the norm and the Centre’s inaction will undermine BSNL’s survival, Maheshwaran said. “Unlike the private telecom firms that provide 4G network only in urban areas, BSNL has infrastructure across rural areas also. If it gets 4G, it would be useful for a wide range of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bsnl-staff-seek-4g-spectrum/articleshow/78436751.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Ready to go to Melauli to sort out IIT issue, says Sawant||Panaji: To end the deadlock between Melauli villagers and the government over the setting up of IIT-Goa at Melauli, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that he is willing to hold a meeting with the locals. “I am ready to go to Melauli to discuss the issue, but it cannot be with 500 people. They (villagers) can form a four-member committee and I am ready to hold talks with them to resolve the matter,” Sawant told reporters. The past couple of days have seen villagers of Melauli blocking the road to the village to stop the survey work that had commence for the IIT project. Villagers are demanding that the government scrap the project and hand over the land to them for cultivation. On Monday, efforts of the state government to pacify villagers opposed to the project did not bear any fruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ready-to-go-to-melauli-to-sort-out-iit-issue-says-sawant/articleshow/78436750.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Large population still susceptible to Covid spread in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 prevalence across Telangana is occurring at a slow pace compared to other states, but major concerns remain as a large unaffected population is still susceptible to the virus, according to the latest ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition’s (NIN) second round of sero survey conducted in three districts. “Since a large number of people are still susceptible to SARS Cov-2 infection, all appropriate personal protection measures like wearing of masks, personal hygiene and social distancing should be continued,” ICMR-NIN said in the report released on Thursday. The survey was conducted by Avula Laxmaiah, scientist-G and ICMR nodal officer, along with B Dinesh Kumar, scientist-G, N Arlappa, scientist-F, and 50 scientific and technical staff of ICMR-NIN. “The increase in the number of cases is big when compared to the previous finding. But its slower when compared to other states,” said Laxmiah. The second round of SARS Cov-2 sero-epidemiological survey among the general population was conducted in association with the state government in 30 villages in Jangaon, Kamareddy and Nalgonda districts covering 1,309 people. It was revealed that that there were 83 positive (SARS Cov-2 IgG antibodies) cases out of 454 people tested in Jangaon, which is 18.2% as against 0.5% in the first round carried out during May 2020. In Nalgonda, 47 people had tested positive, which is 11.1% out of 422 people tested, as against only 0.25% in the first round. And in Kamareddy district, 30 people, that is 6.9% tested positive out of 433 people tested as against 0.25% in the first round. The study was carried out by NIN in association with the ministry of health and family welfare, government of Telangana. The state health department/district authorities were also actively supported to ensure smooth conduct of house-to-house survey in 30 villages across three districts and total subjects covered were 1,309.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/large-population-still-susceptible-to-covid-spread-in-telangana/articleshow/78436754.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Three arrested for gang-raping guest worker, 3 on the run||COIMBATORE: Three men have been arrested for raping a 22-year-old woman near Kallimedu-Ugayanur Road at Palladam in Tirupur district. Police said they were on the lookout for three more people. The Palladam all-woman police identified the accused as Raju, 21, Kavin Kumar, 23, and Anbu 21. A police officer said, “The victim, mother of a six-year-old girl, is a native of Assam. She lives in Coimbatore.” The officer said the woman had befriended one of the accused, Rajeshkumar, when she was working with a private company near Udumalpet. “A few days ago, she had called him up inquiring about job vacancies, as she desperately needed a job. Promising to get her a job, he asked her to meet him at his house in Palladam on Monday,” the officer said. As agreed, the woman met Rajeshkumar and in the evening, she requested him to drop her back at bus stand to travel back to Coimbatore. He then asked his brother Raju to drop her at the bus stop, the official said. “Raju took her to a vacant plot near Kallimedu-Ugayanur road, where his four friends were waiting. They took turns to rape the woman and abandoned her there. They also took away her mobile phone worth Rs8,000 and Rs2,000 before fleeing,” the officer said. Based on her complaint, the Palladam all-woman police registered a case under sections 147 (guilty of rioting), 376 (D) (charges for gang rape), 384 (punishment for extortion) and 109 (abetment of any offense) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and arrested the trio on Wednesday. The three were produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody. The Tirupur district police have formed two special teams to nab the remaining accused, who are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-arrested-for-gang-raping-guest-worker-3-on-the-run/articleshow/78436747.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Ensure contractor returns Rs 91L security deposit: Govt||Kochi: State government has issued an order asking Kochi corporation authorities to take measures to ensure that the contractor of Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) project pays back the security deposit of Rs 91 lakh. The order was issued based on a probe report by the performance audit department. As per the order, local body authorities should complete all procedures within two weeks and inform the state government about it. Until the contractor pays back the amount, it will be the liability of corporation secretary, superintending engineer and the mayor, the order stated. Mayor Soumini Jain said Kochi corporation owes more money to the contractor. "As of now, the corporation owes the contractor around Rs.1.62 crore. That’s why we released his security deposit which comes to just Rs.91 lakh," Jain said, adding that as the corporation owes more money to the contractor, the issue of taking back the security deposit doesn’t arise. In August 2019, the mayor gave anticipatory approval for releasing the security deposit to the contractor. According to Jain, she gave the nod for releasing the security deposit to the contractor as he was planning to stop the work due to fund crunch. To ensure the work gets completed on time, the amount was released, she said. The project envisages construction of ground plus 11-storeyed apartment complex at Thuruthy in Fort Kochi. Once the project is completed, around 198 families currently living in slums can be accommodated in the apartment. The auditors had conducted a probe into the alleged irregularities in the act of mayor giving anticipatory approval for returning the security deposit based on a complaint filed by education standing committee chairperson Poornima Narayan and 22 other councillors. According to auditors’ report, the act of the mayor giving anticipatory approval for releasing the security deposit to the contractor was against the rules. Meanwhile, opposition councillors said corporation authorities have to take back the security deposit. "In their report, the auditors had made it clear that the argument that the corporation owes more money to the contractor is baseless. It is not an excuse for releasing the security deposit to the contractor. The government order also states so," Poornima Narayan said. The opposition councillors have lodged a complaint with vigilance and anticorruption bureau seeking a probe into the alleged irregularities in releasing the security deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ensure-contractor-returnsrs-91l-security-deposit-govt/articleshow/78434053.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||SEC: Candidates should go for online nominations||Hyderabad: Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) on Thursday opined that the contesting candidates should preferably go for online nominations including affidavits. The announcement was made two days after the SEC announced that it is examining viability of introducing e-voting on pilot basis. For the upcoming GHMC elections, civic officials were asked to follow physical distancing protocols. The directions were given at a meeting held on Thursday at SEC. GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar attended the meeting. SEC commissioner Partha Sarathi directed health officials to designate nodal officers from the health department to monitor health related issues during the poll. Meanwhile, on the first day of enrolment of graduate voters, MAUD minister KT Rama Rao enrolled his name in voters list. He said voting percentage should be improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-candidates-should-go-for-online-nominations/articleshow/78436761.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Kallar horticulture farm gets facelift to attract tourists||Coimbatore: The state horticulture farm at Kallar near Mettupalayam here is getting a makeover to lure tourists.The farm is being upgraded under the eco-tourism scheme, a horticulture department official said. “We are setting up facilities such as a food court, gazebos, play area, footpaths and have installed a reverse osmosis (RO) system for drinking water. Tourists can have food and spend quality time here,” he said.The farm used to attract 200 visitors a month, which has reduced due to the pandemic situation. Officials hope the renovation will attract more people to the beautiful place.The 22-acre farm produces sapling of mangosteen, durian, jackfruit, custard apple and avocado. “We have been producing pepper saplings and will soon start production of areca nut saplings,” said the official. “The facility focuses on tropical fruit saplings and also produces ornamental and indoor plants.”Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced in the assembly last year that five horticulture farms will be developed as eco-tourism destinations. The Giant Orchard Karumandurai in Salem, Kallar here, Devala in the Nilgiris, Kodaikanal in Dindigul and Coutralam in Tirunelveli would be developed as eco-horti tourism spots at a cost of Rs 50lakh each, he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kallar-horticulture-farm-gets-facelift-to-attract-tourists/articleshow/78436752.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress leader Shabbir Ali attack case: Cops to drop charges against MIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, court perplexed||HYDERABAD: The flip-flop by Hyderabad police in the investigation of attack on senior Congress leader Shabbir Ali on the day of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporator (GHMC) election in February 2016 was questioned by the judge of MLAs & MPs court at Nampally on Thursday after Mirchowk police filed a second chargesheet requesting to drop AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi as an accused. On the day of election, when senior Congress leaders Uttam Kumar Reddy, Shabbir Ali and a few others were travelling in car, a mob stopped their car and a few persons attacked Shabbir Ali, who was seated inside the car, with fist blows after damaging the car. When the incident took place, Asaduddin was close to Congress leaders’ car even as alleged followers of AIMIM tried to stop the Congress leaders, accusing them of violating the election code. A criminal case was then registered by Mirchowk police. Following the completion of investigation, police filed a chargesheet in Nampally court mentioning Asad as the prime accused, along with several others on the charge of assault, intimidation and violation of the model code. Police mentioned eye-witnesses and videographs. A few months ago, Mirchowk police submitted another chargesheet before the special court, this time seeking permission to withdraw case against Asaduddin, as they claimed he was not related to attacking Shabbir Ali and citied new witnesses and videographs in the second chargesheet to support their decision. When the case came up for hearing on Thursday, the judge directed the prosecution by questioning him to defend how a second chargesheet can be considered to withdraw name of an accused, when the same prosecution in the past had filed the chargesheet, which the court had already taken cognizance. The matter is posted to October 5 by the judge and the prosecution has to defend their decision to file the second chargesheet. The court directed defence lawyer Abdul Azeem, who represented Asaduddin, to be present during the next hearing. Asaduddin then in a tweet had denied having any role in the attack and claimed he had restrained the attackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-to-drop-charges-against-mim-chief-court-perplexed/articleshow/78436772.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Multi-level car parking facility work in top gear||Coimbatore: The city corporation has expedited construction of the multi-level car parking facility on DB Road at RS Puram to complete it by January.The civic body had launched the project under the Smart Cities Mission in March 2019 to solve traffic congestion and parking issues on the busy road. It is coming up on a 11,600 square metre plot at a cost of Rs 41 crore.“The facility will have four levels to accommodate 370 cars at a time. The contractor has completed two levels. The remaining work will be complete by January,” a corporation official said. “We had to stop the work for more than a month since April because of the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. We later sped up the work to compensate the delay.”“An automated puzzle type mechanism will alert about the vacant space in the facility. Vehicles will be lifted from the ground and moved to the vacant spot. Workers will be deployed only for gate keeping and assistance. It does not require human intervention,” the official said.Meanwhile, the corporation has directed the contractors implementing projects under the Smart Cities Mission to speed up the work to compensate the delay caused by the lockdown. “While most of the guest workers who had gone to their native states during the lockdown have returned, the number of local workers has also been increased to speed up the work. We have been speeding up the work to make sure that the projects can be completed within the deadline,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/multi-level-car-parking-facility-work-in-top-gear/articleshow/78436716.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||Get ready to watch WC match live in Vadodara||Vadodara: All decks have been cleared to construct a state-of-the-art international cricket stadium at Kotambi on Halol Road with Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) coffers now flush with much-needed funds for this ambitious project that was hanging fire for the past two decades. The stadium, 20 km from Vadodara, is expected to be ready in the next two years and if all goes well, Barodians will be able to witness the action live from the pavilions in the 2023 ICC World Cup to be held in India. BCA has now put the project on fast track after getting funds and hopes to complete it within the stipulated time frame. The association has already received Rs 52 crore from the BCCI towards grants and subsidies and is also eligible to receive a total of Rs 100 crore. Owing to the pending AGMs and financial accounts of the last six years, BCA had missed out on getting dues from the BCCI. The last ODI played in Vadodara was back in December 2010 at Reliance Stadium when India had defeated New Zealand by nine wickets with Gautam Gambhir smashing an unbeaten 126 “We had bought the land for building this stadium a few years ago. But the association needed funds to build a complex that would be an experience for both spectators and the cricketers. Under the chairmanship of BCA president, Pranav Amin, the association recently concluded all pending annual general meetings (AGM) that will get us huge grants from the BCCI,” said Sheetal Mehta, vice-president, BCA The management has already held meetings with prominent architects and contractors and tenders will be issued soon. In the last two years, BCA has prepared a cricket ground and raised a periphery wall on the land in Kotambi. “Our aim is to host an ODI of the World Cup that will be held in India in 2023. We will be able to bid for the matches once we meet the mandatory stadium requirements,” Mehta added. The association began taking the cricket stadium project seriously after the BCCI made it mandatory for the state associations to have their own stadium for hosting international matches a few years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/get-ready-to-watch-wc-match-live-in-vadodara/articleshow/78435186.cms||Tushar Tere
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Micro and small industries in dist allege denial of loans by banks||Coimbatore: Owners of micro and small industries in the district are finding it difficult to get loans, despite several representations and submitting loan forms to the district administration, banks and the district industries centre, industry representatives said.Representatives of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia) had collected 410 loan applications from micro and small industrial units and submitted them to district administration officials, bank officials and officials of the district industries centre. However, there has been no response from banks, they said.S Surulivel, president of the Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa), and a Focia coordinator, said the collector had asked bankers to decide on giving loans to the units. “But there has been no response from banks so far.”District president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (Tact) J James said despite their representations, the units have not been given loans, which has been causing fund crunch.As many as 140 members of the association were refused loans, representatives said. The forum’s president S P Rangarajan said the members were stressed due to expenses such as power bills, rent for the units and other operational expenses. “We have been seeking running capital through loans of Rs 1lakh to Rs 5lakh. But banks are not forthcoming to give us loans even after several representations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/micro-and-small-industries-in-dist-allege-denial-of-loans-by-banks/articleshow/78436757.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||MP slams decision to scrap 20% quota||Coimbatore: MP P R Natarajan wrote to minister of state for labour Santosh Kumar Gangwar on Thursday condemning the central government’s decision to scrap the 20% quota given to ESIC (Employees State Insurance Corporation) insurance holders’ children. Till last year, 20% of seats in ESI medical and dental colleges were reserved for children of insured people. On Thursday, all ESI Medical Colleges received an order informing them that the 20% IP (insured person’s) quota would be brought into the central government quota and filled by the director general of health services.ESI Medical College in Coimbatore which has 100 seats for MBBS, saw 65% filled under the state government quota, 15% by the central government quota and 20% by ESIC quota. Now as per the order besides the state government quota, the remaining 35% will entirely be filled in by the central government quota, confirmed ESI Medical college authorities. “Earlier insured people’s children would go to the ESI sub-regional office, get an eligibility certificate and attach it with their NEET scores and application. Their ranking would be put under the ESIC quota along with other applicants across the country and seats would be allotted based on availability,” said medical superintendent, Dr Ravikumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mp-slams-decision-to-scrap-20-quota/articleshow/78436767.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Govt will take up planting rare herbs, promote hinterland tourism: CM||Panaji: Planting rare medicinal plants, promoting hinterland tourism and efforts to reduce man-animal conflict in forest areas are some initiatives that the Goa government will take soon up, chief minister Pramod Sawant said while inaugurating the 69th Wildlife Week on Thursday, observed from October 2 to 8 with a series of online events and contests. “We want to promote forests as our strength. We are known for eco and hinterland tourism, the bird festival and waterfalls, so we want to promote such activities in our wildlife,” he said. Sawant said that such tourism has immense potential for improving the livelihood of people living near forests. He also commended the forest department for the annual Goa bird festival and said that it may become as well known as Iffi in future. The week started with a walkathon from Altinho to Campal. Sawant released a short film, ‘Goa’s Forest - A Web Of Life’ which gives a glimpse of the diversity of forests in Goa and various life forms in them. The week-long programme features contests for school students. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-will-take-up-planting-rare-herbs-promote-hinterland-tourism-cm/articleshow/78436764.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Nematode awareness event held||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) held an awareness programme on nematode pest and its control for farmers from tribal communities in the Anamalai forest range at Pollachi on Wednesday.Experts from the university demonstrated methods to control the pest in horticulture crops, said a TNAU release.The programme was held at Thammampatti village in the Anamalai forest range for farmers and farm labourers belonging to the Malasar tribe, who cultivate vegetables.Experts demonstrated application of bioagents for nematode management. Farm inputs such as bioagents and tools like crowbars, spades, pickaxes and bill hooks were distributed to the farmers, along with training kits, the release said.About 100 farmers attended the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nematode-awareness-event-held/articleshow/78436762.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Bengaluru||When Bapu was in awe of Kannada theatre greats||Bengaluru: Mahatma Gandhi visited Bengaluru five times during the pre-independence period in what were his crucial forays into south India to strengthen the freedom struggle. His trips in 1927 and 1934 were especially significant as he arrived here to gather support for his Khadi and Harijan movements, respectively. But little is known about efforts of some Kannada theatrepersons who staged two plays before him on both the occasions to raise funds for the freedom struggle. Freedom fighter Pandit Taranath, father of globally renowned Indian musician Rajeev Taranath, was instrumental in staging of a play soon after Mahatma Gandhi arrived here on June 5, 1927. “Gandhiji was not very keen on watching plays but Taranath, on the behest of Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, who was a professor at University of Mysore then, convinced the Mahatma to come and watch his play, Deenabandhu Kabir, after presenting him a copy of the script,” said Vemagal Somashekar, senior historian and Kannada author. Initially a Kannada script, Deenabandhu Kabir, based on the life of 15th century social reformer Kabir, was translated into Hindi to make it easier for Gandhi to comprehend. It was staged on the evening of July 9, 1927, a Saturday, at Oscar theatre, the site of present-day Movieland theatre in Majestic. Cast sported khadi costumes Author M Dhruvanarayana, in his 1992 book Deenabhandhu Kabir, a compilation of Pandit Taranath’s works, says the play opened to a crowd with Gandhi and Rajaji being the star spectators. “Taranath penned the script and played the role of Kabir along with other notable artistes like Bellary Raghava aka Raghavachar and actors from the Amateur Dramatic Association, a famous theatre group in Karnataka then,” Somashekar added. Dhruvanarayana goes on to record that the play by Kannada artistes mesmerised Gandhi so much that he watched it fully, though he had initially said he would inaugurate it and leave as 7pm was his prayer time. Taranath, who was well aware of his leader’s prayer routine, introduced a Ramanama Prarthane (prayer to Lord Ram) in the two-hour play precisely at 7pm much to the Mahatma’s surprise. Interestingly, all the artistes, including Taranath and Raghava, were clad in costumes made of khadi to express support to the freedom movement. Gandhi praised the troupe’s performance and accepted the proceeds for the Khadi movement, the author writes. Play’s proceeds went to Harijan movement During his next Bengaluru visit in January 1934, Gandhi watched members of Amateur Dramatic Association, famous among locals as Ada, perform a play called Samaja. Staged at Shivananda theatre on the evening of January 7, 1934, the 40-minute play enthralled Gandhi. K Bhim Rao, then vice-president of Ada, presented the Mahatma with Rs 250 from the ticket collection towards the Harijan movement, according to historical records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/when-bapu-was-in-awe-of-kannada-theatre-greats/articleshow/78436167.cms||Petlee Peter
October 2, 2020||Hubballi||Parties commence preparations for MLC elections||Dharwad: With the EC announcing October 28 as the date for election to four vacant seats- Karnataka South-East Graduates' constituency, Karnataka West Graduates, Karnataka North-East Teachers and Bengaluru Teachers' constituency- in Karnataka Legislative Council the aspirants have also started their home work earnestly. R Chowda Reddy Thoopalli, S V Sankanur, Sharanappa Mattur and Puttanna represented the four constituencies. According to the schedule announced by the Commission, the last date of filing nominations is October 8. Scrutiny of nominations will take place on October 9 and the last date for the withdrawal of candidature is October 12. Polling will take place on October 28 from 8 am to 5 pm while the counting will be on November 2. The West Graduate constituency includes Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada districts and BJP’s Siddalingappa Sankanur had held the seat. Sources in the party said, there was high possibility of retaining the winners. The West Graduates constituency was the bastion of Congress since 1984 with H K Patil holding the seat for four terms. He suffered a shock defeat in 2008 at the hands of Mohan Limbikai of BJP. R M Kuberappa is the likely candidate from Congress. Sources in JD(S) said Shivashankar Kallur of Annigeri in Navalgund taluk of Dharwad district will be the JD(S) candidate for West Graduate Constituency, while Chowdareddy will be fielded again from South East Graduates’ Constituency. Ranganath will be the party’s candidate for Bengaluru Teachers’ Constituency, the sources said. Before his term as MLC could end Limbikai had resigned as MLC to contest the 2013 assembly elections from Hubballi-Dharwad West as KJP candidate which he lost eventually. Now he is back in BJP and has been appointed Chief Minister’s legal advisor. Following Limbikai’s exit from the party the BJP in 2014 fielded Sankanur for the West Graduates Constituency and he succeeded. The state party unit has sent a single name of Sankanur for the constituency to the BJP national president J P Nadda and the official approval is expected any time, said a senior leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/parties-commence-preparations-for-mlc-elections/articleshow/78435061.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 2, 2020||Hubballi||Drunk Goa bus driver beaten up in Belagavi||Belagavi: A driver of a goa government-run Kadamba bus was beaten up by passengers for drunken driving in Belagavi on Thursday morning. The 51 passengers in the bus, which was heading from Panaji to Badami via Belagavi were angry by the driver’s reckless driving by the time they reached Belagavi at 10am. Meanwhile, an advocate from Belagavi asked the driver for a parcel which was given to the former by the latter’s relatives in Panaji. The driver refused to give it and demanded more money. After seeing the driver misbehave with the advocate, the passengers quarrelled with him. They realised he was drunk when he was struggling to even stand properly. As the argument intensified, the advocate slapped the driver, who later apologised to the passengers. In a video of the incident, available with TOI, passengers are seen saying they would register a complaint against him. The driver’s name is not known while the bus’s registration number is GA03 X 0605. When asked about the incident, Belagavi KSRTC divisional commissioner Mahadeva Munaji said he was unaware of it as he was on leave on Thursday. “If any case has been registered in connection with this incident, even I will write to the Goa transport department,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/drunk-goa-bus-driver-beaten-up-in-belagavi/articleshow/78435125.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||14 teams to keep eye on model code violations||Hyderabad: As many as 14 teams have been formed which will exclusively look into model code of conduct violations by politicians and political parties in Dubbak constituency. Siddipet district SP Joel Davis told TOI that flying squads would also be going around in the constituency to gather evidence of voters being influenced in ways that violate the model code. Two video surveillance teams have also been deployed. “We are going by the guidelines issued by the Election Commission. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, stringent norms will be followed and enforced,” he said. Parties will have to first apply for permission to hold public meetings. In view of the pandemic, no meeting will be allowed with more than 100 people in an indoor premises. He said social distancing norms will have to be followed strictly. Though only Dubbak is going to the polls, the model code was applicable to the entire district. A major portion of the constituency comes under Siddipet district, while some part of it also falls in neighbouring Medak district. The elections, however, could not have come at a more challenging time for police. So far, 196 policemen have been affected by Covid-19 in the district. Of them, 164 have recovered and the rest are active cases. “All the necessary precautions are being taken to see that policemen on duty are not affected. A policemen who shows symptoms of Covid-19 gets tested immediately,” Davis added. District collector P Venkatarama Reddy and Davis held a meeting with officials and said the model code came into affect on September 29 when the Election Commission made an announcement about the bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-teams-to-keep-eye-on-model-code-violations/articleshow/78436776.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribal farmers get hybrid seeds to cultivate vegetables, coconut||Coimbatore: The sugarcane breeding institute has distributed seeds of hybrid varieties of vegetables, coconut and tissue culture plants of two banana varieties to the farmers of Neelampathi and Ookaiyanoor tribal villages, to help them achieve higher yield and income.Scientists from the institute said both the villages had fertile laterite soil, good rainfall and knowledge of farming, but were using only local varieties of seeds and stalks from existing banana plantations, which usually give a low yield.The hybrid varieties that were distributed to the tribal farmers included tissue culture plants of nendran banana and G9 banana variety, PKM 1 varieties of tomato and annual moringa, chilli co 1, brinjal co4 and cluster bean MDU 1.Framers at Ookaiyanoor were given seeds of paddy variety ADT 45, as scientists found it to be a low-lying area, where waterlogging is likely during heavy rain. Scientist Rajula Shanthy said, “While the tribals are already into farming, they are using local varieties from Karamadai market, and not traditional varieties. So, their yield was average. The new varieties are proven high yielders.”The scientists have plans to distribute high-yielding varieties of millets such as horse gram, green gram, black gram, ragi and varagu during the next season when the rain would stop and the rain-fed season begin in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribal-farmers-get-hybrid-seeds-to-cultivate-vegetables-coconut/articleshow/78436765.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||HC to Raju: What’s wrong in psychoanalysis of a man||Hyderabad: Observing that the trial court should have first watched the Netflix episode on Satyam Computers founder B Ramalinga Raju before granting an injunction on its release, the Telangana high court on Thursday sought to know from Raju’s counsel as to what is wrong in a filmmaker or a writer trying to make a psychoanalysis of a man convicted for committing India’s biggest corporate fraud. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy posed this question to senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy who was arguing against the release of the web series titled as ‘Bad Boys Billionaires’, an episode of which was about Raju. “A writer would attempt to do a psychoanalysis of a character. Like Roman historian Suetonius (who wrote biographies of 12 successive Roman rulers, from Julius Caesar to Domitian during the imperial era of the Roman empire). How was Caesar different from his predecessors? He made a psychoanalysis. Most of his decisions. Both good ones and bad ones... Psychoanalysis of a character is very important to estimate why a person behaved in a particular way,” the bench said. Niranjan replied that though Raju was convicted in Satyam case, he has appealed against the trial court judgment and some of the cases filed by ED were still at trial stage and films cannot be made in a manner that cause prejudice against Raju, he said. Admitting that Raju did give consent to the filmmakers, Niranjan said Raju grew suspicious after seeing the trailer that spoke about greed, corruption, fraud and cooking of books. “Consent was not given for this. They obtained it from him through trickery,” he said. Niranjan also objected over the attempt to equate Raju with billionaires who fled the country. “You are trying to paint a very innocent picture of Raju saying he was shocked after seeing the trailer,” the bench said. Next hearing will be on October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-raju-whats-wrong-in-psychoanalysis-of-a-man/articleshow/78436780.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris to enforce SOPs to contain virus spread||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris administration has intensified the drive to inspect and monitor commercial establishments in the district, following the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. In the past one week alone, the district had recorded more than 900 new cases, of which 805 were from villages, where population density is more and preventive measures are not followed strictly. According to health officials, people were not coming forward voluntarily for testing, despite having symptoms. They have no other option, but to collect samples through contact tracing of positive cases. Gudalur taluk, where the virus spread was minimum in the past months, has been witnessing more number of positive cases in the past few days. Kasim Vayal area in Gudalur town alone reported 10 cases on Thursday. District collector J Innocent Divya said, “Covid-19 wards in all the three government hospitals in the district are almost full. But we have enough Covid care centres.” She said teams, comprising revenue and municipal officials, have been formed to inspect commercial establishments, public transports and other places, where people gather in large numbers, to see if standard operating procedures (SOPs) were followed strictly. “The teams will conduct surprise checks and fine them if protocols are found to be not followed.” Diya said containment strategy would be devised based on the number of cases on a street or village. “We have made rules stricter in regard to movement of people in containment zones. Police personnel are posted in those areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-to-enforce-sops-to-contain-virus-spread/articleshow/78436778.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||72 test +ve, 118 get discharged||The Nilgiris district logged 72 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 4,245. At least 118 patients were discharged from treatment centres on the day. With this, the number of active cases stands at 850.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/72-test-ve-118-get-discharged/articleshow/78436775.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC tells corporation not to pass the buck on Greater Kailash-II flooding||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Thursday termed the measures taken by South Delhi Municipal Corporation to clean a storm water drain as “inadequate”. Justice Najmi Waziri was taking stock of the steps taken by SDMC after the court’s direction last month to clean the south Delhi drain. The court found that the work done was of a “rudimentary level” and directed the corporation along with the PWD to ensure the drain is cleaned in the next ten days. The court made it clear that the corporation can’t pass the buck to Central Ground Water Board or any other body, pointing out that “problem of drainage is your liability.” Fixing a new deadline, the court also ordered PWD to video record the cleaning work using drone photography if needed, and permitted three members of Greater Kailash-II RWA to monitor the job. The court is hearing a petition on flooding of basements in Greater Kailash-II and had earlier directed SDMC to find an immediate solution, keeping in mind the need to prevent the outbreak of waterborne diseases. On Thursday, the court also asked the corporation officials to visit the houses where basements are getting flooded. The court had earlier noted that residents of the area have been suffering from inundation by water in their basements, for which solution has to be found primarily by the municipal corporation. The court is hearing a plea by local residents aggrieved by water accumulating in the basements of their properties and in the neighbourhood due to lack of drainage through the system installed. Advocates Shaan Mohan and Tushar Gupta contended that the steps taken by the corporation are inadequate because the inundation continues all the time, the basements are full of water, continuously damaging the structure. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has maintained there is no ongoing construction and the Metro-line commissioned way back in 2018 and in any case Metro construction is roughly 15-metres deep from the surface level. In their plea, the residents said that the water level rises from about 1.5 feet to 4 feet, rendering the properties unusable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-tells-corpn-not-to-pass-the-buck-on-gk-ii-flooding/articleshow/78436788.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 2, 2020||Goa||BJP’s ex-mantri slams PWD for potholes in Saligao||Saligao: Former tourism minister Dilip Parulekar has criticised the Public Works Department (PWD) over the pathetic condition of roads in Saligao constituency. Parulekar, who was the former Saligao MLA, said that the roads in Saligao have become unmotorable because of “deep potholes”. Parulekar told reporters, “I have even submitted a memorandum to the PWD on the bad condition of the roads in my village.” The former tourism minister said that the roads from Betim to Reis Magos and Nerul, and the road from Reis Magos to Pilerne are also in a pathetic condition, adding that the roads at Sangolda had become unmotorable. “I am appealing to the PWD to repair the roads as soon as possible. I have also told the PWD executive engineer that I will get the roads repaired with my money if they cannot take up the works,” said Parulekar, adding that there have been many accidents due to the potholes. He also said that “asphalting, hotmixing and repair of roads should be taken up immediately as the people are paying road tax to the RTO”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjps-ex-mantri-slams-pwd-for-potholes-in-saligao/articleshow/78436773.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Release Rs 2.6k cr IGST dues: T||Hyderabad: State finance minister T Harish Rao on Thursday said that the Centre has to release Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) dues of Rs 2,638 crore immediately to Telangana. The minister said that the amount should not be credited to the consolidated fund of India. Participating in a video conference of the group of ministers presided by convener and Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, Rao said that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) also has raised the issue of the centre depositing Rs 25,058 crore in the consolidated fund. Accepting the finance minister’s remarks, Sushil Kumar Modi directed the concerned officials to prepare a recommendation for the release of Rs 25,058 crore to states immediately and send the same to GST Council. The group consisted of finance ministers from Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Tamilnadu and Odisha Telangana is scheduled to get Rs 2,638 crore pending IGST dues from the Centre. The CAG had pointed out that the IGST dues were diverted towards CFI in 2017-18, 2018-19 too. In the 2018-19, Centre had to give Rs 13,944 crore to states but had diverted it to CFI. Telangana had a share of Rs 210 crore in that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/release-rs-2-6k-cr-igst-dues-t/articleshow/78436787.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Gang behind fake FB profiles of top cops nabbed from Raj||Hyderabad: Nalgonda police have apprehend a gang responsible for creating fake Facebook profiles of cops. Special police teams on Wednesday picked up four accused from a village in Bharatpur district and seized scores of SIMs . The accused created fake profiles of hundreds of cops from several states in the country and sought money from friends citing medical emergency. About a week ago, Nalgonda superintendent of police (SP) AV Ranganath, whose fake Facebook profile was also created by the offenders, had dispatched 25 police personnel, divided into four special teams, to track down the culprits. A special team camped in Delhi, gathering technical details to zero in on the movement of the accused, while rest of the teams started manually tracking the suspects to identify them. After scouring through Bharatpur district of Rajasthan with the assistance of local police, the location of six suspects has been traced to Kaithwara village in the district. Even after specifically identifying the location of the accused, the special teams had worked for more than two days to pick up the accused. “We picked up the offenders one by one during the late night hours when they were alone. Movement during day time is risky as the villagers tend to attack cops. We managed to nab four main offenders, but two other gang members managed to escape,” an official, who was part of the team, said. The four accused were being brought to Telangana. According to police, most youngsters in the village were indulging in various kinds of cyber crime, including fake Facebook profiles fraud and vehicle sale fraud on e-classifieds portals. “The apprehended gang is responsible for creating fake Facebook profiles of Telangana police personnel, including some senior officers. The gang had created over 200 fake facebook profiles of cops in Karnataka. They had also created fake profiles of cops from several other states, including Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and West Bengal. Several friends of police personnel in other states transferred money into e-wallets of the accused, thinking that their friends were asking for money for medical emergency,” a senior police official said. The gang members have been paying Rs 500 per activated SIM card to agents to procure them from different states, including Odisha and Kerala, to hoodwink the law enforcement agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gang-behind-fake-fb-profiles-of-top-cops-nabbed-from-raj/articleshow/78436794.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Tribal students demand more seats||Kozhikode: Adding to the digital connectivity and challenges in institutional access due to the closure of educational institutions following Covid-19, many tribal students in Wayanad are now facing the prospect of being left out in the admission to Plus One classes. While 2,009 tribal students passed the SSLC exam in the district, only 529 Plus One seats are available under Scheduled Tribes reservation in Wayanad, which has the highest tribal population in the state. Tribal and Dalit students have started an indefinite stir before the mini civil station at Sulthan Bathery demanding Plus-One seats to all eligible tribal students and raising the slogan ‘Education is our birthright’. The agitation is being held under the aegis of Adishakthi Summer School and Adivasi Gothra Maha Sabha (AGMS). “If the government fails to intervene immediately, around 1,500 tribal students will be unable to get higher secondary admissions this year. The Covid-19 situation has compounded the admission woes of the tribal students and they will not be able to continue their studies if they don’t get admissions in nearby schools,” AGMS state coordinator M Geethanandan said. He said that even in the 529 Plus-One seats reserved for the tribal students under the 8% seats reserved for ST category, there are only 300 seats in the humanities stream that the ST students mostly prefer. Tribal activists said that students from remote hamlets have been finding it difficult to apply due to a lack of access to the internet. Education department officials said that the marginal increase in Plus-One seats to 60 in each higher secondary batch would increase the number of seats available to the ST category to around 650. Kalpetta MLA C K Saseendran said that the district development council has decided to request the government to grant additional seats to the district. He added that he would take up the matter with the state government and would also request more humanities seats to the tribal students. The protesting students are also demanding steps to stop charging high fees by aided autonomous colleges and self-financing colleges. They also seek facilities for online learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tribal-students-demand-more-seats/articleshow/78435304.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||No vehicles on cable bridge on weekends, walkers allowed||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has decided that Durgam Cheruvu cable stay bridge will be closed from Friday 10pm to Monday 6pm for vehicles. Pedestrians are allowed on the bridge. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said vehicular movement was restricted for safety of visitors. The decision was taken on Thursday after cops and GHMC officials and line department held a joint meeting. Deployment of security staff, police outpost for sign boards and setting up barricades were discussed in the meeting. “As visitors are coming on two sides of the bridge (ITC Kohinoor side and Road No 45 side), multiple parking areas are being identified on both sides by line departments,” read a statement issued by Cyberabad traffic police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-vehicles-on-cable-bridge-on-weekends-walkers-allowed/articleshow/78436785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Ring for help: Delhi Police give alarm bells to 400 seniors||NEW DELHI: On International Day for Older Persons, Delhi Police kick-started an initiative called “ghanti bajao, police bulao” to ensure the safety and security of the elderly living alone in the city. In west Delhi, police distributed 400 alarm bells to senior citizens residing alone. The speaker of these devices would have to be placed on the stairs or outside the house of immediate neighbours so they or cops on patrol could hear the SOS bell. Neighbours would be sensitised to alert 112 after hearing the alarm. Earlier, police had launched senior citizen apps and web portals, but the elderly didn’t use them much as they weren’t tech-savvy or comfortable with smartphones. The alarm bell, however, would be easy to carry. Police have advised senior citizens to keep it in their pockets so that they can press the button and sound an alert in an emergency. On Thursday, joint commissioner (western range) Shalini Singh interacted with the senior citizens through videoconferencing and inaugurated the initiative. West Delhi has around 2,000 senior citizens, of which 825 reside in Rajouri Garden. The alarm bells have been distributed to over 400 elderly in the area. Many seniors staying with family have also requested for the alarm bells in the next phase of distribution. “Senior citizens will have to keep the bell button with themselves, while the master control will be fixed in the house of a friendly neighbour and, in some cases, lobbies of apartments so that the security staffers can hear it. The alarm can be heard till around 25 metres with six different sounds,” said DCP (West) Deepak Purohit. The scheme primarily focuses on safety and security of the elderly living alone away from their families. It would be useful in case of intrusion by criminals in the guise of service providers, medical emergency or an attack by relatives or family members. “After the alarm is triggered, immediate assistance will be provided within 30 seconds, followed by medical teams or policemen reaching the house within the next 3-4 minutes. This will aid in saving precious human life from unfortunate circumstances,” said a police officer. During the lockdown, an 80-year-old woman accidentally fell inside her bed box. Luckily, her relative living in south Delhi saw the incident on CCTV and informed police in Central district, who broke open the door and rescued her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ring-for-help-police-give-alarm-bells-to-400-seniors/articleshow/78436844.cms||Sakshi Chand
October 2, 2020||Salem||As delta dists get rain, officials reduce water release from Mettur||SALEM: Public Works Department (PWD) officials on Thursday reduced the quantity of water being released to delta districts from the Mettur dam for irrigation purposes to 6,000 cubic metre per second (cusecs) from 10,000cusecs, following continuous rain in that part of the state for the past four days. Pointing out that they had been releasing nearly 18,000cusecs water to the delta districts until Tuesday evening, an official said the discharge level was brought down to 10,000cusecs the same night. “On Thursday morning, it was further reduced to 6,000cusecs.” However, the water being released to the dam’s east and west bank canals for irrigation purposes in Salem, Namakkal and Erode districts is maintained at 850cusecs. The water level in the dam was recorded at 96.55ft against its full capacity of 120ft, while the inflow increased to 6,603cusecs from 5,145cusecs. Meanwhile, the water flow to the Hogenakkal Falls in Dharmapuri district also increased to 8,000cusecs on Thursday morning from 5,000cusecs on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/as-delta-dists-get-rain-officials-reduce-water-release-from-mettur/articleshow/78444492.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Erode||As delta dists get rain, officials reduce water release from Mettur||SALEM: Public Works Department (PWD) officials on Thursday reduced the quantity of water being released to delta districts from the Mettur dam for irrigation purposes to 6,000 cubic metre per second (cusecs) from 10,000cusecs, following continuous rain in that part of the state for the past four days. Pointing out that they had been releasing nearly 18,000cusecs water to the delta districts until Tuesday evening, an official said the discharge level was brought down to 10,000cusecs the same night. “On Thursday morning, it was further reduced to 6,000cusecs.” However, the water being released to the dam’s east and west bank canals for irrigation purposes in Salem, Namakkal and Erode districts is maintained at 850cusecs. The water level in the dam was recorded at 96.55ft against its full capacity of 120ft, while the inflow increased to 6,603cusecs from 5,145cusecs. Meanwhile, the water flow to the Hogenakkal Falls in Dharmapuri district also increased to 8,000cusecs on Thursday morning from 5,000cusecs on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/as-delta-dists-get-rain-officials-reduce-water-release-from-mettur/articleshow/78444490.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Coimbatore||As delta dists get rain, officials reduce water release from Mettur||SALEM: Public Works Department (PWD) officials on Thursday reduced the quantity of water being released to delta districts from the Mettur dam for irrigation purposes to 6,000 cubic metre per second (cusecs) from 10,000cusecs, following continuous rain in that part of the state for the past four days. Pointing out that they had been releasing nearly 18,000cusecs water to the delta districts until Tuesday evening, an official said the discharge level was brought down to 10,000cusecs the same night. “On Thursday morning, it was further reduced to 6,000cusecs.” However, the water being released to the dam’s east and west bank canals for irrigation purposes in Salem, Namakkal and Erode districts is maintained at 850cusecs. The water level in the dam was recorded at 96.55ft against its full capacity of 120ft, while the inflow increased to 6,603cusecs from 5,145cusecs. Meanwhile, the water flow to the Hogenakkal Falls in Dharmapuri district also increased to 8,000cusecs on Thursday morning from 5,000cusecs on Wednesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/as-delta-dists-get-rain-officials-reduce-water-release-from-mettur/articleshow/78436783.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||SCCL seeks diversion of forest land for mining||Hyderabad: Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has sought diversion of 104 hectares of forest land in Yellandu forest area of Bhadradri Kothagudem district for a coal mining project to be set up with Rs 4,500 crore. The total coal reserves of the mine are 25 million tonnes (MTs), of which about 4.05 MTs is located in Yellandu reserve forest. SCCL filed an application recently with Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) for forest clearance. SCCL general manager of Yellendu, Y Rajeshwar Reddy, in the application to the forest department said, “We are going to start JK Opencast Mine towards West side of the existing Jawaharkhani open cast mine. The Opencast Project requires total land of 106 hectares. JK Opencast Mine is a coal mine, planned to produce 2 million tonnes of coal per annum with a capital outlay of Rs 316 crore and it has a life of 19 years. This project provides direct employment to 250 persons.” He further stated, “This project will contribute benefit to the society by way of increased employment resource.” The project will have a quarry area of 78 hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sccl-seeks-diversion-of-forest-land-for-mining/articleshow/78436807.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Prisons dept to open 5 petrol bunks||Hyderabad: Five more petrol bunks will be opened by the Telangana prisons department in the next one month. Officials said both convicts serving their sentence and also released prisoners would be employed in these bunks. To assist released prisoners to join the mainstream and lead a normal life, DG, prisons, Rajiv Trivedi has asked officials to talk to prisoners individually and ask them what help they would require to earn daily means of livelihood once released. Some of the convicts, who are expected to be released on remission on Gandhi Jayanthi, could earn between Rs 12,000 and Rs 15,000 a month. IG of prisons B Saidaiah said that petrol bunks would be opened at Jangaon, Kapra, Miryalaguda, Achampet and Kalwakurthy. “At this juncture, we cannot say how many prisoners will be released on October 2, but process is on. After they are released, we do not want them to go back to crime,” Saidaiah said. Trivedi is said to be keen that those who are released can also be helped to get jobs in private companies depending on their abilities. Since prisons department manufactures several products under its ‘My nation’ brand, released prisoners will be given another option whereby they can sell prison products by setting up a shop of their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prisons-dept-to-open-5-petrol-bunks/articleshow/78436801.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||HC imposes Rs20k cost on Kelibagh shopkeepers||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday imposed a cost of Rs10,000 each on Kelibagh shopkeepers, who had filed two petitions challenging collector’s land acquisition notice for widening of the road there. About 23 shopkeepers led by Harishkumar Somyani and Sunilkumar Choudhary had moved the judiciary by filing two petitions, but both were dismissed. With this rejection, the authorities can now acquire land for the road widening that included portions of petitioners’ shops, which were operating there for the last many years. Earlier also, the HC had rejected similar plea by other shopkeepers and even Supreme Court had upheld its stand. According to Nagpur Municipal Corporation counsel Jemini Kasat, authorities proposed to widen the road from 15 metres to 24 metres. The collector had issued a notification for land acquisition on August 27 last year and issued notices to shopkeepers on October 31, which were challenged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-imposes-rs20k-cost-on-kelibagh-shopkeepers/articleshow/78436853.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Project to monitor water supply to finish by October 30||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board has set a one-month deadline for completion of its ‘flow meter project’ through which the water utility aims to carry out daily real-time monitoring of the city’s water supply network. The agency has, so far, installed 3,004 such meters at various nodes of its 14,000-km long water supply pipeline network. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha, in a meeting held on Thursday, said that the remaining 325 units would be installed by October 30. DJB’s supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) centre will monitor the system on a real-time basis, which will allow the headquarters to detect where and how much water is being leaked or tapped. Chadha added: “Water is not an unlimited resource and we can’t let even one litre of water go unaccounted. Every resident of Delhi should get a seamless supply of clean water. For that, it is essential that there is access to functional flow meters.” The current status of all 3,004 primary and secondary flow meters under the purview of DJB was also reviewed in the meeting. DJB officials have been instructed that all flow meters must be completed and integrated with the SCADA centre. Flow meters are devices, which are installed to measure the flow and quantity of water passing from a particular point. “The accounting of water at various points helps in finding out any possible leakage. DJB records such data through different mediums. There are 1,277 real-time flow meters, 1,007 battery-operated ones, 188 manual flow meters, among others,” a senior DJB official explained. The DJB vice-chairman said that there must be an immediate audit of all manual flow meters to check their functioning. “In case any meter is not functioning effectively, it should be restored.” Chief engineers concerned have been directed that the necessary electrical infrastructure should be raised in the same period for all new installations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/project-to-monitor-water-supply-to-finish-by-oct-30/articleshow/78436878.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Most rapists acquaintances of survivors, reveals NCRB data||HYDERABAD: In most rape cases involving children and women in Telangana, the accused were known acquaintances. This disturbing trend was revealed by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which released ‘Crime in India-2019’ data on Wednesday. In 2019, 1,191 minors were sexually abused by the accused and in 99.70% cases, the survivors knew the accused directly or indirectly. Among the abusers, the maximum number of child abusers happened to be their friends, including online ones. In 2019, 664 accused were found to be friends followed by family friends/neighbours, 350. These accused had been booked under Section 4 & 7 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “Ever since SHE Teams, a dedicated unit for the security of women, and Bharosa Centre, a support centre for women and children in distress, were started, followed by a dedicated child-friendly court, the reporting of offences have started to increase in the last few years,’’ an official of Telangana police said. Similarly, in case of sexual abuse against women, 873 cases were reported in 2019. In 99.40% cases, the violators were found to be family friends. In recent times, the child-friendly court had convicted several accused and many of them were handed out life terms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-rapists-acquaintances-of-survivors-reveals-ncrb-data/articleshow/78436856.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Agra||48 new Covid +ve cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 48 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 5,808. The patient included a junior doctor at SN Medical College. An 80-year-old man died during treatment in Agra. The patient was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 128 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 51 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 5,808 cases reported in the district, 4,926 [84.8%] have been declared as "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases is now 754.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/48-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78434152.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Illicit relationships led to 96 murders in city in 2019||Hyderabad: Family disputes, illicit relationships and petty quarrels are the most common reasons for murders in the city, according to National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB). Of the 839 murders that took place in Hyderabad in 2019, 186 were due to family disputes. Vendetta appears to be the common motive behind many murders. While 96 were killed due to illicit relationships, 73 died due to property or land disputes. In 2020, most murders are due to personal rivalries and family disputes. Hyderabad police are invoking PD Act against repeat offenders, who are involved in more than one murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illicit-relationships-led-to-96-murders-in-city-in-2019/articleshow/78436835.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Will fight with god for Telangana farmers: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said he would not mind fighting with god to protect the interests of agriculture and farmers. He said the Telangana statehood movement was primarily inter-linked with the water issue and the farmers of the state.  He said by strengthening the irrigation sector and tapping river waters, arid fields in Telangana have turned into fertile lands. Against this background, the rightful share of every drop of water from Godavari and Krishna rivers would be utilised optimally and without fail, he said. Meanwhile, TPCC chief N Uttam Reddy demanded the CM to convene a special Assembly session to pass a unanimous resolution against the three “anti-farmer” laws introduced by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-fight-with-god-for-t-farmers-cm/articleshow/78436851.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Crooks take remote control of phones to cheat scores||NEW DELHI: Three conmen who allegedly posed as bank employees and duped people on pretext of securing their debit cards using new security features rolled out by their bank have been arrested by the cyber cell of north-west district. The crooks apparently took control of the victims’ mobile phones by asking them to install specific applications. After a person installed the app, the crooks took remote access of his mobile phone and read the OTP and other details received on his device pertaining to the transaction they were carrying out at their end. They transferred the money from the victims’ account to theirs and further withdrew it from ATMs or transferred it to a mobile wallet. Police started an investigation after receiving a complaint from a Trinagar resident who ran a travel agency. On September 28, he received a call from an unknown number and the caller claimed to be a bank representative. He asked the victim to secure his debit card through a new security feature. He asked him to download TeamViewer or Anydesk app from the Playstore and sought the victim’s ID on the app after he installed one of them. By engaging him in conversation, they took other details like his account number, date of birth etc. After hanging up, the victim realised that Rs 4,656 had been withdrawn from his account. He approached the police and filed an FIR. “A team under inspector Sanjay Kumar was formed to crack the case,” said DCP (northwest) Vijyanta Arya. The cops obtained the details of the recipient bank account and found it had been opened in the name of a Uttam Nagar resident. The details of the calling number were also analysed. Finally, the cops zeroed in on a location near Dwarka Mor and conducted a raid. Three people, Deepu, Nirmal and Sunil, were detained for questioning. The accused, who are residents of Mohan Garden area of southwest Delhi, broke down during cross-examination and confessed to the crime. The cops recovered two mobile phones and a laptop from them. They will send the devices for forensic examination and are ascertaining the number of victims the gang has duped till date. The accused revealed that they used mobile phones with 2G connection to avoid being tracked down through Internet Protocol (IP) address. They made sure to withdraw small sums of money from people’s accounts assuming they would not complain or pursue the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crooks-take-remote-control-of-phones-to-cheat-scores/articleshow/78436908.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Auditorium from where Mahatma Gandhi arrested disappears||HYDERABAD: As the country pays homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary, a few traverse down the memory lane reminiscing iconic places linked to the father of the nation. During the height of the Quit India Movement in 1942, Gandhi was arrested by the British while he was addressing a gathering at the Lakshmi Ramalingam Mudaliar Government High School’s auditorium, Bolarum. He was shifted to the Bolarum police station. Unfortunately, this auditorium was razed by the government as it was in a dilapidated state. But for the last five years, the students and staff of this school used to pay tributes to the portrait of Gandhi inside the auditorium, which was renamed as Gandhi Bhavan after Independence. “Due to the poor condition of the structure, people were restricted from using that auditorium,” said Sreenath Shastri, a senior teacher. “He visited this place while travelling across the country as part of the Quit India movement. After it was demolished we thought they would construct a memorial at this place,” Shastri said. Gandhi had visited the Vivek Vardhini High School at Jambagh, King Koti on April 7, 1929. The stage from where he addressed a public meeting on the rights of Harijans is still there. The school management had set up a photo library with Gandhi’s photos. The Mahatma can be seen seated on a stone-stage surrounded by people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auditorium-from-where-gandhi-arrested-disappears/articleshow/78436870.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Brothers booked in rape, cheating case||Nagpur: Mohit Yerpude, 24, and his brother Pranay, 21, were booked for raping and cheating a 21-year-old aspiring air hostess by luring her with promise to marry. Also, mother of the victim had given Rs7.50 lakh to the brothers to set up their business which they did not return. Police have also invoked Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against the brothers. It’s learnt Mohit came in contact with the girl, who was a classmate of Pranay. After having physical relation for several years on the pretext of marrying her, Mohit declined to keep his promise as she belonged to a different caste. The brothers had also borrowed money from the girl’s mother, who had sold her apartment. However, the brothers did not return the money. Ajni police have registered a case against both Mohit and Pranay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/brothers-booked-in-rape-cheating-case/articleshow/78436892.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Covid cases rise in all zones except Alandur||CHENNAI: Thirty days since lifting of lockdown and Covid restrictions and opening of public transport, malls and hotels, Chennai has started seeing a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in 14 of the 15 zones in the last ten days. Teynampet zone that covers Choolaimedu, Nungambakkam and Marina has seen a sudden spike, reporting 344 cases in the last ten days. From 759 cases on September 20, to 1,103 cases on September 30. Officials attributed this spike to the opening of offices, commercial establishments and to the public not following Covid protocol such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Other zones that are seeing a steady rise in infections are Adayar, Valasaravakkam, Kodambakkam and Anna Nagar with the number of cases up by 100-300. These areas have a mix of residential and commercial establishments, and markets and bus stands too have opened up. People travelling to tier-II cities where there is a huge spike in cases is another reason. “With economic activity peaking in view of the festival season, more people are travelling increasing the risk of spread,” said an health official. Alandur is the only zone that has reported fewer cases. It had reported 640 active Covid cases on September 20 and on September 30, the number dropped to 595.  A senior health official at the Greater Chennai Corporation told TOI that this rise in cases was a cause of concern. “We had expected a rise 28 days after the removal of lockdown restrictions. However, workplaces are becoming new hotspots. We have posted a nodal officer for every area. This health official will be in charge of not just creating awareness but also ensuring that work places follow protocols. One representative from the offices is in constant touch with the nodal officers apprising them on symptomatic persons and monitoring all positive cases,” said an official. Vijay Anand, software professional from Velachery who has been creating a database for Covid cases, said, “A lot of indoor activities are taking place such as marriages, cultural events and other get togethers. These are super spreader events. People should generally avoid places where social distancing is not possible and also not just rely on masks in indoor locations that are highly crowded,” he said. Epidemiologists also said there is a 70% more chance of catching the virus indoors than outdoors. The civic body is now focusing on creating awareness and enforcing Covid protocols. “If we detect cases early and ensure symptomatic people test themselves, we can reduce the spread,” said an official. With inputs from Siddharth Prabhakar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-rise-in-all-zones-except-alandur/articleshow/78437974.cms||Komal Gautham
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Promise to develop Bapu Ghat not fulfilled||Hyderabad: Six years after the state government announced that it would develop Bapu Ghat on the lines of Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad, the plan is yet to take shape. In September 2014, the newly-formed Telangana government announced that it would develop the 15-acre Bapu Ghat at Langer Houz as a tourist destination. But nothing happened so far and the proposals are gathering dust. Dignitaries like the governor and chief minister visit the Ghat on the two important days — Gandhi’s birth and death anniversaries. Thereafter, the premises are locked and officials neglect it. Surprisingly, though the Ghat is just three kilometres away from Golconda Fort, tourists are restricted from visiting this place. “There are several proposals, but nothing has been implemented so far,” said an official from the Hyderabad collectorate. A statue of the father of the nation in a meditation position and a meditation hall are the top attractions at Bapu Ghat. There are 2,000 rare images of Mahatma in that hall. Meanwhile, the district administration has made elaborate arrangements to celebrate the 151st birth anniversary of Gandhi.  A city-based historian said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao should fulfill his promise and develop Bapu Ghat into a tourist attraction. In September 2014, the state government announced that it would develop Bapu Ghat at Langer Houz as a tourist destination. But nothing happened so far and the proposals are gathering dust||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/promise-to-develop-bapu-ghat-not-fulfilled/articleshow/78436894.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Haldiram grp alleges Rs 40 lakh fraud by manager, online retailer staffer||Nagpur: Haldiram group has registered an offence of alleged cheating and criminal breach of trust against it’s own manager of online sales wing Harish Gawande, delivery associate of an Amazon shopping portal Ramkrushna Patil and their accomplice Rajesh Gupta. They were allegedly involved in duping the international food brand of Rs35- Rs40 lakh between 2017 and September last month. The food brand group manager Shreeniwas Vinahkot had approached Kalamna police station with the complaint against Gawande after he learnt about his possible role in selling of the stock to Gupta through Patil, who sold the material to retailers. Vinahkot had begun to probe the depleted stock following a tip off about theft of materials returned by customers. The complaint filed says Gawande used to misuse his position as manager of the online sales department and sell off the goods which were returned by customers after placing orders. The returned goods were supposed to be deposited back with the company’s sales and stocks department, but Gawande used to hand them over to Gupta through Patil, who worked as a delivery associate with Amazon shopping portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/haldiram-grp-alleges-rs-40-lakh-fraud-by-manager-online-retailer-staffer/articleshow/78436917.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Missing CISF man: Crime Branch to probe||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has roped in Delhi Police’s Crime Branch to probe the mysterious disappearance of a CISF man since May this year. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar passed the order while hearing a habeas corpus petition by the wife of CISF constable Venkata Rao seeking to know the whereabouts of her husband who went missing after visiting his office. An FIR was lodged at the Usmanpur police station in this regard on September 17 on the direction of the high court. Advocate R Bajaj, representing Kumari, informed the court Rao is missing since May 26 this year after he allegedly visited his office at Dhaula Kuan to seek clearance of his leave to visit his native place in East Godavari Andhra Pradesh along with his wife and her septuagenarian father. The counsel submitted that the matters required to be transferred to the Crime Branch to instill confidence in a fair and impartial investigation as there are several contradictory claims made by CISF and the Usmanpur police station. Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra submitted that the police have no objection to the case being transferred to the Crime Branch for further investigation. The court then directed the Crime Branch to submit a status report within four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing to November 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/missing-cisf-man-crime-branch-to-probe/articleshow/78436921.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Ponzi scheme: Hyderabad man dupes 1,200 of Rs 52 crore||HYDERABAD: Central Crime Station police arrested the accused who duped 1,200 victims from across the country including 250 from Telangana for Rs 52 crore through ponzi bitcoin investment scheme on Thursday. Based on the complaint from a victim, B Rama Krishna and others in 2018, a case has been registered against the accused S Nagaraju and others. The accused created four websites for bitcoin business and appointed people as regional heads and agents in different states of the country. Promising handsome returns on their investment, the agents induced victims to deposit huge amounts in the binary bitcoin scheme for 18 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ponzi-scheme-man-dupes-1200-of-rs-52cr/articleshow/78436912.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Agra||Hathras DM threatened us, allege Dalit girl’s family||AGRA: The family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl who had been allegedly gang-raped and died a fortnight later has accused the administration of mounting pressure against speaking up. In a 22-second video, purportedly shot inside the victim’s house, Hathras district magistrate Praveen Laxkar can be heard telling a family member, “Don’t ruin your credibility. These media people will leave, half have already left. We are with you. It’s up to you, if you want to keep changing your statement.” The video, which trails off at a point where the DM says, “Abhi hum bhi badal jayein (Now if we change...),” went viral within minutes of being posted. “I had gone to meet the victim’s family after getting to know that they were not satisfied,” district magistrate Praveen Laxkar said, adding that he had not threatened the family. The girl’s sister-in-law said there has been pressure from the administration: “They are asking, would you get compensation had the girl died of corona? … They claim they could dispose of the case on the basis of my mother-in-law’s first statement (in which the victim’s mother had not referred to rape), when she was not even in a condition to say anything. They will not let us live here.” In another video that went viral on Thursday, the victim’s father can be heard saying, “The administration pressured us into signing a paper that we were satisfied after an assurance by chief minister Yogi Adityanath over a call at the police station.” The CM had spoken to him on a video call on Wednesday, promising the family Rs 25 lakh in aid, a job, a house and fast-track trial for the case. “My daughter’s case should be probed by a Supreme Court judge. A CBI inquiry should be conducted … Media is not being allowed to come here. We are being held prisoners in our own house,” he is heard saying in the video. The letter referred to is one signed by the victim’s father and two others, saying, “I appeal to everyone not to hold a protest as I am satisfied with the administrative action.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/media-will-leave-well-be-here-dalit-girls-family-says-hathras-dm-threatened-them/articleshow/78434214.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 2, 2020||Trichy||Hindu Munnani founder laid to rest||Trichy: Hindu Munnani founder Ramagopalan, 93, who died of Covid-19, was laid to rest on the campus of Bharath Cultural Training Centre at Seera Thoppu in Trichy on Thursday.The burial took place at 12.30pm in the presence of health officials and Hindu Munnani followers wearing PPE. Ramagopalan tested positive for Covid-19 and died at Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, Porur, in Chennai on Wednesday evening.His body was brought to Trichy from Chennai at 7am on Thursday. The body was placed on a decorated stage. Former Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan of BJP, national secretary of BJP H Raja and leaders of Hindu outfits paid their homage.In his condolence, Radhakrishnan recalled his close association with Ramagopalan for several years and how he moulded him as a complete man. Appreciating his dedication towards the welfare of Hindus, Raja said that Ramagoplan was relentless in voicing for Hindus despite having threat perception for 37 years. Elaborate security arrangements were made by Trichy district police with more than 750 police personnel deployed in the area to avoid any untoward incidents during the funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hindu-munnani-founder-laid-to-rest/articleshow/78437986.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Trader’s family robbed of Rs 1 crore gold, Rs 10 lakh cash||CHENNAI: Eight men barged into a leather trader’s house in T Nagar on Wednesday evening, tied up the eight occupants and escaped with 250 sovereigns of gold jewellery worth more than Rs 1 crore, Rs 10 lakh and a car, police said. Investigators later found that Mohideen, a relative of the leather trader, Noorul Yakub, was behind the robbery. A team has left for Tuticorin district to nab him. Members of the police team which visited the house on Saradambal Street are set to go under home quarantine as a few of the victims had tested positive for Covid-19, an officer said. Yakub, who runs his business out of an office on Habibullah Road, lived with his wife Aiysha, her nephew Yasar, house help Abbas and five other relatives. Mohideen of Kayalpattinam in Tuticorin, who had been staying at a lodge in Periamet, moved into Yakub’s house more than two weeks ago despite knowing that the family was under quarantine. Around 4.30pm on Wednesday, eight men arrived at Yakub’s house in an autorickshaw and barged in. Brandishing knives, they gagged and tied up the family members to a sofa and chair. Then, they began emptying the cupboards of gold and cash. The operation lasted more than four hours. The gang then drove off in Yakub’s car with Mohideen and Yasar after warning the victims against informing police. Yasar was dropped off near Panagal Park, a few metres from the Pondy Bazaar police station. He rushed back home and freed the others. Around 10.30pm, a complaint was lodged with police. After inquiries found Mohideen was behind the robbery, police also began interrogating Yasar, as his version appeared contradictory. Police have collected CCTV camera footage from near the house and from other spots in the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/traders-family-robbed-of-rs-1cr-gold-rs-10l-cash/articleshow/78437985.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Trichy||With crimes on rise, Trichy city police focus on rehabilitating juvenile offenders||Trichy: Crimes committed by the minors were on the rise in 2019 compared to the previous year in Trichy city, Trichy rural and railway police jurisdiction.A data released by the NCRB showed that 51 cognizable offence cases under IPC were reported against minors in 2019. Termed as juveniles in conflict with law, the minors were involved in 24 such offences in 2018.Going by the data, the number of cognizable offences committed by the juveniles in conflict with law in Trichy rural in 2019 was 61. However, the offences during 2018 were 33. The figures under the jurisdiction of railway police were 17 in 2019 and seven in 2018.The number of thefts committed by the minors came third with Trichy city reporting 12 cases of burglary while eight cases and three cases were reported in Trichy rural and railways.It should be mentioned that minors were accused in murder cases also. Four cases were reported in Trichy city and one case was booked in Trichy rural whereas there was no such case in Trichy city in 2018. Trichy rural had one case of murder involving a minor.Former member of juvenile justice board (JJB) M Padmavathy in Trichy attributed drug abuse by minors to the number of crimes by them. “When they are addicted to substance and drugs, they will become in need of money. Soon, they would be involved in offences to earn quick bucks in illegal way,” said Padmavathy.Stating that preventing minors from committing offences is not an easy task as it involved the role of the society, Padmavathy insisted on the effective role of police department in rehabilitating the juvenile in conflict with law after the first offence.Commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan said that their team had started identifying the causes behind minors committing crimes. “We are studying about the juvenile in conflict with law kept in government observation home in Trichy. The objective is to identify the circumstances, which force them to involve in offences and provide them necessary measures to rehabilitate them,” CoP told ToI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/with-crimes-on-rise-trichy-city-police-focus-on-rehabilitating-juvenile-offenders/articleshow/78437989.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 2, 2020||Trichy||ASI Trichy circle office open for discovery||Trichy: A month after the Union government created a new circle for Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) headquartered in Trichy, ASI launched its Trichy circle office at Main Guard gate here and started operations on Thursday. The new circle will focus on documenting loose sculptures and popularising the lesser-known monuments on priority.For now, the new circle will function from the existing sub-circle office of ASI. ASI sources said that they will request the district administration to help them identify potential buildings in Trichy for circle office. With a strength of 35 employees, more archaeologists and clerical staffers are expected to join from Chennai and Thrissur ASI circles. “The formation of a new ASI circle will pave way for identification and recognition of new archaeological sites. Pudukottai, a district considered as a treasure trove in archaeology, will benefit the most,” said A Manikandan, founder of Pudukkottai Archaeological Research forum. Archaeologists said the new circle in Trichy will help them cover more districts in the southern and central regions. “We will involve local archaeology enthusiasts and form committees to popularise lesser-known monuments,” said T Arun Raj, ASI (Trichy circle) superintending archaeologist. He said that he will soon inspect the monuments to survey maintenance requirements and repair works on priority. Since the formation of the new circle comes with more funds, archaeology enthusiasts said that there is a huge scope of improving tourism.Covering 20 districts and having jurisdictional control over 162 protected monuments and sites, Trichy ASI circle will be the only other circle in the state after Chennai ASI circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/asi-trichy-circle-office-open-for-discovery/articleshow/78437994.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Trichy||TNSTC bus detained at toll plaza, passengers pay up||Trichy: Passengers travelling on a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus paid the toll fee, through crowdfunding, for the state-run bus to pass through Samayapuram toll plaza here on Thursday after it was detained by the toll plaza staff following a dispute over the routine toll fee to be paid in bulk for operating the bus on the stretch.The TNSTC bus, attached to Villupuram division was plying towards Trichy on the Trichy-Chennai national highway (NH) at around 9am on Thursday. At the Samayapuram toll plaza, the bus with passengers was not permitted to pass through as the TNSTC division had not paid the toll fee for operating the bus. While the toll plaza employees insisted the TNSTC crew members to pay the toll fee, sources said that the crew members refused to oblige. “TNSTC usually pays us for each of the buses passing through our toll either as demand draft or cheque. But the particular Villupuram division bus has not paid the toll fee, so we detained the vehicle,” a toll plaza employee told TOI. After paying the toll fee in bulk, TNSTC usually intimates the registration number of the buses that can be allowed to pass through. Toll plaza staff said the registration number of the particular bus was not received by the toll plaza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tnstc-bus-detained-at-toll-plaza-passengers-pay-up/articleshow/78437997.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 2, 2020||Agra||Hathras sealed, Sec 144 clamped to rein in political protests||AGRA: Its borders sealed, prohibitory orders in place for a month, Hathras turned into a fortress on Thursday in anticipation of protests against the alleged gang-rape, death and “forced” cremation of a 19-year-old Dalit girl. “The decision to restrict movement was taken to maintain law and order,” IG (Aligarh range) Piyush Mordia said. All roads leading to the girl’s village were blocked, with attempts to stop protests descending into disorder at least thrice — once when Congress’s UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi and her brother Rahul Gandhi were on their way to the Hathras village with party workers through the Yamuna Expressway, when Congress workers tried entering through Chandpa, and again when Samajwadi Party workers attempted to cross over from Aligarh. Rahul, who said he had been manhandled by the police, and Priyanka were detained for about two hours before being released. On the southern border of the district, Congress workers tried to enter the village near the Chandpa police station, about 2km away. “We were lathicharged and not allowed to cross the Agra-Hathras border. We waited there for two hours,” said All India Congress Committee member Upendra Singh. In Mathura, former Congress legislature party leader Pradeep Mathur said he was stopped from joining the protest. “It was like a house arrest.” To the north of the district, a similar scene played out. “About 80 protesters from Samajwadi Party were detained at the Aligarh-Hathras border under Section 151 of CrPC (arrest to prevent commission of cognizable offence). They were released later,” Mordia added. Devendra Agarwal, former Samajwadi MLA, said party chief Akhilesh Yadav had formed a 10-member team to meet the victim’s family: “We don’t trust the SIT. We wanted to meet the family and hear them out. But the police did not let us.” In Hathras, where media, too, was not allowed on Thursday, police forces from five districts — Agra, Aligarh, Mathura, Kasganj and Etah — remain deployed, as do two companies of Provincial Armed Constabulary forces. Initial reports of cops deployed at the victim’s house testing positive for Covid-19 were dismissed by health officials. “Samples were taken from the cops after complaints of Covid-19 symptoms, but none has tested positive yet,” Hathras chief medical officer Brijesh Rathore told TOI. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Thursday, meanwhile, took suo motu cognizance of the Hathras case and issued notices to the principal secretary (home), Hathras DM, DGP, ADG (law and order) and Hathras SP, seeking their response regarding reports of “inhuman behaviour” by Hathras Police. A bench of justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh has scheduled the next hearing on October 12. (With inputs from our bureau in Lucknow) (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-sealed-sec-144-clamped-to-rein-in-political-protests/articleshow/78434232.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 2, 2020||Chennai||Engineering counselling for special category students begins||CHENNAI: Online counselling for engineering seats reserved under special categories, including eminent sports persons, ex-servicemen and people with disabilities, began on Thursday after a delay of three months due to Covid-19. It is the beginning of a month-long counselling process to admit more than one lakh students to 461 engineering colleges in the state. For the first time, special category counselling is being conducted online in view of Covid-19. “Candidates can pay the initial payment of Rs 5,000 (for SC/ST candidates Rs 1,000) on October 1 and 2. They can fill their choices on October 3 and 4. The tentative allotment for candidates will be released on October 5, and they have to confirm their pick the same day. Provisional allotment will be released on October 6,” Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee said in an announcement. There are 1,409 applicants for the 500 sports quota seats available and 853 applicants for the 150 ex-servicemen quota seats. For 5% seats reserved for those with disabilities, the TNEA committee has received 148 applications. “Students will be able to fill their choices only after making the initial payment. Seats will be allotted based on their order of preference,” TNEA secretary T Purushothaman said. The TNEA released the rank list for 1,12,406 eligible candidates on September 28. The general counselling will be conducted from October 8 to 27. Totally, 1,63,154 engineering seats are available for counselling this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engg-counselling-for-spl-category-students-begins/articleshow/78437996.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Plasma therapy’ seems to be working; survival rate in UP is 76%||LUCKNOW: Promising outcomes of plasma therapy – the only glimmer of hope against Covid-19 -- have come to fore in Uttar Pradesh. As per an assessment undertaken by the state medical education department, the survival rate of plasma therapy in UP has been about 76% which is more than what several studies, including the one done by ICMR have indicated. “Feedback from our premier institutes, including SGPGI and KGMU, suggests that it has been a life saver in moderate cases who could have otherwise slipped into severe and almost irreversible state,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. To note, plasma therapy is being successfully extended in 10 institutes of the state, including two private medical colleges. The assessment included six centres where 421 transfusions have been undertaken. Among the total, 321 recipients (76%) have survived. Asked to comment why the state went ahead with plasma therapy, even though no conclusive supportive scientific evidence was available, Dr Dube said: “Firstly, there are instructions from the CM to embrace everything to save life. Also, Drug Controller General of India has listed plasma therapy as an experimental medication to which remdesivir belongs to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plasma-therapy-seems-to-be-working-survival-rate-is-76/articleshow/78438003.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University writes to deans, department heads to curb expenses||NEW DELHI: A missive from Union ministry of education citing a memorandum from finance ministry has prompted Delhi University to write to the deans and heads of departments asking them to curb their expenditure by not printing books and documents on imported paper, discouraging celebration of foundation day and not recruiting personnel for posts created after July 1. The letter was sent by assistant registrar (finance) on September 29. DU had received the letter from the Centre on September 4. The Union ministry of finance had issued the instructions to improve the quality of public expenditure and rationalise it to ensure the availability of adequate resources for meeting the needs of critical priority schemes in view of the current fiscal situation. “This memo contains instructions on curtailing administrative expenditure and creation of posts by the ministry, autonomous bodies and others with immediate effect. The administrative expenditure curtails printing and publishing of books, publications, documents on imported paper, except printing done abroad by Indian missions,” the letter stated. The deans and heads of departments were also told to review consultancy assignments and individual consultants appointed in their respective sections. “Economic measures may be observed while determining the fees of consultants. Such fees should not be disproportional to the quality and quantity of work carried out by the consultants,” the letter added. Banning creation of new posts, the letter stated, “If any posts have been created after July 1 without the approval of the department of expenditure and have not been filled, then no recruitment will be done. If it is deemed absolutely essential to fill them, proposals may be sent for approval to the department of expenditure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-writes-to-deans-dept-heads-to-curb-expenses/articleshow/78436961.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi BJP announces new office-bearers||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Thursday announced a new team of office-bearers for the state unit of the party, which includes many young faces and people with a diverse mix of experience. The new team includes Kuljeet Chahal, Dinesh Pratap Singh and Harsh Malhotra as general secretaries, while party workers Rajiv Babbar, Virendra Sachdeva, Rekha Gupta, Ashok Goel and Sunil Yadav have been appointed vice-presidents. Releasing the list of new state office-bearers, Gupta stated that the appointments will be effective with immediate effect. “Congratulations and best wishes to all the newly appointed office-bearers,” Gupta said, adding that he was confident that they will play a crucial role in further strengthening the party unit. Chahal retained the post of general secretary. The new team has three general secretaries, all of whom hail from the East Delhi parliamentary constituency represented by MP Gautam Gambhir. Malhotra has served as East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor in past while Singh is currently the in-charge of Delhi BJP Purvanchal Morcha. Ashok Goel, who hails from Chandni Chowk parliamentary constituency, said majority of the newly appointed office-bearers are relatively young and no one is above 55. “It is a young team,” said Goel. Before being appointed vice president, Goel headed Delhi BJP media cell. He has been replaced by Naveen Kumar. Sachdeva, who has served as secretary earlier has been promoted to the position of vice president, said the new team will work very hard to ensure that the BJP wins the municipal elections once again. Sunil Yadav, who unsuccessfully contested against CM Arvind Kejriwal in New Delhi assembly seat, has been promoted to the position of vice president. Earlier he was the chief of youth wing. The list of 45 functionaries includes one Muslim. Yaseer Jeelani from Okhla has been appointed spokesperson. Laxmi Nagar MLA Abhay Verma will be chief spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-bjp-announces-new-office-bearers/articleshow/78436972.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 2, 2020||Trichy||Mobile ration shop inaugurated||Trichy: Tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan and minorities minister S Valaramathi inaugurated a mobile ration shop to take ration items to the doorstep of people, here on Thursday.As per the proposal, the mobile ration shop was inaugurated for 120 cardholders residing at Vasan Valley by bifurcating Sengarcholai ration shop coming under Uyyakondan Thirumalai Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Society.Essential commodities will be carried in a goods carrier once a month by a designated salesman and issue the goods to the cardholders. The third Thursday of every month has been earmarked for distribution of essentials to cardholders of Vasan Valley, officials said.If any residential area attached to any particular ration shop is 1.5km away from the shop, the residents will be eligible for allotment of a mobile ration shop. Vasan Valley is 2km away from the ration shop located at Sengarcholai, officials said. Addressing the event, Natarajan said that there has been a growing demand in the wake of the Covid-19 to deliver essentials at doorsteps instead of tackling crowds at ration shops. “Initially, it has been proposed to cover 15,744 family cardholders in 105 ration shops in Trichy district,” he said.District collector S Sivarasu and officials from the cooperative department participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mobile-ration-shop-inaugurated/articleshow/78438020.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Trichy||Procurement centres remain closed in Thanjavur, farmers hit||Thanjavur: Farmers in Thanjavur district, who were waiting to sell their kuruvai paddy were in for a shock as the direct procurement centres (DPCs) remained closed on the very first day of the commencement of kharif procurement season on Thursday. Farmers from Thanjavur cultivated kuruvai in 1.47 lakh acres this year, which is the highest area covered in 35 years. Moreover, due to the timely release of water from Mettur and sufficient rainfall during the season, farmers cultivated the crop during the month of June itself.Based on the harvest, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) opened 166 centres and procured 7.71 lakh tonnes. However, unlike yesteryears, paddy arrival to procurement centres started pouring. It forced the farmers to wait for many days to sell their produce at the centres. As there was no proper space to stock the paddy bags, most of the farmers kept their produce on an open space. The recent rains drenched thousands of paddy bags with some even started germinating, farmers alleged.“Despite our long wait, TNCSC authorities kept the centres closed for several days. However, we are waiting for October 1 to sell our produce. But we were disappointed that no centre was opened,” said a farmer from Kollangarai village near Orathanadu in Thanjavur. Meanwhile, TNCSC officials said that they have opened 226 DPCs in Thanjavur. As the new procurement season begins with a new support price on October 1, delay in procuring paddy is unavoidable, officials said. “We have some time to clear all the procured paddy bags from 166 centres. Moreover, as per the new minimum support price (MSP) announced by the Centre, the same should be uploaded in the network system before we start procurement for the next season. This delayed paddy procurement by half a day on Thursday. However, we have completed the process and opened the centres in the afternoon. Now, we have opened 226 centres across the district as against 450 that are normally opened. Based on the requirement, we will open further centres,” senior regional manager of TNCSC, Thanjavur (in-charge) G Chitrarasu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/procurement-centres-remain-closed-in-thanjavur-farmers-hit/articleshow/78438018.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP surpasses 4-lakh cases mark, recovery rate 86%||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 tally in UP crossed the 4-lakh mark on Thursday with the addition of 4,095 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. According to assessment of data, the last 1 lakh cases were added in 19 days. A closer look at data suggests that the pace of progression of Covid-19 infections has slowed down. Consider this: the journey from 1 lakh to 2 lakh cases was covered in 23 days while that from 2 lakh to 3 lakh lasted for 17 days. The present lakh took two additional days. Additional chief secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad said that this was the time for utmost caution as the risk of a second surge loomed large. “For more than a week now, the number of new cases is less than the number of those discharged. With unlock-5, the responsibility on the shoulders of people to weaken the spread of virus has increased,” he said. The official bulletin revealed that over 40% of the cases were reported in 10 districts including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur. A mild surge in the number of deaths was, however, reported in the past 24 hours. Against an average of 60 deaths in the past four days, 80 people died on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths to 5,864. Meanwhile, the recovery rate of UP crossed the 86% mark with total number of recovered reaching 3,46,859.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-surpasses-4-lakh-cases-mark-recovery-rate-86/articleshow/78438022.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 2, 2020||Trichy||Block development officials transferred||Tiruvarur: In the backdrop of incidents of two women temporary workers’ suicide bid and complaints, Tiruvarur district collector has transferred two people from the block development office in Mannargudi in an alleged connection with Prime Ministers housing scheme irregularities.Karthikeyan, a block development officer of Mannargudi has been transferred to the office of the district rural development agency and Kamalarajan, an additional block development officer of the same block has been transferred to Valangaiman block, official sources said. Claiming that she was being made a scapegoat for the wrongs committed by officials, Ananthi a 37-year-old temporary computer operator in Mannargudi union office came to the panchayat union office on Wednesday with a can of kerosene and demanded reinstatement. She was removed from the job following the detection of alleged irregularities in the PM’s housing scheme at Thalayamangalam village in Mannargudi block in the district. Similarly, another woman identified as Sugantha, who worked as a temporary staff in the same panchayat union office for the last 9 years attempted suicide on Thursday in a similar way demanding to reinstate her in the same position. The police pacified her and conducted an interrogation. She was also terminated from the job by the same block level officials following the alleged irregularities in the construction of toilets in the same village. It may be recalled that villagers of Thalayamangalam alleged widespread irregularities in the Prime Minister’s housing scheme as well as the construction of toilets. According to the villagers, crores of the fund had been misappropriated in both the schemes using names of some villagers who died several years ago. TOI carried a story about the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/block-development-officials-transferred/articleshow/78438041.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Trichy||2 MW solar power plant inaugurated in IIM Trichy||Trichy: A 2 megawatt (MW) solar power plant was commissioned on Thursday in the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Trichy, which is expected to bring down two-thirds of its conventional energy consumption in the campus. The solar plant with panels spread around the artificial lake inside the campus was built at a cost of Rs 14.2 crore. The project was sponsored by the rural electrification corporation limited (RECL) as part of their CSR initiative.Officials said that the power plant was under trial run for the last one month and it is expected to bring down 60-70% of electricity consumption of IIM-Trichy. “We are also planning to give the excess power generated to Tangedco, when the consumption drops in the campus during vacations,” said a senior official.The control system of this project and its functioning being potential research areas, there are plans to allow PhD students from various institutes to do research in this area, added the official. “IIM Trichy is the first among 20 IIMs to have received such a funding from RECL,” said its director, Bhimaraya Metri. He also talked about institution’s contribution to the field of education and how it has set benchmarks for other institutes to follow. The project was commissioned through virtual mode by chief guest Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, chairman and managing director, RECL, New Delhi.Saying that IIM, Trichy is one of the first institutions to successfully implement such a project, Gupta said this will now make other institutes follow in its footsteps. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-mw-solar-power-plant-inaugurated-in-iim-trichy/articleshow/78438048.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Trichy||No mask? Submit swab sample for test||Thanjavur: The district collector has instructed health workers to send people caught without wearing masks for Covid-19 test on the spot, to control violators in an effective manner. As the numbers of fresh cases are on the rise in the district, the district administration launched rallies across the district to create awareness among the general public to make them adhere to lockdown rules to contain the spread of the virus. Revenue, health and police authorities organized the rally. After inaugurating the rally on Thursday, district collector M Govinda Rao told reporters that despite rising Covid-19 cases in the district, people continue to roam around the city without wearing face masks. “We have so far collected Rs 23 lakh as penalty from 11,000 people for not wearing face masks in the district, still people are found wandering the streets without wearing masks. So far, nine lakh masks have been distributed to the public. To make all the people wear masks without fail, I have instructed officials to take Covid-19 test of those who are caught without wearing masks on the spot, beside slapping Rs 200 as penalty,” the collector said.As per his instruction, health officials from a mobile Covid-19 testing lab caught 30 people without masks and swab tests were taken on the spot and penalty was also imposed, an official said. The district reported 232 fresh positive cases on Thursday, the highest count recorded from the central region till now. The total count in the district was 11,427 with 180 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-mask-submit-swab-sample-for-test/articleshow/78438030.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||BJP MP hints at plans for UP’s development||LUCKNOW: On his first visit to the state capital to express gratitude to Chief Minister YogiAdityanath, newly elected Rajya Sabha member from UP Syed Zafar Islam also called on clerics of Shia and Sunni communities on Thursday and offered his government’s support for the socio-economic welfare of the minority community. Earlier, the BJP RS member called on the CM, BJP’s UP president Swatantra Dev Singh, organising secretary Sunil Bansal and finance minister Suresh Khanna to thank them for his election from the state. Zafar Islam is known Modi-Shah loyalist and a banking and investment expert having served a global bank before joining the BJP in 2014. It was Zafar Islam’s first visit to UP as the BJP MP and after his series of meetings with the top brass of the BJP and also Muslim clerics, he hinted that he had great plans for the development of the state. The BJP MP also had a meeting with prominent Shia leader Kalbe Jawad. He also called on Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mp-hints-at-plans-for-ups-development/articleshow/78438052.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 2, 2020||India||Dalit watchdogs headless, lack bite||NEW DELHI: As atrocities against Dalits roil the nation, there is no constitutional watchdog in place to provide independent oversight to the investigations to ensure they are carried out fairly and with due diligence. The National Commission for Scheduled Castes has been headless for over four months. The term of the chairman and four members expired in the last week of May, after which the Modi government has not appointed the replacements. Times ViewSince these posts are of fixed tenure, the government knows well in advance when they will fall vacant and need to be filled. Keeping them vacant for months reflects its indifference. The posts must be filled immediately.Two other crucial watchdogs — National Commission for Scheduled Tribes and National Commission for Safai Karamcharis — are also lying vacant, with appointments not made after the end of the terms of their chairpersons and members. The NCST is a constitutional body like the NCSC which acts as national monitor and grievance redressal body for the tribals. The term of the two ended in February-March. The last set of NCSC office-bearers had BJP MP Ram Shankar Katheria as chairman and L Murugan, K Ramulu, Yogendra Paswan and Swaraj Vidwan as members. The process of appointment of office-bearers to these quasi-judicial bodies is essentially political with the party in office nominating its choices. As a result, it does not entail serious procedural issues as in some watchdogs like the National Human Rights Commission which can only be chaired by retired justices of the Supreme Court or higher courts. The absence of chairman and members means the NCSC is run by the bureaucracy, which makes it toothless. However, sources said the panel headquarters and its Lucknow office have issued notices seeking status report from Hathras district administration and Yogi Adityanath government on the rape-murder of a Dalit girl which has triggered a national outrage. As the panel is lying defunct for four months, sources said the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment is yet to get any indication about the new office-bearers. The “Safai Karamchari panel”, which is also lying defunct, is mandated to suggest measures for amelioration of the lives of people engaged in cleaning work and to act on grievances about non-implementation of schemes and rules about them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dalit-watchdogs-headless-lack-bite/articleshow/78438980.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 2, 2020||Chennai||In fight with Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam looks for new friend, reaches out to TTV||CHENNAI: Driving a hard bargain for a prime position in the party, O Panneerselvam has opened channels of communication with AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran, multiple sources told TOI. “OPS has talked to people close to TTV. But I am not sure what transpired,” said a close aide of Panneerselvam. The source said OPS is open to mending fences with V K Sasikala and her family if it works out mutually. OPS associates said a compromise formula (between OPS and EPS) is likely to take shape by Monday, so the party could announce a chief minister candidate for the 2021 assembly election. While the OPS-led group has been insisting on the constitution of a steering committee to administer the AIADMK, EPS has stood firm against such a panel. Dhinakaran could not be reached for a comment. In October 2018, Dhinakaran alleged that Panneerselvam had tried to meet him the previous month and had called on him in July 2017 in a bid to oust EPS. He then said OPS had offered to make him the CM too. OPS denied the charge. The present standoff, meanwhile, has grabbed the attention of the BJP leadership. “The BJP is closely watching the developments in Chennai, but it does not wish to interfere in the AIADMK’s internal matters,” said a senior BJP leader, not willing to be named. Last week, minister S P Velumani and P Thangamani had called on some BJP leaders in New Delhi. “They were politely told to set their house in order before approaching the party leadership,” said the BJP leader. OPS’s request about three weeks ago – both official and informal -- through party channels, for a meeting with home minister Amit Shah is yet to evoke a response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-fight-with-eps-ops-looks-for-new-friend-reaches-out-to-ttv/articleshow/78437036.cms||Jaya Menon
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Rajagiri launches virtual marathon||Kochi: With the Covid-19 pandemic restricting the conduct of public group events like marathons, Rajagiri Group of Educational Institutions has launched a virtual marathon, a first-of-its kind in Kerala, which allows participants to run in the comfort of their convenient location, abiding to the restrictions put forward by the government. Named Rajagiri eMarathon, the event is organized by Rajagiri College of Social Sciences (RCSS) and Rajagiri Business School. The proceeds of eMarathon would be donated to Covid relief projects identified by Childline India Foundation. The event is being conducted in two phases – a 21.1km half-marathon and the main event that features a 41.2km marathon. The participants should have to cover the distance over a period of 15 days by running or walking anywhere, including a treadmill, and the distance they covered will be monitored using a mobile app, developed by the college for the marathon. Those who complete the first phase will only be allowed to participate in the main event. The total prize money is worth Rs 1 lakh and the winners will be selected in age groups below 20 years, between 20 and 40 years and above 60 years. Prizes will be given separately for men and women in each category. “Spanning across international boundaries, eMarathon also incorporates virtual connectivity of all the participants through programmes on mental health awareness, healthy lifestyle, webinars and entertainment by experts in the field,” said event coordinator Akhil Johnson. He added that the money would be used for the education of children whose parents have died due to Covid-19, who would be identified by Childline Foundation. The phase-one, which began on Monday, will end on October 22, while second-phase will be held from October 5 to 9. The Ayush ministry and department of youth affairs are also associating with the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rajagiri-launches-virtual-marathon/articleshow/78434334.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Light rains in Telangana till November-end||HYDERABAD: Rainfall activity is likely to subside over Telangana as southwest monsoon is set to withdraw soon and conditions are becoming favourable for onset of northeast monsoon in the state. This means high intensity rains will now reduce across Telangana and there will be light and isolated rains until November-end. This year, the state received unprecedented rainfall of 1102 mm, which was 45 per cent excess than the normal rainfall of 760 mm. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad figures, this was the highest rainfall that the state has received in the last three decades. Telangana witnessed several extreme rainfall events this year, which are set to reduce with the onset of northeast monsoon. “Withdrawal of southwest monsoon is expected in the second week of October. Intense rains during northeast monsoon will occur in south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema. However, it will be relatively lesser in north coastal AP and Telangana,” said Raja Rao, meteorologist, IMD, Hyderabad. This year, Telangana witnessed 82 rainy days with an intensity of 13.2 mm rainfall per day. The second highest rainfall of 912.2 mm was witnessed during the southwest monsoon season recorded in 2016-17. Barring Nirmal, all districts received excess rainfall of 2 to 130 per cent. Hyderabad received 29 per cent excess rainfall to the tune of 802.7 mm as against normal of 621.2 mm from June 1 to September 30. Due to the above normal rainfall this year, most reservoirs on the Krishna and Godavari rivers are brimming with water. “Isolated rains will occur in parts of Telangana. Mercury level will hover around the normal temperature,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/light-rains-in-state-till-nov-end/articleshow/78437038.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Consumer panel warrant against LDA||LUCKNOW: The District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission on Thursday issued a warrant against the secretary of Lucknow Development Authority. It directed the commissioner of police to ensure compliance of the order and presence of the LDA officer before the commission on October 13. The order was issued in connection with a case in which LDA has allegedly not given possession of a housing unit to a buyer even 15 years after allotment. According to the order, the matter has been pending for long and had even been heard by the Central Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission. It was also taken to high court which directed day to day hearing in 2018. Since then, LDA officers have been given written and verbal assurance that work to provide relief to the complainant is taken up. However, nothing substantial has been done so far as LDA seeks more time each time citing one reason or another. Complainant Mehboob Ali told TOI that he had purchased a housing unit for Rs 9 lakh in 2003 in Priyadarshini Colony constructed by LDA on Sitapur Road. However, he said, he has not been given possession so far. Even after repeated attempts to know about the issues causing delay, the LDA secretary was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/consumer-panel-warrant-against-lda/articleshow/78438070.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Covid paradox: As crowd peaks in a few sections, Delhi Metro worries mount||NEW DELHI: Three weeks after full-fledged resumption of operations, Delhi Metro is witnessing a surge in ridership. From September 14, the first Monday since operations resumed fully to September 19, the urban train network saw an average ‘line utilisation’ figure of 7.2 lakh passengers. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation didn’t face any problem in enforcing social distancing at stations entrances or premises. After that the line utilisation figure rose to 9-10 lakh daily, and the effect of the increased ridership is becoming visible in some sections. Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC, said that it had been recently observed that certain sections of the metro network were showing the trend of coach occupancy touching 100% mark during the morning and evening peak hours. “Comparably, during off-peak hours the occupancy in the same sections is in the range of 30-50%, thus leaving ample scope for people to stagger their travel from peak hours to the extent possible and have hassle free travel with social distancing in place,” Dayal said. The sections witnessing the rush and evident in long queues outside stations are the New Bus Adda-Dilshad Garden-Shastri Park section of Red Line, Kirti Nagar-Mandi House section of Blue Line, Mundka-Kirti Nagar section of Green Line and Escorts Mujesar-Badarpur section of Violet Line. Dayal said that the social distancing norms forced by the Corona pandemic had reduced the number of passengers carried in a train to around a fifth of the earlier capacity. “To provide better occupancy in the changed scenario, DMRC introduced peak hour frequency of trains from 8am to 8pm and also did away with the concept of off-peak hours from 11am to 4pm during which services were available with fewer trains and trips in the pre-lockdown days,” he said. Dayal said that commuters were advised to avoid unnecessary travel as far as possible and stagger travel timings for office, home or other work to the extent possible to ‘break the peak’, which he said was for the passengers’ own convenience. This also provided a more judicious utilisation of the coach capacity for each service. The pattern seen during peak hours in some sections is also being seen in other sections, and, consequently, leading to long queues outside the stations due to regulated entry, said Dayal. However, the entry restrictions were essential to ensured physical distancing among passengers on the station premises. Dayal assured that station gates would be closed if the crowd swelled enough to hamper social distance. This, of course, would add to the journey time and inconvenience. “The general public is once again requested to ‘break the peak’ by staggering their travel timings to decongest the peak hours and avail the additional capacity available during off-peak hours for their own convenience and safety during the corona pandemic,” Dayal said. Watch Delhi: DMRC worries mount as Metro crowd surges in a few section||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-paradox-as-crowd-peaks-in-a-few-sections-metro-worries-mount/articleshow/78437040.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Life Mission case: Kerala HC declines to interfere with CBI probe||KOCHI: The high court, on Thursday, said it does not want to interfere with the CBI probe in Life Mission foreign-funding case at this stage and that it would wait for more details to emerge. Justice V G Arun is considering a petition filed by the Life Mission CEO challenging CBI’s FIR, which alleges violation of Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. Senior advocate K V Viswanathan strenuously argued on behalf of the CEO that the notice issued by CBI be interfered with and no coercive steps should be permitted. It is a government agency and the petitioner is the agency’s CEO. Life Mission only gives land for building houses for the homeless and it has nothing to do with the money that was deposited into the account of the two companies. If CBI action continues, it will affect the morale of the agency and the court’s protection is required until the matter is examined by the court. Life Mission only gave land and the two companies that are building homes received foreign donations directly into their accounts, the court was told. The court asked whether it was Life Mission that entered into an MoU and whether there were separate agreements between Unitac and Sane Ventures and Red Crescent, which made the donations. The court also asked whether Life Mission’s act amounts to assisting the companies to receive foreign aid. Would the two companies have got the funds without Life Mission, the court asked. If it could only be through Life Mission, then definitely it might amount to assisting, the court said. The court also referred to a letter written by Life Mission to Red Crescent allegedly stating that the amounts can be given to the two companies. The senior counsel replied that nobody has a case that Life Mission ‘engineered it’ to get funds to those companies and that the letter to Red Crescent was only regarding approval of the designs and statutory clearances. The letter does not state anything about funds. They wanted to know whether the construction is on government land or private land, the senior counsel said. The court said there are certain grey areas, before hearing the counsel representing CBI. CBI’s counsel Sasthamangalam S Ajithkumar argued that the investigation is at a nascent stage and it is to be investigated whether the MoU was the genesis of the deal or whether the two companies had separate agreements with Red Crescent. He also alleged that the two companies were stooges of the government. That is why reports have come that kickbacks have been given to government servants and persons other than government servants provided money to these companies. This is a case where this will come under the umbrella of MoU. If the senior counsel’s argument is accepted, anybody can come out of the evil of this act by just getting into a MoU and thereafter constituting two agencies by which money is paid to them and then come to the court and say Act will not apply to us and money has not come to us, CBI’s counsel submitted. The court repeated the question to CBI’s counsel whether the two companies have executed independent agreements with Red Crescent. That is something that CBI has to investigate, he replied. The principal question to be investigated is whether these agencies are stooges and proxies. Only then it can be determined whether they are independent agencies and whether these transactions have any linkage with a government agency, he told the court. Maintainability of the petition was also questioned by the CBI’s counsel, arguing that the CEO was not named as an accused to approach the court to quash the FIR. Life Mission is taking up the case of the two companies with which it has no business to do, the counsel said. In between, advocate Abhilash, who represented Unitac, submitted that there is a separate agreement between Unitac and UAE Consulate and the government is not a party in it. A separate petition has been filed, the counsel said. CBI’s counsel the said that the question to be examined is whether the whole exercise was to make out an intelligent way to get out of the evil of the act and it has to be prevented effectively. It can only be answered by an investigator and not an advocate, he said. Justice VG Arun then said the petition is worthy of admission but investigation cannot be stopped. The court has posted the case for further hearing next Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-declines-to-interfere-with-cbi-probe/articleshow/78434312.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Bareilly||Four killed, two injured as Bolero hits tempo head-on on Moradabad-Kashipur highway||Bareilly: Four people were killed and two others severely injured after the tempo they were travelling in collided head-on with an SUV on the Moradabad-Kashipur highway on Thursday morning. The deceased — Nazim and Omveer of Moradabad and Durgesh and Rajesh of Siddharthnagar — all labourers, had boarded the tempo in Moradabad and were on their way to their workplace in Uttarakhand’s Kashipur when a Bolero hit the tempo head-on near Faridpur Haji village under Dilari police station around 4.45am. Moradabad police said all the four people died on the spot, while two others — Balram Srivastava of Madya Pradesh and Ghanshyam of Siddharthnagar — were severely injured. Moradabad’s Dilari police station SHO Satraj Singh told TOI, “All the deceased people were in their mid-30s. The injured were rushed to the district hospital. The deceased’s families were informed and the bodies were sent for post-mortem examination.” “The accused driver had fled the scene leaving Bolero behind. An FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-killed-two-injured-as-bolero-hits-tempo-head-on-on-moradabad-kashipur-highway/articleshow/78432052.cms||Maria Khan
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||Daan Utsav goes virtual to work for less fortunate||LUCKNOW: The festival of sharing and giving, Daan Utsav, will begin on Friday with virtual fun and educational activities to bring joy amid Covid-19 times. Events on the first day include an ‘e-sewa mela’, a virtual fair where philanthropists can buy, donate, give resources or simply volunteer with various organizations. The online platform will showcase the work of Daan Utsav volunteers amid interesting activities and interactive sessions with dentists, teachers and other people who will share insights on how becoming a part of the ‘joy of giving’ week has changed their lives. Another virtual event will be organized by LIVE foundation to raise awareness on the LGBTQ community, the challenges faced by them and mental health awareness and on supporting the underprivileged by distributing essential items among them. Helping with the education of young students, Sarthak Foundation will begin online classes for students above 13 years of age. Inner Wheel Club of Lucknow has planned to distribute stationery kits among several underprivileged children in different areas of the city and perform a small storytelling session with them. Joining the sustainable green initiative, organizations like Hasnaa Foundation, FLO Lucknow, Inner Wheel Club, Prerna Foundation and Digital Empowerment Foundation will collaborate with Awadh Growers Association to plant trees in Saidanpur village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/daan-utsav-goes-virtual-to-work-for-less-fortunate/articleshow/78438084.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Received 9,000kg dates from consulate: SJD||Thiruvananthapuram: The social justice department (SJD) has handed over to customs the details of consignments of dates it had received and supplied to various homes under the government as well as orphanage control boards, across the state. The superintendent of customs had issued a summons to Biju Prabhakar, secretary (social justice), in connection with the probe into the gold smuggling case. Customs sources said the department said it received only 9,000kg dates, which was distributed among close to 40,000 inmates in various homes, special schools, BUDS Schools and orphanages. They said now that the department has given the quantity of dates received and distributed, it will be compared with the total quantity of dates imported by the UAE consulate, to find whether there are any discrepancies. The customs had found that as much as 17,000kg dates were imported by the UAE consulate in various consignments till 2019. The customs had also asked for attested copies of correspondence and agreement made between the UAE consulate and the government for the distribution of dates, along with the details of institutions and the quantity of dates distributed to each of them. It has been reliably learnt that the department has compiled the details from all 14 districts and have provided the split up of the quantity supplied. At the same time, it has also been learnt no agreement was made between the government and the UAE consulate for the distribution of dates. “It was arranged by the office of the CM and the arrangements for the distribution of dates was made on the basis of direct instructions from M Sivasankar, the then secretary to the chief minister,” a senior official in the general administration department said, on conditions of anonymity. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had on May 26, 2017, formally inaugurated the programme in which one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh had also participated along with the UAE consulate officials. The customs sought the details on the suspicion of that the import of dates could be a cover to the illegal activities of Swapna and others, arrested in connection with the gold smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/received-9000kg-dates-from-consulate-sjd/articleshow/78434336.cms||KP Saikiran
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Herd immunity only through vaccination, say experts||NEW DELHI: The third sero survey in Delhi, which has revealed that seroprevalence has declined to 25.1%, instead of going up, has made one thing clear: we cannot depend on Covid-19 to run its course in order to develop herd immunity. Epidemiologists say it may take months to achieve herd immunity through the natural process and this may entail loss of many more lives. Therefore, experts say, it is important to wear masks in crowded places and follow social distancing.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Herd immunity refers to a point in an epidemic situation when a virus can no longer spread easily because enough people are immune to it. Coronavirus live updates: Complete coverageAccording to Dr N K Mehra, ICMR emeritus scientist (honorary) and former dean of AIIMS, at least 60% to 70% of the population needs to get infected to achieve herd immunity against Covid-19. “If you consider the mortality rate of the disease to be 1% or less as suggested in multiple studies, it would mean loss of thousands of more lives in the country,” he said. Read AlsoSecond Russian virus vaccine passes early trials: ReportRussia's Vektor - a top-secret state virology research centre in Siberia - said that early-stage trials were successful for its own experimental vaccine, named EpiVacCorona. "The first two phases of clinical trials demonstrated the effectiveness and safety of the EpiVacCorona vaccine," Vektor'sAlready, data shows, more than 98,000 people have died due to Covid-19 across India. In Delhi, 5,401 people have died after contracting the infection. Delhi reported its first case of Covid-19 on March 2 when a 45-year-old man with a history of travel to Italy tested positive for the disease.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); “Preventive vaccination is the only way to develop herd immunity against Covid-19. People should wear masks and follow physical distancing norms to protect themselves from contracting the disease until a vaccine is available,” said Dr S K Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). One of the lead researchers of the sero survey told TOI that antibodies against Covid-19 weren’t detectable in many people. “We tested around 300 people who had tested positive for Covid-19 through RT-PCR. Nearly 34% of them did not have detectable Covid antibodies,” the researcher said. This may explain why the percentage of people having Covid antibodies has reduced in the latest survey.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); In the sero surveys carried out by the Delhi government in July and August, the seroprevalence stood at 22.8% and 28.7%, respectively. However, the latest survey conducted in the first week of September shows that only about 25.1% had detectable Covid antibodies. “It is possible that the antibodies waned in many people. Also, the survey carried out this time involved more people from urban areas which could explain the difference,” the researcher said.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Dr Mehra, however, said the waning of antibodies in persons who have tested positive for Covid-19 shouldn’t cause concern. “Antibody responses always decline after the infection. But there is an effective pool of other cells (B cells) that maintain immunological memory against the pathogen. These are enough to protect against re-infection,” he added. Watch Covid-19: Herd immunity only through vaccination to prevent loss of life||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/herd-immunity-onlythrough-vaccination/articleshow/78437046.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||Girl repeatedly gangraped in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A 19-year-old dalit girl was allegedly held hostage and reportedly gangraped for a month in Gudamba area of the city. The incident came to light after the girl was freed by the accused and her parents lodged a case in this connection. The police registered a case of gang rape, atrocities against ST/SC and wrongful confinement against the accused whom the victim identified as Vipin Singh, Shakil and four unidentified persons. As per survivor’s complaint, Vipin had invited her at his house to facilitate her job on August 23. When she reached there, Vipin took all her academic documents and asked her to sign on blank papers. She was then taken to a house where she was forced to eat sedative. She fell unconscious and Vipin and Shakil raped her. “Vipin and Shakilused to force themselves on me. They used to beat me also,” she said. She further said her father lodged a case against Vipin and Shakil at Garhi Chowki (police outpost). “The accused probably got a whiff of police involvement in the case. They asked me to talk to my family and inform them that she was near St Mary hospital in the locality. My aunt came to receive me there. We were taken to Garhi police outpost where police took a promise from my father that he will not report the case as he had got his daughter back,” the victim claimed in her FIR to the police. She also alleged that her father had gone to the police station to lodge an FIR but was not entertained. Later, she met senior officials and got an FIR registered. DCP, north, Shalini told TOI that the FIR was registered after the survivor met them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/girl-repeatedly-gangraped-in-lucknow/articleshow/78438093.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Spike in Covid cases affects blood donation||Kochi: Steep spike in Covid-19 cases has affected blood availability at blood banks as many donors aren’t able to donate because of increase in containment zones. Every year, National Voluntary Blood Donation Day is observed by getting as many people donate at various banks by organizations and NGOs. “Due to the pandemic we couldn’t organize any medical camps for past several months. The blood availability is being met by existing donors,” said Jishnu Raj, blood donors Kerala, Ernakulam chapter, adding that though blood banks have been organising donation camps, only 10 people are allowed to donate due to restrictions. “Some of the surgeries are being put off because the patient’s family isn’t able to arrange donors,” Jishnu said. “This year’s theme is ‘blood donation and universal access to safe blood transfusion’. As the educational institutions remain closed, we are finding it difficult to meet the needs of satellite units, patients with blood and bleeding disorders, malignancies and dialysis. All of them used to get blood free of replacement. This makes the observance all the more important,” said Dr N Vijay Kumar, medical officer in-charge, Aluva Blood bank. On Thursday, the day will be observed adhering to Covid protocols at regional blood transfusion centre, district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/spike-in-covid-cases-affects-blood-donation/articleshow/78434354.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kochi||Customs takes local body member into custody||Kochi: Commissionerate of customs (preventive) on Thursday conducted raids at multiple locations and took two more persons, including a local body member, into custody in connection with the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. House of Koduvally municipal councillor Karat Faisal, a Left-backed independent, at Koduvally in Kozhikode was raided by the customs on Thursday morning. According to sources, the raids took place at the councillor’s residence and a building next to it and lasted for a few hours. Customs sources said that Faisal was taken into custody on suspicion that he was one among the financiers behind the racket which smuggled gold through the diplomatic channel. Faisal represents ward 27 of Koduvally municipality. He was linked with smuggling earlier as well. In 2017, customs had slapped a penalty of Rs 38 lakh after making him an accused in the Karipur gold smuggling case. He was the seventh accused in the case and an adjudication order was issued by the commissioner of customs and central excise, Kozhikode, in 2017. He was again in the middle of controversy when his Mini-Cooper car was used by CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in the Jana Jagratha Yathra during a reception for the rally at Koduvally in October 2017. Meanwhile, sleuths have also found out that a Malappuram native Muhammed Aslam colluded with one among the accused Said Alavi in smuggling 25kg of gold as five consignments through the diplomatic channel prior to the current seizure in November and December 2019. Customs arraigned Aslam as respondent number 19 and recorded his arrest. He was produced at the Economic Offences Court in Kochi on Thursday and was remanded in judicial custody. Customs also found out that the market value of the said gold contraband was approximately Rs 9.61 crore. Sleuths are learnt to have received information about Faisal while interrogating the accused in prison. Customs, however, are yet to record the arrest of Faisal at the time of going to print.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-takes-local-body-member-into-custody/articleshow/78434352.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Trade body to govt: Balance caution with commerce||Kolkata: The travel and tourism trade has for the second time in three days appealed to the state government to allow daily flight operations from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. At present, flights from these cities are allowed only three times a week. In a letter to the newly appointed chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) chairman (east) Anil Punjabi called for revival of daily flights from the six cities that were suspended from July 6 and then allowed thrice a week from September. Punjabi also called for regulatisation of repatriation and bubble flights on the international sector and suggested introduction of rapid antigen tests on arrival to check if a person is carrying infection or not. On Tuesday, another trade body — TAAI — had written to the government seeking relaxation of the curbs on flights. “The biggest festive season — Durga Puja and Diwali — is less than a month away and there is every reason to feel optimistic regarding a rebound of tourism as the worst of Covid-19 may be over. During the past six months, the travel and tourism sector witnessed a cataclysmic period of devastation. October to January presents a window of opportunity that we all must explore for the survival of the industry. The CM has already set the revival process in motion with her visit to north Bengal,” Punjabi said in the letter. TAFI, in its request, has also suggested that the state introduce e-pass that can be generated through a simple module in the state government website to keep track of all incoming passengers. Punjabi also suggested that for passenger who do not have any symptoms and wishing to depart within seven days of arrival be allowed to do so by relaxing the 14-day home quarantine rule. “In this hour of concern, the delicate balancing act between safety, consumer confidence and commercial viability can be effectively addressed if we all cohesively act as a unit and achieve a purposeful convergence of feasible views,” Punjabi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trade-body-to-govt-balance-caution-with-commerce/articleshow/78435564.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: 8% become super spreaders, reason behind 60% cases||CHENNAI: Super spreaders who made up just 8% of the infected caused three-fifths of Covid-19 cases, while 71% of infected individuals did not pass on the virus to their contacts, a large contact tracing study from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh has found. Just when India is preparing for schools and colleges to reopen, the study ‘Epidemiology and transmission dynamics of Covid-19 in two Indian states’ published in ‘Science’ on Wednesday also found that children and teens played an active role in transmitting the virus, particularly to family members, during the lockdown period. Health officials from the two states worked with public health experts in the US to track the infection pathways and case fatality rate. The states had more than four lakh cases each by 1 August, and their health workers had tracked, screened and tested more than 30 lakh contacts. “Whether it is a city like Chennai or a rural town, super spreading events seemed to be the rule rather than an exception. We were not able to establish this earlier because this is the first time we are looking at data this big,” said the study’s lead researcher, Ramanan Laxminarayan from the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, New Delhi. “This is probably what will happen in New York, Beijing or Seoul as well,” he said. The study found that the chances of an infected person passing on to a close contact varied from 1.2% in healthcare settings to 2.6% in the community and 9% in the household. As expected, the study showed that travelling long distances in close proximity increased risk of transmission. Analysis showed that people had greater chances of getting infected from those of the same age. Of all same-age pairs, the likelihood of transmission was among the highest between pairs of children under 14 years. Among every 100 index patients in the five to 17 year age group, more than 15% of their contacts tested positive. This is the highest proportion among the age groups analysed. Those between the 18 to 29, 20 to 39 and 40-49 years infected 12.3% of their contacts. While the number of contacts tested positive per 100 index case was the lowest in the 85-plus age group. While there has been pressure from different stakeholders to reopen educational institutions, schools and colleges may have to follow stringent protocols to prevent clusters. “Cases and deaths were higher in groups where there were more children and younger adults” Laxminarayan said. Several countries including Israel and Singapore were forced to lockdown once again after they saw a surge in cases after opening schools, he said. Scientists also found that on average deaths in India occurred after six days (or fewer) of hospitalization compared to an average of 13 days in the United States. Many senior doctors have pointed out that delayed testing and admissions cause early deaths in India. Deaths due to the novel virus in India are high in the 50-64 age group compared to 60-plus in the United States. “Such studies give us insights in the virus that we do not know much about. It helps us frame effective policies, strengthen SOPs and alter strategies to push back the virus,” said Tamil Nadu health secretary J Radhakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/8-become-super-spreaders-reason-behind-60-cases/articleshow/78437050.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||GST collection in Gujarat goes up by 6% in September||AHMEDABAD: After consistent decline in the collection of goods and services tax (GST) revenues in Gujarat after the lockdown from April to August, there’s finally a silver lining, with tax collection in the state showing a 6% increase for September this year. According to data by state GST department, GST collection stood at Rs 6,090 crore in September this year against Rs 5,741 crore during the same month in 2019. According to experts, growth in GST collection is a clear sign of boost in consumption and an increase in industrial production due to which the financial transactions went up. Industry experts also attributed the growth to resuming of commercial and industrial activities. “As more relaxations came in, the pent-up demand played a key role in boosting demand, which caused tax collection to go up. That apart, manufacturing activity resumed to a great extent in sectors such as textile and chemicals amid a boost in export orders. These factors collectively led to an increase in GST collection in Gujarat,” said Natubhai Patel, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry (GCCI). This is for the first time since the lockdown that GST collection showed a growth in Gujarat. The state registered the steepest fall in revenue collections in April, the entirety of which was under lockdown. In April, the state’s GST revenues tanked to Rs 1,296 crore against Rs 6,874 crore in April 2019. If we compare the manufacturing-heavy states, Gujarat clocked the fourth-highest growth in terms of growth in GST revenues. The highest growth was seen in Tamil Nadu (15%), Haryana (15%) and Andhra Pradesh (8%). The state outshone other states including Maharashtra, where the growth was almost flat and Telangana and Karnataka which reported a negative growth in GST collection in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gst-collection-in-gujarat-goes-up-by-6-in-september/articleshow/78437080.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 2, 2020||Kochi||ED questions CPM Nilambur area secy||Kozhikode: Enforcement directorate (ED) has interrogated CPM Nilambur area secretary E Padmakshan in connection with the investigation into the financial irregularities of Sibi Vayalil, who allegedly swindled money by offering medical degree seats to students in foreign countries. Padmakshan was summoned to the ED office here on Thursday morning to know the details of the programmes held in Nilambur, which was sponsored by Vayalil. The CPM leader was the convener of the cultural programmes. It was alleged that Vayalil swindled crores of rupees through the Mary Matha Education Guidance Trust that offered to help students find seats for medical courses in countries like Canada and Australia. The racket behind the incidents has links with local politicians and businessmen in Nilambur. M Mansoor, a businessman in the area, was summoned by ED in the morning. Congress leader and former chairman of Nilambur municipality Aryadan Shoukath was questioned on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-questions-cpm-nilambur-area-secy/articleshow/78434375.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: La Martiniere has historical documents older than itself||LUCKNOW: “This first day of January in the year One Thousand Eight Hundred (or the year 1,800) witness my hand and seal as under this and at the end page,” reads the handwritten will of Major-General Claude Martin, the founder of La Martiniere College. In accordance with this will (TOI has a copy) the school was established in 1845 and turned 175-years-old on Thursday. The oldest school in the city marks this year as its Dodransbicentennial year, commencing year-long celebrations on October 1, the day when classes were held for the first time in the 1845. The college may have turned 175 but it holds records older than its establishment. The brown and brittle pages of the handwritten ‘will’ have still not lost their sheen and are preserved as they were around 20 decades ago. Several other such historical documents like the students’ admission register, letters written by Claude Martin, medals of the colonial era preserved in the college’s archive are a witness to its over Century-old traditions. “The college archives boast of well-preserved documents comprising the school’s first admission register, the handwritten copy of the will of Major Gen Claude Martin and other old records dating back to 1,800,” said former student, Harpreet alias Mickey Kohli of 1983 batch. He said three generations of his family are witness to the college’s legacy and have captured every inch of the college with their lens -- the college archive, trophy room, artifacts and the armament collection still glittering as it was when brought to the premises. A fact lesser known about the La Martiniere College is that it was a college right from its inception. Established by a decree of the Supreme Court of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal, the college is administered by a local committee of governors and the property is held by trustees in accordance with this decree. This scheme of management has run smoothly for 175 years without a break.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/college-has-historical-docus-older-than-itself/articleshow/78438119.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 150 computer instructors laid off sans prior notice||CHANDIGARH: In a major setback to 150 senior and junior computer instructors working in various government schools of the UT, Chandigarh, since 2008, the education department of the UT has issued relieving letters to them without any prior notice. The decision has not only left the computer instructors shocked, but also invited criticism from the entire school fraternity. The computer instructors have not been paid salaries from the past four months following a dispute with the contractor, who had been given their contract four months ago. According to sources from the UT education department, they may be allowed to rejoin after a week after a proper agreement with the contractor. However, this was not told to the instructors, which left them heartbroken. “Everyone is well aware that Covid-19 pandemic is going on and inflation at its peak. It has been difficult for the faculty to meet their expenses and instead of working on it, they left us jobless. We are in a shock,” said an instructor. Another computer teacher alleged that, “We have been relieved because we did not listen to the contractor, who was demanding money from us for letting us continue. The officials of the department had also been forcing us to settle the matter, but when we refused to do so, we were thrown out of our jobs.” According to the allegations of the instructors, the contractor of the RR Enterprise started calling computer instructors from different numbers and asking Rs 12,000 per person in the name of the registration fee and on the condition of not giving any receipt. He also threatened that if they did not pay the amount, they will be fired from the job. All the teacher unions came out in protest and said this was a wrong decision by the education department without even settling their fees for past months. They demanded that this step should be rolled back by the department. The unions further said in times when the Prime Minister talks about digital India education, the department has failed to have regular computer teachers and instead relieved those working on a contract.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/150-computer-instructors-laid-off-sans-prior-notice/articleshow/78435614.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Taxi touts make a comeback along with flyers ahead of festive season rush||KOLKATA: Growing air traffic and a surge in city-bound passengers in the run-up to the festive season have led to the comeback of touts at Kolkata airport, forcing cops and airport officials to go back to the drawing board to chalk out a solution all over again. As part of the solution, Bidhannagar Police has proposed to set up a third pre-paid taxi kiosk outside the airport to increase visibility and deter passengers from being fleeced by taxi touts. There has also been an increase in the number of police force. The new pre-paid taxi kiosk is set to come up outside arrival gate 1A/1B of the airport where touts have allegedly been most active currently. The airport has two other pre-paid taxi booking counters — opposite arrival gate numbers 3C and 2A/2B. The latter was set up two years ago in the wake of similar complaints. “Time and again, we have conducted raids against touts and illegal car operators at the airport. But they get back to business after a few days of dormancy. The airport is hosting a large number of first-time flyers during this unlock period, many of whom don’t know about the pre-paid taxi counters and become easy preys. Hence, we are planning to install another taxi kiosk very shortly. Passengers will be able to spot it easily,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the deputy commissioner (traffic) of Bidhannagar City Police. Airport authorities said they had agreed to the proposal and were awaiting a written proposal from the cops. “We have had an initial round of discussion about it and have no objection in allowing them to set up another kiosk. Once we get a formal letter, we will approve the plan so that passengers can be benefited in the run-up to the Pujas,” said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, the airport director. Cops said they were also coming up with a toll free pre-paid taxi booking number where passengers can give a missed a call and will get an OTP valid for next few minutes with which they can approach a pre-paid taxi kiosk and avoid standing in long queues. “We are preferring a missed call service over an app since the latter is difficult to use for elderly persons or passengers without smartphones,” said another senior officer of the commissionerate. Kolkata airport has multiple cab options — ranging from post-paid car rental services to app-cab operators — but in the absence of streamlined services and transparency in fares, tourists and visitors often end up getting fleeced. Although Sarkar said his department was working on strategies to tackle the touts, TOI found a senior sub-inspector, who had managed to drive most of touts out of the airport within a day, was transferred to the control room the next day. While sources hinted at an inter-departmental tussle leading to the transfer, senior officers of the commissionerate termed it as a “routine transfer” and that the sub-inspector was posted at the airport only on “temporary duty”. The sub-inspector told TOI he was not authorised to comment on the transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/taxi-touts-make-a-comeback-along-with-flyers-ahead-of-festive-season-rush/articleshow/78435583.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Women’s shelter home inmates to be made self-reliant: Thakur||Nagpur: Inmates of shelter homes by women and child welfare department (WCWD) would be made self-reliant by imparting them skill training. Judiciary, police department and WCWD would work together for this objective, said women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur on Thursday. The minister visited government-run Priyadarshini women’s shelter and Karuna Home and talked to the inmates at length. She assured the inmates of taking necessary decision to fulfil their needs. The child welfare shelter houses orphan and oppressed girls. Girls who have run away from their homes in other states, women given shelter under immoral trade prohibition laws etc are also lodged there. The WCWD is running courses to impart skills to these girls and women to make them self-reliant. The total capacity of the shelter home is 100. The government girls’ shelter home has 70 inmates between the age of 6 to 18 years. Due to the Covid pandemic, these girls are being given online education. The shelter has an entertainment room too. Thakur expressed satisfaction over their lodging and boarding facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/womens-shelter-home-inmates-to-be-made-self-reliant-thakur/articleshow/78435691.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to meet principals next week on reopening schools||CHANDIGARH: The education department will hold a meeting with principals and heads of government and private schools and coaching institutes next week to decide on reopening of schools after October 15. This was decided in a meeting of officers of the UT education department on Thursday, after they received guidelines for Unlock 5 under which states have been given the authority to decide and begin reopening of schools from October 15 onwards. However, similar to Unlock 4 guidelines, consent of parents would be mandatory. Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We had a meeting today and have decided to consult all the stakeholders, including schools and coaching centres.” Most private schools said they would not reopen the schools as already more than 80% parents said no in the survey which was conducted last month. The coaching centres also are not in the favour of reopening. Dr Arvind Goyal, city-based NEET trainer, said, “It is not possible to teach with masks on your face. Coaching centres are very different from schools. Schools have open spaces and well ventilated big classrooms as well as open grounds for students. Coaching centres have closed AC classrooms many of which don’t even have windows and there are narrow corridors. In Chandigarh, the coaching centres are located on the upper floors of SCOs where social distancing is hardly possible. It will be difficult for the coaching centres with smaller infrastructure to follow all the SOPs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-meet-principals-next-week-on-reopening-schools/articleshow/78435625.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 2, 2020||Mysuru||Dasara elephants arrive in Mysuru||Mysuru: Five Dasara elephants were extended a warm and traditional welcome at the entrance of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve in Hunsuron Thursday. The ceremony was formally inaugurated by deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri by showering flower petals on the elephants. The jumbos — Gopi, Vikrama, Vijaya and Kaveri — led by howdah carrying elephant Abhimanyu arrived at Aranya Bhavan, the forest headquarters, in the city. For the first time in two decade of Dasara celebrations, the 54-year-old tusker will do the honours of carrying the golden howda. Officers have high hopes on him given his calm temperament and heeding nature. This will be his 21st celebration, said an official. Speaking at the event, the DC said this year Dasara is being celebrated in a simple way with all precautionary measures to the pandemic. As per the government directive, measures will be taken to restrict the entry of people, she added. Elephants are the cynosure of Dasara celebration and people come from faraway places across the globe to see the majestic walk of elephants all along the 5-km procession route from Mysuru Palace to Bannimantapa parade grounds with lead elephant carrying the golden howdah with idol of deity Chamundeshwari in it. With the state government deciding to restrict the celebrations within the Mysuru Palace premises, only five elephants were shortlisted to participate in the event. The elephants will be formally welcomed to the Palace by district minister ST Somashekar. Jumbos will arrive palace today DCF (wildlife) MG Alexander said the elephants on Friday will be ferried to the Mysuru Palace in trucks where they will stay put till celebration is over. Veterinarian DN Nagaraj said elephants are hale and hearty. “We have confidence in Abhimanyu. He is experienced and will perform the task comfortably,” he added. End of tusker Arjuna’s era It’s the end of the era of Arjuna, who had carried howdah in Dasara celebration 20 times. He is over 60 years and as per the guidelines of Central government and Supreme Court, elephants aged 60 and above are not given any challenging task because it may cause anxiety in them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dasara-elephants-arrive-in-mysuru/articleshow/78434732.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: East-West Metro trains may run till Phoolbagan from Monday||KOLKATA: You can zip from Sector V to Phoolbagan in 16 minutes flat for Rs 20 from Monday if railway minister Piyush Goyal finalizes the Sunday afternoon digital inauguration of the extended part of the truncated services. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi inspected Phoolbagan station on Thursday morning. “He asked us to be prepared for Sunday’s unveiling,” said an official of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), East-West Metro’s implementing agency. At present, there isn’t much footfall in the existing 5km Sector V-Salt Lake stadium stretch. The 2km extension to Phoolbagan is expected to push up the commuter count since it takes more than an hour to cover the distance by bus or by taking a detoured auto ride. The Sector V-Salt Lake stadium, which the railway minister had flagged off in February this year, is an elevated stretch. From Salt Lake Stadium, a ramp at Subhas Sarovar leads the tracks below the surface to Phoolbagan station, which is the 16km East-West Metro’s first underground station from the east. It is also Kolkata’s first underground station in 25 years, unique with full-length (2.5m) platform screen doors that no other underground station has. Phoolbagan station has all other advanced features of the six elevated ones that dot the Salt Lake stretch. The 7km Sector V-Phoolbagan line will follow the timetable currently in place for Kolkata’s Line 2. The north-south Metro — or Line 1 — has trains plying at 10-minute peak-hour gaps and 15-minute lean-hour intervals. A week into Metro Railway’s resumption of commercial services, trips for East-West Metro was reduced to 48 from 72 and frequencies raised from 20-minute to half-an-hour. A senior Metro Railway official said: “East-West and north-south lines will be treated separately. The number of trains of East-West Metro can be increased and frequencies reduced based on the footfall in the ensuing days.” E-passes, compulsory to access the 24 north-south stations, will not be needed in East-West Metro even after the Phoolbagan station is opened. For north-south, which is the country’s oldest and most congested Metro, the e-passes help maintain the 400 ridership cap for a train at a time. On September 18, the Commissioner of Railway (CRS) gave Metro Railway a revised deadline of December 17 to launch the extended Phoolbagan service. CRS, under the civil aviation ministry, gives safety nod for a new Metro line. The CRS sanction in June couldn’t be used because of the pandemic. The section that the CRS had sanctioned is actually the 3km — mostly underground — stretch of the East-West Metro, stretching from Salt Lake Stadium station to the Sealdah crossover via the underground Phoolbagan station. Gammon India had built the section from Sector V till the Subhas Sarobar ramp while the stretch from the ramp till the Sealdah crossover was built by ITD ITD-Cementation. The first trial run using the hi-tech BEML rake through Phoolbagan’s underground tunnels was conducted on May 31, 2019. The last time a trial run through an underground section in the city was conducted was way back in 1995.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-metro-trains-may-run-till-phoolbagan-from-monday/articleshow/78435627.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 2, 2020||Kochi||IUML leader submits report on assets & liabilities of MLA||Kozhikode: Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) Kasaragod district treasurer Kallatra Mahin Haji, who has been asked by the party state leadership to assess the assets and liabilities of MLA M C Kamaruddin has submitted his report. Haji told TOI that the further course of action would be decided by the party. “I have submitted the report on the assets and liabilities of the MLA to the leadership,” he said. Kamaruddin is in the thick of a controversy over ‘cheating’ the investors of Fashion Gold Jewellery and the party had asked the MLA to repay the investments by raising fund through selling of the assets. Haji was entrusted with the responsibility at a meeting of the IUML leaders held at the house of Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal two weeks ago. He was asked to submit the report before September 30. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha took out a march to the Manjeshwaram taluk office demanding the arrest of the MLA. Police blocked the march near the office and used water cannons when the protesters tried to push the barricade. Yuva Morcha state general secretary K Ganesh inaugurated the march. District president Dhananjayan, general secretary Vaisakh Keloth, state Mahila coordinator N P Sikha and others spoke. There are around 70 cases against Kamaruddin re-tightened at Chandera, Payyannur and Kasaragod police stations. The crime branch team led SP K K Moideenkutty and Kasaragod police chief D Shilpa is investigating the case, which is being monitored by IG Gopesh Aggarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iuml-leader-submits-report-on-assets-liabilities-of-mla/articleshow/78434396.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Newborn fights cytokine storm, wins 25-day battle||Kolkata: A 50-day-old infant fought off severe Covid infection for 25 days in a hospital, including cytokine storm, a dreaded complication of the infection which has claimed many adult lives. The baby’s parents took her home from hospital on Thursday. The Hazras of Durgapur were over the moon when Sonali gave birth to a healthy girl in a Durgapur hospital 50 days ago. Delivered through C-section, both mother and child were discharged on the seventh day. But the baby soon developed fever. The couple took her to two local hospitals where she was admitted for a few days each. But when her condition kept deteriorating, the newborn was brought to Fortis Hospital Anandapur on September 5. She was only 25 days old then.She was admitted under neonatologist Sumita Saha. The neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) in charge found that in addition to fever, the baby was suffering from severe shock, breathing difficulties, profound anaemia and a mysterious rash all over the body. Looking at the symptoms, the NICU team suspected Covid-19 infection. An investigation confirmed Covid, but also cytokine storm. “She had to be ventilated with a very high level of support. At one stage, her heart stopped completely and we almost lost all hope. She also had fluid accumulation in her tummy and around her heart,” said Saha. The baby was treated with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and steroid, and gradually regained her strength before coming out of ventilation after five days. But another challenge was waiting around the corner. The doctors had to stop the steroid midway because the baby developed high blood pressure as a side effect. But stopping the steroid was causing heart failure, significant breathing difficulty and she had to be ventilated again. This time, her kidneys also started to fail.“We restarted steroids with caution along with other therapies and, after a prolonged fight of 25 days, she is healthy,” added Saha.“We are happy to be finally taking our daughter back home. We are thankful to the entire medical team, not only for their dedication to her treatment, but also for the love and care with which they handled our daughter,” said the baby’s father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/newborn-fights-cytokine-storm-wins-25-day-battle/articleshow/78435629.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt to create new cadre of private fire safety officers||Gandhinagar: In the wake of growing number of fires in the urban areas, the state government has decided to create a new cadre of private fire safety officers with a view to reducing the workload of municipal fire brigade officers.The government is developing online and offline course modules to train engineers in disciplines of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering, in fire safety and fire disaster management for different types of buildings — residential, commercial, educational, hospital and industrial. Civic bodies will create panel of such private practitioners in fire safety. While renewal of NOC (no objection certificates) is being made compulsory every six months, the new cadre can independently issue and renew NOC. This will save the builders and building owners from making rounds of the municipal corporations, municipalities and local self-government every six months, and hasten the process as well. They can select an independent fire safety officer of their own choice.The new cadre is being created under section-12 of the Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-create-new-cadre-of-private-fire-safety-officers/articleshow/78437095.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body prepares guidelines for fire safety at Ramleela||CHANDIGARH: With Dussehra round the corner, the fire and emergency services department of the Chandigarh municipal corporation will soon start issuing fire permission for staging of Ramleela across the city. “The deputy commissioner (DC)’s office grants the permission to stage Ramleela in the city and we have started receiving letters regarding the fire permission from the DC office. Fire safety is an important aspect in the staging of Ramleela, given the fire-prone materials used for decoration at such events. So, we are preparing a detailed guideline for the same,” a civic body official said. According to them, after giving sufficient time to the Ramleela organisers to adhere to the fire norms, multiple teams of the fire officers and firemen will visit each Ramleela site to check whether the fire safety arrangements are in place. In case of violations, strict action would be taken against them, which can go up to denial of permission to organise the programme. Since social distancing and gathering-related precautions are going to be key factors during this year’s Ramleela and other Dussehra events, it is going to be a big challenge for the Chandigarh administration to ensure adherence to the Covid-19 protocols during the upcoming festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-prepares-guidelines-for-fire-safety-at-ramleela/articleshow/78435631.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 2, 2020||Vadodara||Fake certificate racket busted, one held||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) has arrested a man for printing and selling bogus experience certificates of different companies. Vinay Jha, a resident of Bajwa village, was nabbed after the cops received a tip-off about him. The SOG sleuths have also seized 29 bogus letterheads and experience certificates. According to the police, Jha owns a computer shop in Bajwa. He began printing experience certificates of different companies at his shop some months ago. “Jha used to sell off the certificates for Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 per document. Those looking for a visa to go abroad or scouting for job locally used to buy these bogus documents from him,” said the police. Jha even used to sign on the documents in the name of company officials. The cops are now trying to ascertain if any other person is involved in the racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-certificate-racket-busted-one-held/articleshow/78435840.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Our teachers made us what we are today’||LUCKNOW: The geography teacher’s mandate to draw maps taught him to be self-dependent, the sting of the cane taught the other how discipline could help achieve anything. The two little Martinians would have never thought in their school days that they would be heading leading institutions in the country. So, while prof Alok Dhawan is now director of Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lt Gen Dr Bipin Puri is vice-chancellor of KGMU, both dedicating their success to their alma mater, La Martiniere College, on completion of its 175 years. “It was our teachers in school who made us what we are today. My geography teacher HE Dignam never allowed us to buy maps, but asked us to draw them ourselves, to make us understand the importance of hard work and self-dependence,” said Dhawan, a 1982 pass out. “Every teacher taught us life’s lessons in a unique style. When I needed help in mathematics, Mohan Sir made me solve an equation a 100 times till I understood that I was not focusing on understanding the problem,” Dhawan said. Dr Puri of 1974 batch said, “Teachers used to be very strict and that is what made us understand how discipline is important. My college focuses not only on academics but on every aspect for a wholesome student.” Dr Puri fondly remembered history teacher Henderson, who on non-completion of homework or insincerity used to spank students. “Mostly we used to put some notebook in our trousers to make it sting less, but our teacher knew us so well that he pulled it out,” laughed the VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/our-teachers-made-us-what-we-are-today/articleshow/78438138.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 2, 2020||Mysuru||Infosys foundation donates Rs 20 lakh to Mysuru Zoo||Mysuru: Infosys foundation chairperson Sudha Murthy donated Rs 20 lakh to Mysuru Zoo for its maintenance. The foundation had donated another Rs 20 lakh to the zoo in May this year. The zoo director appreciated Sudha Murthy’s generosity in helping the institution amid Covid-19. According to the zoo officials, it requires Rs 2 crore every month towards the feeding, maintenance and salary of the staff. The zoo is home to more than 1,400 mammals, birds and reptiles, including exotic species. The 126-year-old zoo had been a self-reliant institution since 2002, sustaining itself on the money raised from gate ticket collection till the pandemic-induced lockdown. However, having remained shut for more than two months during the lockdown and its income having taken a hit, the institution is facing a crippling cash crunch. The animal adoption scheme introduced by the zoo’s former executive director Kumar Pushkar two decades back has also been relaunched to mop up resources for the institution. So far, 4,600 people have adopted 5,895 birds and animals, fetching Rs 8.14 core, said sources at the zoo. Cricketers including Anil Kumble, Javagal Srinath, Zaheer Khan, Mahendra Singh Dhoni and sandalwood actors and celebrities like Shivarajkumar, Darshan and Chikkanna and several politicians including B S Yeddyurappa have adopted animals and birds in the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/infosys-foundation-donates-rs-20-lakh-to-mysuru-zoo/articleshow/78434774.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||In 17 days, 80,000 Panjab University students write final-year exams||CHANDIGARH: Around 80,000 students of undergraduate, postgraduate and other professional courses, including those from University Institute of Open Learning (USOL) and private candidates have appeared in the first ever online examination conducted by Panjab University, which commenced on September 17, 2020. Prof Parvinder Singh, controller of examination (CoE), said the exams continued for 17 days, including Saturday and Sunday. A total of 1,400 exams were conducted during these days in three slabs i.e. 9 am to 11 am, 10 am to 12 pm and 2 pm to 4 pm. The CoE said the environment and road safety education examination was also conducted online with an option of Google form for about 5,000 candidates, who did not qualify the exam in their previous years. For the facilitation of candidates in far flung areas like Leh-Ladakh, North Eastern states, special nodal officer of the deputy registrar rank was deputed to resolve their issues. “Evaluation of all the papers is being undertaken by the university and college teachers. Online portal link for submission of awards was made available for the first time to departments and colleges for posting of awards of UG and PG classes,” said the CoE. Prof Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor, remained connected with the CoE throughout this period to take stock of the situation and congratulated the CoE and his team for successful completion of the final year exams. The CoE expressed gratitude to PU fellows, teaching fraternity and all the chairpersons, college principals, coordinators and the supporting staff for the successful completion of the online exams, which was introduced for the first time. He said many queries of principals, chief coordinators and chairpersons were instantly resolved by the CoE personally and his technical team headed by the system administrator and system managers. The emergency packet of question papers were also made available at the 40 nodal centres in various affiliated colleges of PU. He said the downloading of the question papers and the uploading of the answer sheets was done smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-17-days-80k-pu-students-write-final-year-exams/articleshow/78435664.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Some colleges take offline final-yr exams, others stick to online mode||Kolkata/Birbhum: Thirty-one students among 600 candidates of Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose College appeared in the final-year UG exams from the college premises on Thursday. “Candidates from remote locations had informed about the unavailability of electricity and internet services. Going by the UGC permission, I have approved their request. All Covid protocols were followed,” said principal Purna Chandra Maity. Some more students may take exams from the campus from October 3. At Bankim Sardar College in Canning, the final-year exams were conducted online. “Candidates have uploaded the answer scripts on the website. The teachers will now evaluate them and send the marks to the university by October 16,” said principal Tilak Chatterjee. Several CU colleges had set up hotline numbers for any inconvenience of students. “Students have sent us the answer scripts well within time,” said Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar. In Jadavpur University, too, the theoretical papers went ahead in both the science and arts faculties without any grievances. In two colleges in Birbhum, affiliated to Burdwan University, students reportedly took ‘offline’ exam. The state higher education department had given autonomy to the universities to decide on the modalities of conducting the final-year and terminal semester exam. At Purnidevi Girls College in Bolpur and Labhpur Shambhunath College some students submitted hard copies of answer scripts to the college authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/some-colleges-take-offline-final-yr-exams-others-stick-to-online-mode/articleshow/78435649.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Agra||Agra University: Fake verification report of BEd degree sent to joint director||Agra: A fake verification report of a BEd degree issued in the name of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University was sent to the office of joint director (education) of Bareilly division. The basic education department of Bareilly district had sent BEd degree of a teacher Tejveer Singh on duty in primary school for verification at Agra university in July. The office of the joint director (education) received the verification report on September 23. The report did not have signature of any official. On suspicion, joint director (education) Pradeep Kumar sent a letter to vice-chancellorof Agra university Ashok Mittal for confirmation of the verification report. Vice-chancellor ordered an investigation on the verification report sent to Bareilly. It surfaced that no verification report of Tejveer Singh was sent.Vice-chancellor said, “An application for verification of degree related to a primary teacher on duty in Bareilly was sent by the joint director (education). The application was received but a verification report was not sent. Someone from outside the university had sent a fake verification report. The matter is being investigated in detail. We are also trying to find out the reason behind the delay in sending the verification report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-university-fake-verification-report-of-bed-degree-sent-to-joint-director/articleshow/78434406.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Depressed’ Kodnani allowed to leave Gujarat for pilgrimages||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court has suspended for six months the bail condition restricting Maya Kodnani, the former minister and an accused in the 2002 Naroda Gam massacre, from leaving the state without its permission. Kodnani told the court that she needs to frequently go outside Gujarat for the purpose of composing herself from her ailment of depression by embarking on pilgrimages along with her family members. She also submitted that she needs to attend social gatherings and functions outside Gujarat. Moreover, Kodnani submitted that she is the chairperson of the Sindhu Darshan Yatra Samiti, and the committee is meeting in October with regard to the Sindhu Mahakumbh, which is to be conducted in 2021. Kodnani also said that she was granted similar relief for six months by the court in January and abided by all conditions. After hearing Kodnani’s advocate, principal city sessions judge S K Bakshi allowed her application on Wednesday and suspended the bail condition till March 31, 2021. Now she will not need court permission before leaving Gujarat. Kodnani is a key accused in the Naroda Gam case, in which 11 persons were killed on February 28, 2002. She was implicated in this case in 2009 after the Supreme Court ordered a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the case further. Earlier, Kodnani was accused, convicted and sentenced to 28-year imprisonment in the Naroda Patia massacre case, in which 97 persons were killed. The Gujarat high court later acquitted her in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/depressed-kodnani-allowed-to-leave-gujarat-for-pilgrimages/articleshow/78437098.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two plumbers electrocuted while cleaning water tank in Sector 27 house||CHANDIGARH: Two plumbers were electrocuted while cleaning a water tank in a house in Sector 27 on Thursday noon. The deceased have been identified as Jatiner Kumar (25), and his nephew Veeru (20), both were residents of Dhanas village. The police said Ram Avtar, house owner, called Jatinder for cleaning the underground water tanks in his house. Jatinder along with Veeru reached the house and cleaned the two tanks. As they entered the third tank for cleaning, they came into contact with an electric water meter and fell unconscious in the water tank. Ram Avatar informed on the 112 helpline. An ambulance and a PCR rushed to the spot, which later rushed the two to Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors declared them dead on arrival. Sector 26 police have kept the bodies for postmortem at GMSH-16 and arrested the house owner after registering a case against him. Sector 26 police recorded the statement of Amrit Lal, father of Veeru and registered a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against Ram Avatar and arrested him. Later, Ram Avatar was released on bail from the police station. The police said the house owner had been calling Jatinder for work in his house for the last two to three years. Ram Avatar runs a jewellery shop at Sector 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/two-plumbers-electrocuted-while-cleaning-water-tank-in-sec-27-house/articleshow/78435645.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Students want Panjab University to hold entrance exams||CHANDIGARH: The students affiliated with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) protested at Panjab University on Thursday and put forward various demands, including conducting of entrance tests, opening of hostels, libraries and labs for research scholars and not forcing students to vacate hostel rooms immediately after the last exam, as was ordered by the dean student welfare (DSW) on Wednesday. According to the orders of the office of the dean student welfare (DSW) Panjab University, wardens of hostels have been told to ask students to vacate hostel rooms within three days of the last exam. In case they failed to do so, Rs 1,000 will be imposed in addition to the payment of daily charges for staying without permission from the warden. The students gathered outside the vice-chancellor’s office and marched towards the administrative block of the university. The students also demanded that the university should conduct the entrance exams instead of scrapping them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-want-pu-to-hold-entrance-exams/articleshow/78435650.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Two miss NET after app-cab accident||Kolkata: Two UGC NET candidates missed their exam for law after they were seriously injured in an accident around 6am on Tuesday near Uttar Panchanna on EM Bypass. The candidates — Sumeet Guha and Suchismita Dey — blamed the driver of the app cab by which they were travelling to their examination centre in New Town.Guha on Thursday told TOI that the app-cab aggregator informed him that the driver had been suspended and their treatment cost will be reimbursed by the firm.Guha, a PhD scholar at IIT Kharagpur, said, “I picked up Suchismita from Prince Anwar Shah Road on the way, as we had the same centre at New Town. The driver was driving rashly and I had even cautioned him. But after reaching Bypass he accelerated further and soon hit an SUV. A sergeant helped us to get to a Salt Lake hospital where I received 17 stitches on my forehead.”Dey, an LLM student of JCC Law College, said, “I was sitting behind the driver and my face hit the seat in front due to the impact. We were bleeding profusely.”She added that the driver was accelerating unnecessarily, not slowing down even on the speed breakers. “My reporting time was at 7am, while Sumeet’s reporting time was at 7.30am..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-miss-net-after-app-cab-accident/articleshow/78435660.cms||Debasish Konar
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC upholds IIM-A admission process||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Thursday upheld the admission process of the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A), which gives 50% weight to the personal interview of candidates and his/her overall personality development. While it put its approval on the legality of the premier institute’s admission process, the HC also laid down guidelines for fair evaluation of candidates in viva voce through a principle-oriented approach by members of selection committee. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala referred to numerous judgments laying down the law for the interview process during admissions to educational institutes as well as for jobs. Citing these, the division bench upheld a single judge’s decision rejecting a petition filed by a student who challenged the “excessive” importance given to the interview for admission to the premier business school. The single judge had accepted IIM-A’s contention that its selection procedure is based on the emotional quotient of candidates and not only their intelligence quotient. The appeal was filed by one Raghav Gupta, who was denied admission to IIM-A after he took the entrance test and scored well in the Common Aptitude Test (CAT). Gupta objected that IIM-A’s admission process was not proper because it gave too much importance to the personal interview. Gupta got only 8.5 marks out of 44 in the personal interview. After hearing both sides, the division bench agreed with IIM’s rationale behind its policy of allotting 50% marks for personal interview. The judges said, “If we have to put the policy or the rationale in a few words, we may only say that while the written examination will testify to the candidate’s academic knowledge, the oral test alone can bring out or disclose his overall intellectual and personal qualities like alertness, resourcefulness, dependableness, cooperativeness, capacity for clear and logical presentation, effectiveness in discussion, effectiveness in meeting and dealing with others, adaptability, judgment, ability to make decisions, quality of leadership, etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-upholds-iim-a-admission-process/articleshow/78437103.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP tops in tackling cases of crime against women||LUCKNOW: For a second time in a row, Uttar Pradesh has topped among all states in the country in initiating prosecution of offenders in cases of crime against women and filed maximum chargesheets against the accused. In 2019, chargesheets were filed against as many as 15,579 accused who were sent to jail by police in UP which managed to retain the top spot in the latest rankings of the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) released on September 29. Besides, in a sign of some improvement in law and order in the state, UP bettered its rank in crime rate to claim the 25th spot in the latest NCRB rankings. In 2018, UP was on the 24th spot in crime rate signifying more incidents of various crimes in the state with a next rank showing improvement in 2019. The NCRB data also shows that UP holds first position in filing chargesheets in cybercrime cases. As per records shared by UP Police, 272 cases —highest in the country — were solved in 2019. The state also claimed the top spot in seizure of 36,913 arms. The state also stood first in arresting accused and nabbed 3,87,852 persons named in various cases. In 2018, the state stood second in arrests. Senior police officers said crime against women was tackled seriously by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “Soon after coming to power, the CM had instructed strict action as per law in cases of crime against women and children. His plan of setting up ‘Anti-Romeo squads’ provided a safe environment to girls and women in the state,” said an officer. The improvement in investigation and prosecution can also be attributed to the fact that each case of crime against women is now monitored by officers of ADG and IG rank, which ensures quick and quality probes, said another officer. Other officers at DGP headquarters said the improvement in crime rate rank in 2019 is also because of strengthening of UP112. “The reduced time of responding to distress and emergencies in loot and dacoity cases by police response vehicles of UP112 has dissuaded criminals from committing crime easily,” they said. The continuous focus and monitoring of senior officers has also improved the quality of investigation. Another officer said the government’s decision to send a senior IPS officer to each district has led to reduction in pendency of cases and police are now acting freely against hardened criminals and gangs while targeting organized crime, leading to better law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-tops-in-tackling-cases-of-crime-against-women/articleshow/78438147.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Engg students await degree certificates even after 2 yrs||Aurangabad: Many engineering students, who had passed out in May-June 2018, have not received their degree certificates from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) till date despite paying the fees on time. These students were directly admitted to the second-year of the engineering programme after completing their diploma course and have been running from pillar-to-post for over two years now to get their degrees.Ketan Jadhav, one of the affected candidates, said neither the college nor the university was offering satisfactory explanation over the inordinate delay in awarding degree certificates. “The degree certificate is a crucial document required for further studies and other purposes. We have taken up the issue with the university umpteen times but to no avail,” he said.Stating that a memorandum had already been submitted to the university administration in this regard, youth activist Vishal Banswal said, “It is a classic example of the pathetic administrative functioning. The university administration must take a stern action those who are guilty.” When contacted, MIT principal Nilesh Patil said a section of engineering students who passed out in 2018 did not receive degrees due to technical issues on the part of Bamu. “The university had sent degree certificates of some students but since the document had some errors, they were returned for correction. For the remaining students, the university had asked us to send students directly to the convocation ceremony for getting the degrees,” said Patil. When contacted, Bamu deputy registrar (examination) P P Kalawant blamed the Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation (MKCL) for delay in giving the degree certificates to students. “The MKCL failed to share the desired database of students, which was needed for generation of degrees, thereby resulting in the inordinate delay. The issue has been sorted out recently and degrees are ready now,” said Kalawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/engg-students-await-degree-certificates-even-after-2-yrs/articleshow/78437107.cms||Prasad Joshi
October 2, 2020||Pune||At 957.6mm, India gets 2nd-highest rainfall in 26 years this monsoon||PUNE: India’s June to September rainfall this year (957.6mm) has been the second highest in the last 26 years, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The highest precipitation in this period was recorded in 2019. This year, the all-India monsoon rainfall has been 95.8cm against the long period average (LPA) of 88cm, 109% of its LPA as against 110%, last year. The latest two monsoons are the only consecutive seasons after 1958 and 1959 with above normal monsoon rainfall when it was 110% and 114% of the LPA, respectively. Pulak Guhathakurta, head of climate research division, IMD Pune, told TOI, the season had a contrast in its month-tomonth rainfall which makes it unique. “The rainfall in June was 118% of the LPA, 90% in July, 127% in August, and 104% in September. Only July ended with a 10% deficit, while the rainfall in the rest of the months was above normal,” he said. No major monsoon system was present over Bay of Bengal in July, causing the month to become deficient, he added. Second-best monsoon rainfall in 26 years for IndiaD S Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune said the monsoon trough had weakened in July. “On many days, the monsoon trough lay to the north of the normal position or close to the foothills of the Himalayas which caused less rain over parts of central and northwest India. But, since the monsoon trough was close to the Himalayas, it caused a major flood situation in the eastern parts like Northeast India, Bihar and adjoining areas of east Uttar Pradesh,” he added. Conversely, Pai said, five low pressure systems formed during August which caused higher than normal rainfall over central and western India. “The total number of low pressure days was 28 against the normal of about 17. With good rain in August, the early part of September received less than normal rains, while rainfall again increased in the latter part of September. This could be attributed to intraseasonal rainfall variability,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-best-monsoon-rainfall-in-26-years-for-india/articleshow/78437110.cms||Neha Madaan
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP: SIT finds suspended IPS guilty of corruption||LUCKNOW: The Special Investigating Team probing into the death of Mahoba ‘whistle-blower’ businessman Indrakant Tripathi has found suspended IPS Mani Lal Patidar indulging in corruption. It has also recommended action against 24 other police cops deployed in the district. The SIT submitted its report to UP DGP on Monday. SIT headed by IG, Varanasi Range, Vijay Singh Meena was formed on September 14, to probe the entire case of Patidar and the alleged murder of crusher-dealer Tripathi. Its other two members were DIG, special inquiries, Shalabh Mathur and SP, human rights, Ashok Tripathi. The SIT had visited Mahoba for investigation on September 15, and had invited all locals to give evidence against the suspended IPS. Sources said 40 persons gave evidence against Patidar in SIT probe. During scrutiny, five complaints and cases were found to be true other than the case of Indrakant Tripathi, based upon which SIT has recommended action against Patidar and 24 other police officers posted in Mahoba. SIT is also hunting for the missing suspended IPS officer Patidar in Rajasthan and other probable places along with suspended Kabrai Inspector Devendra Shukla. On September 8, Tripathi had shot and later uploaded a video on social media claiming that if was killed then Patidar should be held responsible. Hours later he was shot in the neck. He was admitted to a hospital but succumbed to the gunshot on September 13. Later, Patidar was suspended and booked for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-finds-suspended-ips-guilty-of-corruption/articleshow/78438170.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Business||Goldman Sachs to open second India office in Hyd by H2 2021||Hyderabad: At a time when the global economy is reeling under the Covid-19 blow, Hyderabad has managed to draw yet another marquee investor – Goldman Sachs. The US-based global investment bank and financial services player has decided to make Hyderabad its second home in India after Bengaluru with a new office that is slated to begin operations in H2 of 2021 with about 500 employees and room for future growth. Goldman Sachs said it identified Hyderabad as a new location for its global shared services footprint in India as part of strategy to diversify its geographic presence and enhance talent reach to support its growing global businesses and enhance long-term competitiveness. It said the Hyderabad office will complement its Bengaluru office, which has around 6,000 employees, half of which are engineers, in terms of execution and support to the firm’s businesses globally. Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao, who conducted a virtual meeting with Goldman Sachs’ India top brass, tweeted: “The fact that Hyderabad continues to attract investments from marquee companies amidst a pandemic is a testimony to the city’s resilience and the competitive advantage it offers. The entry of Goldman Sachs will further augment the already strong fintech ecosystem in the city.” While Goldman Sachs said the key criteria for choosing Hyderabad was availability of commercial real estate, housing for employees, diverse talent pool, quality infrastructure as well as a supportive local government, Telangana IT & industries pr-incipal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the abundant availability of local BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) talent was the key draw.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/goldman-sachs-to-open-second-india-office-in-hyd-by-h2-2021/articleshow/78450106.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||25% fee cut only for parents who pay 50% of fees by Oct end||Ahmedabad: After the recent announcement by the state government of giving 25% fee waiver for all school students, the school management associations are demanding that the revision be only applicable for those parents who pay 50% of the annual fees by October 31. This decision is likely to rake up another controversy in the next few days. Bharat Gajipara, president of Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association, said that only 25% of the parents had paid schools fees for their children and that the schools were struggling to maintain salaries of teachers and other expenses to keep themselves running. “We had agreed to the government’s proposal of 25% fee cut with a condition that it be applicable only on parents who pay half yearly fees before the end of October,” said Gajipara. When contacted, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that they would appeal to the parents to pay the fees by the end of this month. He said that the government was aware of the condition of schools and was actively looking into their demand. The state government recently directed all private schools to slash annual school fees by 25% for the 2020-2021 academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/25-fee-cut-only-for-parents-who-pay-50-of-fees-by-oct-end/articleshow/78437109.cms||---
October 2, 2020||India||Make full refund of air tickets within 3 weeks: SC to airlines||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered domestic airlines operating flights within and outside India to refund passengers the cost of tickets of flights cancelled between March 25-May 24 without any cancellation charges. Accepting the proposal of civil aviation ministry and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) submitted by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said, "Even for international travel, when the tickets have been booked on an Indian carrier and the booking is ex-India, if the tickets have been booked during the lockdown period for travel within the lockdown period, immediate refund shall be made." It said the condition of full refund within three weeks would also apply to foreign carriers if the booking was made within India. "In all other cases, the airlines shall make all endeavours to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days from today," they said. "If on account of financial distress, any airline is not able to do so, they shall provide a credit shell, equal to the amount of fare collected, in the name of the passenger when the booking is done either directly by the passenger or through travel agent so as to consume the same on or before March 31, 2021," it said. The credit shell could be utilised to book tickets on any route and could be transferred in the name of another by the original passenger, the bench said and asked the airlines to provide a mechanism for such transfer. With many travellers booking their tickets through travel agents, the bench said, "In cases where passengers have purchased the ticket through an agent, and a credit shell is issued in the name of passenger, such credit shell is to be utilised only through the agent who has booked the ticket." If the credit shell is not utilised by March 31, 2021, then the travel agent will refund money against it, the bench said. "In all cases where credit shell is issued there shall be an incentive to compensate the passenger from the date of cancellation upto June 30, in which event the credit shell shall be enhanced by 0.5% of the face value (the amount of fare collected) for every month or part thereof between the date of cancellation and June 30. Thereafter the value of the credit shell shall be enhanced by 0.75% of the face value per month upto March 31, 2021," it said and asked the DGCA to enforce this strictly. Watch Blow to airlines as SC accepts DGCA scheme for airfare refund||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/make-full-refund-of-air-tickets-within-3-weeks-sc-to-airlines/articleshow/78438999.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Revenue employees demand promotions||Aurangabad: The revenue employees affiliated with the Marathwada Mahsul Karmchari Sanghatana on staged a demonstration in front of the divisional commissionerate on Thursday demanding time-bound promotion for the staff. They also said that the government should promote those facing some criminal charges subject to the outcome of the inquiries or verdicts. In a representation to divisional commissioner Mahendra Girge, the divisional unit president and other officials said that many awal karkuns were waiting to be appointed as naib tehsildars, and naib tehsildars were awaiting promotion as tehsildars for quite some time. The state government has decided that employees against whom departmental inquiries are pending, or those who are facing criminal charges and the cases are pending with the courts, will not qualify for promotions. Amol Raut and Himmat Rathod, who represent the district unit of the revenue employees’ union, said many inquiries and court cases remain pending for years, and promotions are blocked. The government should give promotion and subject them to the outcome of the inquiries concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/revenue-employees-demand-promotions/articleshow/78437115.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: BJP slams BSP for politicising incident||LUCKNOW: Following protests by the Opposition against the Hathras case and a demand by BSP chief Mayawati for replacing chief minister Yogi Adityanath, government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said that 1,000 Dalits were killed under Mayawati’s rule. He also targeted the Congress, saying that the party was protesting over Hathras incident while conveniently ignoring crime committed in the Congress ruled state of Rajasthan. Singh said that the Opposition was trying to politicise the Hathras case whereas crime, and especially crime against women, had fallen substantially under the YogiAdityanath government. “The law and order situation under the Yogi Adityanath government has improved significantly. There has been a huge reduction in crime against women and in rape cases. An SIT has been constituted to investigate the Hathras incident and its report will expose any conspiracy behind this,” Singh said. Meanwhile, Lalji Nirmal, chairperson of UP Scheduled Castes Finance and Development Corporation, challenged Mayawati to explain why she had passed an order when she was CM under which an FIR could not be registered directly in the case of a Dalit woman being raped but had to vetted by the chief medical officer first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-slams-bsp-for-politicising-incident/articleshow/78438179.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Bhopal||With infra at Covid disposal, other med ops take a hit||Bhopal: A new problem has arisen for non-Covid-19 patients. After many hospitals began offering COVID-19 treatment, their ICUs, OTs and other infrastructure have become no-go areas for other patients — who have to undergo non-emergency care interventions and pre-planned operations. Many consultants performing ‘regular’ interventions do not have an operation theatre to conduct the surgery. “After a second opinion, it was established that my aunt needed an operation for a fracture. It was deemed urgent as she had started developing other issues as well because of this. The doctor clarified that intervention could not be in the hospital he worked in as it was converted into a Covid-19 care centre,” said Suresh (name changed). In a regular intervention, hospital staff would be well-versed with the consultant’s needs. In this case, the demand requisitions were two. One from the consultant who would operate and other from the private hospital which provided the infrastructure for the operation. Another issue to take into account was the patient’s follow-up care, as the consultant would not be in sync with the new staff of another hospital, he added. With almost all major hospitals opening for Covid-19 treatment, treatment facilities for other ailments are taking a hit. Entire floors and, in some cases, blocks of a hospital are becoming no-go areas once Covid-19 patients are admitted. There are over a dozen major hospitals in the state capital faced with this dilemma. Some experts and health consultants are calling for a setup of temporary hospitals on the outskirts of the city exclusively for Covid-19 treatment. “As far as orthopaedic care is concerned, many people are delaying surgeries. Waiting for too long complicates the ailment. Many hospitals are not doing regular operations because of Covid-19,” said knee and joint replacement surgeon, Dr Ram Soni. Gas victims and oncology patients at risk: Gas victims are more susceptible to Covid-19 infection because of pervious exposure and COPD in many instances. According to a recent issue of the Indian Journal of Surgery, there is evidence to suggest that cancer patients who contracted Covid-19 have more than triple the risk for severe health events, including admission to the intensive care unit for invasive ventilation and rapid clinical deterioration. The case fatality rate was 5.6%, higher than the overall reported case fatality (2.3%) from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-infra-at-covid-disposal-other-med-ops-take-a-hit/articleshow/78435836.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Another lockdown in Karnataka could be suicidal, say experts||BENGALURU: Experts have frowned on medical education minister K Sudhakar’s warning on Wednesday that the government will have no choice but to enforce another lockdown if people fail to take precautions to check the spread of the pandemic and help curb rapidly rising Covid-19 infections in the state. Experts say a lockdown would be suicidal as the costs far outweigh limited gains since it will help reduce infections only temporarily. They say the greater need is to educate people on the pandemic and to enhance responsible social behaviour such as the right way to wear a mask, the need to stop spitting in public places and to ensure crowds do not gather, especially in closed spaces. Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist, head, Head-Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India and also a member of the state’s technical experts committee, said a lockdowns is unnecessary at this stage for a variety of reasons. “First, if states including Karnataka could not prepare their health systems during the most comprehensive and longer lockdown enforced during April and May, there is very little that they can do now,” Dr Babu said. “Second, when infections are widespread, lockdowns will not help reduce the speed of transmission. Third, the economy has taken a major hit for a long time now. It is time to balance lives with livelihoods. The goal now should be to continue to work with masks on, with reduction in crowds in closed spaces.” Another expert TOI spoke with agreed with Dr Babu and said on condition of anonymity, “One more lockdown might only lead to suicides.” Prof MK Sudarshan, chairperson, Technical Advisory Committee on Covid management in Karnataka, said the state should not only get its testing strategy right, but should also ensure infected people are isolated early. This, he said, is vital to stop the spread of the virus. “Testing the right people is the need of the hour and not just increasing the number of tests by testing random people on the road,” Sudarshan said. “That only reduces the positivity rate, even as persons with symptoms might go untested. Once a person tests positive, his/her contacts must be traced and tested on Day Zero and Day Seven,” he emphasised. Sudarshan pointed out that there are clear guidelines to trace and pick up primary contacts. If a Covid-19 positive person has conversed for 15-20 minutes with anyone without wearing mask or did not adhere to social distancing rules, the latter has to be considered a contact and tested as per protocol, he said. Dr V Ravi, professor and head, department of neurovirology, Nimhans, insisted graded lockdowns are a public health strategy which countries like Singapore have used nicely to curb the spread of the virus. “Singapore used graded lockdowns very effectively. It persisted with the strategy to alternate lockdowns with release until there was behavioural change in population,” Dr Ravi said. “People have to understand that they have to wear masks and maintain social distance,” he said, adding that a lockdown is a double-edged sword and with too many lockdowns, the country is bound to suffer economically. Experts say that the number of positive cases will increase in a state like Karnataka whose population is equivalent to most European nations. “Considering the population, we will have more positive cases and nobody can control transmission because it depends solely on people’s behaviour,” said Dr Ravi. It may be recalled that the expert committee had suggested a week-long lockdown in July as a measure to stagger the spread. More than another lockdown, what is needed are stringent measures to avoid gatherings and crowds, said Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson of the state Covid expert committee. Experts are also shocked by the Election Commission of India’s decision to hold elections amidst the raging pandemic. “Not just in Karnataka and Bihar, but across the country there should not have been any move to conduct elections. It means rallies, door to door visits, crowding and campaigning and the virus will spread rampantly,” said another expert who did not wish to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/another-lockdown-in-karnataka-could-be-suicidal-say-experts/articleshow/78434483.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Boost for plasma therapy as Mysuru hosp finally gets new machine||Mysuru: With a private firm, SNC-Lavalin & Atkins, coming forward to donate an apheresis machine to KR Hospital in Mysuru city, plasma donors now need not travel to Mandya – as they have been doing – to donate. This has come as a big relief for Covid-19 patients who have been prescribed plasma therapy. The new machine will be installed on Monday and plasma donations will begin once the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gives the go ahead, perhaps within in a fortnight. The city has been facing an acute shortage of plasma since the collection unit at KR Hospital’s blood bank has been non-functional since August 17. The machine had broken down. Donors were sent to Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences, causing a crisis of sorts. Manjunath BS, blood bank officer, KR Hospital, said the new machine will now simplify matters. “We will charge Rs 9,900 per patient in private hospitals. For patients in government hospitals, the rate will be fixed by the director of the hospital as per government rules,” he said. ‘Let’s do it Mysore’, a voluntary group had helped arrange the new machine. “Our effort to get a fully functional plasma collection centre in Mysuru is now a success,” said BS Prashanth, president of the group. “We thank SNC-Lavalin & Atkins for donating the machine. We had struggled to arrange plasma for a patient admitted in a private hospital in the city. We had to send four people to Mandya to get plasma for the patient and that prompted us to work towards getting a plasma machine for KR Hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/boost-for-plasma-therapy-as-mysuru-hosp-finally-gets-new-machine/articleshow/78434614.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Atal schools in UP must reflect Indian culture’||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to ensure that work on the Atal Residential Schools is completed in time so that classes can start from July 2021. During a review of the schools, meant for children of registered labourers and orphans, Yogi said the architecture of the schools should be in accordance with India culture. The personality of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, after whom the schools are named, and other important people should also be reflected in the schools. “The building should be made in such a way that it helps in the development of the students and they can be given education to hone the skills that they seek to develop,” he said. The various blocks in the schools should be named after India’s cultural heritage. The schools are being set up in all 18 divisions in the state. They will be operated on the lines of Navodaya Schools. The schools will provide free education to orphans and kids of registered labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/atal-schools-must-reflect-indian-culture/articleshow/78438183.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||PMPML to get financial help from civic bodies||Pune: The civic bodies of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad would soon pump in funds to give a fresh lease of life to the city’s transport utility — PMPML. Rajendra Jagtap, the chairman-cum-managing director of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), said Rs60 crore was expected from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and another Rs40 crore from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). “Both the corporations provide funds to the PMPML in phases every financial year. They (corporations) have made up their minds to provide us with the whole fund for the current financial year immediately,” Jagtap said. PMC corporator Shankar Pawar, also a PMPML director, said the sum would be decided soon. The transport utility had recently claimed it did not even have funds to buy fuel for buses. The bus fare revision, including increasing the fare of electric buses by Rs5 per km, was postponed till the next board meeting. “Hiking the fare of night service buses by Rs5 per km and fixing the per kilometre fare for special airport buses will be on the agenda,” an official said. The board approved the PMPML’s plan to auction its bus stands to interested establishments,.“The highest bidder would be given the bus stop for five years, which can display names of its establishments and develop the stand,” Jagtap said. “We can do it at all the bus stops or a select few popular among people and with big establishments nearby,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-get-financial-help-from-civic-bodies/articleshow/78437144.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 2, 2020||Pune||33 cases of burglaries reported in a month||Pune: As many as 33 cases of burglaries have been reported from the different parts of the city in the last month, taking the tally of total reported cases this year to 226. An officer from the Pune crime branch said most of the burglaries reported in the past one month occurred in the early hours, with over 60 flats — most of them locked — having being targeted. He said the reported case tally until August 2019 was 221, as against 193 cases registered in the city during the same time period this year. The crime branch attributed the rise of burglaries in the past month to the increased movement of people following the lifting of restrictions. “As there are no restrictions now, the cases have increased,” another crime branch officer said. The officer identified Hadapsar, Wanowrie, Kondhwa, Yerawada, Vishrantwadi, Chatushrungi, Chandannagar, Khadki, Bibvewadi and Marketyard as the worst-hit areas. Break-ins in three shops Three shops along the Senapati Bapat Road were burgled in the early hours of Wednesday. The suspects stole cash and laptop worth Rs20,000 from an ice cream parlour and Rs500 from another shop. They failed to steal anything from the third shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/33-cases-of-burglaries-reported-in-a-month/articleshow/78437146.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 2, 2020||Nashik||Joint survey to identify land for dry ports in Nashik & Sangli||Nashik: State industry minister Subhash Desai directed the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) to conduct a joint survey to identify the land for the dry ports proposed in Nashik and Sangli districts and submit reports at the earliest. Desai was reviewing the progress of the four dry ports in the state that have been proposed in Jalna, Wardha, Sangli and Nashik districts in Mumbai on Wednesday. The JNPT has identified around 105 acre of land in Niphad taluka of Nashik district but it is yet to be finalized. The JNPT had recently engaged a private firm for preparing the detailed project report (DPR) for the dry port prooject in Niphad. Sources said the firm has already submitted the DRP to the JNPT. The cost of the dry port project is expected to be around Rs 300 crore.The dry port will be connected by rail and containers from the port will directly go to JNPT Mumbai. There will be value addition services like packaging, grading, loading & unloading, etc required for the export of agricultural and industrial goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/joint-survey-to-identify-land-for-dry-ports-in-nashik-sangli/articleshow/78437143.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four masked men target six flats, flee with gold & DVR from two||PUNE: Four masked persons in the early hours of Thursday broke into six unattended apartments of four different buildings in the vicinity of Right Bhusari Colony and decamped with three gold rings from one of the apartments. The burglars also stole a digital video recorder (DVR) from a housing complex. Police said the suspects — who drove away in a white sports utility vehicle (SUV) after the residents of a housing society raised the alarm — managed to escape despite a patrolling team being stationed at a vehicle checkpoint near Chandni Chowk, less than half-a-kilometre away from the Bhusari colony. The chairman of the Runwal Pristine Society, Rahul Babar, said around 4am on Thursday, a resident on the fourth floor of the building heard some commotion from the neighbouring flat. “The resident knew the flat was unattended as the owner of the house was out of the country. He immediately raised an alarm, following which the suspects tried to flee the society. The suspects reached the parking area of the complex, which woke up the security guard. The suspects managed to scale the building’s enclosure and fled. They could not enter the apartment.” Police stated that before entering Runwal Pristine Society, the suspects had broken into an office in the neighbouring Shweta Society. They had also entered three flats in Mukund Housing Society in the same locality and two in the neighbouring Siddhesh Apartments. “They stole a DVR from our building,” a resident of Siddhesh Apartments said. Sukumar Shetty, a flat owner from the Siddhesh Apartments, told TOI, “My tenant had gone to his native place in Kolhapur. The suspects broke open the locks of the apartment’s door and stole three gold rings from a cupboard in the bedroom.” Prashant Kanojia, a resident of Right Bhusari Colony, said there were four burglars. “All of them had covered their faces and were wearing branded sports shoes,” Kanojia said. Rahul Jadhav, a resident of the Right Bhusari Colony, told TOI, “The burglars had been targeting the Right Bhusari Colony for a while now. In May, smart infotainment systems were stolen from the parked cars along the road. About one-and-a-half years ago, the burglars had targeted many flats in the colony,” he said. Senior inspector Pratibha Joshi of the Kothrud police said a team regularly patrolled the Bhusari colony area during the night. “We shall deploy two more officers and intensify the night patrolling,” Joshi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-masked-men-target-six-flats-flee-with-gold-dvr-from-two/articleshow/78437142.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 2, 2020||Mysuru||Five held for poisoning 36 monkeys, get bail||Shivamogga: Miscreants who killed 36 monkeys were arrested while disposing of the carcasses in a forest on Tuesday night. The forest department produced the accused before the court, which granted them bail. The incident took place at Nendravalli village in Sagar taluk in Shivamogga. The villagers of Hosuru and Thyagarthi gram panchayat gave a contract to kill the monkeys, to a gang operating in Malnad. The gang poisoned the monkeys near an agricultural field and areca plantation. They then collected the carcasses and transported them to be disposed of, in a goods carrier vehicle. They took the carcasses to Nendravalli forest, near the forest camp of Chippali village. One of the forest staff sighted the vehicle and informed the range forest officers. The Sagar sub-division forest officers and Choradi RFO Mohan Kumar and his team intercepted the vehicle. A total five accused were held and two cars were seized. RFO Mohan Kumar said that accused Vishwanath,32, Dastagiri Saab,40, Lambodara,25, Abhishek ,24, and Sanjeev ,43, were arrested and produced before a magistrate on Wednesday. Vishwanath and Lambodara have agricultural land and areca plantations. While being interrogated, the accused confessed that they laced the food that they fed the monkeys with anaesthesia medicines. “Dr Vinay conducted a postmortem of the monkeys on Wednesday, and we cremated them on the same day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/five-held-for-poisoning-36-monkeys-get-bail/articleshow/78434975.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Aurangabad||MP seeks funds for SAI centre in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Rajya Sabha member from Aurangabad Bhagwat Karad recently met minister of state (independent charge) for youth affairs and sports Kiren Rijiju and sought Rs 17.5 crore for the development of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Aurangabad. “Different sports unions and coaches have been demanding development of SAI in Aurangabad for a long time. If developed properly, the sports facility can benefit players from Maharashtra and help Aurangabad in hosting major sporting events,” Karad said. In his memorandum submitted to Rijiju, Karad has sought Rs 8 crore for the construction of a running track, Rs 6 crore for a football ground, Rs 2 crore to raise a compound-wall around the SAI premises and Rs 1.5 crore for developing a squash court. “The SAI facility in Aurangabad is one of the key sporting facilities in India. The sports and youth affairs minister has assured us to that he would look into the demand for the release of funds,” Karad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mp-seeks-funds-for-sai-centre-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78437151.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Hyderabad||T seeks Rs 500 crore from Centre for NH-65 infra||Hyderabad: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has urged the Centre to sanction Rs 500 crore for tackling infrastructure problems on the Hyderabad-Vijayawada highway (No. 65). In a letter to Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday, the minister said a 25-km stretch on NH-65 has several issues like at-level junctions, inadequate land capacity and absence of service roads, which need to be rectified immediately. He said the state public works department (PWD) had prepared a DPR for about Rs 500 crore for construction of flyovers, grade separators, service roads, augmentation of lane capacity. He urged the Union minister to sanction funds in the current year’s annual plan (2020-21) and help in resolving problems on the NH. “Hyderabad is one of the fastest growing cities in the world with many IT companies, including top five IT majors Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Facebook and Salesforce, have chosen Hyderabad to establish their second largest facilities outside their global base,” said KTR. He said the Telangana government has taken up many infra projects and is planning many more with a view to decongesting traffic in the city, with particular emphasis on providing good access to National Highways from Hyderabad Metropolitan City. “We are grateful to you for sanctioning four urban projects, and out of which three are in good progress and works on Amberpet flyover will be inaugurated shortly,” the minister said. He also mentioned that the Telangana government was bearing the entire cost of land acquisition and utility shifting in these projects. The progressive policies of the state government and the strategic location and connectivity advantage of Hyderabad city have made it a preferred destination for many pharma, aerospace, defense, and other manufacturing industries, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-seeks-rs-500-crore-from-centre-for-nh-65-infra/articleshow/78437157.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Son of Mayawati's key aide and BSP MLA joins BJP||LUCKNOW: In a setback to BSP, party MLA Ramveer Upadhyay’s son Chirag Upadhyay joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday. Chirag was inducted into the party by UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh at the party headquarters in Lucknow. Chirag said he was drawn to BJP by its policies and the working styles of PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath. Singh said Chirag’s induction will strengthen the party in west UP where both BJP and BSP holds considerable sway. The development also sparked speculation of Ramveer Upadhyay hobnobbing with the BJP ahead of 2022 UP elections. Chirag’s joining has coincided with BJP government facing criticism over the rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras. Chirag’s father is MLA from Sadabad seat in Hathras district. Ramveer Upadhyay is an influential BSP leader and is considered close to party supremo Mayawati. He was the energy minister in Mayawati’s government. Upadhyay was, however, suspended from the party after 2019 assembly elections after he allegedly tried to hobnob with the BJP leaders in west UP. Last month, Upadhyay met CM Yogi Adityanath and fuelled speculation of switching closer to the BJP leadership. Chirag, too, had reportedly tried to join the party in Braj region in August though it did not materialise then. BSP MP Satish Chandra Mishra had then said that while Upadyay was being suspended from the party, Chirag was not even the primary member of the party. “Therefore his possible joining the BJP would not affect the prospects of BSP,” Mishra had then told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/son-of-mayas-key-aide-bsp-mla-joins-bjp/articleshow/78438189.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 2, 2020||Pune||Youth cuffed, duo detained for robbery||Pune: A 21-year-old youth was arrested and his two minor friends were detained on Thursday for robbing a paan stall owner of cash and cellphone, collectively worth over Rs15,000, near a housing society on Ahmednagar Road around 1am on Tuesday. Akash Rajput was arrested from his residence at Sarvodaya colony in Mundhwa after investigations established his involvement in the robbery. Inspector Balwant Mandge from the Airport police said, “Complainant, Sagar Patil (23) was on his way home on a motorcycle when three persons riding triple seat on another bike intercepted Patil near Forest Park housing society.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-cuffed-duo-detained-for-robbery/articleshow/78437150.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Cops recover five snatched chains, 2 held||Pune: The Mundhwa police on Thursday claimed to have detected five chain-snatching cases with the arrest of two criminals — Deepak Mali (21) from Sadesatranali in Hadapsar and Mukesh Salunkhe (19) from Mundhwa — on Tuesday night. Assistant inspector Vijay Chandan from the Mundhwa police said, “The suspects admitted to their involvement in snatching five gold chains. We have recovered the chains worth Rs3.1 lakh and a motorcycle.” Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache said, “We had formed three teams from Kondhwa, Wanworie and Mundhwa police stations for arresting the suspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-recover-five-snatched-chains-2-held/articleshow/78437153.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||PUC centres charge enhanced rates for emission certificates despite RTO warning||Pune: The pollution under control (PUC) centres in the city have started charging enhanced rates, decided by their association, for issuing emission certificates despite warning from the Pune regional transport office. “We cannot sustain our business if we stick to the old rates which have not been revised since 2011. We don’t think people will have any problem paying a little extra,” the owner of a PUC centre near Kondhwa told TOI on Thursday. On Wednesday, the RTO issued a fresh warning to the PUC centres stating that strict action would be initiated against them for charging more than the government approved rates for issuing pollution certificates. “The rates have been fixed by the state government and it is only after its approval that they can be revised,” an official with the Pune RTO said. At present, there are 300 PUC centres in Pune district and close to 2,400 across the state. The PUC certificate is issued for a period of six months. Deputy RTO Sanjay Sasane told TOI that action would be taken based on the complaints received. “The PUC centres have been warned and they will face action if they do not adhere to the norms. We will suspend their licences to operate for a minimum of one month. However, people need to email their complaints to mh12@mahatranscom.in with a copy of the payment receipt and action will follow,” he said. “I was charged Rs 100 for the PUC certificate of my two-wheeler. The RTO should form teams and check these centres rather than asking people to lodge complaints,” said a city resident. Late last month, PUC Centre Owners’ Association announced enhanced rates for issuing PUC certificates. They said Covid-19 has affected their business, forcing them to hike the rates. The association said that the centre operators would go on an indefinite strike from October 10 if they are not allowed to charge the new rates. President of the association Sandeep Bhandare said, “We have sent the RTO office a letter asking them to state under which sections action will be initiated against us, but have not received any reply. We will shut down the PUC centres if action is taken against us. A pollution under control certificate is essential for renewing insurance or getting fitness certificate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puc-centres-charge-enhanced-rates-for-emission-certificates-despite-rto-warning/articleshow/78438557.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 2, 2020||Bhopal||2,041 new cases take Madhya Pradesh Covid count to 1,30,088||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 2,041 new Covid-19 cases. Since the pandemic began, MP has reported a total 1,30,088 cases of the infection, resulting in 2,336 deaths, going by the state health bulletin. On Thursday, 20 new corona deaths were reported in the state. Seven deaths were reported in Indore, two each in Bhopal and Sehore, one each in Gwalior, Jabalpur, Shivpuri, Ratlam, Rewa, Khandwa, Raisen, Singrauli and Guna. Overall 2,545 patients were discharged from hospitals on the same day, taking the number of recovered patients to 1,07,279. Of the new cases, the district worst-hit by the pandemic in the state, Indore, accounted for 469 cases. It was followed by Bhopal (265), Jabalpur (133) and Gwalior (118). The number of cases in Indore rose to 24,475, including 572 deaths. Gwalior and Jabalpur have recorded a total of 10,647 and 9,907 cases so far, respectively. Indore now has 4,533 active cases, while this figure for Bhopal and Gwalior is 2,136 and 1,688. Overall a total of 62,078 people have been tested positive in the state in the 29 days of September only. This is 49.25% of the total 1,26,043 cases reported so far in the state since March 20||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2041-new-cases-take-mp-covid-count-to-130088/articleshow/78435848.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: 309 cybercrime cases last year, 100% higher than 2018||PUNE: A higher adoption of digital payments has seen a consequent 100% increase in cybercrime in the city in 2019. As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report for 2019, released on Wednesday, the Pune police have registered 309 cases in 2019 — a 102% increase over the 153 cases registered in 2018. The year before that, 318 cases were registered, most of them attributed to the sharp rise in digital spending in the wake of the demonetisation. Mumbai, with 2,527 FIRs in 2019, was the worst hit city in the state. Nagpur, with 119 cases, was a distant third. The report further stated that the overall crime rate in the state increased by 6.1% (1.7% in Pune). A total of 4,967 cybercrime cases were registered in the state in 2019. Maharashtra ranks 15th in cybercrime in the country. Karnataka, with 12,020 cases is first, followed by Uttar Pradesh (11,416) and Assam (2,231). “The number of cybercrime complaints have increased because of public awareness. People are now coming forward and filing complaint applications with the cybercrime police station,” additional CP (crime) Ashok Morale said. “Easy access to technology has emboldened cybercrooks and fraudsters,” Morale further said, adding, “We received as many as 11,000 complaint applications in 2018 and 7,000 in 2019. We have received 9,000 till September 30.” “The literacy rate in Pune is quite high and people are using computers, cellphones and other electronic gadgets in large numbers. People tend to click on unwanted/suspicious links,” cybersecurity expert Gaurav Jachak said. (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/309-cybercrime-cases-last-year-100-higher-than-2018/articleshow/78437159.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Teachers arm themselves with new tools to conduct online classes||Bengaluru: Akansha Singh, a primary school teacher at Cambridge International School, was back in a virtual classroom — this time as a student — for around 20 days. Akansha attended classes diligently and took an exam, even while her family teased her on the role reversal. Results were announced and Akansha stood second in the class, a cohort of about 5,000 teachers, who were being trained to become Microsoft Innovative Educator (MIE) digital classroom teachers. Around 3,100 teachers cleared the test conducted on Monday (September 28). With online classes having become the new norm, teachers in the state are continuously being trained to conduct classes effectively online. Experts point out that the education system, which was even otherwise heavily tilted towards rote-learning, has become even more imbalanced with classes now being conducted online. “Training for teachers is not just about technology, but how to make classes interactive and engaging,” said Maya Menon, founder director, Teacher Foundation. “One of the biggest drawbacks of our teaching methods is that teachers talk too much in class. This has only increased with online classes as teachers do not know how to interact with students on digital platforms.” The Teacher Foundation has trained 2,500 teachers from private schools and will soon train teachers in government schools. “Teachers have to adopt methods like asking the right questions and getting the student to think,” Maya said. “Online platforms have a range of tools available to make teaching engaging. For example Google Slide, Google Keep, JamBoard, Pear Deck, EdPuzzle, FlipGrid have a range of mindmapping tools. But the real challenge is to get teachers to use these tools effectively.” Tech Avant-Garde-Microsoft training was also about deploying emerging tech-driven ideas such as Skype in classroom and virtual field trips instead of the traditional chalk-and-talk method. “The training was an eye-opener since we got to know the various tools we could use to make teaching more effective,” Akansha said. “When online classes began, it was a challenge to keep children engaged as they would be behind computer screens. Handling parents too was a challenge as many would interrupt classes.” Many schools shouldered the onus of training teachers through their in-house professional development teams. “Apart from training through the Google professional development team, our teachers also attended a course on teaching online from University of New South Wales through Coursera. The training is continuous. Now, we are launching a two-day programme only focused on assessment online,” said Meenakshi Elangovan, head of the professional development team of Inventure Academy. Indus International School has a separate training for synchronous and asynchronous classes. “Asynchronous classes are actually more difficult than live classes as teachers have to prepare resources for it,” said Sarojini Rao, principal. “Asynchronous classes are mostly self-directed learning and it requires separate training for teachers so that they focus on the concept and relevance of the topics.” Educationalists point out that online learning will receive new meaning only if teachers move out of the chalk-and-talk method in classrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teachers-arm-themselves-with-new-tools-to-conduct-online-classes/articleshow/78434521.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Experts recommend low-key Navratra, Diwali celebrations||PUNE: Medical experts have advised citizens to opt for low key celebrations during the festive season in October and November. If social distancing and safety norms are not followed, there may be a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases as was witnessed after Ganeshotsav, experts added. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, said that citizens must behave responsibly through the festive season. “There have been no additional efforts from the administration or responsible behaviour from citizens to contain the contagion. The number is likely to see an upward trend in the coming days as well. Social distancing norms tend to get flouted when it comes to festivities,” he said. Bhondwe advised the administration to increase contact tracing efforts. Interestingly, the ratio of positive cases has reduced consistently in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas over the last ten days of September. The surge after Ganeshotsav has seen a decline. “The civic administration has been carrying out the same number of tests. There has been no reduction in these numbers. The surge seen due to Ganesh festival. It’s impact seems to have gone down a bit now,” said PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the administration is planning special awareness drives before the festive season. He added that the drive against citizens not wearing masks and spitting in public places will be intensified over the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-recommend-low-key-navratra-diwali-celebrations/articleshow/78438560.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Over 700 cases found among 6,000 with flu-like symptoms in Pune||PUNE: Some 700 people, out of 6,700 individuals who showed flu-like symptoms, were found to be positive for Covid-19 during the ongoing health survey of the Pune Municipal Corporation. Team deployed for the survey — part of the state government’s recently launched ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative — have so far covered 43% of the more than 11lakh homes in the city that have been earmarked for the study. Surveyors hope to catch cases early by testing those who show Covidlike symptoms. More than 800 teams have been formed to carry out the door-to-door checks. Each team, expected to cover 50 homes every day, will be accompanied by a representative of the local corporator and a health department employee. The first phase of this survey will continue until October 10. “We don’t want citizens to ignore or hide any symptom,” said a PMC official. “If they have Covid-like symptoms, residents will be guided by surveyors to the nearest swab collection point. People showing symptoms should get themselves tested as soon as possible to prevent complications,” he said. The surveyors, officials said, check oxygen levels and look for symptoms such as cough, a cold or breathlessness. Nearly 92,000 from the more than 14 lakh surveyed were found to have some ailment. The surveyors have been asked to note down details of all these ailments. The PMC official said the surveyors are also spreading awareness on the benefits of masks. “There’s focus on the slum pockets and densely populated neighbourhoods. We are spreading awareness on masks and social distancing,” the official added. The second phase of this survey is expected to be carried out between October 14 and October 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-6k-found-with-flu-like-symptoms-10-test-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78438559.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad collector wants greater focus on rural areas||Aurangabad: District collector Sunil Chavan on Thursday said that recovery of Covid-19 patients in the district was encouraging, but the administration needs to focus on the rural parts of the district as more and more cases are being reported from there. “Efforts are being made to strengthen the rural and sub-district hospitals as well as the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) to ensure timely and proper treatment for the rural population,” he said.Chavan, while inaugurating a session for doctors' training programme on the GMCH premises, said the training would help devise a strategy for treating the patients on time. “It is essential that people in rural areas, if affected by the contagion or other diseases, get treatment on time. This endeavour of training doctors and other staff in would help check the spread of the disease and would help people get timely treatment,” he said.Meanwhile, dean Kanan Yelikar said the GMCH is the first institute to impart training to staff and doctors from the rural and sub-district hospitals. “This will help treatment of Covid-19 patients at rural health facilities and would help check the flow of such patients to the GMCH — a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. This would also help reduce the death rate,” she said.“The four-day training includes training of staff nurses and medical officers for the first two days and for the remaining two days they will be apprised of handling the ward as well as the Intensive Care Units in Jalna and Aurangabad districts,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-collector-wants-greater-focus-on-rural-areas/articleshow/78437160.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||City co first to bag order to make grenades for Army||Nagpur: Nagpur’s Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) has become the first private company to bag an order to make hand grenades for the army. It will be making the 100% indigenously developed multimodal hand grenades that will replace the World War II make M36 grenades currently in use. Grenades are a key weapon used for both offence and defence during close quarter combat. With an order worth Rs 409 crore EEL will be the first private company to have got a bulk production order for the armed forces. This is also the first order to a private sector company to supply a complete ammunition system for forces. The company will be supplying 10 lakh grenades in two years. The first production batch of 1000 grenades will be dispatched to the Army on Monday. The contract was signed on Thursday, said the company sources. The army wanted to replace the M36 grenades for which it has stopped issuing fresh indents. The multimodal grenades are said to have a much larger impact and better reliability. The grenades can be lobbed for both offensive and defensive purpose. A soldier under cover in a bunker can lob the grenade by turning it into defensive mode so that it makes a maximum impact on the attacking troops, leaving him safe. In the offensive mode the grenade can leave larger impact on the enemy position. After extensive trials, the timings as per qualitative requirements of the army were achieved. The grenade has been timed to not explode before 3.5 seconds after the pin is removed but also not later than 4.5 seconds after that, said company sources. The grenades are supposed to be having a shelf life of 15 years which has been proven under the isothermal micro calorimetry method that the company claims is in line with NATO standard. It has also been used for the first time. The grenades are based on a design by Terminal Ballistics Laboratory Ltd (TBRL), a unit of the DRDO. EEL had qualified as the development partner for the grenades along with the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). The company got the technology in 2016 after which the tests were carried out in association with the army and directorate general of quality assurance (DGQA) in various conditions. The commercial request for proposal (RFP) for the grenades was issued in 2019. EEL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Solar Industries Ltd (SIL) headed by city businessman Satyanarayan Nuwal. SIL is into manufacture of commercial explosives for mining and other related industries. Over a decade ago, the company had diversified into making defence ammunition also for which EEL was formed. So far, it has been making components for larger systems. A note shared by the company said its facility is spread over 2000 acres which includes testing zones. Over the last decade, EEL has been working in the field of emerging technologies for modern ammunitions. Lately it has also successfully test fired the Pinaka rockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-co-first-to-bag-order-to-make-grenades-for-army/articleshow/78437165.cms||Shishir Arya
October 2, 2020||Pune||Metro riverside work likely to resume soon in Pune||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) plans to resume the Metro work soon along the Mutha river after a three-month gap. This stretch, part of the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor, is aligned along the past Deccan Gymkhana, Sambhaji Garden and Balgandharva Bridge. MahaMetro said it will wait for a few for the complete retreat of the monsoon. The foundations for all piers on the riverfront are ready — only the installation of pier caps and spans is pending An official said this work will begin in the next few days, following which MahaMetro will take up work on the two Metro stations on this stretch. “The Metro line will cross the Mutha river at two places — near Sangam bridge and Bund Garden bridge. The foundation work was completed before the onset of the monsoon,” official said. Before the monsoon set in, all the machinery and material were removed from the riverbed. Civil work on the riverbed ground to a halt after June. “We are in touch with the authorities concerned about release of water into the river. The work will be resumed after we get clearance,” the official said. MahaMetro recently finalized a plan for two cable-stayed bridges across the river in Deccan Gymkhana and Peth areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-riverside-work-likely-to-resume-soon/articleshow/78437162.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 2, 2020||Pune||Fire in plant, no one injured||Pune: Twelve workers of a solvent and chemical manufacturing company had a narrow escape in the early hours of Thursday after a fire broke out in the firm at Kurkumbh MIDC near Daund, off Pune-Solapur highway and about 75km from the city. Inspector Sunil Mahadik of the Daund police said the fire broke out around 2am. “There was no power then. We suspect sparks due to fluctuations may have caused the fire,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-in-plant-no-one-injured/articleshow/78437168.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Staffers suspend stir till Oct 18, NU exams to start in a week||Nagpur: In a respite for over 75,000 beleaguered final year students, Nagpur University’s employees on Thursday stayed their strike till October 18 over seventh pay commission wages, thus paving way for examinations delayed by over three months. The staffers, however, warned to restart their protests from October 18, if Maharashtra government failed to issue a notification or an ordinance to fulfil their long pending demands. NU Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI it would take about a week for them to prepare a new timetable for exams. It would be finalized after a meeting with vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari and other top officials on Friday at the Examination Section. “We would be meeting all officials after the Gandhi Jayanti programme to decide on future course of action. We were fully prepared earlier also. We only need to prepare a revised schedule of papers after taking into account various state and national level competitive tests. I am saying one week, because the examinees should know about revised schedule, particularly those who’re staying outstation,” he said. The agitating employees decided to stay their strike after higher education minister Uday Samant assured to fast track their file for seventh pay commission salaries in the cabinet within 15 days. “He informed non-teaching staff action committee coordinator Ramesh Shinde in Mumbai and also tweeted that he had tested Covid-19 positive and, therefore, would remain isolated for 10 days or so. He, however, informed that he would personally submit their file before the Maharashtra cabinet to get the issue resolved,” Pravin Gotmare, who’s leading the agitation of NU employees, told TOI. Thursday’s strike by employees was, however, total as even top officials, including deputy and assistant registrars participated in protests at NU administrative block at Maharaj Bagh Square and also raised slogans against the government. It severely crippled entire work of the institution. “Except statutory officers and contractual employees, no one worked today. All of them participated in the protests. Subsequently, not a single file moved in any department. We did some work on our level, but most of the functioning was at a standstill,” registrar Neeraj Khaty told TOI. Gotmare clarified that they were never against any examinations and wouldn’t stop them now. “We were never against university, but our protests are directed against the government. We ourselves want final year exams to be held as early as possible. We will cooperate with NU officials, once we resume our duties from Saturday,” he said. Endorsing him, Sable said even he was alone in the Exam Section as employees joined strike, and therefore, their work was at standstill. Way Cleared For Final Yr Exams * NU employees observes total strike on Thursday * Stayed strike after education minister’s assurance * Warned they will restart stir if demands not met * Granted deadline till Oct 18 to govt to fulfil demands * They assured they won’t let exams suffer * BOEE director says exams would be held in a week * VC convenes meeting on Friday to finalize exam dates||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/staffers-suspend-stir-till-oct-18-nu-exams-to-start-in-a-week/articleshow/78437210.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Money saved during festivities fetches GMCH waste shredder||Aurangabad: A Ganesh mandal from Waluj donated a waste shredding machine worth Rs 1 lakh that it had saved during the Ganesh festivities this year to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here. The 35-year-old New Shivshakti Ganesh Mitra Mandal handed over the machine to the state-run hospital during a formal event held at the premises of GMCH on Thursday. Hailing the gesture of the mandal, GMCH dean Kanay Yelikar said the shredding machine would help in proper management of solid-waste generated at the hospital. Trustees of New Shivshakti Ganesh Mitra Mandal said they deliberately kept low-key celebrations during Ganeshotsav to help raise money for public use. “We saved on expenditure towards decoration, processions and cultural activities. We decided to buy a shredder machine with the Rs 1lakh that we could save and donate it to the GMCH,” said Vijay Lonikar, one of the trustees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/money-saved-during-festivities-fetches-gmch-waste-shredder/articleshow/78437171.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Bhopal||265 fresh cases take Bhopal corona count to 18,277||BHOPAL: As many as 265 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city on Thursday. The overall tally of Covid-19 cases has now touched 18,277 along with 394 deaths. Seven cases were reported from Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Bangarasia. Police radio colony reported a new case of the infection. RKDF medical college reported three cases of the infection. Five doctors tested positive, including three from Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and one each from JP hospital and AIIMS Bhopal. MANIT campus reported one positive. Spring valley reported three cases in the same family. Lake Pearl Spring reported two positives. Char Imli, Professor’s Colony, SBI colony and FCI, MP Nagar, reported one positive each. Galaxy IDB colony (Misrod) reported two cases. SBI LHO, Door Sanchar Nagar and MLA Guest House reported new cases of the infection. E-4, Arera Colony reported seven positives. E-8, E-3 and E-7 Arera Colony reported one positive each. Rivera Township reported one new case of the infection. Murli Nagar reported two positives in the same family. Six family members were diagnosed with the infection in Aradhna Nagar. Tagore Nagar (Khajuri Kalan) reported five positives in the same family. Shankar Nagar reported five positives in the same family. Punjabi Bag reported three positives in the same family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/265-fresh-cases-take-city-corona-count-to-18277/articleshow/78435883.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Twin verdicts to bolster BJP hopes in Bihar’||LUCKNOW: Buoyed by favourable verdict for Ram temple construction and now the acquittal of Sangh and BJP leaders in the Babri Masjid demolition case, saffron outfits RSS and the VHP feel the twin judgments will strengthen the Hindutva agenda and reap political gains for BJP in the upcoming Bihar elections and 2022 UP assembly elections. BJP sources said the party is of the view that raking up the Babri Masjid issue at the grassroots would lead to polarisation of votes and bolster its electoral prospects. A senior UP BJP leader said the acquittal of Hindu leaders is aptly timed since the construction of Ram temple has picked up speed. “As the temple construction progresses, it will be advantage BJP,” he said. “We will also gain from the dilemma of the opposition parties. If they rake up Babri Masjid case it will further cement our votes. If they keep mum then there would be no discussion except for Ram temple construction, which again benefits us,” he explained. UP BJP vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said the Babri case verdict has vindicated party’s stand that there was no conspiracy in the demolition of the disputed structure. “It’s the victory of truth despite the opposition’s persistent effort to politicise the issue for years,” Pathak told TOI. A senior RSS leader said it’s a fact that people had assembled in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, for a symbolic ‘kar seva’. “Resentment was brewing among the kar sevaks against the callous approach of the then central government and judiciary. The verdict on possession of 2.77 acres of land at the disputed site got delayed for reasons better known to the judiciary. That sparked anguish and resulted in demolition of the disputed structure,” he said. Sangh leaders said kar sewa was postponed thrice in 1992 before it was finally fixed for December 6. VHP national spokesperson Vinod Bansal told TOI that the Babri case verdict has brought an end to the chapter. “Ram temple is being constructed and no one can stop it now. It would be ready in the next three years. The Babri structure is gone. Now there is no place to scratch old sentiments. It would only project ‘Babriwadi mansikta’ (Mughal mindset) and the Hindu Samaj would again get incited,” he said. Bansal recalled how the then VHP international working president Ashok Singhal had met the then prime minister PV Narsimha Rao in 1992 to apprise him about the resentment brewing among the people. “The stand that VHP leaders did not incite the mob but instead tried to assuage them has now got legal sanctity with the court verdict,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/twin-verdicts-to-bolster-bjp-hopes-in-bihar/articleshow/78438196.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 2, 2020||Pune||3,768 people discharged as active tally drops to 38k||Pune: The Covid-19 recoveries in Pune Metropolitan Region crossed 2.42 lakh on Thursday, with 3,768 patients getting discharged. In the same 24-hour period, 2,656 new patients were added in PMR limits. Pimpri Chinchwad reported the highest number of recoveries at 1,236, followed by 1,362 patients discharged in rural, cantonment and municipal council areas. In Pune municipal limits, 1,170 patients recovered. The tally of active patients dropped further to 38,048 — 21,700 patients are being treated in various hospitals, while 16,348 patients are in home isolation. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that among the new cases reported on Thursday, only PMC added over 1,000. PCMC reported 633 fresh cases, while rural, cantonment and municipal council areas together added 987. The region reported 69 fatalities on Thursday, pushing the death toll to 6,598. Pune reported 42 deaths and Pimpri Chinchwad five. In Pune, 913 patients were in a critical condition at various hospitals. Of them, 512 were on ventilator support. The report further stated 12,948 samples were tested in the region on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3768-people-discharged-as-active-tally-drops-to-38k/articleshow/78438563.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 2, 2020||Pune||Another Pune cop dies of infection||Pune: An assistant sub-inspector (57) stationed with the Hadapsar police succumbed to coronavirus-triggered complications on Wednesday, thereby taking the toll in the city police force to eight. “The assistant sub-inspector complained of high blood pressure and went on medical leave five months ago. He was admitted to a Covid care centre in Balewadi after he tested positive for coronavirus around 10 days back. He succumbed to the contagion on Wednesday,” a police officer privy to the detail said. The officer said the assistant sub-inspector had come in contact with the infected persons while he was off duty. “The policeman’s death has promoted us to re-issue instructions to our personnel regarding the importance of wearing masks, face shields, maintaining social distance and using sanitisers at all times,” the officer added. As per the data, a total of 1,252 police personnel had tested positive for Covid-19 till Wednesday. Of these, as many as 111 are active cases, wherein 1,133 have recovered from the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/another-pune-cop-dies-of-infection/articleshow/78438565.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Criminal held on murder charge||Pune: A criminal on police records, who entered Pune city within three months of being externed in March, was arrested on Thursday on the charge of stabbing his friend to death at Shivnerinagar in Kondhwa on Wednesday night. Inspector Mahadeo Kumbhar of Kondhwa police told TOI, “Siddharth, alias Dhumal Manoj Shiraswal (28), the arrested suspect who hails from Solapur Bazaar in Camp, has admitted to stabbing Ajay Khude (31) to death with a knife over previous enmity. Shiraswal earlier took Khude, who stayed in Bhavani Peth, to an open ground at Shivnerinagar on the pretext of offering him liquor.” Police said after breaching his externment order in a criminal case registered by the Wanowrie police, Shiraswal was staying in jurisdiction of the same police station, but went unnoticed till his role in the murder case came to the fore. The body of Khude, who also has criminal cases against his name, was found on the open ground on Thursday morning following which police started investigating his criminal antecedents. Shiraswal’s name came up during this exercise and he was brought for questioning to the police station. Kumbhar said, “Based on the information about the victim’s antecedents, we worked on certain clues relating to his previous enmity with Shiraswal and a couple of cases they had registered against each other in the past. We then questioned Shiraswal, who admitted his involvement in the crime. An offence has been registered under the Indian Penal Code and the Maharashtra Police Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-on-murder-charge/articleshow/78438566.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Two days of mock tests for final semester students of Savitribai Phule Pune University||PUNE: The final semester students of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will be able to give mock tests from October 7 to 9 before the regular exams start from October 12 onwards. The exam will be conducted in an online as well as offline multiple-choice questions (MCQ) format and a detailed time-table will soon be uploaded on the university’s website. Tenders were floated for agencies to bid for the rights to conduct the examinations and a private agency was selected on Wednesday night. “There would be two mock tests. The first one will be a full length test with questions about general knowledge and reasoning among others. The results will be published then and there. The second examination would be a small one, with just 5-10 questions. These mock tests will be held so that students get familiar with the paper pattern,” Mahesh Kakade, director, Board of Examination and Evaluation, Savitribai Phule Pune University, said. “Both the backlog examinations as well as the regular examinations would be held in this period. But when we prepare the time table, we will make sure that there is no overlap of two examinations. The time schedules will be fixed and there won’t be a choice for students to opt for. Even if a student has to appear for two examinations in a day, plenty of time intervals would be given in between two examinations,” he added. While Kakade said that the agency has the capacity to hold examinations of about 30,000 students in one go, this would only be applicable in case of some subjects. “While the autonomous university departments will make use of this platform, the autonomous colleges are free to choose their own method. They can use our system,” Kakade said. The university’s commerce department conducted a mock test on Thursday. “There were 22 questions and the examination was for about 30 minutes. A question bank would have helped,” a commerce student said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-days-of-mock-tests-for-students/articleshow/78437191.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 2, 2020||Pune||Confirmation of admission under RTE till October 8||Pune: Students on the wait list for a seat at private schools under the Right To Education (RTE) Act can get an opportunity for admission till October 8. So far, over 68,000 students have confirmed admissions and over a lakh students have applied to private schools under provisions of the RTE Act.Dinkar Temkar, in charge of RTE education in the state, said, “We have opened vacant seats for students on the wait list.” The first list of students had time until September 27 to confirm admission. Based on the vacancies of the first round, the education department will open the seats for candidates on the wait list.Students on the wait list will receive a message on the registered mobile phones number about the school allotted to them. Students will be allotted slots in which they will have to report to schools to confirm their admissions, said Temkar. Parents are also advised not to take their children along.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/confirmation-of-admission-under-rte-till-october-8/articleshow/78437203.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras rape case: HC takes cognizance, summons top officials||LUCKNOW: Taking suo motu cognizance of Hathras incident, a Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Thursday issued notices to the additional chief secretary, home, director general of police, additional DGP (law and order), Hathras DM and police chief to appear before it on October 12 to explain their version with requisite materials. The bench has also directed the officials to produce status of the probe in the matter. The bench clarified that it was keeping open to transfer the investigation to any other agency if it was not satisfied with the version of the top government officials in the matter. "We have also pondered that an SIT has been constituted by the state government in the matter, we leave it open for our consideration on future dates, as to the necessity of monitoring the investigation or getting it conducted through an independent agency as per law,” said a division bench, comprising Justice Rajan Roy and Justice Jaspreet Singh. The bench passed the order after taking suo motu notice of the incident reported in TOI and Times Now and many other different newspapers and TV news channels which reported that a 19-year-old dalit girl was first subjected to gang rape and later the local police and district administration creamed her dead body in an inhuman manner. “The incidents which took place after the death of the victim on September 29, 2020, leading up to her cremation, as alleged, have shocked our conscience, therefore, we are taking suo motu cognizance of the same," the judges said in the order. The bench asked the newspapers and news channels to produce relevant materials and contents, on the basis of which they have reported about the aforesaid incident, in a CD or pen drive, for its assistance. The judges said that they were inclined to examine as to whether there had been gross violation of the fundamental rights of the deceased victim and the family members of the victim and whether the state authorities acted oppressively highhandedly and illegally to violate such rights . The judges further added: “If it is found to be so, then, this would be a case where accountability will not only have to be fixed but for future guidance also stern action would be required.” The bench also observed:"The rights of individual citizens in the country and the state, especially that of the poor and the downtrodden such as the family members of the deceased victim and the deceased herself are paramount and the courts of law are under a bounden duty to see that the said rights available under the Constitution are protected at all costs and the state does not in its misplaced endeavor for political or administrative reasons transgress the limits of its powers to encroach and violate such rights, especially in the case of poor and the weak.” The bench also said that it would like to examine as to whether the economic and social status of the deceased's family has been taken advantage of by the state authorities to oppress and deprive them of their Constitutional rights. The bench also asked the family members of the victim to appear before the court on the next date, October 12. It directed the Hathras administration to facilitate the family members for this. Besides putting the state government top officials on notice, the bench also asked its registry to communicate the order to advocate general and chief standing counsel. The bench also appointed senior advocate JN Mathur and Abhinav Bhattacharya to assist it in the matter. The bench started its order quoting Mahatma Gandhi also cited Oscar Wilde, who said "Death must be so beautiful. To lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses wearing above one's head, and listen to silence. To have no yesterday, and no tomorrow. To forget time, to forget life, to be at peace."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-takes-cognizance-summons-top-officials/articleshow/78438202.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
October 2, 2020||Pune||Eateries to operate with 50% capacity in PMC limits||PUNE: The civic body on Thursday released the Unlock 5 norms broadly following the line of the state and the Union governments, paving the way for restaurants and food joints to operate with 50% dining capacity in the Pune civic limits from Monday. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions would remain closed, though. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s order, online education facilities and modes should be preferred. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “The orders have been issued based on the powers vested with the municipal commissioner’s office under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. These new guidelines would be effective till October 31.”Restrictions on social, political, religious, cultural, sports, entertainment and leisure activities would continue. Theatres and swimming pools would be closed till October-end. Hotels and lodges can function at 100% capacity. Kumar said the restaurants would have to follow the norms declared by the tourism department. More than five persons should not be allowed to enter a shop at a time and a minimum distance of six feet should be maintained between two persons. The establishments should promote different working hours and shifts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eateries-to-operate-with-50-dining-capacity-in-pmc-limits-schools-to-remain-shut-till-oct-end/articleshow/78438569.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 2, 2020||Pune||Radiologists file writ in court over capping of chest scan rates by govt||Pune: The Maharashtra branch of the Indian Radiology and Imaging Association has filed a writ petition in the high court over the capping of chest scan test rates by the state government. The Pune unit has also demanded that the government reconsider the cap. The doctors have opposed the cap, saying that providing services at such rates was not possible. The rates have been reduced by 50% to make chest scans affordable for patients. The government has put a cap of Rs2,000 and Rs3,000 for scanning, based on the type of machine used and its features. “Capping will certainly demoralise CT scan owners and hospitals. As the machine setup and maintenance is costly, it may not be possible for them to provide standard health care services at the capped rates. Health service is the basic right of every citizen. Instead of strengthening the national health care services, the government is forcing private doctors to provide services at charitable rates. This is unjustified and certainly not possible. Indian private healthcare services are way cheaper compared to other countries,” said Rajlaxmi Deokar of the Pune unit. The state government issued a resolution capping the chest scans last month. Some radiologists have demanded that they should at least be allowed to charge Rs4,500. The expenses have increased due to the use of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and sanitation process after every test. The rate for the scans in private hospitals range between Rs6,000 and Rs10,000. The scanning is done to detect if a Covid-19 patient has any infection in the chest. Assessment of setting in of pneumonia can be cross-checked with such tests. Many infected patients undergo these tests along with swab tests at private hospitals. PMC officials said they were yet to enforce the cap. “A blanket cross verification of each test is not being done by PMC. Necessary steps will be taken if any complaint regarding the charges comes to us,” said a senior official of PMC. Abhijit More, a health activist, said that the option of capping needs to be explored. “Most citizens are dependent on private hospitals for treatment. Those from poor families can get relief if the test rates are capped. It is the need of the hour, especially in the times of pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/radiologists-file-writ-in-court-over-capping-of-chest-scan-rates-by-govt/articleshow/78438570.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Bhopal||Cong pays tribute to Madhavrao Scindia||Bhopal: Despite the bitterness after Jyotiraditya Scindia left the party with his loyalist MLAs, which toppled the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh in March, Congress party on Wednesday observed the death anniversary of former Union minister Madhavrao Scindia. Former chief minister and Madhavrao’s cabinet colleague in the 1990s, Kamal Nath tweeted, “Tributes to former Union minister Madhavrao Scindia on his death anniversary. While holding various posts, he served the entire country and society with full responsibility.” In the morning, former Union minister Suresh Pachauri reached the PCC headquarters here in the state capital to pay homage to Madhavrao. At the Rajiv Gandhi central hall of the state Congress office, leaders, office-bearers and party workers also paid floral tributes to the Congress stalwart. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha also recalled his association with Madhavrao. He tweeted, “I was fortunate to be close to Madhavraoji in the 90s. In 1992, despite my refusal, Vidya Charan Shukla ji and Madhavrao ji got the consent from then Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao to appoint me as the advocate general of undivided Madhya Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-pays-tribute-to-madhavrao-scindia/articleshow/78435982.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Delhi||With 3,037 new cases, Delhi’s Covid tally crosses 2.8 lakh||NEW DELHI: A total of 3,037 fresh coronavirus cases in Delhi took the infection tally to 2.82 lakh on Thursday, while the death toll mounted to 5,401. Forty fatalities due to Covid-19 were recorded in the last 24 hours. A total of 55,423 Covid-19 tests were conducted, officials said. The number of containment zones in the capital stands at 2,615. According to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, the union cabinet secretary conducted a meeting on ‘Public health response to Covid-appropriate behaviour’ via videoconferencing. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain also held a meeting with medical directors or medical superintendents of all state-run hospitals to review the status of coronavirus testing. Delhi chief secretary took a review meeting of all district magistrates on Covid-19 management, it said. Despite the availability of multiple treatment modalities and a better understanding of the disease, Covid-19 fatality continues to be high in Delhi. In September, Delhi recorded an average of 31 deaths daily. This did not include patients who came to Delhi from other states and died during treatment. The average number of deaths due to Covid-19 recorded daily in April, May, June, July and August was 2, 14, 77, 41 and 16, respectively. City hospitals say while their general wards have beds available, ICUs, with or without ventilator support, are in huge demand. Latest data shared by hospitals on the Delhi Corona app shows 6,107 (39%) out of total 15,831 Covid beds in the city are occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds with a ventilator and without ventilator is 61% and 70%, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-3037-new-cases-delhis-covid-tally-crosses-2-8l/articleshow/78435991.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Forms for technical diploma entry will be taken on Oct 6||Pune: The state technical education department has for the fifth time postponed the dates for submission of admission form for the post-secondary school certificate (SSC, Std X) diploma. The new date for form submission is October 6. So far, nearly 75,000 students have applied for the course which incorporates polytechnic, pharmacy, hotel management and catering technology syllabus, among others. The admissions started on August 10. The department has earmarked 1.13 lakh seats this year. Till September 30, the directorate of technical education (DTE) had received 74,692 applications, out of which 1,748 students have filled the forms but are yet to pay the fees. “We are planning to announce the provisional merit list on October 9 based on the applications received. The students will be given time to file their objections on the provisional list between October 10 and 12,” the DTE director, Abhay Wagh, said. As per the current schedule, the final merit list will be announced on October 14. The department has asked the principals of the technical institutes to ensure that the admissions were conducted without further delays. Of the 83,448 applications received, around 31,000 applications were scrutinised online while 43,169 applications were scrutinised at the citizen’s facilitation centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/forms-for-technical-diploma-entry-will-be-taken-on-oct-6/articleshow/78437216.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Navneet Sehgal gets charge of ACS, information||LUCKNOW: Navneet Sehgal, at present posted as additional chief secretary (MSME, khadi and village industries) in the UP government, has been given the additional charge of ACS, information. This is the third government under which Sehgal will be in charge of the crucial department, having also been part of it under the Mayawati-led BSP government and the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party government. Sehgal will be taking over from ACS (home) Awanish Awasthi who will retain all his other departments, including ACS vigilance, jail administration and reform, religious affairs, CEO, UPEIDA and DG Jails. Sanjay Prasad, at present posted as principal secretary to chief minister, has been given additional charge of principal secretary, information. In a late night reshuffle on Thursday, Babu Lal Meena, principal secretary, horticulture and food processing, was given the charge of the social welfare department. He has replaced Manoj Singh, who has been made additional chief secretary, horticulture and food processing. Sehgal was secretary, information in the Mayawati government, principal secretary, information in Akhilesh Yadav government and now has bounced back as ACS, information, in the Yogi government. Thus he has emerged as a rare officer in the state to have enjoyed the trust of three CMs of different political hues. Sehgal was so far heading departments like MSME and export promotion but even in these peripheral departments, he made an impact by the aggressive branding of ODOP (One District One Product), the CM's dream project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sehgal-gets-charge-of-acs-info/articleshow/78438205.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Patna||Unlock 5: Patna cinema hall, multiplex owners heave sigh of relief||PATNA: Owners of cinema halls and multiplexes in the city heaved a sigh of relief after the Centre allowed them to reopen from October 15 under the Unlock 5.0. Movie theatre owners have chalked out a plan to ensure social distancing after reopening. In fact, theaters faded to black and movies vanished from the box office calendar after the pandemic hit the burgeoning movie exhibition industry in the country. After all, cinema houses are all about a large number of people huddled together just inches away from each other. As per the Centre’s guidelines, the respective state governments would decide on how and when to reopen the cinemas. The standard operating procedure (SOP) for reopening of cinemas would be released by the Ministry of Informaion and Broadcasting (I&B) within the next few days. Seat distancing, longer intervals between two shows, social distancing markers on floor to enter the halls, digital transactions, installation of fibre and glass shields and free hand-sanitizing machines, would be the new normal at the cinema theatres. These are some of the measures that the owners have planned, when the halls will be thrown open for audience. Sharad Gupta, manager of a cineplex near Gandhi Maidan told this newspaper on Thursday that masks for audience and face-shield for the employees would be mandatory. “More ventilation has been made to ensure the safety of viewers. Sanitizer dispensers have been installed at several points. There would be proper distance between each family or couple in seating arrangement. The other precautionary measures would be taken as per the Centre’s SOP,” he said. Dipak Singh, manager of Cinepolis at Patliputra said, “We are waiting for the Centre’s SOP and accordingly we will take all precautionary measures. After each show, we would sanitize the entire hall and there would be longer intervals. Hand-free sanitizers will be installed and thermal screening will be made compulsory.” Vishal Boobna, proprietor of Hajipur-based multiplex said they would make some changes and follow the safety protocols of the Centre. “Thermal screening would be done and any person found ill would be sent back and get a refund for the ticket,” he said. He added: “For 3-D shows, we have to take more precautions because the glasses would have direct contact with eyes. We will ensure contactless service as far as possible.” Another cinema hall executive Ajay Kumar of Khagaul said, “Social distancing and other safety measures will be our top priority whenever the hall reopens. Arrangements will be made as per the Centre’s guidelines.” “Cinemas have seen evolutionary phases and every time, we have emerged stronger,” said another movie theatre owner based in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cinema-hall-multiplex-owners-heave-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/78434545.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Vid cases @1.51 lakh, deaths @4k; recoveries up||Nagpur: October has begun on a positive note for Vidarbha as the number of Covid-19 patients (2,319) who recovered was more than the new cases (2,194) registered. The total Covid-19 cases in the region is now 1,51,311 out of which 1,17,047 patients have already recovered and discharged. The recovery rate of Vidarbha is at a high of 77.35%. The death toll on Thursday — 65 — was significantly less than the average daily death toll of 80 in September. However, case fatality rate remained at 2.68%. In 65 deaths reported on Thursday, Nagpur accounted for 36 — 29 from Nagpur city, 4 from rural and 3 from other districts or states. Amravati registered 6 deaths, Bhandara and Chandrapur 5 each, Yavatmal 4, Gondia and Akola 3 each, Wardha 2 and Buldhana 1. The death toll in Vidarbha is 4,062. The region reported 2,194 new cases on Thursday, the lowest in last 25 days. The previous day when less than 2,194 cases were reported in a day was September 6. Since then, cases were witnessing a significant spike. Nagpur at 1031, continues to report the highest number of cases. It is followed by Chandrapur at 272, Amravati 224, Bhandara 151, Buldhana 103, Gondia 100, Wardha 99, Gadchiroli 89, Yavatmal 46, Akola 43 and Washim 36. Out of 2,319 recoveries in a day, Nagpur accounted for 1,197 followed by Gondia 248, Amravati 169, Akola 161, Bhandara 133, Chandrapur 123, Wardha 86, Buldhana 76, Gadchiroli 73 and Washim 53. For the third day in a row, the Yavatmal civil surgeon did not inform about recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-cases-1-51-lakh-deaths-4k-recoveries-up/articleshow/78437257.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Hospitals under stress as PG docs, UG interns contracting virus||Mangaluru: Several house surgeons and PG doctors in medical college hospitals in the coastal districts are catching Covid-19 and this is hampering the fight against the virus. PGs are considered the backbone of medical college hospitals and every time a healthcare worker catches an infection, they have to go into isolation and recover from the disease before being declared fit to resume work. This is resulting in an acute shortage of staff and is exerting stress on the functioning of the entire hospital system. At Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, there have been close to 70 PG and UG interns who have been infected, beside doctors. “We have made arrangements to provide isolation wards and other facilities to the infected,” said Dr Venkataraya Prabhu, dean, Kasturba Medical College. “It’s a big concern when a critical workforce is absent for a long period. The entire system gets jeopardized.” Dr Jayaprakash Alva, dean, Father Muller Medical College, said they have been able to reduce the risk of infection among their interns and PGs. “It’s not that our students have not been infected. We have been able to reduce the numbers as only a small group of interns/PGs are assigned duties. The groups are rotated,” Dr Alva said. At Yenepoya Medical College, which was designated a Covid-19 hospital and where 50% of its beds are reserved for Covid patients, close to 125 people including UG interns, PG doctors, nurses and other hospital staff, have been infected so far. Dr M Vijayakumar, vice-chancellor, Yenepoya University (deemed to be university) said the varsity has devised its own SOPs to tackle the spread of the virus. “This has helped to reduce the risk of infection among our staffers and students,” Dr Vijayakumar said. “We have set aside one whole floor to isolate and treat staff if they test positive for the virus.” The varsity also has reduced duty hours of doctors who wear PPE kits from eight hours to six. The hospital also provides health insurance for all its staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hospitals-under-stress-as-pg-docs-ug-interns-contracting-virus/articleshow/78434578.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: New dine-in feel awaits patrons as restaurants prepare to reopen||PUNE: Expect major changes when you visit your favourite restaurant from October 5, after a gap of around six months since the outbreak of Covid-19. With the state government allowing the restaurants to open at 50% capacity from October 5, the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers’ Association (PRAHA) stated that many restaurants were likely to do away with serving cold, raw food, particularly salads and coleslaw to avoid risk of infection with Covid-19. Pre-plated meals might become the norm at many restaurants. Some high-end restaurants may even switch to serving only bottled drinking water. PRAHA vice-president Vikram Shetty told TOI: “Restaurants will opt for a compact menu, and not the extensive spread seen on menus during pre-Covid-19 days. With low staff strength and operations at 50% capacity, there would be no point keeping an extensive menu. A detailed SOP from the state government is yet to come, but the restaurants are expected to stick to the basics.” He said, Pending payments will have to be made to the vendors, overhead costs will go up due to sanitizing measures and buying protective gear for staff. The prices of dishes may also go up by 10-15%.” PRAHA president Ganesh Shetty said . “As much as possible, the fare served will be cooked, with raw foods staying off the menu initially. Cooked food is preferable to avoid the risk of Covid-19 infection. ‘Raita’ will be served at room temperature.” He said around 60% restaurants in the city might initially open, while the rest might start functioning after about 10-15 days once the required staff strength was in place. “Plans are afoot to bring in disposable menus as well as cutlery, but a clarity on this may come with the SOP,” he said. Kunal Mhaske, owner of Coco Sushi & Bar, Penthouze nightlife, Raasta Cafe, Cirkus, Pestopesto, said, “We have changed our menu to pre-plated meals, and the concept of sharing food no longer exists. Meals will be pre-portioned per person.” Malaka Spice director Praful Chandawarkar said his restaurants have introduced code-based digital menu (in pic). “The order goes directly to the restaurant kitchen, and precludes the necessity of a server coming to the table. We have ensured zero human contact during the process of dinein services at the restaurants, right from ordering the food to paying for it. The only time the waiter comes to the table is when the food is served. But at that time too he will wear a face shield and mask,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-dine-in-experiences-await-restaurant-patrons/articleshow/78438572.cms||Neha Madaan
October 2, 2020||Pune||Layout tweaks to match norms||Pune: Restaurants are keen on opening for business, but with maximum focus on the safety of their patrons and staffers. Many restaurants are making necessary changes in their layouts to adhere to the government’s order of operation with 50% capacity (See graphic). For most restaurants, safety, sanitization, and no-contact operations are the watchword. Though some restaurants are sticking to their earlier floor plans, they would ensure every alternate table remained empty to ensure enough physical distance. Seating arrangements would be well spread out, with scannable QR codes on each table to directs the guests to the restaurants’ websites for the guests to view the menu, place order and make the payments. At most restaurants, tables will be laid apart with a minimum one-meter distance in accordance with the new norms. The capacity of the restaurants would also be reduced and the guests would be encouraged to make prior reservations to avoid crowding in the waiting area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/layout-tweaks-to-match-norms/articleshow/78438574.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Pune||Man falls for Rs 2,000 cashback bait, loses Rs 1.3L||Pune: An officer of an automobile company lost Rs1.36 lakh after he fell for a Rs2,000 cashback bait on a payment app and disclosed the OTP received on his mobile phone to an unknown caller. Within seconds, the amount was siphoned off from his bank account through four transactions. The man lodged an FIR with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Wednesday. Inspector Vishnu Tamhane from the Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI, “The complainant (48) is a senior officer with an automobile company. On June 20, he received a call from an unknown person who posed as an employee of a payment app company. The caller told the complainant that the app was offering Rs2,000 cashback to all customers owing to the coronavirus pandemic.” The caller told the complainant that to avail the offer he would need to share a code received on his cellphone. “Believing him, the complainant shared the code following which Rs1.36 lakh was debited from his bank account through four transactions,” Tamhane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-falls-for-rs-2000-cashback-bait-loses-rs-1-3l/articleshow/78438575.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Few local trains set to ply from mid-October||PUNE: Two to three local trains will start plying from the city by the second week of October only for a select category of passengers, a source in the Pune railway division said. “Officials of the Pune rail division had a meeting with the Pune police commissioner. The latter has been named the nodal officer by the state government to resume and coordinate the local train movements from Pune. A draft proposal on the ways to start the train services would be prepared by the commissioner’s office and shared with the railway division soon. Once the rail division approves, the final decision will be taken,” an official of the Pune railway division said on the condition of anonymity. The official said the final date of resumption of train services would be decided shortly. The names of the trains which will ply will also be disclosed then. “We intend to start with one or two trains in the first phase. Only those engaged in essential services can use the trains. Slowly, more trains would be added to the list and the category of passengers allowed would be updated,” the official added. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI late on Wednesday that he would coordinate with all authorities concerned regarding the resumption of local train services in Pune. “We shall ensure that no prevalent regulations, such as social distancing norms, are violated in anyway,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/few-local-trains-set-to-ply-from-mid-october/articleshow/78438578.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 2, 2020||Patna||State BJP hails verdict in Babri Masjid case||PATNA: The state BJP called the Babri Masjid demolition case verdict as “historic”. The CBI court acquitted all the 32 accused in the case. “Those who are raising questions on the verdict have neither faith in the judiciary nor want to abandon their vote bank politics,” deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said. “Being a witness to the December 6, 1992 incident, I can say that the senior BJP leaders made fervent appeals to the karsevaks to maintain restraint, but the crowd continued to remain uncontrollable,” Modi said. Calling the Babri Masjid as a “controversial structure”, Modi said its demolition was “non-planned and spontaneous act of the angry karsevaks. The verdict was a “victory for the crores of people of the country”, he added. Road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav also called the verdict as “historic”. “The demolition was not an act of conspiracy, but the result of immediate anger of the karsevaks,” Yadav said, adding: “Congress is responsible for the entire episode, as it kept the matter entangled and also fanning the controversy periodically to create Hindu-Muslim tension. Now, there should be no Hindu-Muslim controversy on the issue.” Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey expressed happiness over the acquittal of all the accused in the case. “People have faith in the judiciary. The verdict is a huge relief for the BJP. It is also a victory for crores of people of the country,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-bjp-hails-verdict-in-babri-masjid-case/articleshow/78412973.cms||Abhay Singh
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Fresh serosurvey in Nagpur to start next week||Nagpur: The health department and divisional administration will conduct a fresh sero surveillance survey of the population in Nagpur district from first week of October. The serosurvey will help understand the prevalence of Covid-19 in the population. Blood samples of about 4,000 people from Nagpur city and district will be tested to look for IgG antibodies, which indicate exposure to the novel coronavirus. This would be the first comprehensive survey of Nagpur district. Earlier, a survey of 2,500 people was planned in June-July, but it could not be completed due to technical errors and shortage of manpower after sudden spike in cases. “New serosurvey is in planning stage at present. We will collect blood samples of 2,000 citizens from Nagpur city, and 2,000 from Nagpur rural (district). It will take almost a month to collect samples, test them for antibodies and release results,” said Dr Uday Narlawar, nodal officer for the serosurvey. Serology tests look for antibodies in blood. If antibodies are found, that means there has been a previous infection. Investigations using serology testing are called seroprevalence surveys. Surveys are conducted for different sizes, locations, and populations. “As far as this survey is concerned, we are not earmarking any specific containment zone or high risk zones as cases are now coming from all parts of city and district. It will be a random survey and we will try to cover all localities in the district,” Dr Narlawar added. Many experts have claimed that there is community spread of Covid-19 in Nagpur. These claims are based on many unofficial indications of the community spread in city. The proposed serosurvey will provide the most authentic figures and indicate whether there is community spread or not. Divisional administration also confirmed that staff arrangements will be made for collection of samples, selection of population, conducting tests and preparing data. Serosurvey is conducted regularly in Delhi and it has been giving better idea about the spread of infection there. It was conducted in Mumbai and Pune as well. WHAT IS SEROSURVEY - Provides estimate of Covid-19 incidence of infection in population - People who have experienced mild or asymptomatic illness with no signs or symptoms and did not seek medical care or test will also be detected in this survey - 2,000 citizens from 10 zones of Nagpur, and 2,000 from 13 tehsils of Nagpur district will be tested - Results expected in a month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fresh-serosurvey-in-nagpur-to-start-next-week/articleshow/78437286.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 2, 2020||Jaipur||Mehrangarh Fort opens for visitors||Jodhpur: After remaining shut for six months due to the pandemic, Mehrangarh Fort opened its gates for the visitors from Thursday. Elaborate arrangements, however, have been put in place according to the Covid-19 guidelines by the fort administration. Director of the fort, Karni Singh Jasol said that besides ‘No Mask, No Entry’, it has been ensured that there is social distancing among the tourists during their visit to the fort, right from the parking space to the fort. “We have decided to allow just 75 visitors per hour, so that there are no crowds in the fort and the required distancing can be ensured,” Jasol said. Separate arrangements have been made for visitors having already booked digital tickets and those who have to purchase the tickets from the counter. “Every visitor would be enquired for the type of tickets and would be processed accordingly,” he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mehrangarh-fort-opens-for-visitors/articleshow/78436002.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP allows Durga Puja with Covid protocols||LUCKNOW: Durga Puja celebrations will not be affected by Covid-19 restrictions, contrary to earlier reports. Under the new unlock guidelines, it will be possible to hold a religious or cultural event in the open, provided all guidelines for Covid containment, like social distancing, wearing of masks etc is followed. A restriction on the number of people has been imposed only on events taking place in an enclosed space, where only 50% of the hall’s capacity, up to a maximum of 200 people, will be allowed to attend. The new guidelines will come into force from October 15 and Navratra starts from October 17. From mid-October, you will also finally be able to catch the new film release in your favourite multiplex or hold that wedding which has been getting postponed since April. In fact, be prepared to send your child back to school as well, though the government has said that parents’ permission will be compulsory for a child to attend school even as online learning will continue to be prioritised. In its list of regulations under the new unlock phase, picked up entirely from the Centre’s guidelines, UP government has said that all schools and coaching centres can start holding classes in a phased manner from October 15. However, online teaching will not just be encouraged but also prioritised. Even if classes are held physically, a student who wants to attend it virtually will be allowed to do so. In fact, no child can be forced to attend classes physically without consent of the parents. Schools which decide to hold classes will have to follow the SOP as finalised by the education department. Universities and institutes of higher education funded by the government will open based on a decision taken by the department of higher education in consultation with the home ministry. Private universities and institutes can allow PhD and postgraduate students who require laboratories to visit the campus. Outside containment areas, cinemas, multiplexes and theatres can open but can only allow guests up to 50% of their capacity. Entertainment parks and business to business exhibitions can also open but will have to follow the SOPs determined by the government. Social, educational, sports, entertainment, cultural, political and religious events are also allowed with restrictions on guests in enclosed spaces. Interstate and intrastate movement through buses, flights and trains is also permitted without any permission or pass. Lockdown will remain in place till October 31 in only containment areas where only essential services will be allowed. The government or district administration will not be permitted to impose a lockdown outside containment areas without permission from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-allows-durga-puja-with-covid-protocols/articleshow/78438206.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Active cases in dist stand at 3,906||Aurangabad: With as many as 120 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, the total number of infected cases reported across the district went up to 34,845. According to a health official, the number of active patients is currently at 3,906. “The district has so far reported as many as 977 deaths, while the number of people who have recovered from the infection is at 29,962,” he said. “We are trying our best to break the chain of infection and are carrying out the rapid antigen tests across the district. People who are testing positive for Covid-19 are immediately being treated based on the seriousness of the infection. On Wednesday, out of the 120 patients 58 were detected through the antigen tests conducted by the mobile swab collection centres,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/active-cases-in-dist-stand-at-3906/articleshow/78559430.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Prohibitory orders extended by 7 days in urban limits of Jaisalmer district||JAISALMER: As many as three patients died of Covid-19 here on Thursday. Looking at the increasing cases and deaths, the prohibitory orders have been extended up to seven more days in the urban limits of Jaisalmer district. Total six persons have succumbed to the virus in last three days. District collector Ashish Modi, under Section 144, has imposed prohibitory orders in the entire urban limits of Jaisalmer, wherein not more than five persons should gather at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prohibitory-orders-extended-by-7-days/articleshow/78436017.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kitchens in Gujarat jails to follow FSSAI standards||Ahmedabad: The kitchens and canteens in jails across the state will now follow the standards set by FSSAI ( ( Food Safety Standards Authority of India ). “The campus of jails in the state will now become “Eat Right Campus” and take part in the “Eat Right Campus” competition with the help of FSSAI. Jail authorities said that kitchens, bakery department, canteen, sales outlet centres were visited by central food inspectors and they had given them the check list of FSSAI standards. “Jail superintendents across the state have been directed to secure maximum marks in the “Eat Right Campus” award by Additional DGP Jails, K L N Rao. Jail officials said that on the occasion of the 151th Gandhi Jayanti, Gujarat Jail and Administration Department have taken several initiatives so that the inmates can remain healthy and fit in the prevalent pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kitchens-in-gujarat-jails-to-follow-fssai-standards/articleshow/78437336.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan's Covid toll at 1,500; Jaipur and Jodhpur key contributors||JAIPUR: The state’s death toll touched the grim milestone of 1,500 on Thursday riding on 14 more Covid casualties in the last 24 hours. On the cumulative count, the state recorded the highest one-day record for 14 days in a row logging 2,193 cases, which took the overall tally to 1,37,485. Out of 1,500 deaths, Jaipur contributed 322, Jodhpur (145), Bikaner (113), Ajmer (106) and Kota (101) accounting for 52% deaths in the state. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ajmer and Kota collectively reported 787 deaths, while the rest 713 fatalities were reported from other 28 districts. September remained the worst month in terms of Covid deaths with 53,599 infections and 430 deaths. On the brighter side, the mortality rate stood at 0.8%, the lowest in comparison to other months. Jaipur reported 50% of Covid cases of the overall tally in September. Till August 31, Jaipur had reported 10,697 cases which rose to 21,488 on the last day of September. The opening day of October has not brought any relief. It started with record cases. Active cases are continuously increasing in the state as it touched a new high of 20,807. Jaipur has 7,949 active cases currently, followed by Jodhpur (4,448) and Kota (1,410). A health department official said with the increase in Covid cases, facilities for patients have also been increased. “We have added almost 300 beds in RUHS Hospital. Earlier, there were 500. We have been regularly upgrading our facilities for the benefit of patients,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (432), Jodhpur (313), Bhilwara (193), Bikaner (156), Ajmer (89), Alwar (88), Udaipur (85), Jalore (84), Pali (78), Nagaur (67), Kota (53), Sriganganagar (50), Jhunjhunu (48), Sikar (45), Dungarpur (43), Sirohi (41), and Hanumangarh (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-covid-toll-at-1500-jaipur-jodhpur-key-contributors/articleshow/78439541.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan's Covid toll at 1,500; Jaipur and Jodhpur key contributors||JAIPUR: The state’s death toll touched the grim milestone of 1,500 on Thursday riding on 14 more Covid casualties in the last 24 hours. On the cumulative count, the state recorded the highest one-day record for 14 days in a row logging 2,193 cases, which took the overall tally to 1,37,485. Out of 1,500 deaths, Jaipur contributed 322, Jodhpur (145), Bikaner (113), Ajmer (106) and Kota (101) accounting for 52% deaths in the state. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ajmer and Kota collectively reported 787 deaths, while the rest 713 fatalities were reported from other 28 districts. September remained the worst month in terms of Covid deaths with 53,599 infections and 430 deaths. On the brighter side, the mortality rate stood at 0.8%, the lowest in comparison to other months. Jaipur reported 50% of Covid cases of the overall tally in September. Till August 31, Jaipur had reported 10,697 cases which rose to 21,488 on the last day of September. The opening day of October has not brought any relief. It started with record cases. Active cases are continuously increasing in the state as it touched a new high of 20,807. Jaipur has 7,949 active cases currently, followed by Jodhpur (4,448) and Kota (1,410). A health department official said with the increase in Covid cases, facilities for patients have also been increased. “We have added almost 300 beds in RUHS Hospital. Earlier, there were 500. We have been regularly upgrading our facilities for the benefit of patients,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (432), Jodhpur (313), Bhilwara (193), Bikaner (156), Ajmer (89), Alwar (88), Udaipur (85), Jalore (84), Pali (78), Nagaur (67), Kota (53), Sriganganagar (50), Jhunjhunu (48), Sikar (45), Dungarpur (43), Sirohi (41), and Hanumangarh (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-covid-toll-at-1500-jaipur-jodhpur-key-contributors/articleshow/78439542.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan's Covid toll at 1,500; Jaipur and Jodhpur key contributors||JAIPUR: The state’s death toll touched the grim milestone of 1,500 on Thursday riding on 14 more Covid casualties in the last 24 hours. On the cumulative count, the state recorded the highest one-day record for 14 days in a row logging 2,193 cases, which took the overall tally to 1,37,485. Out of 1,500 deaths, Jaipur contributed 322, Jodhpur (145), Bikaner (113), Ajmer (106) and Kota (101) accounting for 52% deaths in the state. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ajmer and Kota collectively reported 787 deaths, while the rest 713 fatalities were reported from other 28 districts. September remained the worst month in terms of Covid deaths with 53,599 infections and 430 deaths. On the brighter side, the mortality rate stood at 0.8%, the lowest in comparison to other months. Jaipur reported 50% of Covid cases of the overall tally in September. Till August 31, Jaipur had reported 10,697 cases which rose to 21,488 on the last day of September. The opening day of October has not brought any relief. It started with record cases. Active cases are continuously increasing in the state as it touched a new high of 20,807. Jaipur has 7,949 active cases currently, followed by Jodhpur (4,448) and Kota (1,410). A health department official said with the increase in Covid cases, facilities for patients have also been increased. “We have added almost 300 beds in RUHS Hospital. Earlier, there were 500. We have been regularly upgrading our facilities for the benefit of patients,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (432), Jodhpur (313), Bhilwara (193), Bikaner (156), Ajmer (89), Alwar (88), Udaipur (85), Jalore (84), Pali (78), Nagaur (67), Kota (53), Sriganganagar (50), Jhunjhunu (48), Sikar (45), Dungarpur (43), Sirohi (41), and Hanumangarh (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-covid-toll-at-1500-jaipur-jodhpur-key-contributors/articleshow/78439543.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's Covid toll at 1,500; Jaipur and Jodhpur key contributors||JAIPUR: The state’s death toll touched the grim milestone of 1,500 on Thursday riding on 14 more Covid casualties in the last 24 hours. On the cumulative count, the state recorded the highest one-day record for 14 days in a row logging 2,193 cases, which took the overall tally to 1,37,485. Out of 1,500 deaths, Jaipur contributed 322, Jodhpur (145), Bikaner (113), Ajmer (106) and Kota (101) accounting for 52% deaths in the state. Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ajmer and Kota collectively reported 787 deaths, while the rest 713 fatalities were reported from other 28 districts. September remained the worst month in terms of Covid deaths with 53,599 infections and 430 deaths. On the brighter side, the mortality rate stood at 0.8%, the lowest in comparison to other months. Jaipur reported 50% of Covid cases of the overall tally in September. Till August 31, Jaipur had reported 10,697 cases which rose to 21,488 on the last day of September. The opening day of October has not brought any relief. It started with record cases. Active cases are continuously increasing in the state as it touched a new high of 20,807. Jaipur has 7,949 active cases currently, followed by Jodhpur (4,448) and Kota (1,410). A health department official said with the increase in Covid cases, facilities for patients have also been increased. “We have added almost 300 beds in RUHS Hospital. Earlier, there were 500. We have been regularly upgrading our facilities for the benefit of patients,” said a health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (432), Jodhpur (313), Bhilwara (193), Bikaner (156), Ajmer (89), Alwar (88), Udaipur (85), Jalore (84), Pali (78), Nagaur (67), Kota (53), Sriganganagar (50), Jhunjhunu (48), Sikar (45), Dungarpur (43), Sirohi (41), and Hanumangarh (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-covid-toll-at-1500-jaipur-jodhpur-key-contributors/articleshow/78436062.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sabarmati Central Jail to launch ‘Radio Prison’ today||AHMEDABAD: Akin to Bollywood actor Sanjay Dutt’s role as a radio jockey in Yerwada Jail, Ahmedabad (Sabarmati) Central Jail from October 2, Gandhi Jayanti, is to launch ‘Radio Prison’ at the hands of additional DGP prisons KLN Rao. Jail sources said the radio station will be like any other and have all facilities. “The radio station, which will start operations in the old jail premises based on fibre cables. After that cables will be extended to the women’s prison and then to the new jail premises,” said a senior jail official. The senior jail official said that a WiFi-based radio station could be misused and hence they have opted for a fibre cable-based radio station. “A studio like any other radio station studio has been made and the prisoners will operate it. We have selected convicted prisoners for the operation of the radio station and will give them a month’s training before going on air. The prisoners will be the radio jockeys (RJ) and operators as well. We also invite guest artists to perform,” said the official. A jail official said the prisoners will also perform bhajans which they learn from their training course from the Gandhi Ashram. Prison official said they have selected convicted prisoners because they will be in jail for longer and undertrial often leave the jail on bail. Prison sources said they have they made a jingle for Radio Prison and have tried to make it as professional as possible even though the objective behind the radio station is not commercial. “The prison administration has spent Rs 20 lakh on the radio station,” a prison source added. Jail officials said there are some convicts who save their holidays for the whole year to go out during Navratri to perform on stage as they are artists. A staff dispensary will also be inaugurated on Friday so staff members and their families can get better medical facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sabarmati-central-jail-to-launch-radio-prison-today/articleshow/78437327.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Kolkata||Bike taxi demand zooms in Covid times||KOLKATA: At a time of cautious commute, it’s the bike taxi that has registered the highest growth among all modes of public and shared transport owing to the popular perception that that the possibility of contracting the novel coronavirus was less on two-wheelers than that inside the confines of closed vehicles. According to transport department officials, more than 2 lakh to 3 lakh bikes ply across Kolkata Metropolitan Area. Among three major players—Rapido, Uber and Ola—the market leader in bike taxi segment, Rapido, alone has registered 350% growth in rides during the pandemic. The shared-bike company, which has 70,000 two-wheelers, said they also witnessed a sharp rise in new riders joining their platform. Rapido co-founder Aravind Sanka said, “We have close to 460% growth in captains (bikers) joining the platform here in 2020, which shows its popularity. Among all the cities, Kolkata saw the highest recovery rate during the unlock period, that of over 70%. Kolkata is among top three cities for our bike taxi operations, 20% of business being from here.” TimesViewThe changes reflect the new-normal situation on the road. Government agencies can take note and make policy changes on the basis of the new demand-supply dynamics.Though Ola and Uber declined to divulge their fleet sizes and operation details, the growth rate of their bike taxi segments have reportedly been considerable. “The masked face of the rider apparently elicit a sense of safety. “I feel safe because of the direction of the biker’s face. I am unlikely to catch his droplets,” Sriparna Roy, a bike taxi votary. “Of course, availability and affordability also matter a lot.” Subhankar Goswami, a bank employee who has switched to bike taxi from app cabs, said, “First of all, it is easier to get a bike taxi than a cab. Secondly, value for money is optimum. Thirdly, bikes can travel through alleys and take short-cuts to reach a destination faster than other modes.” “Post unlock, the average distance travelled has also changed. Earlier, people used bikes for last-mile (3-5km) connectivity, but now, the average distance covered by bikes has increased by 35% in Kolkata and 25% overall. People have been using bike taxis to commute to and from work,” added Sanka. An operator pointed out that customers were aware that bike taxi was a more open and personalized mode of transport, on which they had an advantage of less exposure to infection due to limited interaction with the captain and fewer touchpoints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bike-taxi-demand-zooms-in-cov-times/articleshow/78436102.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 2, 2020||Lucknow||GB Nagar: Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi booked under Epidemic Act||LUCKNOW: The GB Nagar police lodged FIR against Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and 153 congress workers and 50 unknown people after they were detained from Yamuna Expressway while trying to go to Hathras to meet the family of alleged gange rape victim. The Congress leaders were booked under section 188, 269, 279 of the IPC and 3 Epidemic Act. "Despite repeatedly informing about section 144 in place, reading out DM Hathras's letter which asks no political party to reach Hathras as it might affect the law and order, these people decided to go ahead. Because of which some ambulance also got stuck," said a senior police official Another FIR against UPCC chief Ajay Singh Lallu, Virendra alias Guddu, Manoj Chaudhary and 50 workers was lodged for damaging the police vehicle, creating ruckus and not allowing the police to do their work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rahul-priyanka-booked-under-epidemic-act/articleshow/78438217.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ranchi||Puja without pomp, places of worship to open from Oct 8||Ranchi: The Jharkhand government has prohibited public participation in Durga Puja festivities, scheduled to begin on October 22. While it has allowed places of worship to open from October 8, schools and colleges, cinema halls, inter-state public transport and gymnasiums will continue to remain shut in the state even though they have been allowed to reopen by the Centre in a phased manner with restrictions in place. An order issued by the state home, jail and disaster management department’s disaster management division on Thursday night and signed by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh listed the directives to be followed by Puja organizing committees and said it was important to strike a balance between observing of preventing the spread of the coronavirus. Puja organizing committees were mandated to erect small pandals or mandaps on the sites where they traditionally construct their glittering shamiyanas. The pandals will have to be covered from all sides to ensure the idol cannot be seen by the people and decoration, lightings, themes and entertainment programmes near the venue have been prohibited. Taking queue from the guidelines issued by the Odisha government in early September, the state has restricted the commissioning of grand gates and installation of music and public address systems on the pandal premises. Besides the area where idols – not more than four feet in height -- are placed, the remaining area of the pandals shall be open air. Committees have been restricted from inviting any dignitary for inaugurating their puja pandals. At any given point, there should not be more than seven persons inside the pandal (including priests, organizers and support staff). The committees were also directed to not host any cultural programs, Dandiya or Garba functions. Puja committees have been restricted from organizing fairs and allowing food stalls on their pandal premises. Distribution of Bhog and Prasad was restricted along with Ravan Dahan celebrations on Dussehra. “There shall be no immersion processions. The idols will be immersed at places designated by district administration for the purpose,” the order read. The guidelines were issued hours after a delegation of the Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC) met chief minister Hemant Soren at the Project Building. The team urged Soren to ensure that committees can organize their pujas at their traditional sites. “We had also urged the CM to ensure that traditional musical instruments like dhaak, an inseparable part of the rituals, be allowed to be played during the Puja,” Munchun Rai, president of Ranchi Railway Station Puja Committee and secretary of the RDDPC, told TOI after the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/puja-without-pomp-places-of-worship-to-open-from-oct-8/articleshow/78436341.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 2, 2020||Ranchi||Recovery rate soars, casualties a concern for East Singhbhum||Jamshedpur: The health authorities are struggling to check the mortality rate of Covid-19 cases in East Singhbhum. With 300 deaths till Wednesday night, the district has clocked a mortality rate of 2.10 %, which is higher than the state death rate of 1.60% and the country mortality average of 0.84%. The elderly persons, those above the age of 60, constitute 68% of the total deaths, while people in the age group of 45 to 59 comprise 24% of the dead. The ones in the age group of 30 to 44 constitute 8% of Covid victims. The youngsters, those between the age of 15-29, comprise 2% of the total deaths in the state, figures from the district administration revealed. Notably, citing the observations of the three-member doctors’ panel formed by the Centre that had visited the Steel City two weeks ago to examine the cause of the spike in casualties, the district administration said that advanced age and comorbidities were still the principal factors behind the deaths. “To make sure the elderly people and those with secondary health problems such as heart ailment, lung infection, kidney problem, among others, don’t come in contact of suspected Covid-19 carriers, a drive has been launched to identify symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. We are also trying to effectively implement containment measures to check the spread of the virus,” deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said. The officials in the district health department also told TOI that although the mortality rate was a cause of concern, the recovery rate was also impressive. “With a recovery rate of 82.49%, we are just a little behind the state recovery rate of 84.26%,” said a health official in the district surveillance cell, preferring anonymity. Out of the 14,266 positive cases reported in the district till Wednesday, a total of 11,768 persons have recovered, while there were only 2,198 active cases left. “Precautionary steps and compliance with Covid safety guidelines are the only way to keep the virus away till a vaccine arrives,” the secretary of the Indian Medical Association (Jamshedpur chapter), Mrityunjay Singh, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/recovery-rate-soars-casualties-a-concern-for-east-singhbhum/articleshow/78436313.cms||B Sridhar
October 2, 2020||Ranchi||Met dept predicts wet weekend in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Most parts of Jharkhand will receive light to moderate showers between October 2-5, the Ranchi office of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday evening. “A system of low pressure has developed over west-central Bay of Bengal and its adjoining areas of Odisha. In the next 24 hours, the system is expected to move northwestwards. Under the influence of the system, rains and thunderstorm activity is expected over Jharkhand,” Abhishek Anand, a senior scientist at IMD Ranchi, said. The southwest monsoon season ended over Jharkhand on Wednesday with 14% departure from its cumulative rainfall average of 1054.7mm. However, the monsoon currents are expected to withdraw from Jharkhand by October 10. In its five-day weather forecast, IMD Ranchi said southern, central, eastern and northeastern districts of the state received scattered rains with thunder activity on Thursday. On Friday, there will be fairly widespread rainfall (which will cover 51-75% of the state’s geographical area) across Jharkhand with heavy rainfall at isolated places. Widespread rainfall forecast was issued for October 3-5. Till Thursday evening, Ranchi recorded 3.6mm rain while Jamshedpur recorded 1 mm. Overnight, heavy showers were experienced in a few places. Ramgarh recorded 50mm rain while Ghatshila recorded 30mm till Thursday morning. Dumka and Tenughat recorded 20mm rain each while Ormanjhi, Arki, Torpa and Massanjor recorded 10mm rain overnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/met-dept-predicts-wet-weekend-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78436223.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jagarnath Mahato critical, moved to pvt hosp; 9 Covid deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Three days after he was admitted to the Covid ward at Rajendra Institute Of Medical Sciences, state education minister Jagarnath Mahato was shifted to Bhagwan Mahaveer Medica Superspecialty hospital in a critical condition on Thursday. Sources at Rims said Mahato continued to complain of breathlessness. A senior doctor at Rims trauma centre said, “His SpO2 levels were not rising and he was kept on high-flow oxygen supply. He decided to shift to the private hospital as he wanted a personal room with ICU facilities that are not available here.” Meanwhile, the state reported nine casualties, 1,013 new infections and 1,119 recoveries on Thursday. Among the dead, three are from Ranchi and one each from Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Godda and Hazaribag. The positivity rate fell marginally with around 4% of the 24,578 samples tested returning a positive result. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number of new infections with 266 and 165 cases respectively. Bokaro was the only other district with a three-digit spike with 106 cases. The cumulative case load of Jharkhand rose to 84,664, of which 11,482 are active cases, 72,461 have recovered and 721 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mahto-critical-moved-to-pvt-hosp-9-covid-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78436588.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jagarnath Mahato critical, moved to pvt hosp; 9 Covid deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Three days after he was admitted to the Covid ward at Rajendra Institute Of Medical Sciences, state education minister Jagarnath Mahato was shifted to Bhagwan Mahaveer Medica Superspecialty hospital in a critical condition on Thursday. Sources at Rims said Mahato continued to complain of breathlessness. A senior doctor at Rims trauma centre said, “His SpO2 levels were not rising and he was kept on high-flow oxygen supply. He decided to shift to the private hospital as he wanted a personal room with ICU facilities that are not available here.” Meanwhile, the state reported nine casualties, 1,013 new infections and 1,119 recoveries on Thursday. Among the dead, three are from Ranchi and one each from Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Godda and Hazaribag. The positivity rate fell marginally with around 4% of the 24,578 samples tested returning a positive result. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number of new infections with 266 and 165 cases respectively. Bokaro was the only other district with a three-digit spike with 106 cases. The cumulative case load of Jharkhand rose to 84,664, of which 11,482 are active cases, 72,461 have recovered and 721 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/mahto-critical-moved-to-pvt-hosp-9-covid-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78444775.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 2, 2020||Ranchi||A September To Remember||Even as the novel coronavirus continues to spread across all 24 districts of Jharkhand, the pandemic figures for September have come as a respite for healthcare officials, going against the dire predictions made by epidemiologists and experts in the beginning of the month when the spread of the virus seemed out of control and the state stared at a massive body count in the coming days. For the first time in the six months since the outbreak started in the state on March 31 – with a Malaysian woman from the Tablighi Jamaat living in Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality testing positive for the new virus – the number of new Covid cases recorded in a month (41,882) was lesser than the number of recoveries (44,162) in the same period. While healthcare officials, going by the trends in the previous five months, had predicted an exponential rise in new cases and casualties in September, the state recorded 11,479 more new infections and 23 fewer casualties than August (30,403 new cases, 22,837 recoveries and 313 deaths) through the month. While the difference in casualties may seem small, the September figure is 8% lesser than August despite a 35% rise in new cases. Apart from the absolute numbers, the state has improved significantly in all the parameters measuring the impact of the pandemic in the past 30 days. The seven-day growth rate has fallen from 4.53% in the beginning on September 1 to 1.55% on Wednesday. Similarly, the case fatality ratio has reduced from 1.1% on August 24 to 0.85% and the recovery rate has soared form 64.7% on September 1 to an all-time high of 85.29% on Thursday. The lesser-than-expected toll aside, the biggest relief for healthcare workers has come with a significant fall in the number of active cases. Jharkhand started the month with more than 15,000 persons (all-time high of 15,545 on September 4) still suffering from the disease in hospitals, Covid care centres and home isolation, sparking fears that the healthcare infrastructure was on the brink of collapse. However, as the recovery rate rose, the number of active cases fell to 11,596 on Wednesday, dipping below the 12,000-mark for the first time on Tuesday since August 30. Dr Mithilesh Kumar, associate professor of community medicine at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) said: “I believe the fall in number of active cases and casualties is due to latent infection among many. In these cases, a person tests negative even after coming in contact with an infected person as he has developed antibodies. It is also likely that a major population of those infected have a lesser viral load. Moreover, it indicates that preventive steps like wearing masks and using sanitizers are yielding good results.” Scenario In The Districts With 472 of 700 deaths in Jharkhand recorded in East Singhbhum, Ranchi and Dhanbad until Wednesday, these three districts account for almost 68% of the state toll. Apart from East Singhbhum and Dhanbad (CFR of 2.11% and 1.22% respectively), all other 22 districts, including Ranchi, have recorded a mortality rate below 1%. Ranchi also had the highest number of active cases of coronavirus infection among districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 3,400 people in the district were battling the infection until Wednesday morning. Interestingly, East Singhbhum, the district with the highest number of deaths and second highest number of cases, had only 2,289 active cases, almost 33% the figure in Ranchi. Call To Stay Cautious While health officials acknowledged that the figures for the month are surprisingly heartening, they emphasized that the people continue to follow all the norms and guideline and take all possible precautions to ensure that the outbreak does not spiral out of control once again. They said more relaxations in restrictions are expected under Unlock 5.0 and the festive season, starting with Durga Puja, is just three weeks ahead with the bypolls on two constituencies, including the prestigious Dumka seat, sandwiched between Dussehra and Diwali and the need to remain vigilant is more now than ever before. They added that the government should also ensure that fool-proof protocols are in place for the festivals and the elections and they are implemented strictly on the ground. Dr Devesh Kumar, public health expert and associate professor of Preventive and Social Medicine (PSM) department, said, “After Diwali, it will be Chhath and then Christmas and New Year. People from all sections of the society will be inclined to be out in the streets in large numbers shopping, campaigning and celebrating, but we need to keep in mind that the pandemic is not over yet and it will take just one bad week to plunge back into a major crisis, as being seen in European countries over the last couple of weeks.” He added, “I strongly advise against any celebration that will invite crowding and violate distancing norms. People must understand that they need to remain at home and avoid gatherings and outdoor celebrations. Common sense and caution are the need of the hour, lest Jharkhand becomes another epicentre for the viral outbreak. We need to behave responsibly as not only us as individuals, the well-being of the entire community is at stake. We must remember what Oscar Wilde said about the last day of September — ‘And all at once, summer collapsed into fall’.” (With inputs from Gaurav Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/a-september-to-remember/articleshow/78415050.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Ranchi||Lab techies on contract at Rims vow self-immolation||Ranchi: Forty-four lab and operation theatre technicians, who were working on contractual basis and were selected to join Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in January this year, but are yet to get their joining letters, threatened to immolate themselves on the campus of the institute if their demand for induction is not met. Seeking cooperation from Rims’ governing body members, the technicians said their repeated requests were met with tactics of delaying the process. They also said the hospital administration has not recognised their services despite their service since the outbreak of the pandemic and even after several of them got infected. One of the technicians said, “Eight physiotherapy assistants were also selected along with us after the publication of our result on January 27, 2020 and they joined work. However, despite involving us in collection, transportation and testing of swab samples, we haven’t been issued joining letters. We are working on a meagre remuneration of Rs 7,000 per month.” Rims’ governing body member cum Kanke MLA Samri Lal said, “I support their demand. Along with Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, I will be writing a letter to the Rims administration to question why a governing body meeting was not called for in the last one year. If cabinet meetings can happen and the assembly session be convened, why can’t they hold the governing body meeting to resolve the issues?” Lal added, “This reflects the sincerity of the government and the health minister towards the sector. They have completely ignored all rules and regulations. If they do not pay heed to our request to convene the meeting soon, we will take up the matter with the governor.” Meanwhile, Jharkhand high court while hearing a petition filed by the lab technicians on July 9, had termed them “corona heroes” and asked the state health department and the hospital to file a reply. In its reply on September 10, the health department clarified that it does not have any kind of role to play in the appointments as they are under the direct purview of the Rims’ director. “As per Schedule 2 of Rims Regulations 2014, the director is the competent authority to make appointments of grade 3 and grade 4 posts in the institute,” its statement to the court said. Rims said it could not file its reply and cited the pandemic even after two more hearings in the case were held after the four-week deadline. Rims director-in-charge Manju Gari said, “I didn’t stall the appointment of lab technicians at any level. We work on directions from the state government. We will be expediting the process so that all selected candidates can join at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lab-techies-on-contract-at-rims-vow-self-immolation/articleshow/78436355.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 2, 2020||India||Nine states have 54% of Dalits, see 84% of crime against SCs||NEW DELHI: Nine states accounted for 84% of all crimes against Dalits in India in 2019 though they accounted for only 54% of the country’s SC population, according to data just released by the National Crime Records Bureau. The highest rates (number of crimes for every lakh population of Dalits) were in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat. The others with rates above the national average were Telangana, UP, Kerala, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. The data also shows that the conviction rate in offences under the SC/ST Atrocities Act was just 32% nationally and the pendency rate of cases an alarming 94%. Read AlsoDalit watchdogs headless, lack biteThe National Commission for Scheduled Castes has been headless for over four months. The term of the chairman and four members expired in the last week of May, after which the Modi government has not appointed the replacements.There were nearly 46,000 crimes against SCs in 2019, up about 7% from the previous year. Of these, the nine states which had a higher rate than the national average accounted for nearly 38,400. While Uttar Pradesh had the absolute number, Rajasthan had by far the highest rate of crimes against dalits of almost 56 per lakh SC population. Punjab, the state in which Dalits account for a higher proportion of the population, had among the lowest rates of crimes, Jammu & Kashmir, West Bengal and Assam being the only ones with even lower rates among the major states. The data in the NCRB publication ‘Crime in India, 2019’ also shows that while the chargesheeting rate in crimes against SCs is a reasonably high 78.5% at the all-India level, less than one in every three cases the courts dispose of ends in conviction. Couple that with the fact that only about one in every 16 cases for trial during a year is disposed of and that makes for depressing reading. Read AlsoHathras sealed, Sec 144 put in place for a month to curb protestsIts borders sealed, prohibitory orders (Section 144 of CrPC) in place for a month, Hathras district turned into a fortress on Thursday in anticipation of protests against the alleged gang-rape, death and “forced” cremation of a 19-year-old Dalit girl. All roads leading to the girl’s village wereHere’s how those numbers add up. At the beginning of 2019, there were close to 1.7 lakh cases pending trial. Nearly 35,000 more cases were sent for trial during the year, taking the total to over 2 lakh. Less than 13,000 of these were disposed of during the year and of those just over 4,000 ended in conviction. Among the states with high crimes rates, the lowest conviction rate, a mere 1.8%, is in Gujarat. Andhra Pradesh (6.8%), Kerala (8.4%), Telangana (9%) also have single digit conviction rates while Bihar’s 12.2% is not much better. UP (66.1%) and MP (51.1%) have significantly higher conviction rates than the national average, but UP also has a pendency ratio of over 95%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nine-states-have-54-of-dalits-see-84-of-crime-against-scs/articleshow/78439021.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||72 coop societies can no longer issue loans||Panaji: Taking a stern view against non-compliance of statutory norms, the state government on Thursday restricted 72 cooperative societies in the state, mainly VKSS societies and employee credit societies, from issuing loans and accepting fresh deposits. The curbs have been imposed as all these cooperative societies failed to complete their statutory audits for several years. The Registrar of Cooperative societies also said that the process to disqualify the board members of the defaulting entities has begun. “It is observed that even after giving necessary opportunity to such cooperative societies to clear pending audit, the management of the societies whose names are attached to this order have failed to conduct the statutory audit as per requirements in spite of extended period of six months up to March 31,” registrar of cooperative societies Vikas Gaunekar said. As per law, every cooperative society has to get its accounts audited by September 30, by choosing an auditor from the panel of auditors constituted by the registrar of cooperative societies. The audited accounts have to be placed before the general body for its approval. The cooperative societies placed on the restricted list include Government ITI Employees Co-operative Credit Society, the Mormugao Municipal Council Employees Co-operative Credit Society, Goa Dental College Hospital Employees Co-operative Credit Society and EDC Employees Co-operative Credit Society Ltd among others. Some of the entities have pending audits for as long as 27 years. “The zonal assistant registrars of coop societies shall take review of the progress of overall functioning of each of the societies falling within their jurisdiction and thereafter submit a detailed report recommending withdrawal or modification or continuation of the restrictions as the case may be,” Gaunekar said. Failure to complete the audit deprives the depositors of the true financial picture of the society and gives wide scope to believe that there is no financial and functional transparency, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/72-coop-societies-can-no-longer-issue-loans/articleshow/78436422.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: 2 Bulgarians held for ATM skimming||PANAJI: Pernem police arrested two Bulgarians wanted by Porvorim police in an ATM skimming case. Pernem PI Jivba Dalvi said they received information regarding the foreigners from Porvorim police and a strict watch was kept after informers spotted the two moving around Morjim. A team led by Dalvi, comprising PSI Praful Giri, PSI Harish Vaigankar, constables Vinod Pednekar, Ravi Maloji and Anishkumar Poke of Pernem police station, rushed to Morjim and detained the duo. Later, PSI Sitaram Malik and Porvorim police took custody of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-bulgarians-held-for-atm-skimming/articleshow/78436466.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Greens fume over tree felling for pipeline, seek alternative||Nagpur: After succeeding in saving Bharat Van, greens in the city have once again united to save 50 trees from getting chopped. The trees are between Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL) office, Seminary Hills and Baji Prabhu Deshpande square and are facing axe for building a water pipeline Vikas Thakre, Congress MLA from Nagpur West constituency, has also come in support of the activists. “We need to see if the need of this pipeline is genuine. I am not in favour of destruction of green cover and will raise this issue with the municipal commissioner,” he told TOI. Activists have questioned the need of pipeline itself. They have also stressed on selecting an alternative route that would result in fewer trees being cut. About a week back, TOI had reported the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) water works department has sought permission to fell around 50 fully-grown indigenous trees. On Wednesday, environment activists carried out a spot survey on the road stretch. In a letter submitted to NMC’s garden department, members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation appealed to validate the requirement of the pipeline and explore alternative route. As per the given information, a private agency has done an initial survey for NMC for the proposed project. Stating that the spot inspection revealed that number of trees that will be felled for installing the pipeline will exceed 50, the NGO wrote, “Instead of relying on data submitted by a private agency, a team of officials from NMC garden department, public works department, tree committee and other stakeholders should conduct a fresh survey.” They added that a change of route with minimum sacrifice of trees will be the best option. Environment activist Shrikant Deshpande, who was part of the inspection, said that primary roots of other trees which are not to be felled will also get damaged during the construction work. “NMC needs to rethink whether the pipeline is really needed. There have been no complaints of water shortage in the said areas,” he added. Honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das pointed out the road stretch for the proposed pipeline was already concretized and digging it up again will lead to waste of taxpayers’ money. “This same area was in spotlight for Bharat Van issue where citizens and judiciary enforced upon authorities that saving trees is a necessity. Again another government body is out to destroy the trees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/greens-fume-over-tree-felling-for-pipeline-seek-alternative/articleshow/78435024.cms||Manka Behl
October 2, 2020||Goa||Bollywood duo rides bikes on Atal Setu, faces action||Panaji: The traffic cell of Goa police has summoned two persons from Bollywood for riding bikes on Atal Setu cable-stayed bridge in violation of the rules. The bikes have been seized by the police. Last week, two videos surfaced on social media wherein the bikers along with a pillion were seen enjoying a ride on the prohibited stretch of the bridge. Vigilant citizens immediately demanded action against these persons for violating traffic rules. Of the three persons, two were identified as Bollywood choreographer and film personality Remo D’Souza and fellow choreographer Salman Y Khan. Taking note of the public outcry on social media over the 21 and 32-second clips, police began the process of tracing the two-wheelers. On Thursday, they found the bikes. “Thanks #Goa for bringing traffic violations to notice. Recently two bikers were seen riding on Atal Setu where entry is restricted. SP Traffic Dinraj Govekar took cognisance and not only identified and impounded the bikes, but has summoned riders for legal action. #goapolice,” DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena tweeted. Speaking to TOI, the traffic SP said that they have called D’Souza and Khan to the traffic police cell in Panaji. The state government has prohibited the entry of two and three-wheelers on Atal Setu. Of the three persons who violated rules, two were identified as Bollywood choreographer and film personality Remo D’Souza and fellow choreographer Salman Y Khan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bollywood-duo-rides-bikes-on-atal-setu-faces-action/articleshow/78436482.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Nagpur||Despite promise, PWD damages trees for widening work on Bapu Kuti road||Nagpur: Despite assurance from the state government-constituted Ulhas Debadwar committee about protecting trees while widening Wardha-Sevagram Bapu Kuti Road, the public works department (PWD) continues to damage the trees in a way that these will either collapse on their own or die naturally. During a site visit on September 20, the committee headed by Debadwar, who is also PWD principal secretary, had agreed to suggestions by Wardha Vruksha Bachao Samiti (WVBS) to save trees on the 12km Wardha-Sevagram road. “In the last two days, the contractor did shabby soil excavation work for road widening between Gopuri-Wardha where there are several 50-80-year-old neem trees. At least two trees have been uprooted while several tree trunks have been badly damaged due to movement of JCB machines,” said Alok Bang, ecologist. Bang added, almost every single tree’s critical root zone has been damaged by excavating soil by going as close as a few centimetres to the tree trunk, and roots were left exposed. The road is a part of the same 12km stretch where the samiti said no tree cutting will be allowed, barring a few exceptions. “We had told the committee that the contractor will have to justify why these specific trees cannot be saved. There should be no construction or disturbance activities including placing of paver blocks within 1.5 metre radius from the tree trunk. This is the critical zone of growth for that tree. If roots are exposed outside the critical zone, there is need to cover the roots within 48 hours, but this is not being done,” alleged Bang. “Ground staff operating heavy machinery is not sensitized towards ensuring safety of trees. This is essential to carry out works without causing environmental damage. Our team has been at the site conversing with contractors and PWD engineers to immediately stop the work which is damaging trees. However, the staff has been passing the buck instead of cooperating,” said Bang. “We are surprised that PWD has not initiated any official communication to the contractors to take care of trees. When we discovered that trees are being felled or damaged, we called PWD engineers to stop work till the committee report is out,” said Sanjay Ingle Teegaonkar, honorary wildlife warden. PWD officials told TOI, “There is no stay on road widening work except tree felling. Yet, we will look into the concerns of the samiti.” Though work has been stopped temporarily after a dialogue between the contractor, activists and PWD officials, the damage to the trees has been done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-promise-pwd-damages-trees-for-widening-work-on-bapu-kuti-road/articleshow/78435037.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 2, 2020||Goa||Calangute cops nab 5 for betting||Calangute: Five persons, four from Rajasthan and one from Nepal, were arrested by Calangute police late Wednesday night for allegedly betting on Indian Premier League (IPL) matches. Police said they conducted a raid at a villa in Candolim on Wednesday night and apprehended five accused identified as Raju Singh, Mohit Kumar, Ravi Mamtani, Sagar Rathore, all from Rajasthan, and Suraj Soni, a native of Nepal. The also seized Rs 95,000 in cash, nine cellphones and two laptops. The five accused were released on bail on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-cops-nab-5-for-betting/articleshow/78436548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Goa||Javadekar to arrive today, meet farmers||Panaji: Union minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar will arrive in Goa on Friday to hold a meeting with farmers to explain the benefits of recently-passed farmers bill in Parliament. The Centre recently passed two bills — Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said the party has arranged a meeting of Javadekar with farmers at Chorao on Saturday. He will then meet agriculture stakeholders at the BJP office over farmers bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/javadekar-to-arrive-today-meet-farmers/articleshow/78436515.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Pop-up cycle lane from Dona Paula to Ribandar junction every Sunday||Panaji: The state government has permitted the creation of a cycling lane from Dona Paula circle to the Ribandar-Merces junction on Gandhi Jayanti and on every Sunday in the month of October as part of an initiative to encourage cycling in the state capital. The North Goa collectorate has granted permission for a pop-up cycling lane for cycling events from 8am to 11am on October 2, 4, 11, 18 and 25. The cycle lane is from Dona Paula circle to Miramar and then along D B Road right up to Divja circle and along the Ribandar causeway to the Ribandar Merces junction. “The normal flow of vehicular traffic on the parallel and surrounding roads should not be obstructed,” said additional district magistrate Vandana Rao. The order says that all cyclists must wear helmets and cannot perform stunts during the cycling event. Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) plans to organise the pop-up cycling lanes in the capital as part of the India Cycles4Change challenge. The challenge, which is open to all Smart Cities, state capitals, and cities with a population of over 5 lakh, aims to promote cycle-friendly interventions in cities in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the 141 eligible cities, the top 11 cities will be granted Rs 1 crore each to promote cycling. IPSCDL will depute traffic marshals along the way to ensure that traffic flow is not disrupted. “The organiser should ensure that no clustering of cycles and participants takes place at one point and all participants obey the guidelines in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” stated Rao in the order. Parking of vehicles along the route is also prohibited since it could affect traffic flow and impede emergency vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pop-up-cycle-lane-from-dona-paula-to-ribandar-junction-every-sunday/articleshow/78436577.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Goa||Margao chief officer replaced in just 8 days||Panaji: The chief officer of Margao Municipal council (MMC) Biju Naik has been transferred within eight days of her appointment. She was posted after a video clip showing her predecessor Ajit Panchwadkar cutting a birthday cake bypassing social distancing norms had gone viral. She will be replaced by South Goa zilla panchayat chief executive officer Agnelo Fernandes. Naik has been posted as registrar of cooperative societies. Some more middle-level officers were also transferred on Thursday. Sanjiv Gadkar, state land acquisition officer, Mopa airport project has been appointed as administrator of Sanjivani Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana. Vikas Gaunekar, who held the post of registrar of cooperative societies has been appointed as secretary, human rights commission. Secretary, human rights commission Neetal Amonkar has been appointed member secretary, Sanjay School with additional charge of state land acquisition officer, Mopa airport project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-chief-officer-replaced-in-just-8-days/articleshow/78436619.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Decapitated body of baby girl found in Goa||PANAJI: Goa police recovered a decapitated body of a less than one old-month-old girl child which washed ashore at Siridao. Police said that they had received a call a week ago informing about the body of a child lying in Siridao. The incident took social media by storm after photos of the infant went viral. When asked about the case, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that he will inquire into the matter. Police said that as of now no one has come forward to claim the body and that they are verifying hospital records to find out how many girls were born in the recent past. A case has been registered against unidentified persons and investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decapitated-body-of-baby-girl-found/articleshow/78436629.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||KTC suspends parcel service, loses Rs 8 lakh/month||PANAJI: With the suspension of interstate transport due to the pandemic, the parcel service by the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTCL) also came to a halt. Even though interstate transport services resumed last month, KTC did not restart the parcel service as lesser number of buses are operating across state borders. With six months of the parcel service being suspended, KTC said it has lost income of Rs8 lakh per month. “When the parcel delivery system was on, we had a contractor who would carry out the task. But the contractor has surrendered the contract due to Covid-19,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. The service, which was outsourced to a private contractor from April 2019 onwards, permits users to send enveloped documents, unaccompanied luggage and parcels from 2kg to 20kg through KTC’s interstate bus service routes. At every bus stand operated under the KTCL, the corporation provided contractors with a room to store the parcels meant for delivery. TOI had reported last week that KTC was resuming its interstate buses to Karnataka from September 5 after a hiatus of 170 days. Soon after that buses to a few destinations in Maharashtra were also started. With the intention of adding more interstate buses on other routes, KTC may soon resume their parcel service. “Now the parcel service will be carried out by KTCL itself. We will resume it after interstate operations resume properly. Until then, we continue to incur a loss of Rs8 lakh per month,” Ghate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-suspends-parcel-service-loses-rs-8l/month/articleshow/78436668.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Goa||Casinos to stay shut for now: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that casino operators have given him representation to permit operations, but the government has not taken any decision in the matter. The decision to allow cinema theatres will be taken after a review meeting, Sawant said. “It will take some time to allow casino operations in the state,” he added. In Unlock 5, the ministry of home affairs has not kept anything closed, but there is a limitation on the number of people allowed at a place with stress placed on social distancing, the CM told reporters. “As per MHA’s Unlock 5, everything has started in Goa too. MHA has allowed theatres to open from October 15 and after reviewing the matter with stakeholders we will take a decision,” Sawant said. On opening of schools, Sawant said most have taken a decision to open in consultation with parents. “After October 2, the government will again take a review and arrive at a decision. The government has not taken any decision on reopening schools,” he said. Further easing curbs outside containment zones, the MHA’s Unlock 5 guidelines allow states and Union territories to take a call on reopening of schools in a graded manner after October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/casinos-to-stay-shut-for-now-cm/articleshow/78436689.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Goa||‘Pending DSSY payout soon’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the amount under the Dayanand Samajik Suraksha Yojana (DSSY), which has been pending since the last three months, will soon be released to beneficiaries. The DSSY scheme provides a monthly sum of Rs 2,000 to needy people. Speaking via videoconference at an event celebrating Senior Citizens Day, Sawant said it was unfortunate that the payout has been delayed. Further, urging youth to honour the contribution made by senior citizens, the chief minister advised the younger generation not to take them for granted. He also said that from time to time, the government has called upon senior citizens to utilise their experience. Social welfare minister Milind Naik said that chief minister has given his assurance that the DSSY scheme will not be discontinued. At the event, 19 senior citizens were felicitated for their contribution to the state in various fields. Those felicitated were Sadanand Kavthanka, a Mapusa-based astrologer; Rameshchandra Kolwalkar an Hirabai Patre from Mapusa; Ramesh Naik from Margao; Prasad Sawant from Curtorim; Marino Mendes from Cavelossim; Prakash Bandodkar from Gogol; Piedade Colaco from Seraulim; Thaku Kolekar and Mahadev Khanolkar from Ponda; Purshotam Naik from Curti; Rohidad Kundaikar from Kundaim; Dattatray Abhisheki from Savoi Verem; Bharati Heble from Taleigao; Anand Parab and Matru Porobo from Bicholim; Chandrakant Gawas from Sal; Subhash Kharade from Quepem, and Gajanan Naik from Darbandora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pending-dssy-payout-soon/articleshow/78436695.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Taxi owners struggle as tourism hit||CALANGUTE: With their plea for an extension of the moratorium on payment of instalments of bank loans of vehicles not yet addressed, many taxi owners have started defaulting on their payments. Speaking to TOI, North Goa Tourist Taxi Owners Association’s (NGTTOA) vice-president Ravindra Vengurlekar said they have been requesting bank officials, who have started visiting homes of defaulters, to exercise restraint for a little more time because of the Covid-19 situation. “People are not paying because they don’t have the money. However, since tourists have started coming to Goa, business is slowly picking up. I have spoken to some bank managers not to take any punitive steps, because right now they will have no resale value as people don’t have money to buy vehicles,” Vengurlekar said. “A lot of tourists are coming, but most are driving down in their own vehicles. There are also tourists coming by flights, but they only take a taxi to the hotel and then don’t move around. They just relax in the resorts,” the NGTTOA vice-president said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/taxi-owners-struggle-as-tourism-hit/articleshow/78436700.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||GSL’s networth highest in 60 years at Rs 1,025 crore||Panaji: Goa Shipyard Ltd (GSL) has reported a net profit of Rs 198 cr for 2019-20, a 50% increase year-on-year. The shipyard’s net worth has also increased to Rs 1,025 cr from Rs 912 cr, the highest in its six-decade history. Chairman and managing director of GSL, B B Nagpal said the expansion of the yard’s business and completion of the ongoing contracts played a key role in improving the profits of the defence public sector undertaking (DPSU). “The future projection looks bright for the yard as today we have a good order book, of around Rs 14,600 cr which is for the first time,” said Nagpal a day after chairing the annual general meeting through video conferencing. GSL’s gross revenue stood at Rs 1,072 cr as on March 31 as against Rs 986 cr in the previous financial year with a value of production of Rs 903 cr in 2019-20. While GSL’s profit before tax stood at Rs 265 cr, profit after tax stood at Rs 198 cr. The DPSU also plans to focus on pollution control vessels and plans to market these niche platforms to south east Asian and African countries. “We see demand for pollution control vessels picking up. We already have an order for two pollution control vessels, it’s close to Rs 550-560 cr order from the Indian Coast Guard,” said Nagpal. Highlighting recent instances of maritime accidents in the Indian Ocean Region, he said GSL plans to offer pollution control vessels to friendly nations. GSL has already commenced production of the guided missile frigates with the design and transfer of technology almost complete. The yard has also ventured into refitment and ship repairs as it looks to widen its business. As part of a modernization program, GSL has upgraded it's infrastructure and added additional production lines in order to meet the critical operational requirements of the Indian Navy and the Indian Coast Guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsls-networth-highest-in-60-years-at-rs-1025-crore/articleshow/78436707.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||Local bodies to now fine those littering||Panaji: Goa government on Thursday notified ‘model bylaws’ for solid waste management by which local bodies are authorised to levy fines for littering and also for collection of garbage. The Model Municipal Solid Waste (management and handling)bylaws, 2020, lays down rules related to segregation, storage, delivery, transportation and recycling. Non-compliance of the sanitation rules will attract fines which are specified in detail for individuals, offices, institutions, etc As per a municipal administration notification, fines will increase for repeated offenses. For example, a commercial establishment found violation the rules will have to pay of Rs 500 for the first offense, Rs 750 for the second and Rs 1,000 for the third, for not just not segregation but also for not maintaining cleanliness||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/local-bodies-to-now-fine-those-littering/articleshow/78436717.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Goa||MMC demolishes 2 veggie stalls on footpath in Vasco market||Vasco: The Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) on Thursday demolished two vegetable stalls which had encroached the footpath at the Vasco market. The municipality’s action came following a written complaint by the Vasco traffic police. “Last week, the MMC chairperson had warning the stall owners to clear the encroachments or face action. A report on encroachments will be submitted to the chief officer for further action,” MMC vice-chairperson Reema Sonurlekar said. The Vasco traffic cell had pointed out that the vendors keep their stock on the footpath, forcing pedestrians to walk on the road. It even mentioned the accident that occurred last year in which a tiatr artiste was run over by a truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mmc-demolishes-2-veggie-stalls-on-footpath-in-vasco-market/articleshow/78436755.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 2, 2020||Goa||With ‘Yes to Life’, NGO to work on reducing use of drugs at schools||Panjim: The Goa Human Touch foundation will work with 15 educational institutions in Goa to formulate drug policies for school as part of a program to reduce demand for drugs around educational institutes. The foundation has been working on drug demand reduction in education settings since 2016 and has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). The foundation will also work with 15 village panchayats in Goa on drug reduction. The MoU signed on Thursday will help step up their efforts to tackle the issue in the state through a ‘Yes to Life’ campaign. Itis working with teachers, students and parents through training programmes and forming anti-drug clubs. “The focus in the state is largely on drug raids and law enforcement, with a little rehabilitation. There is no organised and sustained programme focussed on primary prevention and drug demand reduction. Sometimes schools ignore these problems or teachers don’t know what to do when they find a student using drugs. Students and teachers will be made aware of the process to be followed and several preventive activities will be organised,” founder of Goa Human Touch, Peter F Borges said. “It is significant and even more crucial now to empower young people with the necessary skills in resisting addiction. Awareness of illicit drugs, access to them and their abuse have dramatically increased,” program officer, psychosocial support, Goa Human Touch, Applesta Da Costa said. The foundation also provides treatment for children and adolescents with substance-use disorders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-yes-to-life-ngo-to-work-on-reducing-use-of-drugs-at-schools/articleshow/78436766.cms||---
October 2, 2020||India||EU, US frown over Amnesty exit; govt says NGOs must follow local laws||NEW DELHI: Following concerns raised by EU and also US over Amnesty International’s exit from India, the government said on Thursday that that all NGOs were expected to act in accordance with local laws on foreign funding and that India also expected countries to not condone such offences committed in India. “The MHA has issued a press release on this issue. NGOs are expected to adhere to all our laws, including in respect of foreign funding. Just as they would in other countries including the US and EU,” said the MEA spokesperson Thursday, responding to queries about concerns raised abroad over Amnesty’s decision to shut operations in India citing a “witch-hunt”. “We expect other governments will not condone contravention of Indian laws by any entity,” he added. A senior US state department official was quoted as saying on Wednesday that the issue had received attention at the “highest levels” in the US government. “We look forward to a response, and a resolution to a situation that’s consistent with international principles and the rule of law,” he said, according to reports from the US. Amnesty International on Tuesday said it was halting all its activities in India due to freezing of its accounts and claimed that it was being subjected to an “incessant witchhunt” over unfounded and motivated allegations. The Union home ministry, however, said the organisation's claim that it is being subjected to an “incessant witch-hunt” were unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eu-us-frown-over-amnesty-exit-govt-says-ngos-must-follow-local-laws/articleshow/78439098.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Zero deaths among patients from other states, countries||Visakhapatnam: More than one lakh people have returned to the state from other states and countries during the lockdown period by special flights, buses and trains. A total of 2,895 of them, including 434 from other countries, were tested Covid-19 positive as of September 30. However, all of them have now completely recovered and none of them succumbed to the disease as of September nor were they re-infected. This zero-mortality and 100 per cent recovery rate in these two special categories – other states and other countries – mentioned in the daily AP Covid-19 bulletin is attributed to various reasons like prompt testing, isolation, quarantine services, discipline of the people in properly following the government instructions, provision of hygienic food and medical treatment among others, said Dr C Prabhakar Reddy, state Covid-19 special officer. As per the bulletin, the 2,895 include 2,461 from other states like 112 from Delhi and 90 from Karnataka and 689 from Telangana. The 434 from other countries include 343 from Kuwait, 20 from Dubai and 18 from Qatar. Almost all of them returned to the state in March and during middle of April and May. “In fact many of those in these two categories can be called as carriers to the state from other parts of the country. All these people successfully recovered without deaths, but others like the primary and secondary contacts suffered from the disease and some even died of it,” said a senior health official at a state Covid-19 hospital. The last positive case of foreign national and from another state was reported on July 17. Since then, no death was reported and no new Covid-19 positive case was reported from these two categories. The quarantine centres were also de-notified during July end and hotels too started withdrawing from the paid quarantine services from July. “I travelled to Visakhapatnam from Kolkata in July. I found no paid quarantine centre for 14 days. I isolated myself at my home. I am now all right,” said K Mounika (name changed).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/zero-deaths-among-patients-from-other-states-countries/articleshow/78435355.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 2, 2020||Goa||Health dir gets one-year extension||Panaji: Dr Jose D’Sa has been given a year’s extension in service and will continue as the director of health services for this period. Tihs is the second time he has been given an extension. An order granting him extension that will remain in force from October 1 this year to September 30, 2021, or the till the post is filled on a regular basis, whichever is earlier, was issued by the department of personnel on Wednesday. D’Sa has resumed duties post his recovery from Covid-19. Meanwhile, Santosh Amonkar, who is holding charge as director of education, has been granted six months extension in service. He will continue as director till March 31, 2021 or till the time a regular director of education is appointed. Amonkar is a deputy director of education, who took charge as director only on July 21, after IAS officer Vandana Rao was transferred out from the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-dir-gets-one-year-extension/articleshow/78436803.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh breaches 7 lakh cases mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: With 6,751 new cases registered on Thursday, Andhra Pradesh breached the seven-lakh Covid-19 cases mark and became the second state in the country after Maharashtra to report more than seven lakh cases. The tally now stands at 7,00,235. The Covid-19 toll rose to 5,869 with 41 deaths reported on Thursday. As many as 7,297 patients recovered in the state on Thursday. The recoveries continue to be more than the new cases. Presently, there are 57,858 active cases. So far, 6,36,508 people have recovered from the virus across the state. East Godavari, which witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases, recorded less than 1,000 new cases for the third consecutive day on Thursday. However, East Godavari continues to top the list with 986 cases, followed by Chittoor with 888 cases and Prakasam 783 cases. Kurnool district has reported the lowest number of 265 cases. As many as 71,577 samples were tested since Wednesday and of them 6,751 tested positive. The total number of samples tested in the state increased to 58,78,135. Krishna recorded the lowest number of 27,852 cases, while East Godavari topped the list with the highest number of 98,160 cases. In the Covid-19 active cases category, Kurnool district has the lowest number of active cases of 1,707 while East Godavari district has the highest number of active cases of 9,380. Of the 41 fatalities in the state since Wednesday, Chittoor recorded the highest number of seven deaths, followed by six in Krishna, five each in Prakasam and Visakhapatnam districts, four each in Anantapur and East Godavari, three each in Guntur and Kadapa, two in West Godavari, one each in Nellore and Srikakulam districts. So far, Chittoor recorded the highest number of 662 deaths, while Vizianagaram reported the lowest number of 218 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-breaches-7-lakh-cases-mark/articleshow/78435383.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Midnight forest operation leads to arrest of highwaymen||VIJAYAWADA: Following the arrest of three members of Kanjarbhat interstate gang of dacoits and recovering cell phones worth Rs 8crore, Chittoor district SP Senthil Kumar said on Friday that the accused are notorious and have been involved in crimes across highways in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Goa. Police said that a midnight operation stretching for nearly two hours led to the arrest of Rohith Jalla (22), Ankith Janhaja (25) and Ram Gade (25). A container truck was carrying 15,000 cell phones from Chennai to Bhiwandi. The accused allegedly stopped the truck to ask for an address, then attacked the truck and stole the vehicle. Police formed three teams to probe the robbery. One team examined CCTV footage, another spread to Dewas, Ujjain, Indore and Shajapur in Madhya Pradesh to gain information and the third tracked the receivers who took the load of cell phones near the Bangladesh-Nepal border. Cops managed to recover 7,522 cell phones at Dewas. A truck and three two-wheelers were seized from the accused on September 29. Cases have been registered against the accused. They were produced before the district sessions court judge for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/midnight-forest-op-leads-to-arrest-of-highwaymen/articleshow/78435393.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Temple board member resigns, son booked||Vijayawada: A day after police seized liquor bottles from the car belonging to Durga temple trust board member Ch Venkata Naga Lakshmi, police on Thursday booked her son Surya Prakash Gupta as the main accused in the case. Prior to this, Naga Lakshmi, sent her resignation letter to trust board chairman Paila Somi Naidu, who accepted her resignation. “Trust board member Naga Lakshmi has submitted her resignation, taking moral responsibility over the issue. This doesn’t mean she committed a crime. Facts will come after police complete their investigation,” Somi Naidu said. Naga Lakshmi said, “I gave the car to my driver to fill petrol and park it in my neighbour’s apartment. We don’t know how illegal liquor came into our car.” Meanwhile, Jaggiahpet police, after registering a case under relevant sections of AP Excise (Amendment) Act 2020, arrested her driver Suri Babu. They will also question Naga Lakshmi’s husband. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/temple-board-member-resigns-son-booked/articleshow/78435405.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Aerial seeding on Gandhi Jayanti||Visakhapatnam: In a bid to improve green cover in the Port City, officials have decided to conduct aerial seeding of Visakhapatnam’s hills on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Friday. Around one lakh seed balls will be sprayed on the hills and other areas in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aerial-seeding-on-gandhi-jayanti/articleshow/78435424.cms||Siva G
October 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Virus claims 12 more, takes death toll to 441, new cases touch 524||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 mortality rose to 441 on Thursday with 12 deaths — that of nine men and three women — reported over the past 24 hours. With 524 new cases detected, the total number of active cases shot up to 4,976. Recoveries for the day were 400. Of twelve deaths, one patient — a 50-year-old woman from Goa Velha died within a few hours of hospitalisation. She was detected with acute respiratory distress syndrome with diabetes keto acidosis, a complication wherein the body produces excess blood acids. She also had comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and obesity. Two more women, a 75-year-old from Volvoi, Ponda, and a 63-year-old from Chimbel, with comorbid conditions succumbed to the virus after a few days of treatment. Other deaths were that of nine men — a 50-year-old from Quepem, a 73-year-old from Vasco, a 55-year-old from Khandola, a 57-year-old from Nerul, a 59-year-old from Alto-Porvorim, a 65-year-old from Curchorem, an 82-year-old and a 73-year-old from Ponda, and a 76-year-old from Porvorim. On Thursday, the state capital detected 27 more cases, including that of mayor Uday Madkaikar. Madkaikar said he has opted for home isolation since he was asymptomatic and will move to hospital if the need arises. Majority of cases found were from residential complexes across the city. Most opted to be in home isolation. Active cases of Panaji reached 281 with the addition of new cases. In North Goa, the Siolim primary health centre having jurisdiction of three panchayats has had its caseload consistently rising since last month. It’s tally of active cases touched 213 while that of Porvorim reached 315. Betki and Aldona also crossed the 100-mark on Thursday, with both centres witnessing a gradual growth in Covid infections. Corlim primary health centre, having jurisdiction of the industrial area, has its numbers going up at a faster pace. Its count breached the 200-mark. Ponda primary health centre reported 25 new cases taking its tally to 211.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virus-claims-12-more-takes-death-toll-to-441-new-cases-touch-524/articleshow/78436922.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Low pressure brews over Bay||Visakhapatnam: A fresh low pressure system is brewing over Bay of Bengal, according to IMD. The system may trigger heavy to very heavy showers in parts of Odisha and coastal Andhra Pradesh. “The first week of this month will be cloudy with light to moderate rains at isolated places,” said an IMD official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/low-pressure-brews-over-bay/articleshow/78435440.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP allays farmers’ fears, announces MSP for almost all crops||AMARAVATI: Taking the lead in allaying the fears of farmers following the Centre’s new legislation on agriculture reforms, the YS Jaganmohan Reddy government has announced minimum support prices (MSP) for almost all the crops produced in the state. The government also promised to pick up stocks from growers if they fail to get MSP for their crops from private traders. Announcing the MSP much before the beginning of the crop season can motivate farmers to go for more remunerative crops. In fact, the government has taken the bold initiative of announcing minimum support price for some commercial crops which were not covered by MSP till now. It has also fixed the procurement schedule for two separate crop seasons — Kharif and Rabi — while announcing the minimum support prices. “It is our promise to declare MSP for all crops before the beginning of the crop season. We will go to any extent to extend support to farmers,” agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu said. While the Centre declares MSP for food grains and a few commercial crops, majority of crops cultivated in AP were not covered under the Centre’s MSP guidelines. Interestingly, AP has announced MSP even for perishable horticulture crops like banana and onion. There was some apprehension among farmers about the MSP policy after the new farm Bills paved the way for contract farming, and removal of market regulations on hoarding of stocks by merchants. The Centre has been claiming that its ‘one nation, one market’ legislation would help farmers get more prices for their produce, as the present rule to sell their agriculture yields within the local market yard was not giving them decent prices. However, farmers in many northern states have hit the streets against the new legislations as they fear corporate firms will enter the agriculture sector on the pretext of contract farming. In this background, AP is the first state to declare MSP for all crops. It had already declared MSP for tobacco and cotton, which are mainly procured by central agencies and private players. The government also declared MSP for cash crops like chilli and turmeric which were not covered by MSP. In fact, Jagan’s courageous move to purchase tobacco through AP Markfed has helped growers come out of debts. “Tobacco growers got nearly Rs 150 crore additional revenue and came out of red only due to AP government’s initiative,” tobacco board chairman and BJP leader Yadlapati Raghunatha Babu admitted. Agriculture Mission vice-chairman MVS Nagireddy said the government has already set up over 10,000 Rythu Bharosa Kendras across the state to provide guidance to farmers on cultivation of remunerative crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-allays-farmers-fears-announces-msp-for-almost-all-crops/articleshow/78435517.cms||Samdani MN
October 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: All Covid test centres on fingertips||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has mapped all fixed Covid-19 testing locations to make it convenient for people to locate them. Altogether, 320 locations were pinpointed by the government's own company, Geospatial Delhi Limited, on maps that will be displayed at prominent places and on government websites. After Geospatial submitted the draft maps to the government last week, they were shared with the district authorities for confirmation and feedback. "Requests for a few amendments in the drafts were forwarded to Geospatial along with suggestions and they were incorporated into the final maps," said a government official on Thursday. The government has also requested Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to display the maps prominently at major metro stations for the information of the general public. The maps will soon be uploaded on the websites of the state government and Delhi State Health Mission. Separate maps for each of the 11 districts have been created with details of the fixed testing facilities available in the district. In East district, 26 testing locations have been sited, including those at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsalaya, Swami Parmanand Prakritik Chikitsalaya. In North-East district, 20 test centres have been marked on the map. While New Delhi district shows 17 Covid test centres, North district has 35 centres marked. Central district has 41 testing centres, while North-West, which shares a long border with Haryana and has a large rural population, has 44 mapped centres. There are 44 marked in South-West district and 41 in West. The locations of the Covid testing centres will help the residents in each district to reach the testing centres closest to them. People currently wanting to test themselves had faced problems in locating the test centres and depended on friends and other sources of information. The maps make this information readily accessible to people across the city. Apart from the fixed Covid testing locations, Delhi government also deploys 79 mobile testing units to facilitate widespread testing for the coronavirus. The mobile units visit different locations chosen at random in the various districts every day. These include markets and parks, where testing camps are conducted daily. The mobile teams constitute of lab technicians, computer operators and civil defence volunteers, among others. Delhi government allows anyone seeking a test to approaching a test centre, having dispensed with the need for a doctor's prescription to under the reliable RT-PCR test at cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-all-covid-test-centres-on-fingertips/articleshow/78439116.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Aruna Kumari quits as TDP politburo member||AMARAVATI: TDP leader Galla Aruna Kumari quit as politburo member of the party on Thursday on “personal grounds”. The resignation has raised eyebrows as Aruna Kumari, besides being a veteran leader, is the mother of Guntur MP Galla Jayadev. In fact, Vijayawada MP Kesineni Nani had strongly objected when Jayadev was made leader of TDP’s parliamentary party about a year ago as his mother was serving as member of the party’s highest decision-making body. However, party chief N Chandrababu Naidu ignored Nani’s objections and decided to continue with both mother and son as they hailed from a big business family from his native Chittoor district. Aruna Kumari had served as a minister in the YSR cabinet when her family was associated with the Congress. The family switched sides to TDP just before the 2014 elections after Jayadev got a chance to contest the Lok Sabha election from Guntur. Though Aruna Kumari lost the assembly election in 2014 from Chandragiri constituency, Jayadev’s victory in Guntur kept the family in TDP. Subsequently, Naidu elevated Aruna Kumari as politburo member. Speculation is rife that the Galla family may switch over to the BJP. Four TDP MPs — YS Chowdary, Garikapati Rammohan Rao, TG Venkatesh and CM Ramesh — who are also from reputed business families, joined the BJP about a year ago. TDP has three members in the Lok Sabha and one in the Rajya Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aruna-kumari-quits-as-tdp-politburo-member/articleshow/78435543.cms||Samdani MN
October 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Medical college in Paderu becomes a reality||Visakhapatnam: A medical college in the tribal area of Paderu is going to be a reality as chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will virtually lay the foundation stone for the institution on Friday. The construction of the proposed medical college will be completed in three years. The district administration had identified 35 acres of land in Paderu last year but laying of the foundation stone was delayed due to various reasons. The medical college would be constructed at a cost of Rs 450 crore. “It is definitely a boon for the tribal populace who are suffering a lot for lack of proper medical facilities. This government is committed to provide better medical facilities to the people even in tribal areas,” YSR Congress’Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy said on Thursday. Even though there are three dozen primary health centres (PHCs) and more than 200 health sub-centres besides hundreds of health workers, the 5 lakh tribal population living in 11 mandals of Visakha agency area have suffered immensely due to lack of medical facilities. The government is now focusing on improving health infra in the tribal areas. “The proposed medical college will be helpful for the tribals and the chief minister is very much concerned about the medical facilities in rural areas and tribal areas,” tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/medical-college-in-paderu-becomes-a-reality/articleshow/78435567.cms||Siva G
October 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Photos: Refurbished Bapu museum opens its doors to public in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday inaugurated the refurbished Bapu museum at the Victoria Memorial building premises in Vijayawada. The CM also unveiled the statue of freedom fighter Pingali Venkayya at the museum. After the state's bifurcation, the government had decided to construct a new building, which is the replica of Victoria building as the old building was built in 1870s. The Bapu museum, which was renovated using international standards with advanced digital interactive display technologies, displays over 1,500 artefacts that have been curated in nine galleries of the new building. Speaking on the renovation, G Vani Mohan, commissioner, Archaeology and Museums, stated, “For the first time in India, a museum is renovated with well equipped advanced digital interactive display technologies like immersive projection theatre, augmented reality, virtual reality, interactive digital display panel, interactive digital display cabinets, digital book, and interactive kiosks. These technologies will give viewers a world-class experience in visualizing history.” The commissioner added that the nine galleries are categorized under pre- and early historic galleries, Jain and Buddhist galleries, Hindu sculptures, epigraphy, numismatic, textile, painting, medieval century prospective and arms and weapons galleries. These 1500 artefacts, belonging to different eras - 10,00,000 BC to the 19th century, would promote heritage and culture education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/refurbished-bapu-museum-opens-its-doors-to-public-in-vijayawada/articleshow/78435613.cms||---
October 2, 2020||India||Congress drafts model Act to override Centre’s farm laws||NEW DELHI: Stepping up the pressure on ruling BJP over controversial farm laws, Congress has drafted a model Act to be adopted by states where it is in office to overrule the central legislations. The model bill will be circulated to states ruled by Congress and will also be offered to other non-BJP states. The move comes four days after Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged party’s chief ministers to explore ways of overriding the recently promulgated farm reforms that have sparked off agitations and attracted allegations that they will end the MSP regime and put farmers at the mercy of corporates. Called the “Protection of farmers interest and farm produce (special provisions) bill”, the model law, finalised by in-house legal expert Abhishek Singhvi, says that in case of inconsistency between the provisions of the three central laws and state law, the latter will prevail. “This Act will nullify the central laws,” a senior Congress member said. Under the provisions of the Constitution, however, such a law passed by a state legislature must recieve the assent of the President, which in this case may not be forthcoming. The said Act spells out that three central farm laws have sparked outrage among a section of farmers. It says the laws would endanger 86% of the farming community who own less than five acres of land and need state protection for fair price contracts. It further lays down that ensuring protection of farmers is the prime responsibility of states and “agriculture, agri markets and land” are the legislative domain of states under the Constitution. The model law further says that no farmer shall be paid by private and other sale arrangements any price less than MSP. With this initiative, Congress is looking to make a political point on the farm controversy. Despite the near certainty of the Centre advising the President against okaying such laws, Congress believes the move will mount further pressure on Modi government. Amid continuing farmers’s agitation, the Centre last month cleared MSP for six crops to assure the aggrieved bloc. The decision of old BJP ally Akali Dal to quit the Union Cabinet and the ruling NDA alliance has only highlighted the concern that the central laws are viewed as anti-farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-drafts-model-act-to-override-centres-farm-laws/articleshow/78439119.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Youth dies while in SEB custody||VIJAYAWADA: A 25-year-old youth died under mysterious circumstances while he was in the custody of special enforcement bureau, under Krishnalanka police station limits in Vijayawada on Thursday evening. The deceased was identified as Dovari Ajay, a resident of Krishnalanka area. The incident happened late in the evening. Cops rushed Ajay to a private hospital at Bandar Road where doctors declared him as brought dead. The SEB had detained Ajay after he was allegedly caught illegally transporting liquor bottles. He was booked under relevant sections of AP Excise (Amendment) Act. Meanwhile, his family members protested and claimed foul play. They also demanded an inquiry into the incident, and alleged that Ajay was tortured to death. Police, however, said Ajay suddenly fell sick during the inquiry process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youth-dies-while-in-seb-custody/articleshow/78435641.cms||---
October 2, 2020||Mumbai||90% industrial units in Maharashtra have resumed operations||MUMBAI: Nearly 90% of manufacturing industries have resumed operations across Maharashtra, but the remaining 10% are facing supply chain and credit issues, said P Anbalgan, CEO, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation, on Thursday. The state has over 20 lakh registered micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) employing over one crore people. Of these, 6.5 lakh are into manufacturing and 13.6 lakh are into services. Taloja MIDC to start ops with 50% staffOf the one crore people employed, 32.3 lakh are in the manufacturing sector and 71.4 lakh in services. Oddly, Anbalgan said the 2020 power use figures so far indicate consumption in Maharashtra, excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region, was more than last year. “We are assessing these figures,” he said as those that have resumed manufacturing are operating between 50% and 70% of their capacity. In Taloja, MIDC industries will now start operations with 50% manpower. So far, 600 of 724 units had been shut. Taloja Manufacturers’ Association (TMA) president Shekhar Shringare said, “The government’s latest notification allows non-essential industries to resume operations in MMR, so all units will start production.” K Nandkumar, chairman, MSME, western region, Confederation of Indian Industry, said based on general information gathered from CII members, the agriculture sector (tractor) business and two-wheeler segments are doing good due to pending orders from companies such as M&M, TAFE, among others. “Micro and small units supplying components and castings for large corporates have good orders and these units are operating at up to 80% capacity,” he said. In MMR, resumption of operations has been adversely hit by non-availability of local trains. “Suburban trains are the lifeline of Mumbai and its extended suburbs. Unless train services resume, manufacturing will not pick up. Only those units where owners are offering accommodation are able to keep up their production and most of these are into exports,” he said. Sandeep Parikh, vice-chairman, Confederation of Small Scale Industries, too, said MMR will remain paralysed without trains. “People need to be disciplined, which I don’t see, and the government has to find a balance between starting trains and the Covid situation,” he said. For 70% of the service industry, business is yet to pick up. Several industries, especially micro ones, are facing difficulty in raising working capital. “Cash flow continues to be impacted, now that industries have to fund interest as well as interest on interest accumulated during the moratorium period. The finance ministry and the Reserve Bank of India have to extend adequate funding support,” added Nandkumar. Dilip Parulekar, who has an engineering unit at Taloja, said banks have started pressurizing them to pay their instalments. “During the lockdown, payment could not be received. Also, the flow of orders has been affected. The payment cycle from our clients is affected and it has become increasingly difficult to pay the EMI. We expect the situation to improve by December-end,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/90-industrial-units-in-maharashtra-have-resumed-operations/articleshow/78439132.cms||Umesh K Parida
October 2, 2020||Thane||90% industrial units in Maharashtra have resumed operations||MUMBAI: Nearly 90% of manufacturing industries have resumed operations across Maharashtra, but the remaining 10% are facing supply chain and credit issues, said P Anbalgan, CEO, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation, on Thursday. The state has over 20 lakh registered micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) employing over one crore people. Of these, 6.5 lakh are into manufacturing and 13.6 lakh are into services. Taloja MIDC to start ops with 50% staffOf the one crore people employed, 32.3 lakh are in the manufacturing sector and 71.4 lakh in services. Oddly, Anbalgan said the 2020 power use figures so far indicate consumption in Maharashtra, excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region, was more than last year. “We are assessing these figures,” he said as those that have resumed manufacturing are operating between 50% and 70% of their capacity. In Taloja, MIDC industries will now start operations with 50% manpower. So far, 600 of 724 units had been shut. Taloja Manufacturers’ Association (TMA) president Shekhar Shringare said, “The government’s latest notification allows non-essential industries to resume operations in MMR, so all units will start production.” K Nandkumar, chairman, MSME, western region, Confederation of Indian Industry, said based on general information gathered from CII members, the agriculture sector (tractor) business and two-wheeler segments are doing good due to pending orders from companies such as M&M, TAFE, among others. “Micro and small units supplying components and castings for large corporates have good orders and these units are operating at up to 80% capacity,” he said. In MMR, resumption of operations has been adversely hit by non-availability of local trains. “Suburban trains are the lifeline of Mumbai and its extended suburbs. Unless train services resume, manufacturing will not pick up. Only those units where owners are offering accommodation are able to keep up their production and most of these are into exports,” he said. Sandeep Parikh, vice-chairman, Confederation of Small Scale Industries, too, said MMR will remain paralysed without trains. “People need to be disciplined, which I don’t see, and the government has to find a balance between starting trains and the Covid situation,” he said. For 70% of the service industry, business is yet to pick up. Several industries, especially micro ones, are facing difficulty in raising working capital. “Cash flow continues to be impacted, now that industries have to fund interest as well as interest on interest accumulated during the moratorium period. The finance ministry and the Reserve Bank of India have to extend adequate funding support,” added Nandkumar. Dilip Parulekar, who has an engineering unit at Taloja, said banks have started pressurizing them to pay their instalments. “During the lockdown, payment could not be received. Also, the flow of orders has been affected. The payment cycle from our clients is affected and it has become increasingly difficult to pay the EMI. We expect the situation to improve by December-end,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/90-industrial-units-in-maharashtra-have-resumed-operations/articleshow/78439133.cms||Umesh K Parida
