October 3, 2020||India||Dr Reddy's seeks DCGI nod to conduct phase-3 clinical trial of Russian Covid-19 vaccine||NEW DELHI: The Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories has applied to the Drugs Controller General of India for permission to conduct phase-3 human clinical trials of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V against Covid-19 in India, sources said. The Indian pharma giant has collaborated with The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V as well as its distribution. Upon regulatory approval in India, RDIF will supply to drugmaker Dr Reddy's 100 million doses of the vaccine, the firm said last month. "The Dr Reddy's Laboratories has applied to the DCGI seeking permission to conduct phase-3 human clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Russia. The DCGI will carry out a technical evaluation of the application before giving its approval," a source told PTI. Sources said it would be multi-centre, observer-blind, randomised controlled study. The phase-3 trial of Sputnik V is underway in Russia since September 1 on around 40,000 subjects, they added. Sputnik V has been developed by Gamaleya National Research Centre of Epidemiology and Microbiology and RDIF. Currently, two vaccine candidates, the indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the one developed by Zydus Cadila Ltd, are in phase 2 of human clinical trials. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate, is also conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dr-reddys-seeks-dcgi-nod-to-conduct-phase-3-clinical-trial-of-russian-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/78453112.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Former India pacer Dinda opts for Goa, says team offers a new challenge||PANAJI: Former India pacer Ashoke Dinda has packed his bags and is ready to move to Goa when he gets the call. The Goa Cricket Association has been speaking with Dinda for a long time, and having first retained captain Amit Verma, Goa finally got the pacer as the second professional player. The third slot for a wicketkeeper-batsman is up for grabs after Smit Patel chose to join Baroda. Expectations are high from the veteran pacer who has played 13 ODIs, 9 T20Is and featured in 116 first class matches, taking 420 wickets with an average of 28.2. Last season Goa relied heavily on pacers — Felix Alemao, Lakshay Garg, Heramb Parab and Vijesh Prabhudesai to book a quarterfinal berth in the Ranji Trophy. Though the Goans came good, GCA knows they need someone experienced to slug it out after Goa were promoted to the Elite Division. "At 36, I am still fit and can bowl for a long period of time. I can bowl for 10 overs continuously. I will be like an experienced elder brother and inspire young talented players. My aim will be to help the team win more matches," said Dinda, who featured for various IPL teams like Kolkata Knight Riders, Delhi Daredevils (now Delhi Captials), Rising Pune Supergiants and Royal Challengers Bangalore. Dinda's decision to move to Goa made many to wonder why the experienced player from Bengal left his home state. "I have many friends in Goa and I have played against and in Goa before, so I am aware of the conditions. My main reason is to find a new challenge. Goa is an established state unlike new ones which are included in first-class cricket. I believe Goa was the right choice. I will try to help my new team reach a higher level," he said. Dinda’s experience can be a huge plus for Goa, particularly when up against the heavyweights in the Elite Division. For captain Verma, the presence and guidance of another senior is welcome. "Ranji Trophy matches are long and grinding. One bad session and you are playing catch-up all the time. It is all about working hard and training — practice as well as fitness. I have heard Goa players are young, so my main aim will be to see that I work hard in terms of fitness. Looking at me, youngsters will like to work even harder," said Dinda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-india-pacer-dinda-opts-for-goa-says-team-offers-a-new-challenge/articleshow/78454059.cms||Paresh Mokani
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kumartuli artisans excited as organisers raise budget||The happiness of Kumartuli artisans knew no bounds when chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a grant of `50,000 to every Durga Puja committee in the state on Thursday. “More budget means more business for us,” said an excited Babu Paul, idolmaker and secretary of Kumartuli Mritsilpa Sanskrity Samity. Now that many artisans are back to work after unlock 5.0, business at this idol makers’ hub has started looking up. “We have suffered a lot due to the pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. It’s time we made some profit. We are getting more orders now. The budget for idols, which was very less till sometime back, has gone up after the CM’s announcement. A few Puja committees, which wanted to do away with idols and were happy with ghot puja this year, are placing orders now. Hundreds of artisans and vendors’ livelihood depend on Durga Puja, so we are glad that the government has allowed people to celebrate Puja keeping the social distancing in mind — something to look forward to in this bleak year,” added Babu. When asked, Chhoton Das from Belur Sapui Para Puja Committee said, “Initially, we ordered an eight feet idol that cost us around `50,000. Now, we have asked the artisan to make an idol worth `60,000. We are happy that the government has granted us the money.” Echoing similar sentiments, Sumit Bhattacharya of Beleghata Lake Club said, “We thought we would just do ghot puja in this pandemic. Also, there were no sponsors. But after the CM’s announcement, we are going ahead with our Puja plans, however in a small way. Besides, the civic bodies will not charge any money or tax from us for their services. That’s such a relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kumartuli-artisans-excited-as-organisers-raise-budget/articleshow/78448553.cms||Ruman Ganguly
October 3, 2020||India||Priyanka Gandhi seeks UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath's resignation||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday demanded that call records of Hathras District Magistrate (DM) and Superintendent of Police (SP) should be made public and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath should resign over the Hathras incident. In a tweet following the decision of Uttar Pradesh government to suspend SP, DSP and some other police officials over the Hathras incident, she said the Chief Minister should not try to evade responsibility. "Yogi Adityanathji, what will be achieved on suspending few officials? The victim of Hathras and her family faced immense difficulties on whose order? The call records of the DM and SP of Hathras should be made public. Chief Minister should not try to evade his responsibility. The entire nation is watching. Yogi Adityanath should tender his resignation," she said in a tweet. .@myogiadityanath RESIGN. You have no moral right to continue as Chief Minister of UP. https://t.co/kZHqRcE6JI— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1601663400000.@myogiadityanath जी कुछ मोहरों को सस्पेंड करने से क्या होगा? हाथरस की पीड़िता, उसके परिवार को भीषण कष्ट किसके ऑर्ड… https://t.co/CR38eagw13— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1601653405000Earlier today, Yogi Adityanath gave directions to suspend SP, DSP, Inspector and some others officials based on the first report of SIT which is probing the torture and alleged gangrape case of a 19-year woman in Hathras who later succumbed to her injuries in a Delhi hospital. According to the Chief Minister's office, narco polygraph tests will also be conducted of SP, DSP and other concerned officials. The UP government had formed an SIT to probe the incident and said that the matter will be heard in the fast track court. The 19-year-old woman died at Delhi's Safdarjung hospital on September 29. All the four accused in the incident have been arrested. An uproar has erupted over the incident with the opposition also raising questions over the manner in which the last rites of the victim were performed. The Police has said that consent of family was taken for cremation. Watch Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweets asking for UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath's resignation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priyanka-gandhi-seeks-up-chief-minister-yogi-adityanaths-resignation/articleshow/78454600.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||Hathras SP, 4 others suspended; village sealed off for second day||HATHRAS: The village in UP’s Hathras where the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped before she died was off limits to the media and politicians for the second day in a row. Many who tried to enter and reach out to the bereaved family were manhandled, pushed to the ground and forced off on Friday. Later in the evening, based on what the SIT suggested in its preliminary report, CM Yogi Adityanath suspended Hathras SP Vikrant Veer, three cops posted at Chanda police station at the time of the incident — Sadabad circle officer Ram Shabd, station house officer Dinesh Kumar Verma and sub-inspector Jagveer Singh — along with head moharrir (clerk) Mahesh Pal. Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal will take over as Hathras SP. The SIT recommended polygraph and narco tests for everyone involved in the case — cops, the accused and victim’s family. There is one main access point to the village and a tertiary route from behind farmlands leading up to a cluster of Dalit houses. Both had been barricaded, with six cops at one and 15 at another. Police stopped a TOI team from entering the village around 11am, warning against “moving any further” and saying they had “strict instructions from higher authorities” to not let anyone pass. Six cops, including three women constables from Kasganj, were stationed there, with several police and government vehicles parked a few metres away. Another news channel reporter was also stopped by police, who forced her into a police jeep and dropped her and the accompanying cameraperson outside the village. A four-member Trinamool team — MPs Derek O’Brien, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Pratima Mondal and ex-MP Mamata Thakur — that was approaching the village met a similar resistance. Around noon, about 1.5 km from the village, O’Brien was seen being pushed to the ground by joint magistrate Prem Prakash Meena in a video that went viral. “The country is unsafe for women. Their honour is in danger. We only wanted to meet the victim’s family,” a Trinamool representative said. Police put this down to a need for enabling investigation. “Media entry has been banned so the SIT investigation is not hampered. Counter-questioning is on, statements are being recorded. We will allow entry only after the probe is over,” Hathras additional SP Prakash Kumar said. “Politicians will, however, not be allowed because of the law and order situation. They will only be let in after the administration thinks the situation is normal.” Later in the evening, ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand said media could be allowed to enter on Saturday. “Statements of the family members and others have been recorded.” The three-member SIT had been set up on Wednesday. It stayed in the village for over 48 hours and recorded statements of over 100 people. No action has been taken against Hathras district magistrate Praveen Laxkar, who was purportedly heard “threatening” the family in a video, additional chief secretary Avnish Awasthi confirmed. Their protest marches cut short, some political workers set up base at the barricades. AAP workers sat on a dharna. When police used “mild force” to remove them, they started singing the national anthem. Members of the Sangh Parivar outfit Hindu Mahasabha also converged on the site to register protest and demand action against the accused. They were also made to leave. Within the village, upper caste community members were seen moving freely, putting together a “counter-protest” to demand “justice for the accused”. The four accused are from their community. Watch Hathras incident: UP CM Adityanath orders suspension of SP and four other policemen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-sp-4-others-suspended-village-sealed-off-for-second-day/articleshow/78455085.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 3, 2020||India||India becomes third country to cross 1 lakh Covid deaths||NEW DELHI: India has become the third country in the world after the US and Brazil to record 1 lakh deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The country crossed the grim milestone on Friday, when nearly 1,076 fresh fatalities took the nationwide toll to over 1,00,800. The Covid toll in the US is more than double that of India at over 2.1 lakh while Brazil, with far less number of cases, has so far recorded more than 1.4 lakh deaths. However, in the past two months, India has reported the highest number of fatalities in the world, with nearly 63% of all deaths in the country coming during this period. India reported 33,255 Covid-19 deaths in September, at a daily average of more than 1,100 fatalities. But, while the death toll has been mounting, India is still far below the world’s worst-hit countries in terms of deaths per lakh population and case fatality rates (CFRs). At 7.5 deaths per lakh population, India is in the 18th position among the world’s 20 countries worst hit by the pandemic. India’s CFR, at 1.6, compares favourably with most countries, notably the US (2.8), Brazil (3), Mexico (10.4), the UK (9.2) and even Pakistan (2.1). However, other countries in India’s neighbourhood have a better CFR — Bangladesh (1.4), Nepal (0.6) and Sri Lanka (0.4). More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news In balance, while India has the second highest Covid caseload in the world after the US, infections have been staggered over several months. This, and the fact that cases started rising late in India, seems to have kept mortalities relatively low. However, with a high load of active cases (over 9.5 lakh), falling temperatures as winter approaches and a festive season ahead, India has its task cut out in trying keeping Covid mortalities down. On Friday, India recorded over 80,000 fresh cases for the fourth day running. However, the day’s case count, at 80,446, was below the numbers reported over the last two days, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. India’s total Covid-19 caseload stood at 64,71,244. Active dropped marginally on Friday to a little over 9.5 lakh after rising over the past two days. The pandemic continued to rage in Kerala, which reported 9,258 fresh cases on Friday. This is the first time the daily tally has topped 9,000 in the state. Kerala’s previous highest was 8,830 recorded on Wednesday. Maharashtra continued to add fewer than 20,000 cases for the sixth day in a row, but on Friday, it reported an increase in fatalities. A total of 15,591 new cases were reported, taking the total to 14,16,513 in the state, and with 424 fatalities, the total toll climbed to 37,480. Mumbai stepped up the number of tests to almost 15,000 a day and recorded 2,440 new cases, which is its second-highest single-day tally so far. The city’s tally has now climbed to 1.72 lakh. The maximum Covid-19 deaths in Odisha are in the age group of 41 to 60 years, an analysis of the deaths by the Odisha health department has revealed. Sixteen more died of the viral infection pushing the death toll to 875 on Friday. Altogether 3,600 more people tested positive for the virus, raising the virus caseload to 2,26,334. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,595 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths on Friday, which pushed the case tally to 6,08,885 and total toll to 9,653. There are 46,294 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-becomes-third-country-to-cross-1-lakh-covid-deaths/articleshow/78455173.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Business||Eye on investors, govt plans to list LIC abroad||NEW DELHI: The government is evaluating the option for an overseas listing of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), the country’s largest insurer, in what many believe will be a powerful signal to global investors. The government has already announced its intent for an initial public offer (IPO) by the insurance giant, while also amending the Companies Act to allow Indian companies to directly list on foreign bourses. Following the budget announcement, the government has appointed Deloitte and SBI Capital Markets as transaction advisors for the LIC issue, while also initiating the process to amend the LIC Act as the Centre is the sole shareholder under the law. The LIC is in the process of appointing an actuarial firm to arrive at the corporation’s embedded value — a valuation measure used by life companies to determine the present value of earning that will continue to flow in the future from policies that have already been sold. Sources told TOI that the enabling amendments are expected to be moved during the winter session of Parliament with the IPO likely earliest in the fourth quarter. Despite the amendments, the insurer will continue to be governed by the LIC Act, a source indicated. Given the valuation, which will be in excess of Rs 11-12 lakh crore, a large issue within the country may not find sufficient buyers, making an international listing as an attractive proposition. While the government has to dilute a 25% stake in the company, the initial issue will be of a smaller size. Initially, the proposal for a foreign listing was made internally within the government but has also found supporters outside. Some of the global stock exchanges have already made a pitch to the government to list the much-anticipated issue on these bourses but a final call has not been taken so far. “It (an overseas listing) is under consideration but that decision will be taken later based on advice that the government gets from its advisors,” said a government source. While several Indian banks and companies, including Infosys, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank, have tapped global investors via depository receipts, none of the domestic companies have listed directly on foreign exchanges, something that was not allowed under the law. In recent years, several Chinese companies have opted for the route that has not only helped widen the investor base but also create international appeal. With the amendment in place, Reliance Jio was seen to be among companies that may list overseas with homegrown e-tailer Flipkart, now majority-owned by Walmart, seen to be another candidate. Flipkart is, however, registered in Singapore. Watch Eye on investors, govt plans to list LIC abroad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eye-on-investors-govt-plans-to-list-lic-abroad/articleshow/78455261.cms||Sidhartha
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Alipore zoo unlocks happiness for children bogged down with lockdown woes||Increased screen time, online classes, no play session with friends – the lockdown proved to be pretty harsh on children, who’ve been confined to their homes for months on end. So, when Alipore zoo opened its doors to visitors after more than six months on Friday, it brought a breath of fresh air to many tiny tots who flocked to the tourist attraction with their parents. With Gandhi Jayanti kicking off an extended weekend, it was the perfect escape for families who didn’t hesitate to take their children out on a zoo visit. Till Friday afternoon, most zoo visitors were seen with kids smiling from ear to ear. Birthday bash For New Alipore-based Anuja and Gaurav Goenka, who wanted to celebrate their daughter Sohini’s second birthday in a special way, the zoo’s reopening was a big relief. “We didn’t want to throw a typical birthday party or go out for lunch in the pandemic. When we learnt that the zoo was reopening on Sohini’s birthday, we thought it was the perfect way to celebrate. With all the greenery and open space here, coupled with Sohini’s love for animals, coming to the zoo was the best and safest way to ring in her birthday in the current situation,” Gaurav told us. Much-needed break Sisters Iqra and Aleena Sultana have been desperate for a break from their mundane lockdown routine and especially from online schooling. On Friday, they finally got the much-needed change by making a trip to the zoo. “It’s been months since we went out to enjoy ourselves. We were tired of attending online classes and surfing the net at home. So, I asked my parents to take us to the zoo, and it’s so refreshing!” said Iqra, a Class VIII student. “After this, we are going out for lunch too,” said an excited Aleena, who studies in Class II. Visitors welcome SOPs Visitors, who have welcomed the new normal, are happily following the new rules. By now, most people are used to wearing masks in public and they are relieved that the zoo guards are being vigilant about maintaining safety guidelines and social distancing. “I heard some people complain about the online ticketing system, but it’s much easier and safer. I didn’t have to stand in a queue with my daughter for a change,” said Tarak Nath Sadukha, who came to the zoo to convince his two-year-old daughter Sreehita that hippopotamus was a real animal. Besides, the constant vigilance, sanitisation and temperature checks have helped create a sense of reassurance. “This is the new normal and we are glad to have access to places that were shut for so long. If everyone follows the set rules, we can get through this without any troubles,” said Snejuti Ghosh, a homemaker from Baranagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alipore-zoo-unlocks-happiness-for-children-bogged-down-with-lockdown-woes/articleshow/78450293.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
October 3, 2020||World||Trump to be moved to military hospital after Covid-19 diagnosis||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump is moving to a military hospital for treatment after being diagnosed with Covid-19, the White House said on Friday, as his administration and election campaign scrambled to adjust to an extraordinary twist in his turbulent presidency. Trump, 74, will be moved to a special suite at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, for the next few days as a precautionary measure, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said. "Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the President will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days," she said in a statement. Trump has a mild fever, according to a source familiar with the matter. White House doctor Sean P. Conley wrote in a memo that he is "fatigued but in good spirits." It was the latest recent setback for the Republican president, who is trailing Democratic rival Joe Biden in opinion polls ahead of the Nov. 3 presidential election. Trump, who has played down the threat of the coronavirus pandemic from the outset, wrote on Twitter earlier on Friday that he and his wife Melania were going into quarantine after testing positive for the virus, which has killed more than 200,000 Americans and severely damaged the US economy. An active Twitter user, Trump has not posted any messages since then. Trump is at high risk because of his age and weight. He has remained in apparent good health during his time in office but is not known to exercise regularly or to follow a healthy diet. Conley said Trump has received a single dose of Regeneron's polyclonal antibody cocktail, a technique that is used for treating a wide range of illnesses. Data is limited on its effectiveness for Covid-19 but US infectious disease chief Dr. Anthony Fauci is among those saying it has promise. Trump is also taking zinc, Vitamin D, famotidine, melatonin and a daily aspirin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-to-be-moved-to-military-hospital-after-covid-19-diagnosis/articleshow/78455389.cms||---
October 3, 2020||World||Trump to be moved to military hospital after Covid-19 diagnosis||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump is moving to a military hospital for treatment after being diagnosed with Covid-19, the White House said on Friday, as his administration and election campaign scrambled to adjust to an extraordinary twist in his turbulent presidency. Trump, 74, will be moved to a special suite at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, for the next few days as a precautionary measure, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said. "Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the President will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days," she said in a statement. Trump has a mild fever, according to a source familiar with the matter. White House doctor Sean P. Conley wrote in a memo that he is "fatigued but in good spirits." It was the latest recent setback for the Republican president, who is trailing Democratic rival Joe Biden in opinion polls ahead of the Nov. 3 presidential election. Trump, who has played down the threat of the coronavirus pandemic from the outset, wrote on Twitter earlier on Friday that he and his wife Melania were going into quarantine after testing positive for the virus, which has killed more than 200,000 Americans and severely damaged the US economy. An active Twitter user, Trump has not posted any messages since then. Trump is at high risk because of his age and weight. He has remained in apparent good health during his time in office but is not known to exercise regularly or to follow a healthy diet. Conley said Trump has received a single dose of Regeneron's polyclonal antibody cocktail, a technique that is used for treating a wide range of illnesses. Data is limited on its effectiveness for Covid-19 but US infectious disease chief Dr. Anthony Fauci is among those saying it has promise. Trump is also taking zinc, Vitamin D, famotidine, melatonin and a daily aspirin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-to-be-moved-to-military-hospital-after-covid-19-diagnosis/articleshow/78455384.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Business||Centre ready to waive interest on interest during moratorium||NEW DELHI: In a big relief for individual and MSME borrowers, the Centre on Friday informed the Supreme Court that it has decided to waive "interest on interest" on loans of up to Rs 2 crore during the six-month repayment moratorium — with the benefit also available to those who were clearing their dues on a range of loans between March and August. In its affidavit, the finance ministry said the government has decided to maintain its tradition of handholding small borrowers and bear the burden arising from such waiver of interest on interest, or compound interest, for the banks. "This category of borrowers, in whose case the compound interest will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans up to Rs 2 crore of the following category — MSME loans, educational loans, housing loans, consumer durable loans, credit card dues, auto loans, personal loans to professionals and consumption loans," the ministry said. The Reserve Bank of India had allowed borrowers to seek a six-month moratorium on all loans but banks and housing finance companies were charging interest on the entire amount, the principal as well as the interest liability, which translated into the repayment period extending by over six months. The liability was higher for recent loans as the interest component is typically front-loaded. Besides, there was a huge increase in liability on the outstanding on credit cards, which come with high interest rates. Bankers said the total cost of interest on interest waiver, if the benefit was restricted to only these categories, would be around Rs 5,000 crore-Rs 6,000 crore. However, if the scheme was extended to all borrowers, the total cost of the waiver would be between Rs 10,000 crore-Rs 15,000 crore. Bankers are expecting the government to compensate the interest waiver as it is a social welfare measure. The modalities of how the benefit would flow to those who were paying their EMIs or credit card dues during the moratorium period were not immediately known. The Centre has reversed its stand following the recommendations of an expert committee headed by former Comptroller & Auditor General Rajiv Mehrishi. Earlier, the Centre and the RBI had argued against waiver of interest on interest on the grounds that it would be against the interests of other stakeholders, especially depositors, and would be unfair to those who have paid their dues. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah had been impressing upon the government to "consider and reconsider" its decision to not waive interest on interest. However, it had appeared to accept the government's decision to not waive interest altogether. The Centre said waiving of interest on interest for all categories of borrowers would result in a very substantial and significant financial burden on several categories of banks, which would find it impossible to withstand the financial burden. As this would also impact the depositors' interest, the government decided not to waive it for big borrowers. "The government, therefore, decided that the relief on waiver of compound interest during the six-month moratorium period shall be limited to the most vulnerable category of borrowers," the ministry said. This would mean loans up to Rs 2 crore. The RBI and the Centre had earlier argued that the moratorium was merely deferring loan instalments to a future date and that it did not mean waiving either interest on the amount due during the six-month period, or interest on the interest accrued during the period on the principal. It had said that borrowers understood the difference between the waiver in the interest on loan and the deferment of payment of instalments for that loan and therefore, "a majority of the borrowers have in fact not taken the benefit of the moratorium". "If the government were to consider waiver of interest on all types of loan advances to all categories of borrowers corresponding to the six-month period for which the moratorium, that is deferment of payment of instalments, was made available under the relevant RBI circulars, the estimated amount waived would be more than Rs 6 lakhs crore," the ministry said. It said that if the banks were to bear the burden, a substantial part of their net worth would be wiped out, rendering most banks unviable. "This was one of the main reasons why waiver of interest was not even contemplated and only payment of instalments was deferred," it said. Over half of the State Bank of India’s net worth would be wiped out if interest was waived for six months, the government said. Watch Centre informs SC of decision to waive interest on interest during moratorium||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-ready-to-waive-interest-on-interest-during-moratorium/articleshow/78459944.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 3, 2020||India||Centre ready to waive interest on interest during moratorium||NEW DELHI: In a big relief for individual and MSME borrowers, the Centre on Friday informed the Supreme Court that it has decided to waive "interest on interest" on loans of up to Rs 2 crore during the six-month repayment moratorium — with the benefit also available to those who were clearing their dues on a range of loans between March and August. In its affidavit, the finance ministry said the government has decided to maintain its tradition of handholding small borrowers and bear the burden arising from such waiver of interest on interest, or compound interest, for the banks. "This category of borrowers, in whose case the compound interest will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans up to Rs 2 crore of the following category — MSME loans, educational loans, housing loans, consumer durable loans, credit card dues, auto loans, personal loans to professionals and consumption loans," the ministry said. The Reserve Bank of India had allowed borrowers to seek a six-month moratorium on all loans but banks and housing finance companies were charging interest on the entire amount, the principal as well as the interest liability, which translated into the repayment period extending by over six months. The liability was higher for recent loans as the interest component is typically front-loaded. Besides, there was a huge increase in liability on the outstanding on credit cards, which come with high interest rates. Bankers said the total cost of interest on interest waiver, if the benefit was restricted to only these categories, would be around Rs 5,000 crore-Rs 6,000 crore. However, if the scheme was extended to all borrowers, the total cost of the waiver would be between Rs 10,000 crore-Rs 15,000 crore. Bankers are expecting the government to compensate the interest waiver as it is a social welfare measure. The modalities of how the benefit would flow to those who were paying their EMIs or credit card dues during the moratorium period were not immediately known. The Centre has reversed its stand following the recommendations of an expert committee headed by former Comptroller & Auditor General Rajiv Mehrishi. Earlier, the Centre and the RBI had argued against waiver of interest on interest on the grounds that it would be against the interests of other stakeholders, especially depositors, and would be unfair to those who have paid their dues. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah had been impressing upon the government to "consider and reconsider" its decision to not waive interest on interest. However, it had appeared to accept the government's decision to not waive interest altogether. The Centre said waiving of interest on interest for all categories of borrowers would result in a very substantial and significant financial burden on several categories of banks, which would find it impossible to withstand the financial burden. As this would also impact the depositors' interest, the government decided not to waive it for big borrowers. "The government, therefore, decided that the relief on waiver of compound interest during the six-month moratorium period shall be limited to the most vulnerable category of borrowers," the ministry said. This would mean loans up to Rs 2 crore. The RBI and the Centre had earlier argued that the moratorium was merely deferring loan instalments to a future date and that it did not mean waiving either interest on the amount due during the six-month period, or interest on the interest accrued during the period on the principal. It had said that borrowers understood the difference between the waiver in the interest on loan and the deferment of payment of instalments for that loan and therefore, "a majority of the borrowers have in fact not taken the benefit of the moratorium". "If the government were to consider waiver of interest on all types of loan advances to all categories of borrowers corresponding to the six-month period for which the moratorium, that is deferment of payment of instalments, was made available under the relevant RBI circulars, the estimated amount waived would be more than Rs 6 lakhs crore," the ministry said. It said that if the banks were to bear the burden, a substantial part of their net worth would be wiped out, rendering most banks unviable. "This was one of the main reasons why waiver of interest was not even contemplated and only payment of instalments was deferred," it said. Over half of the State Bank of India’s net worth would be wiped out if interest was waived for six months, the government said. Watch Centre informs SC of decision to waive interest on interest during moratorium||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-ready-to-waive-interest-on-interest-during-moratorium/articleshow/78455446.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 3, 2020||Business||Drug cos with Covid medicines, vaccines see huge increase in wealth||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Covid-19 may have led to loss in lives and livelihood, but interestingly it has also created massive wealth and valuations for those developing and providing solutions for the treatment of the dreaded virus. A total of 27 pharma companies, which witnessed a 33% growth in valuation in August, are actively involved in either developing or manufacturing vaccines or drugs to combat Covid-19, data from the ‘IIFL Wealth Hurun India Top Covid-19 Pharma Entrepreneurs’ list suggests. While eight companies are developing or manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines, 22 are into drugs to treat the viral infection. The companies are drawn from the 77 featured in the mother list — IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2020 — which compiles those with a net worth of Rs 1,000 crore each as of August 2020. This mirrors the global trend of drug companies — including Moderna, Pfizer, Novavax and Johnson & Johnson — clocking huge gains in their stocks and valuations, as their vaccine candidates enter an advanced stage of development. With a wealth of Rs 94,300 crore, Serum Institute’s promoter Cyrus Poonawalla tops the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Top Covid-19 Pharma Entrepreneurs list. He ranked sixth overall among the super-rich individuals. Pune-based Serum has tie-ups with global manufacturers AstraZeneca and Novavax for potential Covid-19 vaccines, which are undergoing clinical trials. The Gates Foundation is pumping in at-risk funding of $300 million through its partnership with Gavi and Serum Institute for potential Covid-19 vaccines. The largest increase of 89% is in the wealth of Hyderabad-based Divi Laboratories’ promoter Murali Divi and family, to Rs 49,200 crore. The Covid-19 super-rich entrepreneurs reported a 33% wealth increase of Rs 1,42,500 crore as against last year. Of this, 26 are first-generation entrepreneurs, with an average age of 66. “The list, which is a sub-list of the super-rich group, is not so much of the wealth created by these entrepreneurs. It is more about the valuable enterprise these entrepreneurs have created and how they are impacting the Covid race. Some companies like Cadila and Dr Reddy’s are involved in both drugs and vaccine for the virus,” Hurun Report India MD & chief researcher Anas Rahman Junaid told TOI. With a net worth of Rs 1,400 crore, promoter of FDC Mohan Anand Chandavarkar, part of the Covid-19 pharma entrepreneurs’ list, made a debut in the main list too. The company had launched two variants of anti-viral drug Favipiravir, a potential Covid-19 treatment, in August. The second-largest increase of 71% is in Biocon’s chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw’s wealth of Rs 31,600 crore, who ranks fifth on the main list. Biocon launched a biologic therapy, itolizumab, for Covid-19, while its subsidiary Syngene has tied up with US firm Gilead Sciences to manufacture and sell the Covid-19 potential drug, Remdesivir. With a wealth of Rs 84,000 crore, Sun Pharma promoter Dilip Shanghvi ranks second in this list. Backed by a 22% increase in the share price of Sun Pharma, Shanghvi’s wealth increased by 17% or Rs 12,000 crore, the data says. Sun Pharma is running Phase II clinical trials on AQCH, a phytopharmaceutical drug, as potential treatment for Covid-19, and already launched Favipiravir tablets. Favipiravir is the most manufactured drug, produced by 10 companies, including Glenmark, Cipla, Hetero, Dr Reddy’s and Lupin, all which have seen huge valuations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/drug-cos-with-covid-medicines-vaccines-see-huge-increase-in-wealth/articleshow/78455323.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 3, 2020||Hubballi||Soak pits built under MGNREGS improve sanitation in Dharwad villages||Hubballi: Among the reasons oft cited for the prevalence of vector-borne diseases in rural areas of India is the poor standard of sanitisation. Determined to tackle this problem head-on, the Dharwad zilla panchayat decided to take on a more proactive role, utilising funds allocated to the district under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to address this lacuna. Under the supervision of the ZP officials, as many as 875 soak pits have been built in various villages across the district in the past three weeks. The officials said that, Dharwad stands fifth on the list of districts with most number of soak pits built under MGNREGS in the state. However, they are hopeful of the district racing towards the top soon. ZP officials said that the building of soak pits in villages was in line with a slew of initiatives undertaken by the central and state governments to ensure hygiene in villages. “Construction of toilets, installation of reverse osmosis (RO) plants are the other projects that have the same objective,” they said. Moreover, the soak pits have helped recharge groundwater aquifers in the villages. We have been set a target of building 7,200 soak pits across Dharwad, said ZP chief executive officer BC Satish. “Representatives from various gram panchayats – there are 144 GPs in Dharwad – have approached us seeking help to build the soak pits,” he said. A source said that a six-foot deep soak pit cost the government Rs 14,000. “MGNREGS card holders are also benefitting from this initiative,” he added. Improving hygiene in villages is key objective Stagnation of wastewater near houses leads to unhygienic conditions, and make for a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes. In order to address this problem, we decided to build soak pits for each house. While the primary goal was to improve hygienic conditions in each village, it has also helped recharge groundwater reserves in rural areas. -BC Satish | Chief Executive Officer, Dharwad Zilla Panchayat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/soak-pits-built-under-mgnregs-improve-sanitation-in-dharwad-villages/articleshow/78453129.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||Despite protest, rly project on track||Vadodara: Has the railways ignored the fervent protests by Barodians to not deface the grand Pratap Vilas Palace by building a structure opposite the palace? The royal Gaekwad family members said that soil testing for the project has been initiated over the last two days. This when, Vadodara BJP MP, Ranjan Bhatt opposed the project and even raised the issue in the Parliament 10 days ago. “We have learnt that some heavy machinery has been brought in the railway premises near Lalbaug and soil testing is to be done too. The next step would be the digging work. It is worrying as we have been opposing construction of a building near the magnificent palace which is a heritage property,” said Radhikaraje Gaekwad, member of the royal Gaekwad family. “We are going to find out from the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) if they have given clearance for the project. We will take up the issue in a correct way. Rajmata Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad is also writing to the ministry,” Radhikaraje told TOI. She said that a PIL too can be done to stop the project but that will be the last resort. The palace that was made by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III in 1914 was leased and later sold to the railways in 1961. When contacted, MP Ranjan Bhatt said, “I don’t have knowledge if the railways has initiated the project. In fact, just four days ago I had a virtual meeting with the senior railway officials who briefed me about the project. I had told them explicitly that no high-rise should come up opposite the palace. The officials didn’t inform me about any plans to start the project.” “They said that they will share my views in the railway ministry. I have asked them to move the building to some other property they own in the city,” Bhatt added. Chartered accountant Sanjiv Shah, former director with CONCOR, who is one of the prominent citizens to have opposed the building next to the palace, said, “After I learnt that the project was initiated again recently, I raised the issue with the concerned ministry.” Controversy over the new building plan surfaced in July this year when the royal Gaekwad family opposed the project and started an online petition against it. M S University chancellor and royal family member, Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad even wrote to union railway minister Piyush Goyal and urged him to stop construction of the building. The railways is reportedly planning to accommodate National Rail and Transportation Institute and other offices in the proposed building. The royal family suggested that the building can come up on Oval Ground that is in the same premises but away from the palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/despite-protest-rly-project-on-track/articleshow/78451930.cms||Tushar Tere
October 3, 2020||Business||Have Rs 8,262cr in closed MFs, says Franklin||TNN Mumbai: Franklin Templeton MF has said it has Rs 8,262 crore for distribution to its investors in the six funds it had decided to close down in April. The fund house added that the hearing in the Karnataka high court relating to its decision to close down these schemes has concluded and an order could come at any time. The six schemes have received Rs 1,078 crore from maturities, pre-payments and coupon payments between September 16 and September 30. “This takes the total cash flows received till date since April 24, 2020 to Rs 8,262 crore,” FTMF said in an update to its investors. On April 24, the fund house had decided to close down its Ultra Short Bond Fund, Dynamic Accrual Fund, Low Duration Fund, Credit Risk Fund, Short Term Income Plan and Income Opportunities Fund, which had total assets worth nearly Rs 25,900 crore then. The fund house said that Ultra Short Bond Fund, Dynamic Accrual Fund, Low Duration Fund and Credit Risk Fund had 40%, 19%, 19% and 4% of their respective assets under management (AUMs) “available in cash to distribute to unitholders, subject to a successful unitholder vote”. It also said that “borrowing levels in its Short Term Income Plan and Income Opportunities Fund continue to come down steadily”. After FTMF’s decision to close these funds, several investors had moved various courts against the fund house’s move. The Supreme Court finally directed all the court cases to be heard at the Karnataka HC, which has completed the hearing and the judgment is now awaited. “Our focus remains on maximising value for unitholders in these schemes and returning monies as soon as possible in accordance with the applicable regulations, subject to the decision of the HC,” the fund house said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/have-rs-8262cr-in-closed-mfs-says-franklin/articleshow/78455170.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||NAAC assessment for varsity delayed by over a year||Panaji: The five-year validity of the accreditation granted to Goa University by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) ended in September 2019. The process for the new accreditation cycle has been delayed for GU by over a year now, as the varsity is still in the process of preparing its self-assessment report, sources said. Only after this self-study report is submitted to NAAC, the accreditation process can proceed. Initially, the Goa University wrote to the state government, stating that it wants to delay the accreditation process for the next cycle. This was because many faculty posts at the university were vacant and towards the end of 2019 the process of filling up the vacancies had just begun. GU felt it would lose out points merely because of its faculty positions not being filled. But just as the process of recruitment was on, the pandemic delayed it further. “Once GU submits its self-study report to NAAC, a peer-team visit will be fixed. After the team’s visit, the accreditation will be awarded, as per the assessment,” said an official. The state’s lone university was granted A grade during the last assessment cycle by NAAC, results of which were declared in September 2014. This was an improvement over the 2009 assessment of GU where it was awarded a B grade. The five-year validity of the 2014 assessment has accordingly ended last September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/naac-assessment-for-varsity-delayed-by-over-a-year/articleshow/78454330.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Surat||SGCCI seeks removal of obstacles for online registration for IEC||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has demanded removal of obstacles faced by the applicants on the online platform created by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) for the generation of Import-Export Code (IEC).In its representation to the DGFT on Thursday, SGCCI stated that the sequential difference in the name of applicant in their PAN card and that of Aadhar card are not recognized by the system and the applications are rejected.According to SGCCI, there is sequential difference in the name displayed on PAN Card and that of Aadhar card as one displays name first and the other identification card displays the surname first. However, the person referred in the both of the above documents are same.The DGFT had created an online platform for generation of IEC code post July 13, 2020. IEC is required by anyone who is looking to kick-start the export-import business. It is a 10-digit code which has a lifetime validity.President of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya said, “The system designed is creating operational issues at very stage of registration of applicants and is thus defeating the very purpose of brining ease of doing business.”According to Navadiya, the online system has made compulsory use of DSC Class III digital signature to avail IEC registration, which has become another hindrance for applicants who do not have it.“The removal of the above two obstacles will not have any effect on the quality of output expected from the DGFT post registration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-seeks-removal-of-obstacles-for-online-registration-for-iec/articleshow/78451810.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Business||‘Increase spending on infra & health’||Larsen & Toubro CEO S N Subrahmanyan knows the construction industry like the back of his hand. As head of the $21-billion construction conglomerate, the 60-year-old wants public spending to be increased on infrastructure, health and educational facilities, which will help in creating jobs and revive the economy… How far has your business returned to normal? As the country unlocks, means of transport open, supply chains resume and labour returns, operations are at about 90% at our project sites. All our manufacturing facilities have resumed and are gradually moving into high gear. We remain positive. What challenges has the new normal posed for you? For a project-based company like ours, the lockdown brought all physical activity to a complete halt. However, activities like planning, designing and engineering continued uninterrupted and, with our sites and facilities kept in readiness, we could restart operations as soon as the restrictions were relaxed. How to get new business amid the pandemic? Infrastructure development is imperative to revive economic activity, create employment and infuse more liquidity into the system. Projects funded by World Bank, JICA, Asian Development Bank, etc, should start moving faster. We are, therefore, optimistic that sectors like hospitals, power transmission & distribution, water, railways, roads, renewable energy and defence will show greater traction. What have been your learnings from the pandemic? These unprecedented times have clearly proven that cash is king. Our concerted effort is to conserve cash because sales and revenue will certainly follow. The other lesson for a project-based organisation like ours is everything is secondary to execution and our post-unlock focus has been to complete projects quickly, efficiently with safety and quality. Should the government go for a much bigger public investment programme to revive demand? For India to be a $5-trillion economy by 2024-25, all three growth engines — consumption, private investment, and government spending — need to fire. Currently, our infrastructure deficit is huge for a growing economy. Increasing public spending on roads, railways, infrastructure, healthcare and educational facilities will help create jobs and thereby revive the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/increase-spending-on-infra-health/articleshow/78446042.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Non-Covid services to be back at Gandhi Hospital soon||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Friday said non-Covid treatment at Gandhi Hospital will be restored soon. Gandhi Hospital has been serving as the nodal Covid-19 centre in the state since the outbreak in March this year. Addressing reporters after dedicating the new molecular and stem cell lab at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences to people, the minister said that efforts were on to resume non-Covid services in Gandhi Hospital.  He said the hospital bed capacity is 2,000 and only 300 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment there. After the first Covid-19 case was reported, Gandhi was turned into a designated hospital for Covid treatment. Of late, the hospital is treating only critical Covid patients. “We are ironing out on patient entry and exit points.” The minister said the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) has been conducting antibody surveys in many districts and will do it in other districts. He added that the state government will also take up the antibody survey. “We said plasma therapy won’t work and high cost treatment is not necessary for all the patients. Only, low-cost steroids are required for Covid-19 treatment,” he said. He said there would be more people who would be infected without even knowing about it. “The day is not far when people will co-exist with Covid-19 just like malaria and dengue.” On the expansion plans of NIMS, he said that being an autonomous institution, NIMS has planned for a Rs 250-crore loan to expand the services. “With a new block, the outpatient capacity will go up to 5,000 a day from 2,500 now.” He said thanks to the stem cell and molecular labs, poor cancer patients would get free services. Apart from TIMS and AIIMS at Bibinagar, Hyderabad and suburbs will get two more big hospitals like NIMS, Gandhi and Osmania, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/non-covid-services-to-be-back-at-gandhi-soon/articleshow/78454318.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 3, 2020||Patna||Graft rules CM Nitish Kumar’s ‘saat nishchay’: LJP||PATNA: LJP led by Chirag Paswan seems to be in no mood to relent against NDA’s face in Bihar, CM Nitish Kumar, in the assembly election to be held in state from October 28 to November 7. A day before its crucial parliamentary board meeting, LJP on Friday attacked Nitish’s pet project — ‘Seven Resolves’ — and alleged that the schemes are full of corruption. “We don’t believe in ‘Seven Resolves’. All works under the project have remained incomplete. Payment has also not been done. It is a box of corruption,” LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said in his statement and added: “Bihar First, Bihari First vision document will be implemented by the next government.” Chirag came up with ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ slogan during his yatra in the state in February this year. LJP is still to draft the final vision document. Nitish has announced that he will implement ‘Seven Resolves 2.0’ if voted back to power. LJP also stated that it will be the last meeting of the party on Saturday before the state assembly election and deliberations will be held on the 143 candidates shortlisted to contest the polls. Chirag’s father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is undergoing treatment in a Delhi hospital. BJP conceded that delay in finalizing the seat-sharing formula in NDA is due to the LJP. “Ram Vilas Ji is unwell and in hospital. We all pray for his well-being. Had he been well, the seat-sharing issues would have been finalized till now. He is a seasoned politician and must have helped in resolving the glitches,” BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal told reporters in Patna on Friday, adding that NDA is intact and everything will be finalized in two to three days. JD(U), on the other hand, accused LJP of violating coalition dharma. “Seven Resolves fulfilled the basic requirements of people in Bihar. Its part-2 is going to be a game changer. We would be glad if LJP remains a part of the NDA, but levelling baseless allegations is not acceptable,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. The 7-point agenda was in the JD(U) manifesto for the 2015 assembly election when Nitish was with RJD and Congress. After the Mahagathbandhan government formation, the agenda, which included roads, electricity, youth employment, drinking water, sanitation and higher education, was formally launched in the state. Nitish continued with it even after breaking the alliance with RJD and Congress and formed next government with BJP and LJP in July, 2017. “Our party president has said it on several occasions that the ‘Seven Resolves’ was a programme of the Mahagathbandhan government and not NDA. Nevertheless, all its projects are incomplete, whether construction of drains or roads. JD(U) has completely ignored the issues of public concern raised by our party president. Thus, ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ has to implemented by the next government,” LJP spokesperson Sanjay Paswan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/graft-rules-cms-saat-nishchay-ljp/articleshow/78457948.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 3, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Nominations begin, both camps yet to strike a deal||PATNA: Confusion prevailed in both the ruling NDA and the opposition Mahagathbandhan on seat-sharing issue even after two days of the notification for the first phase of state assembly election to be held on October 28. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said on Friday, “Thora aur wakt lagega (it will take some more time). Talks are already underway.” He blamed LJP for the delay in finalizing the seat-sharing deal because LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan “is sick and in hospital”. Sources in BJP said senior party leaders Bhupender Yadav and Devendra Fednavis left for Delhi without holding talks with JD(U), which insists on contesting from some traditional BJP seats. “Apart from LJP, the JD(U) wants those seats which were earlier held by BJP,” a party leader said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the delay in seat sharing among alliance partners was not a new phenomenon. “It’s obvious that each alliance partner tries to strike a deal in its favour. The preparations for the election are already underway. It’s just a matter of time that the names of contestants and constituencies will be announced by senior NDA leaders,” he said. When asked, JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary said, “Let the time come, you will know about it.” The situation in the opposition Mahagathbandhan is no different. RJD is finding it difficult to persuade its major ally Congress not to insist on its demand for minimum 70 seats. Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s absence is also delaying the seat-sharing deal. “Had Lalu ji been out of jail, the scene would have been different. RJD want to contest minimum 150 seats,” an RJD leader said, adding that this election would be a litmus test for Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. RJD was also infuriated over Congress’ Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil’s statement on Tejashwi’s “inexperience”. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “RJD will never tolerate any derogatory comments against its CM face.” He suggested Gohil to focus on ensuring the NDA’s defeat instead of criticizing its ally RJD. He said nobody should be in confusion that RJD is the biggest partner than other allies in the Mahagathbandhan. Meanwhile, a source said that the seat-sharing deal with CPI-ML (Liberation), CPI and CPI(M) has been finalized after Dipankar Bhattacharya called on Tejashwi on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/nominations-begin-both-camps-yet-to-strike-a-deal/articleshow/78458889.cms||Ramashankar
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Exemplary punishment for guilty, says CM Yogi||LUCKNOW: Coming under attack from all quarters over the handling of the Hathras case, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tweeted on Friday evening that his government was committed to ensuring the safety of women in the state. The CM said: “Anyone who even harbours any ill thoughts against our mothers and sisters in Uttar Pradesh will be annihilated. They will be given exemplary punishment that will be remembered in the future. Your government is committed to protecting every mother-sister and for their development. This is our promise.” On Wednesday, the CM had set up a three-member SIT to investigate the case and has asked for a report on the matter within seven days. A Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has already taken suo motu cognisance of the late night cremation of the 19 year-old dalit girl, who was allegedly raped, without consent of her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/exemplary-punishment-for-guilty-says-cm-yogi/articleshow/78455042.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: 7 seats held by ministers to go to polls in Phase 1||PATNA: Altogether seven seats represented by ministers in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state will go to polls in the first phase on October 28. In all, 71 assembly constituencies, mostly the ones hit by left wing extremism, will go to polls in the first phase. Four of the seven assembly seats represented by ministers are held by the JD(U) and the remaining three by the BJP. The seats represented by the BJP leaders are Banka, Chainpur and Gaya (town) from where Ramnarayan Mandal, Brij Kishor Bind and Prem Kumar, respectively, were elected in the 2015 assembly polls. While Mandal is serving as the minister of revenue and land reforms in Nitish Kumar cabinet, Bind holds the mining department and Kumar agriculture department. The four seats held by the JD(U) ministers are Jamalpur, Ghosi, Rajpur and Dinara. The seats are being represented by Shailesh Kumar, Krishnandan Prasad Verma, Santosh Kumar Nirala and Jai Kumar Singh, respectively. Shailesh Kumar is serving as rural works department minister and Nirala holds the portfolio of transport department. Similarly, Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma is serving as education department minister and Jai Kumar Singh as the science and technology minister. “Most of the constituencies going to polls in the first phase are by and large affected by Maoist activities. Hence, the polling hours in the first phase are different from the other constituencies,” said a senior IPS officer, who is associated with the deployment of the central armed police forces in the first phase. Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika said the district armed police have already launched intensive operations in Maoist-hit villages. “The operation will be intensified with the deployment of the central forces,” he added. Porika said the area domination exercise has already started in the villages identified as hotbeds of the Maoists. Recently, a Maoist leader, Nawal Bhuyian, surrendered before the Gaya police after pressure was mounted on him in Aurangabad district. Five other Maoist activists were arrested from Goh police station area, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-seats-held-by-ministers-to-go-to-polls-in-phase-1/articleshow/78456697.cms||Ramashankar
October 3, 2020||Patna||Patna: Tailors, khadi stores rake in moolah ahead of polls||PATNA: Ahead of the state assembly elections, tailors in the city are burning the midnight oil to meet the rising demand for kurta-pyjamas, jackets and face masks. While big leaders visit high-end shops, party workers and functionaries can be seen outside small shops placing bulk orders before the campaign trail begins. Many makeshift shops have come up outside the offices of different political parties on Beerchand Patel Marg. 34-year-old Guddu Singh receives nearly 25 orders to stitch kurta-pyjamas every day. He says, “It hardly takes two hours to complete one set.” Another tailor Mohd Hakeem, who has a small shop near MLAs’ Club, claims that his business reaches its peak during elections. “Due to huge demand for kurta-pyjamas, jackets and towels, I usually earn a lot of profit during the election season. I have already received 60 orders for stitching clothes from various party workers as well as big political leaders,” he adds. Outlets selling products made of khadi are also raking in the moolah. “Apart from kurta-pyjamas, white shirts, jackets and scarves, netas are also buying khadi face masks with their party symbols. Depending on the quality of the cloth, they pay anywhere between Rs 1,200 and Rs 5,000. On an average, we get 45 orders per day,” Ashok Kumar Gupta, the manager of a khadi shop on Ashok Rajpath, claims. The manager of another khadi store near Gandhi Maidan, Ramesh Choudhary, says, “While young netas buy ready-made clothes with colourful jackets, senior leaders go for plain kurta-pyjamas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tailors-khadi-stores-rake-in-moolah-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78456890.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 3, 2020||---||Patna: Tailors, khadi stores rake in moolah ahead of polls||PATNA: Ahead of the state assembly elections, tailors in the city are burning the midnight oil to meet the rising demand for kurta-pyjamas, jackets and face masks. While big leaders visit high-end shops, party workers and functionaries can be seen outside small shops placing bulk orders before the campaign trail begins. Many makeshift shops have come up outside the offices of different political parties on Beerchand Patel Marg. 34-year-old Guddu Singh receives nearly 25 orders to stitch kurta-pyjamas every day. He says, “It hardly takes two hours to complete one set.” Another tailor Mohd Hakeem, who has a small shop near MLAs’ Club, claims that his business reaches its peak during elections. “Due to huge demand for kurta-pyjamas, jackets and towels, I usually earn a lot of profit during the election season. I have already received 60 orders for stitching clothes from various party workers as well as big political leaders,” he adds. Outlets selling products made of khadi are also raking in the moolah. “Apart from kurta-pyjamas, white shirts, jackets and scarves, netas are also buying khadi face masks with their party symbols. Depending on the quality of the cloth, they pay anywhere between Rs 1,200 and Rs 5,000. On an average, we get 45 orders per day,” Ashok Kumar Gupta, the manager of a khadi shop on Ashok Rajpath, claims. The manager of another khadi store near Gandhi Maidan, Ramesh Choudhary, says, “While young netas buy ready-made clothes with colourful jackets, senior leaders go for plain kurta-pyjamas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/tailors-khadi-stores-rake-in-moolah-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78451505.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 3, 2020||Patna||Many BJP workers ‘unhappy’ as JD(U) sets sights on Buxar seat||PATNA: Resentment is brewing among local BJP workers in Buxar district over internal reports that the assembly constituency is likely to be handed over to ally JD(U) to facilitate the candidature of former state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey. The Buxar unit of BJP recently conveyed its workers’ resentment to the party’s state leaders and urged them to ensure that the Buxar seat remains with the saffron party. “All our state leaders are aware of the resentment among workers. We have conveyed to the state leaders, through proper channels, about the sentiments of workers,” BJP’s Buxar district president Madhuri Kunwar told TOI over the phone. “If Buxar seat goes to JD(U), BJP workers will not work in this election. I am telling you the voice of BJP workers,” she said. BJP’s Buxar MP and Union minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey too had recently expressed his reservation over any other NDA ally staking claim on the Buxar seat. “Buxar is the traditional seat of the BJP,” Choubey had said. BJP’s Sukhda Pandey had won the seat in three elections in 2000, 2005 and 2010. But she lost the seat to Congress candidate Sanjay Kumar Tiwari in the 2015 assembly polls. Gupteshwar Pandey, the 1987-batch IPS officer, who took voluntary retirement on September 22, joined JD(U) in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar on September 27, just five days after quitting as DGP. As per speculation in the political circles, Pandey’s name is being considered as JD((U) candidate from Buxar. Pandey is a native of Geruabandh village under Itarhi block of the district. Kunwar further said BJP was not dependent on others for victory in Buxar. “We have our strength to win the election from Buxar seat,” she said, adding, “We have already given two seats -- Rajpur and Dumraon- to JD(U) and other two seats- Buxar and Brahmapur- are contested by us for last several elections.” Asked whether she knew that former DGP Pandey was being considered for Buxar seat, Kunwar said, “We too have been hearing such rumours, but BJP workers are not ready for it.” She added, “BJP workers have been labouring for both seats for years. We do not work only during the election period, we nurture our constituencies. If our seats go to others...Are the BJP workers only there to carry ‘Jhola’ (bags) of others?” Kunwar said she has been receiving around 500 phone calls every day from BJP workers asking if the party is going to contest from Buxar and Brahmapur seats or not. “I am telling you if BJP does not get Buxar and Brahmapur seats, the NDA will lose all four assembly seats in Buxar district,” Kunwar claimed. However, JD(U) leaders in the district are in upbeat mood over the reports that former DGP would be contesting from Buxar. Sources said Pandey had a long meeting with JD(U)’s Buxar unit president Bindhyachal Singh Kushwaha during his last visit to Buxar a few days ago. Admitting his meeting with Pandey, Kushwaha told TOI over the phone that the DGP had met him at the Buxar circuit house as a "school friend" and they had a long chat on various social issues. Asked about BJP’s claim on Buxar assembly seat, Kushawaha said BJP had been contesting all four seats in neighbouring Kaimur district. Hence, the saffron party should leave at least three seats for JD(U) in Buxar district. “But the final decision on seat-sharing will be taken by our top leaders. We will follow whatever decision is taken by our leaders on the Buxar seat,” Kushwaha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-bjp-workers-unhappy-as-jdu-sets-sights-on-buxar-seat/articleshow/78457041.cms||Madan Kumar
October 3, 2020||Patna||Decision on reopening of schools in Bihar next week||PATNA: The state education department would take a call next week on how to resume normal classes in schools from October 15 in the light of Unlock 5.0 guidelines by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and after analysing the Covid-19 situation, principal secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar said on Friday. “We have to prepare the SOP in consultation with the stakeholders,” he said. Presently, the schools are open for classes IX to XII only for doubt clearance. Several schools claimed the attendance was less than 15%. As per the Centre’s new guidelines, the state/UT governments have to take a decision on reopening of educational institutions after October 15. Parents’ consent is a must and attendance will not be compulsory. Online classes shall continue to be the preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged. CBSE city coordinator and principal of Baldwin Academy, Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, said only a few students turn up to clear their doubts. “It will be better if the state government permits normal functioning of classes IX to XII on alternate basis. We are better equipped than the government schools,” he said. St Paul’s High School principal Anand Prakash said written consent of parents will be mandatory. “It will be mandatory for the students and staff to wear mask, carry hand sanitiser and own water bottles,” he said. Jesus and Mary Academy director Abhishek Patrik said the school campus had been sanitised and limited students were allowed in each doubt class conducted twice a week. “We are prepared even for the regular classes with all safety measures,” he said. Principal of DAV Public School at BSEB Colony, VS Ojha, said the school would follow the state government guidelines. The Centre’s notification about the reopening of schools for physical classes has received a mixed response from kids and their parents. Some are eager to attend the classes while many still think it would be early in view of the pandemic. Ashutosh, a Class XII student of Litera Valley School, said, “I will definitely attend the classes if proper precautions are taken by the school authorities. Taking classes on alternate days will be convenient for students to clear few doubts through the online classes. But personal transportation will be preferred to the school bus.” Priya Singh, a student of Class IX at St Karen’s Secondary School wants the school to reopen. “Without computer practical and lab work, it is impossible to understand some of the topics, no matter how much we read the theory part,” she said. Shipra, a Class XI student of Notre Dame Academy feels it would be better to wait for some more time. Pragya Kumari, whose son studies in Class X at Delhi Public School, said, “Proper schooling is essential for the overall development of a student. So, I am looking forward to sending my ward to school while taking all the precautionary measures.” Sunita Kumari of Ashiana Colony said her daughter, a Class X student, has become used to online classes and also take online tuition. “It saves her travelling time. Besides, it is better to stay indoor amid the pandemic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decision-on-reopening-of-schools-in-state-next-week/articleshow/78450899.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 3, 2020||Business||HDFC’s July disbursals at 81% of last year||MUMBAI: HDFC has said that there has been a substantial pickup in home loan disbursements in the second quarter, with July alone at 81% of previous year’s level. The corporation has seen month-on-month improvement in disbursement in subsequent months as well, although it has not released the numbers yet. To push loans during the festive season, the corporation has launched the ‘India Home Fair 2020’ online by partnering with 175 approved developers who have 350 projects in 50 cities. To open up new markets, it has created separate portals for investors in London, Singapore and the Middle East. Inaugurating the online event, HDFC MD Renu Sud Karnad said, “We feel that the demand for housing will pick up gradually as the economy emerges out of this difficult period. We at HDFC have seen demand coming back. In July 2020, HDFC achieved 81% of July 2019 disbursements, which was better than what we had expected given the lockdown and other restrictions, and the subsequent months have been even better.” According to sources, the pickup for homes is largely in smaller centres. Although in Mumbai, developers have started offering discounts and the state government has announced a sharp discount in stamp duty, sales are yet to pick up. The projects on offer include those located in smaller cities like Silvassa, Vizianagaram, Haridwar and Zirakpur. HDFC executives said that despite the slowdown in the economy, there was a natural demand for housing because of India’s demographic, and sales typically picked up ahead of the marriage season. Also, there was a demand for larger houses from those who had shifted to working from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfcs-july-disbursals-at-81-of-last-yr/articleshow/78455180.cms||---
October 3, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: BJP’s IT cell launches digital blitzkrieg||PATNA: BJP, arguably the giant in digital electioneering in the country, on Friday claimed that its digital footprint in the state has reached up to booth level through over 1.50 lakh WhatsApp groups, thousands of social media handles and the ‘Kamal Konnect’ mobile application. In a bid to expand its digital outreach ahead of the assembly elections in the state in which digital electioneering rules the roost, the BJP has launched ‘Kamal Konnect’ app that can be run on low-speed internet in rural areas. “The app has become widely popular in the rural areas as it consumes less data, especially in villages where internet speed is slow,” BJP’s state IT cell convener Manan Krishna said. Manan added, “The app contains videos of senior party functionaries talking about development works done by Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre, especially in Bihar, in the last six years. Apart from pre-recorded videos, the public speeches of our leaders are also streamed live on this app.” He said the IT cells are functional right from the party headquarters in Patna to 10,000 shakti kendras at booth level. “Our IT cells are functional round the year and its members know their roles and responsibilities from state to booth level. There are 6.7 crore cellphone users in Bihar, out of whom 2.5crore use smartphones. Our penetration among the social media users in Bihar is the highest among all political parties,” Manan added. Asked about the WhatsApp groups, Manan said apart from 65,000 existing groups, one lakh new groups were created this year and each group has 200 members. The BJP’s IT cell is also tasked with the responsibility of looking after the digital or virtual rallies of big leaders, which broadly started with Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bihar Samvad rally on June 7. “Our initial estimate of viewership for Bihar Samvad rally was 35,000, which gradually went up to 58 lakh. We had organised 300 small-scale virtual rallies during the lockdown, which gave us an edge over other parties in digital electioneering,” Manan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bjps-it-cell-launches-digital-blitzkrieg/articleshow/78451352.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 3, 2020||Surat||5.3L angandwadi women attempt world record in washing hands for 20 sec||Surat: As many as 5,30,290 women, including lactating mothers, girls and pregnant women, registered at 53,029 anganwadis in 33 districts and 252 talukas across the state, attempted a world record on Friday by simultaneously washing their hands with soap for 20 seconds to spread awareness on maintaining hygiene for combating Covid-19. The event held as part of birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi was jointly organised by city-based Shakti Foundation and the Women and Child Development department of Gujarat government. Sonal Rochani, president and co-founder of Shakti Foundation told TOI, “This was the largest hand hygiene lesson in India post-Covid where 5,30,290 women successfully attempted world record. The women trained in hand hygiene lesson will further train other women, this is how the chain will be created in Gujarat and across the country.” The programme was held in the presence of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and minister of state for forest, women and child welfare, Ganpat Vasava. They had joined through video conferencing to boost the confidence of the angawadi women. Talking with TOI, Vasava said, “On the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, women from the rural areas in Gujarat have come forward to spread awareness on hygiene in the time of Covid-19. Two records were made, one of hand washing and the other was of distribution of hygiene kit including soap, masks and sanitary pads to 5.30 lakh women of angadwadis across the state.” From each anganwadi of 252 talukas 10 women including lactating mothers, pregnant women and girls were selected and trained for the hand hygiene world record. The record was attempted in presence of officials from the Guinness Book of World Records. Videos of the record attempt from each anganwadi will be sent for scrutiny to the adjudicators of Guinness Book of World Records. Government officials said that certificate for the record will be issued next week after the scrutiny of videos from the anganwadis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/5-3l-angandwadi-women-attempt-world-record-in-washing-hands-for-20-sec/articleshow/78451654.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Surat||EMT men show heart of gold in saving cardiac patient||Surat: Covid-19 times may be challenging, but displaying honesty is never difficult for many. Two technicians of 108 emergency ambulance service proved this on Friday when they returned Rs 1.20 lakh cash to the family members of a man who had suffered a cardiac arrest on the road. According to 108 EMT officials, they had received an emergency call from Vijay Dairy near Palanpur Patiya in Rander area. When EMT Sabbir Khan Belim and ambulance pilot Niraj Gamit, reached there, they found the patient identified as Surendrasinh Barad lying unconscious. ‘Barad, 47, a resident of Olpad, had come to purchase sweets at Vijay Dairy and suddenly collapsed,” said Fayaz Pathan, GVK-EMRI, programme manager, Surat told TOI. “Belim found that Barad had symptoms of cardiac arrest and immediately rushed him to a nearby hospital. They also found belongings including cash and jewellery in his bag. Belim and Gamit called up the patient’s relatives after reaching the hospital and informed them about the incident. They handed over cash and valuables to them,’‘ Fayaz Pathan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/emt-men-show-heart-of-gold-in-saving-cardiac-patient/articleshow/78451830.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: JD(U), BJP wait for Chirag’s next move||PATNA: With the LJP, an NDA ally, once again targeting CM Nitish Kumar on Friday – this time over his ‘saat nishchay’ programmes – the JD(U) and BJP appear to have realised that they would have to go to the assembly elections without the Chirag Paswan-led party. Meanwhile, BJP’s Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav and the party’s election incharge for the state, Devendra Fadnavis, left for Delhi on Friday, carrying the list of the party’s candidates for the respective seats it would be contesting, BJP sources said. Yadav and Fadnavis camped here for two days, holding meetings with the party’s election management committee and core committee members at the residence of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to identify the candidates for at least 110 seats. “They held discussions even on Friday to finalise names of candidates,” a state BJP source said, adding Bhupendra had also kept Nitish and his aide in the loop through phone in view of the day’s sharp developments coming from Chirag. The source added the exit of the LJP from the NDA was just a matter of time and the announcement in this regard, would be most probably made by Chirag himself. The BJP’s central election committee is likely to announce the names of the party’s candidates either on Saturday or Sunday. The party’s central brass is waiting for the outcome of the LJP’s parliamentary board meeting to be held on Saturday. Chirag had earlier threatened to field LJP candidates on 143 seats where JD(U) candidates will be in fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-bjp-wait-for-chirags-next-move/articleshow/78456387.cms||Abhay Singh
October 3, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: JD(U), BJP wait for Chirag’s next move||PATNA: With the LJP, an NDA ally, once again targeting CM Nitish Kumar on Friday – this time over his ‘saat nishchay’ programmes – the JD(U) and BJP appear to have realised that they would have to go to the assembly elections without the Chirag Paswan-led party. Meanwhile, BJP’s Bihar incharge Bhupender Yadav and the party’s election incharge for the state, Devendra Fadnavis, left for Delhi on Friday, carrying the list of the party’s candidates for the respective seats it would be contesting, BJP sources said. Yadav and Fadnavis camped here for two days, holding meetings with the party’s election management committee and core committee members at the residence of deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to identify the candidates for at least 110 seats. “They held discussions even on Friday to finalise names of candidates,” a state BJP source said, adding Bhupendra had also kept Nitish and his aide in the loop through phone in view of the day’s sharp developments coming from Chirag. The source added the exit of the LJP from the NDA was just a matter of time and the announcement in this regard, would be most probably made by Chirag himself. The BJP’s central election committee is likely to announce the names of the party’s candidates either on Saturday or Sunday. The party’s central brass is waiting for the outcome of the LJP’s parliamentary board meeting to be held on Saturday. Chirag had earlier threatened to field LJP candidates on 143 seats where JD(U) candidates will be in fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/jdu-bjp-wait-for-chirags-next-move/articleshow/78451438.cms||Abhay Singh
October 3, 2020||Business||Now, GIC, TPG together put Rs 7,350cr in Reliance Retail||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) has announced two more deals totalling Rs 7,350 crore in its retail unit. GIC, which manages Singapore’s foreign reserves, will invest Rs 5,513 crore for a 1.2% stake in Reliance Retail Ventures, the holding company of India’s biggest and most profitable retailer, while US-based TPG will put in Rs 1,836 crore for a 0.4% in the unit. These investments have assigned a value of Rs 4.3 lakh crore to Reliance Retail. While GIC will be the first Southeast Asian investor in the RIL arm, TPG will be the fourth US fund to invest in the unit, which so far has raised Rs 32,198 crore by selling a 7.3% stake. These funds are betting on India’s retail story where RIL is expected to play a bigger role with its offline and online ventures. Reliance Retail is GIC’s first investment in an RIL arm, while TPG had previously invested in RIL’s digital and telecom services unit. The US fund had put in Rs 4,547 crore for a small stake in Jio Platforms. RIL, India’s most valuable listed entity, has recently announced the acquisition of Future Retail for Rs 24,713 crore and is in the midst of rolling out its ‘new commerce’ strategy. This covers combining Reliance’s physical store network with its fledgling e-commerce play. It also involves millions of mom-and-pop stores as last-mile delivery agents to take on larger online rivals Amazon and Flipkart in the country’s $800-billion retail market. More financial investors are expected to be part of RIL’s retail unit, which plans to go for an IPO in the next few years. The listing could give the retail business a higher valuation and investors an opportunity to exit from the outfit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/now-gic-tpg-together-put-rs-7350cr-in-rel-retail/articleshow/78455288.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 3, 2020||Surat||Surat airport passenger traffic jumps 138% in September||SURAT: The Surat airport is soaring high post-lockdown. For the first time, the passenger traffic from the airport witnessed a jump of 138% in September compared to the previous August month with about 45,000 passengers travelling to various destinations across the country. According to the figures released by Airports Authority of India (AAI), 45,000 passengers travelled from Surat Airport in September compared to 18,792 in August. This is the highest ever jump in the passenger traffic after the domestic flight operations resumed from May 25. Official sources said the average passenger footfall at the airport has touched 1,500 per day in September and it is likely to increase to 2,000 per day in October. From just two flights in June, the airport is catered with about 24 flights—arrival and departure—to various destinations including Delhi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Bhubaneshwar, Goa etc. A senior AAI officer said, “We are hoping the passenger traffic to cross 55,000 in October with the Diwali season approaching and the marriage season starting immediately after the festival. Starting from October 25, there will be daily direct flights between Surat, Hyderabad and Kolkata being operated by Indigo.” The AAI permitted the operations of the cafeteria and restaurant inside the airport terminal starting from Friday. The flight information display system (FIDS) has been installed at the terminal building. Instead of LED TV screens, the terminal now has LED walls. Altogether, 39 new FIDS has been installed at the entrance and exists to display real-time information on arrival and departure of the scheduled flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-airport-passenger-traffic-jumps-138-in-sept/articleshow/78451716.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Positivity rate has come down in Pudukottai, claims health min||Trichy: Effective Covid-19 preventive measure by health staff has brought down positive cases in Pudukottai, said health minister C Vijaya Baskar on Friday. The district has been reporting less than 100 cases in the last two days, with 93 cases on Friday “Pudukottai is one among the few districts in the state that have been reporting over 150 Covid-19 positive cases on a daily basis. However, the numbers have come down to 100 and was possible with the untiring efforts of the health staff,” he said. He claimed that the positivity rate was brought down by effective tracing of positive patients by making door-to-door visits and increasing sample collection. The 113 medical teams have been conducting medical camps daily to identify positive cases. So far 4.2 lakh people were screened in fever camps across the district out of which samples were collected from 12,700 over suspected Covid-19 infection. “By increasing the sample collection from 2,000 to 2,500 per day though mobile sample collection facility, testing capacity too was increased to 2,500 samples per day,” he said. Appreciating Pudukottai government medical college hospital for testing over a lakh samples through RT-PCR, he hailed the doctors for successfully attending 100 deliveries of Covid-19 positive pregnant women from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/positivity-rate-has-come-down-in-pudukottai-claims-health-min/articleshow/78454331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Varanasi||11 mths after death, farmer issued Rs 3.9L Kisan loan||VARANASI: When Vyas Mishra, a farmer from Bairiya died on March 3, 2018, he had outstanding dues of Rs 40,000 against his Kisan Credit Card (KCC) loan. However, his family was shocked to know that a loan of Rs 3.9lakh was sanctioned in the name of Mishra in February 2019 – 11months after his death. And this was not the only case. Some other farmers like Jitendra Tiwari and Vinod Tiwari also complained to authorities at Gopalnagar branch of the Central Bank of India that huge amounts were sanctioned as loans in their names without their knowledge and the money was siphoned off by fraudsters. When the bank conducted an internal inquiry, it was found that around Rs 20lakh was withdrawn through fraudulent means by former manager of the bank, a clerk and two local women account-holders. Following the detection the fraud, the bank authorities lodged an FIR against the accused. Inspector, Bairiya, Sanjay Tripathi said, “The present manager of Gopalnagar branch of the Central Bank of India, Vikrant Vishal, lodged an FIR on September 30 on the basis of the outcome of the bank’s internal investigation in which the involvement of former branch manager, Prashant Kumar, was found.” “The bank authorities have suspended Prashant Kumar and have made him prime accused in the case. A clerk, Nischal Rathore, and two local women account holders –Mina Devi and Poonam Devi – have also been accused. A case has been registered against them under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (use of foreged documents as genuine) of the IPC,” he added. Tripathi said Prashant Kumar, belonged to Nalanda district in Bihar. “He was indulging in embezzlement since 2017 in connivance with Mina Devi and Poonam while clerk Rathore, a native of Uttarakhand, assisted them,” he said. Tripathi said as Kumar was serving as manager in the branch for long, the exposure of financial irregularities had left many accountholders worried. Police have started investigation in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/11-mths-after-death-farmer-issued-rs-3-9l-kisan-loan/articleshow/78453716.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Patna||2 of 5 accused held in Kaimur gang-rape case||PATNA: Two youths were sent to jail on Friday for alleged gang-rape with an 18-year-old girl in Kaimur district on Thursday. Police said an FIR was registered with Women’s police station on the victim’s written complaint against five youths. Kaimur SP Dilnawaz Ahmed on Friday told TOI over phone that a medical board was constituted to conduct the victim’s medical examination and the report was awaited. Ahmed said the victim has actually accused only one youth of raping her in the presence of the four others. “Two youths were arrested immediately after the incident while three more are absconding. The victim’s statement has been video-recorded,” he said. Ahmed said police came to know that the accused youths had an altercation with the victim on Wednesday. “The incident is being investigated from all angles, including the possibility of love affair,” he said. Women’s police station SHO Sudhanshu Shekhar said the arrested youths were identified as Ajeet Kumar and Chotu Yadav. “Chattu Yadav, Pramod Yadav and Dhananjay Yadav are absconding,” he said, adding all the five accused are from the same village. Shekhar, quoting the FIR, said Dhananjay raped her while two others kept holding her hands. “The other accused were also present there,” he said. The SHO said the FIR was registered under Sections 323, 341, 504, 376G and 34 of IPC. “The girl has mentioned in the FIR that she had gone to the fields on the outskirts of her village with her two friends for cutting grass when the five accused reach there. The youths forced the other two girls to flee after which the victim was raped,” he said. He said the two girls returned to village and raised an alarm after which villagers rushed to the spot and nabbed Ajeet and Chotu and informed the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-of-5-accused-held-in-kaimur-gang-rape-case/articleshow/78450955.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 3, 2020||Patna||Kaimur DM wins accolades||PATNA: Kaimur district magistrate Dr. Nawal Kishore Choudhary won accolades from unexpected quarters. Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora not only lauded Choudhary’s endeavour for voters awareness campaign despite being infected with coronavirus but also suggested the chief electoral officer (CEO) of Bihar H R Srinivasa to make the 2013 batch IAS officer, state’s icon of voters’ awareness programme. “A medical degree holder, Choudhary has set an example for those who got infected with the virus and are scared to go to the polling booths to exercise their franchise, ” Arora said. The CEC along with other officials was on his three-day visit to the state to assess the preparedness for the assembly polls scheduled to be held in three phases from October 28 to November 7 Choudhary said that he was detected Covid positive on September 1. “I remained in home isolation and followed the doctor’s advice. Despite being in home isolation, I tried to ensure that essential work didn’t get affected,” the DM said, adding that he resumed work soon after his test reports came negative. Incidentally, only 27 active cases of Covid-19 were found in Kaimur district, which shares its border with Uttar Pradesh. Of the 3011 tests conducted on Wednesday, no positive case was found in the district. “The test reports showed zero in Kaimur district yesterday,” he told this newspaper over the phone. A native of Sitamarhi in Bihar, Choudhary did his MBBS and MS from PMCH and also worked as neurosurgeon at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, New Delhi. The Kaimur district administration has also launched the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign to motivate the electors to participate in the ‘jantantra ka maha parv’ besides SVEEP, a flagship programme of the EC for voters education, spreading voter awareness and promote voter literary in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kaimur-dm-wins-accolades/articleshow/78451366.cms||Ramashankar
October 3, 2020||Patna||Four shot at over delay in selling fish, 5 arrested||PATNA: Five youths were arrested on Friday for shooting at and injuring four villagers for delay in selling fish to them at Nawahi under Naubatpur police station area in western Patna on Thursday evening. The accused as well as the injured persons are from Nawahi. Those arrested were identified as Suraj Kumar, Golu Kumar, Vicky Kumar, Vikash Kumar and Raushan Kumar, all in their 20s. The injured were identified as Dharmendra Paswan, Govind Thakur, Santosh Ram and Pinki Devi, City SP (West) Ashok Mishra said on Friday. Two more youths involved in the firing were absconding. “The injured are out of danger,” Mishra said. “It seems 12 bore cartridges were used as all the injured had received splinter injuries,” he said. Case IO Rajiv Ranjan said the injured with others were fishing in a pond when the accused reached there and demanded fish immediately. “The accused were asked to wait for some time. However, the accused lost patience and opened fire,” he said. “An FIR was registered on Dharmendra’s statement against the accused,” he said and added: “The injured are undergoing treatment at PMCH.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-shot-at-over-delay-in-selling-fish-5-arrested/articleshow/78451284.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nursery fails to take root on Yamuna floodplain||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council’s (NDMC) ambitious project to develop a unique nursery on 25 acres of land allotted by Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on the Yamuna floodplain to grow “second generation” plants in wooden containers and transplant them in place of dead heritage trees in Lutyens’ Delhi has hit a dead end. After getting the land near Sarai Kale Khan and floating tenders for fencing it, NDMC realised that the site was barely a 100 metres from the river and even a little rain would flood it for days. Officials said the land was not appropriate for growing saplings in containers as their roots would get damaged after being submerged in water for days. “We are in a dilemma right now. The site is good for planting trees, but not for a nursery where saplings can be grown in containers for transplantation. We realised this within 2-3 days when the roots of the plants started rotting due to flooding,” said an NDMC official. The official added, “We came to the conclusion after visiting the site multiple times during monsoon. That’s why the project has been halted. We have communicated our apprehension to DDA unofficially, but will soon formally request them to suggest an alternative.” The project is important for NDMC as 100-year-old trees in Lutyens’ Delhi have started dying. “Most of the trees on avenue roads were planted 90-100 years ago. While trees such as jamun, arjun, peepal, banyan and imli are expected to survive for 50-100 years, varieties such as neem and pilkhan can fall prey to bad weather and increased concretising. This project was taken up to make preparations in advance to replace the dead trees,” said the official. The nursery was planned taking a cue from countries like Belgium and China. In 2019, NDMC had signed an MoU with DDA for leasing the land for 15 years to grow a variety of trees to replace the nearly century-old dead heritage trees on avenue roads. The civic agency also agreed to supply 25% of its plants to DDA starting from the third year, apart from removing encroachments. Watch NDMC’s ambitious nursery project fails to take roots on Yamuna floodplain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nursery-fails-to-take-root-on-floodplain/articleshow/78452692.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 3, 2020||Surat||Election fever grips city’s trade and industry bodies||Surat: The trade and industry players in Surat are gearing up over the vice-president’s election of the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) scheduled on October 4.Like previous years, two candidates are left in the fray for the VP’s post — textile industry leader Ashish Gujarati and well-known chartered accountant Mitesh Modi. At a time when the associations from the diamond, textile, real estate, chemical and engineering sectors have come out in the open to support of Gujarati, Modi, who is backed by the Modh Vanik business community, was issued notice by the election committee of SGCCI for violating the model code of conduct on Friday. Sources said that the election committee of SGCCI on Thursday took a serious note for the violation of guidelines for campaigning by Modi who had erected hoardings and posters across the city for his promotion. Following the notice issued by the election committee, the hoarding and posters were removed on Friday. Hetal Mehta, chairman of SGCCI’s election committee said, “Due to Covid-19, the campaigning through posters, banners and hoardings was strictly prohibited. The candidates can make maximum use of the social media platform to reach out to their voters.”Mehta added, “The SGCCI has over 10,000 members in south Gujarat. The members can vote for their candidate through postal ballot.” Jayvadan Bodawala, president of the oldest Surat Art Silk Cloth Manufacturers Association (SASCMA) told TOI, “After a long time, a strong candidate from the textile sector is contesting the VP election of SGCCI. City’s textile sector is passing from a tough phase due to coronavirus pandemic. We want a voice from the SGCCI to represent our issues to the central and state governments.”Modi had contested the VP’s election against the present president of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya in April 2019. Navadiya was unanimously elected, but Modi and his supporters had opposed the selection by the managing committee and demanded election. However, Modi had to taste a bitter defeat against Navadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/election-fever-grips-citys-trade-and-industry-bodies/articleshow/78451789.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||Parents continue to complain of schools insisting on fees||Mysuru: Although the latest guidelines issued by the central government allows for respective states to decide on the re-opening of schools and educational institutions after October 15, uncertainty still reigns over such a possibility in Karnataka. Under such circumstances, although private schools and educational institutions run by minority organisations were directed by the government against forcing parents to pay fees, complaints continue to pile up against the management of schools for demanding payment from parents for enrolment of their children. Many parents in Mysuru district have complained of receiving messages from schools demanding payment of fees before September 30. Failure to pay the fee, the parents were informed via a text message, would result in online classes being discontinued for their children. Uma Maheshwari, resident of Kanakagiri in Mysuru, is among the parents who believes that schools must desist from sending reminders demanding payment of fees. Pointing to the distress that the pandemic has plunged vast sections of society in, Uma said, “Many families are struggling to make ends mee, their breadwinners having lost jobs. How will such people pay fees when this is the situation?” She said that even the government was not sure as to when it would be safe to reopen schools. “Many schools are demanding not just tuition fees, but payment towards uniforms, books and in the case of residential institutions, hostel fees also,” Uma added. Mysuru’s in-charge deputy director of public instruction Udaykumar said that, while private educational institutions were permitted to collect the first instalment of the annual fees, they could not force parents to do so until schools and colleges reopened. “We have warned the management of those schools pressuring parents to pay fees against doing so. We will initiate stringent action against such institutions,” he told TOI. Udaykumar affirmed that private institutions could not deny education to any student this academic year citing non-payment of fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/parents-continue-to-complain-of-schools-insisting-on-fees/articleshow/78452308.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Surat||VNSGU yet to form important quality improvement body||Surat: An important body _ the Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) _ of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) responsible for improving the quality of the institute has not been formed since November 2019. It is necessary for each National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC)-accredited higher education institute to form the IQAC which is responsible for various quality enhancement initiatives. IQAC is responsible for preparing and submitting Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) to NAAC. The cell also submits a report to NAAC, based on which the university is awarded grade at interval of every five years. For preparation and submission of reports, IQAC regularly keeps a check on various quality improvement areas like changes in curriculum, student-teacher ratio and healthy practices in the institute. The committee also monitors participation of teachers in academic conferences and their overall performance. The committee is headed by the vice-chancellor (VC) and comprises of senior professors, industry representatives and citizens. “The term of the last IQAC ended in November 2019. The university officials brought this to the notice of the then senior officials like VC and registrar,” said a senior university official. During the term of Shivendra Gupta as VC and Rajendra Patel as in-charge registrar, IQAC’s term ended. Gupta’s term ended in August. VNSGU is supposed to submit a report for NAAC grading in the next one and half year for which the university had to start preparing the report in January 2020. But in absence of IQAC, the process is likely to get delayed for a few months, sources informed. “We have already started the process to form IQAC and it will be in shape soon. It is an important committee. Meanwhile, the university administration tried that the work is not affected in the absence of IQAC,” said Hemali Desai, in-charge VC, VNSGU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-yet-to-form-important-quality-improvement-body/articleshow/78451749.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 3, 2020||Surat||Corona warriors’ healing touch etched on canvas||Surat: The healing touch provided by thousands of healthcare workers during the Covid-19 pandemic will be etched in the memory of Surat forever through this unique initiative.The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER Hospital team created a ‘memorabilia’ through this ‘caring hands’ initiative where in hand impressions of 2,500 health workers of the hospital were taken on canvas. Impressions of nearly 2,500 health workers including ward boys, cleaning staff, ambulance drivers, kitchen staff, security staff, administrative staff, nurses and doctors have been taken in different colours on the pieces of cloth totalling 800 feet.“Caring hands” project is a symbol of courage, dedication and resilience shown by each and every health care worker during this testing time of pandemic. These hand impressions will always remind us of the difficult pandemic days and the teamwork put in by all the healthcare workers to tide over it," said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, Surat. "We are planning to place these “caring hands” cloth pieces in different locations of the SMIMER campus to boost everyone’s morale," Pani said.“. During the process we could see happy faces applying their hand impressions and taking pictures with colourful hands. We wanted to create a symbol of unity with contribution from everyone - something to be felt proud about,” added Pani.“Health workers have been putting their tremendous efforts to save lives in Covid-19 time. This was a symbolic project to recognise the services of health workers engaged in Covid-19 fight and how frontline staff saved hundreds of human lives. These hands show that they fought global pandemic together,” said Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Surat and officer on special duty (OSD) at SMC for Covid-19.The initiative started on August 15 and continued for two weeks. SMIMER carefully selected cloth and pigment colours which can be cleaned easily after applying on hands. "Each healthcare worker has given their hand impression to create a random design," said Dr Parag Shah, professor and head, department of psychiatry, SMIMER, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/corona-warriors-healing-touch-etched-on-canvas/articleshow/78451603.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Business||JioMart pilots milk deliveries in B’luru, Chennai||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com JioMart has started testing subscription-based daily morning deliveries of essentials like milk, eggs and bread in Bengaluru and Chennai. This will pit it directly against online food delivery platform Swiggy’s Supr Daily and Bigbasket’s BB Daily services, besides standalone player Milkbasket. Sources said the company aims to launch it nationally by Diwali, depending on the results in Bengaluru and Chennai. “This is available in select pin codes in the two cities for now,” a person aware of the matter said. A JioMart spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. These subscriptions typically work on daily or alternate-day deliveries of mostly breakfast-related items in addition to other grocery items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jiomart-pilots-milk-deliveries-in-bluru-chennai/articleshow/78455336.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Sonia Gandhi compares NDA govt to Britishers||PATNA: Congress president Sonia Gandhi in her first address to the party workers in poll-bound Bihar on Friday compared the NDA government with the Britishers saying just as they exploited the indigo farmers of Champaran, the current government is harassing the farmers and working for a selected few. “The three farm laws have been formulated by the Centre to benefit a few and harass the farmers. In this situation, the Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan slogan given by Lal Bahadur Shastri is more inspiring than ever before,” Sonia said paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversary. She was addressing a gathering of party leaders and workers as part of the ‘Gandhi Chetna’ rally to mark the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Sonia also honoured the families of 151 freedom fighters who took part in the Champaran Satyagrah and remotely unveiled a statue of the Father of the Nation at its district office in Banjaria Pandal in East Champaran. In her speech broadcast via a video link, she asked people of Bihar to come together against the NDA government, which she said was playing with emotions and creating an atmosphere of fear and distrust. Sonia said for Mahatma Gandhi, development meant progress of the poorest of the poor and he followed the path of non-violence, which Congress has adopted. She recalled the Champaran movement started by Gandhi for indigo farmers and said her party will continue its resistance against the three laws formulated by the NDA government and called them anti-farmer. She raised the issue of unemployment, privatization of public sectors and closure of cottage and small scale industries. “They (NDA) used to make fun of MGNREGA and even opposed it when it was formed. But during Covid-19 pandemic, it was MGNREGA which helped crores of people earn their livelihood. Look how the Modi government has weakened the historic RTI law formed by the UPA government,” she said. She added, “They are running the government with the use of fear and emotion. But it is enough now and it’s up to you to take the right decision. We have to come together and fight, and this will be the right way of paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi.” Bihar Congress in-charge Shaktisinh Gihil, who was addressing this virtual rally from Patna raised the issue of Hathras gang rape and called Yogi Adityanath’s governance as ‘jungle raj’. Gohil raised questions on carrying out the final rituals in mid-night, which is not done in Hindu religion and that too in the absence of the victim’s family. “We need a government in Bihar that will serve the people. BJP is creating trouble for every individual. And I am sure Congress and its alliances will form a government here with people’s blessings.” Dalit leader slams Hathras incident: All India Congress Committee national chairman for SC/ST organization, Udit Raj raised the issue of Hathras gang rape. In a press conference held at Sadaqat Ashram on Friday, Udit called BJP anti-Dalit. “The way Bhagat Singh’s body was not handed over to his family, similarly, rape victim’s body was not given to her family by the BJP government,” he said. Several people belonging to the Dalit community joined the Congress in his presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-chief-compares-nda-govt-to-britishers/articleshow/78456648.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 3, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Sonia Gandhi compares NDA govt to Britishers||PATNA: Congress president Sonia Gandhi in her first address to the party workers in poll-bound Bihar on Friday compared the NDA government with the Britishers saying just as they exploited the indigo farmers of Champaran, the current government is harassing the farmers and working for a selected few. “The three farm laws have been formulated by the Centre to benefit a few and harass the farmers. In this situation, the Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan slogan given by Lal Bahadur Shastri is more inspiring than ever before,” Sonia said paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversary. She was addressing a gathering of party leaders and workers as part of the ‘Gandhi Chetna’ rally to mark the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Sonia also honoured the families of 151 freedom fighters who took part in the Champaran Satyagrah and remotely unveiled a statue of the Father of the Nation at its district office in Banjaria Pandal in East Champaran. In her speech broadcast via a video link, she asked people of Bihar to come together against the NDA government, which she said was playing with emotions and creating an atmosphere of fear and distrust. Sonia said for Mahatma Gandhi, development meant progress of the poorest of the poor and he followed the path of non-violence, which Congress has adopted. She recalled the Champaran movement started by Gandhi for indigo farmers and said her party will continue its resistance against the three laws formulated by the NDA government and called them anti-farmer. She raised the issue of unemployment, privatization of public sectors and closure of cottage and small scale industries. “They (NDA) used to make fun of MGNREGA and even opposed it when it was formed. But during Covid-19 pandemic, it was MGNREGA which helped crores of people earn their livelihood. Look how the Modi government has weakened the historic RTI law formed by the UPA government,” she said. She added, “They are running the government with the use of fear and emotion. But it is enough now and it’s up to you to take the right decision. We have to come together and fight, and this will be the right way of paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi.” Bihar Congress in-charge Shaktisinh Gihil, who was addressing this virtual rally from Patna raised the issue of Hathras gang rape and called Yogi Adityanath’s governance as ‘jungle raj’. Gohil raised questions on carrying out the final rituals in mid-night, which is not done in Hindu religion and that too in the absence of the victim’s family. “We need a government in Bihar that will serve the people. BJP is creating trouble for every individual. And I am sure Congress and its alliances will form a government here with people’s blessings.” Dalit leader slams Hathras incident: All India Congress Committee national chairman for SC/ST organization, Udit Raj raised the issue of Hathras gang rape. In a press conference held at Sadaqat Ashram on Friday, Udit called BJP anti-Dalit. “The way Bhagat Singh’s body was not handed over to his family, similarly, rape victim’s body was not given to her family by the BJP government,” he said. Several people belonging to the Dalit community joined the Congress in his presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/cong-chief-compares-nda-govt-to-britishers/articleshow/78451460.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 3, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: 7 seats held by ministers to go to polls in Phase 1||PATNA: Altogether seven seats represented by ministers in the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state will go to polls in the first phase on October 28. In all, 71 assembly constituencies, mostly the ones hit by left wing extremism, will go to polls in the first phase. Four of the seven assembly seats represented by ministers are held by the JD(U) and the remaining three by the BJP. The seats represented by the BJP leaders are Banka, Chainpur and Gaya (town) from where Ramnarayan Mandal, Brij Kishor Bind and Prem Kumar, respectively, were elected in the 2015 assembly polls. While Mandal is serving as the minister of revenue and land reforms in Nitish Kumar cabinet, Bind holds the mining department and Kumar agriculture department. The four seats held by the JD(U) ministers are Jamalpur, Ghosi, Rajpur and Dinara. The seats are being represented by Shailesh Kumar, Krishnandan Prasad Verma, Santosh Kumar Nirala and Jai Kumar Singh, respectively. Shailesh Kumar is serving as rural works department minister and Nirala holds the portfolio of transport department. Similarly, Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma is serving as education department minister and Jai Kumar Singh as the science and technology minister. “Most of the constituencies going to polls in the first phase are by and large affected by Maoist activities. Hence, the polling hours in the first phase are different from the other constituencies,” said a senior IPS officer, who is associated with the deployment of the central armed police forces in the first phase. Aurangabad SP Sudhir Kumar Porika said the district armed police have already launched intensive operations in Maoist-hit villages. “The operation will be intensified with the deployment of the central forces,” he added. Porika said the area domination exercise has already started in the villages identified as hotbeds of the Maoists. Recently, a Maoist leader, Nawal Bhuyian, surrendered before the Gaya police after pressure was mounted on him in Aurangabad district. Five other Maoist activists were arrested from Goh police station area, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/7-seats-held-by-ministers-to-go-to-polls-in-phase-1/articleshow/78451481.cms||Ramashankar
October 3, 2020||Patna||Nominations begin, both camps yet to strike a deal||PATNA: Confusion prevailed in both the ruling NDA and the opposition Mahagathbandhan on seat-sharing issue even after two days of the notification for the first phase of state assembly election to be held on October 28. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said on Friday, “Thora aur wakt lagega (it will take some more time). Talks are already underway.” He blamed LJP for the delay in finalizing the seat-sharing deal because LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan “is sick and in hospital”. Sources in BJP said senior party leaders Bhupender Yadav and Devendra Fednavis left for Delhi without holding talks with JD(U), which insists on contesting from some traditional BJP seats. “Apart from LJP, the JD(U) wants those seats which were earlier held by BJP,” a party leader said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the delay in seat sharing among alliance partners was not a new phenomenon. “It’s obvious that each alliance partner tries to strike a deal in its favour. The preparations for the election are already underway. It’s just a matter of time that the names of contestants and constituencies will be announced by senior NDA leaders,” he said. When asked, JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary said, “Let the time come, you will know about it.” The situation in the opposition Mahagathbandhan is no different. RJD is finding it difficult to persuade its major ally Congress not to insist on its demand for minimum 70 seats. Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s absence is also delaying the seat-sharing deal. “Had Lalu ji been out of jail, the scene would have been different. RJD want to contest minimum 150 seats,” an RJD leader said, adding that this election would be a litmus test for Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. RJD was also infuriated over Congress’ Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil’s statement on Tejashwi’s “inexperience”. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “RJD will never tolerate any derogatory comments against its CM face.” He suggested Gohil to focus on ensuring the NDA’s defeat instead of criticizing its ally RJD. He said nobody should be in confusion that RJD is the biggest partner than other allies in the Mahagathbandhan. Meanwhile, a source said that the seat-sharing deal with CPI-ML (Liberation), CPI and CPI(M) has been finalized after Dipankar Bhattacharya called on Tejashwi on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nominations-begin-both-camps-yet-to-strike-a-deal/articleshow/78451386.cms||Ramashankar
October 3, 2020||Patna||BJP’s IT cell launches digital blitzkrieg||PATNA: BJP, arguably the giant in digital electioneering in the country, on Friday claimed that its digital footprint in the state has reached up to booth level through over 1.50 lakh WhatsApp groups, thousands of social media handles and the ‘Kamal Konnect’ mobile application. In a bid to expand its digital outreach ahead of the assembly elections in the state in which digital electioneering rules the roost, the BJP has launched ‘Kamal Konnect’ app that can be run on low-speed internet in rural areas. “The app has become widely popular in the rural areas as it consumes less data, especially in villages where internet speed is slow,” BJP’s state IT cell convener Manan Krishna said. Manan added, “The app contains videos of senior party functionaries talking about development works done by Narendra Modi-led NDA government at the Centre, especially in Bihar, in the last six years. Apart from pre-recorded videos, the public speeches of our leaders are also streamed live on this app.” He said the IT cells are functional right from the party headquarters in Patna to 10,000 shakti kendras at booth level. “Our IT cells are functional round the year and its members know their roles and responsibilities from state to booth level. There are 6.7 crore cellphone users in Bihar, out of whom 2.5crore use smartphones. Our penetration among the social media users in Bihar is the highest among all political parties,” Manan added. Asked about the WhatsApp groups, Manan said apart from 65,000 existing groups, one lakh new groups were created this year and each group has 200 members. The BJP’s IT cell is also tasked with the responsibility of looking after the digital or virtual rallies of big leaders, which broadly started with Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bihar Samvad rally on June 7. “Our initial estimate of viewership for Bihar Samvad rally was 35,000, which gradually went up to 58 lakh. We had organised 300 small-scale virtual rallies during the lockdown, which gave us an edge over other parties in digital electioneering,” Manan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-it-cell-launches-digital-blitzkrieg/articleshow/78458002.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 3, 2020||Patna||State’s Covid-19 tally crosses 1.85L-mark, toll rises to 910||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 1,85,707 on Friday with 1,431 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The state’s Covid toll, on the other hand, has touched 910 with four more people succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. However, with 1,72,364 recoveries, active cases in the state stand at 12,431. A 35-year-old woman from Patel Nagar here died due to Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna on Thursday. Her death was confirmed on Friday. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the deceased was admitted in her full-term pregnancy. “She gave birth to twins two days back after a surgery. Both the twins, however, died after birth,” Dr Kumar added. He said 15 new Covid patients were admitted to the hospital and five discharged on Friday. The new patients included those from different localities of Patna like Nageshwar Colony, Sadbhwana Nagar and Phulwarisharif. Asked about a cabinet minister who was admitted to AIIMS-Patna on Thursday after testing positive for Covid-19, Dr Kumar said, “His condition is fine. The minister, though, has renal problem.” Of the 1,431 new cases, 236 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 28,382. However, with 26070 recoveries, there are 2,098 active cases in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-19-tally-crosses-1-85l-mark-toll-rises-to-910/articleshow/78450941.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 3, 2020||Patna||Wait for Dobhi-Patna road lingers||GAYA: For the residents of Nawan village under Bodh Gaya assembly constituency, land was source of livelihood which they spared for widening of NH-83. Nine years have passed since notification for acquiring the land for NH-83 was issued in 2011, but the project is still incomplete. Although land of more than 15 people of Nawan village was acquired, not everyone has got the full compensation amount yet. Bhagwan Prasad of the village, a retired government employee, said he had spared one acre and 80 decimal of land for the project. “I have got compensation amount for just 96 decimal. My late elder brother was also shareholder in the land plot. My two nephews are unemployed. They used to do farming for livelihood, but the yield of crops on some more land remaining with the family is not enough to meet all requirements,” Prasad said. Another villager, Yogendra Kumar Sinha, said, “Elected representatives, including Gaya MP or the Bodh Gaya MLA, have never bothered to initiate step to solve our problem. In elections, we vote for development. However, if we keep facing problem in earning livelihood, development means nothing to us. Two elections – 2015 Bihar assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha – are over, but the project is still incomplete. The government should at least give the villagers some contractual assignments as many of them possess higher education degrees,” Yogendra said. Neeraj Kumar of the same village, who gave 1.5 bigha land (30 kattha) for road construction, echoed similar views. “I have got compensation for 1.5 bighas (30 kattha) only,” he said. District land acquisition officer (DLAO) Ram Niranjan Choudhary said the amount of compensation to be disbursed among the landowners has been made available by the state government. “Majority of people have got the amount. Delay is caused only in cases of those who have filed arbitration case for revision in rate. All such cases will be disposed of within the next six months,” the DLAO said. The existing 127km stretch of NH-83 is being upgraded into four-lane road from Dobhi in Gaya to Patna via Bodh Gaya, Gaya and Jehanabad with an estimated expenditure of around Rs 5,500 crore. National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) project implementation unit (PIU), Gaya, is implementing the project. NHAI PIU sources said the project would be completed by October 2022. Maintenance work of the existing stretch is already complete and the road is in good condition, they said. However, Pankaj Kumar, a businessman living in Gaya town, said, “Up to Jehanabad from Gaya, the road is somewhat in better condition. However, from Masaurhi to Patna, it takes three hours to cover the distance of just around 30km.” Another local businessman, Rajiv Kumar Sharma, said, “The bridge near Katari in Gaya is in a dilapidated condition. Travelling to Patna road from Gaya by road is a bumpy affair as the condition of road is not good.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wait-for-dobhi-patna-road-lingers/articleshow/78450879.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Patna||Man hacks father to death over illicit relation with wife||PATNA: A man hacked his father to death over alleged illicit relationship with his wife at Barmottar under Bharahi outpost in Madhepura district on Thursday evening. The accused, Ashok Mehta (28), was arrested and sent to jail on Friday. Ashok attacked his father Ramchandra Mehta (60) with a sharp-edged object on his head, shoulders and arms. “He died on the spot due to excessive bleeding,” Bharahi outpost incharge Rudal Kumar told TOI over phone on Friday. He said the villagers had nabbed Ashok and handed him to police on reaching the village after receiving information about the murder. Kumar said villagers told the police that Ashok had been mentally very disturbed for the last four to five days and killed his father. “However, after further investigation, it surfaced that Ramchandra had illicit relation with Ashok’s wife, which was the reason behind the murder,” he said. “The family members tried to cover up the matter. Ramchandra’s wife has lodged an FIR in which she has alleged that Ashok killed his father. She has not mentioned any reason for the killing,” Kumar said. He said the body was handed over to the family after autopsy conducted on Friday. He said the duo were daily wagers in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-hacks-father-to-death-over-illicit-relation-with-wife/articleshow/78451243.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Patna||New laws to serve farmers’ interest, says Ravi Shankar||PATNA: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Friday slammed Congress, RJD and their supporting parties for opposing the new agriculture laws, maintaining that they were meant to serve the interests of all categories of farmers, as they have freed them from the exploitation by middlemen in the matters of sale of their agriculture produce. “The three Bills, which have now become Acts, are in the interest of the small and medium farmers and will also benefit big farmers,” Prasad said, adding that Congress, RJD and their supporting parties “are on the side of the middlemen who exploit the farmers” and were opposing the Centre for the sake of opposition. Prasad insisted that the minimum support price (MSP) will not be abolished as has been categorically stated by PM Narendra Modi. “In fact, the central government has increased the MSP rates for various crops, including wheat, paddy and pulses,” Prasad said, adding that under contract farming, the farmers will be free to enter into an agreement at their own will with the companies to provide them input support like fertilizers and seeds and would also be protected in case of crop damage caused by natural disasters. He reiterated that no farmer would be dispossessed of his land. “Farmers will remain the owner of land. No land will be leased out to the companies, nor will he mortgage his land and none will be evicted from the land,” Prasad said. He also said Congress had promised in its 2019 manifesto that “it will repeal the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act and also free the farmers from all kinds of exploitation”. Further, the Congress governments in 12 states had freed vegetables and fruits from the APMC Act, and also okayed contract farming in some states. “Congress could not bring out the relevant Acts. The Narendra Modi government has done it and, therefore, Congress is seeing red,” Prasad said, adding that the protests by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) were influenced by the local politics in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-laws-to-serve-farmers-interest-says-ravi-shankar/articleshow/78451410.cms||Abhay Singh
October 3, 2020||Business||In a first, SBI hires externally to fill CFO post||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) has appointed Charanjit Attra, a consultant with EY, as its chief financial officer (CFO). This is the first time that the bank is hiring laterally for the position. A vacancy was created in March this year after the bank’s former CFO Prashant Kumar put in his papers to join Yes Bank as an RBI-appointed MD & CEO to implement a rescue package. In the interim, C Venkat Nageshwar was officiating as the CFO. Attra was until recently EY India’s financial services and financial accounting advisory services (FAAS) partner. He is a chartered accountant from India and has cleared the CPA from Denver, Colorado (US). He was earlier a CFO with ICICI Securities. While SBI’s former CFO Kumar was a deputy managing director at SBI, the new incumbent will report to the deputy managing director (finance) — a new position created by the bank. SBI was forced to cast its net wide for a CFO after the RBI insisted on minimum qualification for the post as well as for a chief technology officer (CTO). According to RBI norms, the CFO should be a qualified chartered accountant with minimum 15 years’ experience in overseeing financial operations, preferably accounting and taxation matters, in banks/large corporates/public sector undertakings/ financial services organisations, of which 10 years should be in banks or financial services with five years’ experience at senior management level. Some bankers feel that the role of a CFO in a bank is different from a similar position in a corporate entity. “In a bank, finance is the raw material for the organisation’s operations and senior management executives are experts in finance, unlike in corporates where finance is one of the functions of management,” said a banker. The RBI has, however, taken a tough stance on this and had even turned down a private bank’s proposal to appoint a CFO who did not meet its specifications. SBI, meanwhile, is continuing to hire specialists of manager rank and above for retail products, enterprise, and technology architecture and risk management. Last month, the bank had issued a statement that it plans to recruit 14,000 employees during the current fiscal. It currently has around 2.5 lakh employees. The bank’s statement on hiring came after opposition parties said that its special voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) was aimed at reducing headcount. The bank clarified that the VRS was aimed at providing a “congenial solution to employees who expressed desire for making strategic shift in their vocations, either due to professional growth limitations, mobility issues, health conditions or family situations”. Watch In a first, SBI hires externally to fill CFO post||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-sbi-hires-externally-to-fill-cfo-post/articleshow/78455199.cms||---
October 3, 2020||---||Many BJP workers ‘unhappy’ as JD(U) sets sights on Buxar seat||PATNA: Resentment is brewing among local BJP workers in Buxar district over internal reports that the assembly constituency is likely to be handed over to ally JD(U) to facilitate the candidature of former state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey. The Buxar unit of BJP recently conveyed its workers’ resentment to the party’s state leaders and urged them to ensure that the Buxar seat remains with the saffron party. “All our state leaders are aware of the resentment among workers. We have conveyed to the state leaders, through proper channels, about the sentiments of workers,” BJP’s Buxar district president Madhuri Kunwar told TOI over the phone. “If Buxar seat goes to JD(U), BJP workers will not work in this election. I am telling you the voice of BJP workers,” she said. BJP’s Buxar MP and Union minister of state for health Ashwini Kumar Choubey too had recently expressed his reservation over any other NDA ally staking claim on the Buxar seat. “Buxar is the traditional seat of the BJP,” Choubey had said. BJP’s Sukhda Pandey had won the seat in three elections in 2000, 2005 and 2010. But she lost the seat to Congress candidate Sanjay Kumar Tiwari in the 2015 assembly polls. Gupteshwar Pandey, the 1987-batch IPS officer, who took voluntary retirement on September 22, joined JD(U) in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar on September 27, just five days after quitting as DGP. As per speculation in the political circles, Pandey’s name is being considered as JD((U) candidate from Buxar. Pandey is a native of Geruabandh village under Itarhi block of the district. Kunwar further said BJP was not dependent on others for victory in Buxar. “We have our strength to win the election from Buxar seat,” she said, adding, “We have already given two seats -- Rajpur and Dumraon- to JD(U) and other two seats- Buxar and Brahmapur- are contested by us for last several elections.” Asked whether she knew that former DGP Pandey was being considered for Buxar seat, Kunwar said, “We too have been hearing such rumours, but BJP workers are not ready for it.” She added, “BJP workers have been labouring for both seats for years. We do not work only during the election period, we nurture our constituencies. If our seats go to others...Are the BJP workers only there to carry ‘Jhola’ (bags) of others?” Kunwar said she has been receiving around 500 phone calls every day from BJP workers asking if the party is going to contest from Buxar and Brahmapur seats or not. “I am telling you if BJP does not get Buxar and Brahmapur seats, the NDA will lose all four assembly seats in Buxar district,” Kunwar claimed. However, JD(U) leaders in the district are in upbeat mood over the reports that former DGP would be contesting from Buxar. Sources said Pandey had a long meeting with JD(U)’s Buxar unit president Bindhyachal Singh Kushwaha during his last visit to Buxar a few days ago. Admitting his meeting with Pandey, Kushwaha told TOI over the phone that the DGP had met him at the Buxar circuit house as a "school friend" and they had a long chat on various social issues. Asked about BJP’s claim on Buxar assembly seat, Kushawaha said BJP had been contesting all four seats in neighbouring Kaimur district. Hence, the saffron party should leave at least three seats for JD(U) in Buxar district. “But the final decision on seat-sharing will be taken by our top leaders. We will follow whatever decision is taken by our leaders on the Buxar seat,” Kushwaha told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/many-bjp-workers-unhappy-as-jdu-sets-sights-on-buxar-seat/articleshow/78451557.cms||Madan Kumar
October 3, 2020||Business||JioMart bets on private labels||BENGALURU: Reliance Retail has started pushing its array of existing private brands with kiranas across metro and non-metro markets, offering high margins of 20% as in-house label sales jump in online grocery. Multiple sources said this would result in higher availability of private labels on Reliance’s e-commerce platform JioMart, which is aggressively on-boarding kiranas across the country as part of its new commerce initiative. “This is a kind of backward integration for JioMart. While most JioMart orders are being fulfilled through Reliance Retail stores for now, they are on-boarding kiranas through the newly launched platform. In sync with that, their brands are being stocked so orders fulfilled through kiranas have enough private brands for consumers to choose from,” a person aware of the plans said. JioMart, which has also now started apparel sales, is not the only one being bullish on private brands. JioMart’s daily average order volume is learnt to be inching up from the previously announced 2.5 lakh and private brands, which are typically 10-20% cheaper, could boost that further. TOI has seen the offers being given to these merchants through regional distributors for brands, including Mopz, Expelz and Double White. Bigbasket, which had over 30% of total sales from in-house brands before the pandemic, now sees new customers doubling for its brands. Its private labels, like Fresho and BB Royal, account for 38% of its total monthly sales. The development comes at a time when grocery e-sales continue to see increased growth with Covid-induced online demand for essentials. Grocery e-sales are expected to surpass $3 billion this year compared to just under $2 billion in 2019, a report from RedSeer and Bigbasket last week showed. Other platforms like Grofers and Amazon India have been scaling up their brands too, with the former having more than half of its sales from private brands. These private brands are present across categories like staples, household cleaning items, fruits, vegetables and meat. A JioMart spokesperson did not respond to TOI’s emailed query on the matter. Bigbasket national head (buying and merchandising) Seshu Kumar Tirumala said the company treats its private brands as standalone, with product development and quality teams. Typically, private brands offer higher margins due to multiple reasons, including the fact that platforms don’t have to spend as much on marketing as compared to external brands. Besides, there is better control on logistics cost and inventory, giving it 5% higher margin as compared to external brands. “They ensure the product is well-differentiated and it has some unique properties due to which a customer buys the product and the quality is consistent...This year, we should end at around 40% (private brand sales), which was around 34% before the virus outbreak,” added Tirumala. It has a total of eight in-house labels. According to the RedSeer report, the total online grocery market would swell to about $24 billion in four years. “We have observed that traditional brands, which pivoted quickly to be digitally ready brands, have seen over two times jump in sales compared to offline brands,” RedSeer founder and CEO Anil Kumar said on the overall growth in the e-grocery market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jiomart-bets-on-private-labels/articleshow/78455174.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 3, 2020||---||Graft rules CM Nitish Kumar’s ‘saat nishchay’: LJP||PATNA: LJP led by Chirag Paswan seems to be in no mood to relent against NDA’s face in Bihar, CM Nitish Kumar, in the assembly election to be held in state from October 28 to November 7. A day before its crucial parliamentary board meeting, LJP on Friday attacked Nitish’s pet project — ‘Seven Resolves’ — and alleged that the schemes are full of corruption. “We don’t believe in ‘Seven Resolves’. All works under the project have remained incomplete. Payment has also not been done. It is a box of corruption,” LJP spokesperson Ashraf Ansari said in his statement and added: “Bihar First, Bihari First vision document will be implemented by the next government.” Chirag came up with ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ slogan during his yatra in the state in February this year. LJP is still to draft the final vision document. Nitish has announced that he will implement ‘Seven Resolves 2.0’ if voted back to power. LJP also stated that it will be the last meeting of the party on Saturday before the state assembly election and deliberations will be held on the 143 candidates shortlisted to contest the polls. Chirag’s father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is undergoing treatment in a Delhi hospital. BJP conceded that delay in finalizing the seat-sharing formula in NDA is due to the LJP. “Ram Vilas Ji is unwell and in hospital. We all pray for his well-being. Had he been well, the seat-sharing issues would have been finalized till now. He is a seasoned politician and must have helped in resolving the glitches,” BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal told reporters in Patna on Friday, adding that NDA is intact and everything will be finalized in two to three days. JD(U), on the other hand, accused LJP of violating coalition dharma. “Seven Resolves fulfilled the basic requirements of people in Bihar. Its part-2 is going to be a game changer. We would be glad if LJP remains a part of the NDA, but levelling baseless allegations is not acceptable,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said. The 7-point agenda was in the JD(U) manifesto for the 2015 assembly election when Nitish was with RJD and Congress. After the Mahagathbandhan government formation, the agenda, which included roads, electricity, youth employment, drinking water, sanitation and higher education, was formally launched in the state. Nitish continued with it even after breaking the alliance with RJD and Congress and formed next government with BJP and LJP in July, 2017. “Our party president has said it on several occasions that the ‘Seven Resolves’ was a programme of the Mahagathbandhan government and not NDA. Nevertheless, all its projects are incomplete, whether construction of drains or roads. JD(U) has completely ignored the issues of public concern raised by our party president. Thus, ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ has to implemented by the next government,” LJP spokesperson Sanjay Paswan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/graft-rules-cms-saat-nishchay-ljp/articleshow/78451339.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 3, 2020||Varanasi||AAP protests at busy crossing, leaders arrested||PRAYAGRAJ: Around a dozen Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members were arrested at Subhash Crossing on Friday while they were protesting by observing a fast on Gandhi Jayanti to seek justice for the Dalit woman who was brutalised and allegedly gang-raped in Hathras district. The arrested workers included AAP MP Sanjay Singh’s wife Anita. “There have been a series of brutal rapes and murders across the state which shows that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has failed to protect women in UP. Instead of protecting women, police are used to harass women who are protesting against rapes. The government is using force to suppress peaceful protests, but AAP won’t back down. Protests against the government will continue until justice is ensured for all rape victims,” said AAP leader Anita Singh. AAP district president Altaf Ahmad alleged that police misbehaved with Anita Singh and other women workers who were protesting peacefully. “Cops dragged and pushed them into a police van,” Altaf said. SHO (Civil Lines) Ravindra Pratap Singh said, “AAP leaders were arrested as they were not following social distancing and creating disorder at a busy market place. An FIR will be lodged against them under section 188 and other relevant sections of IPC.” He denied all charges that police misbehaved with AAP women workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/aap-protests-at-busy-crossing-leaders-arrested/articleshow/78451759.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Coastal body gets NGT rap for being ‘careless and negligent’||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has fined the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) a token Rs 500, after the latter failed to file its response in cases before the tribunal. The NGT also termed the GCZMA ‘careless and negligent’, in the order issued on Thursday.“In spite of the previous order, respondent (GCZMA) has not submitted their reply till date. During the course of hearing and disposal of the cases, it seems that the GCZMA is careless and negligent in filing the reply in due course of time. On the previous date, the opportunity was given to submit the reply, but the reply has not been filed,” the tribunal said. The NGT has told the GCZMA to ensure that matters before the tribunal are not delayed due to fault of the part of the authority to file its replies.“We advise the GCZMA to take care of the legal proceedings and matter should not be delayed due to fault on the part of the respondent. A cost of Rs 500 is imposed on the GCZMA for the delay, the cost shall be deposited in the account of Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) to be spent for environment purposes,” the NGT said on Thursday.The tribunal has told the GCZMA to file the response sought from it by October 19 ‘with all the documents’.“If reply not filed, the matter may be proceeded on merit and according to the records,” said the bench comprising Sheo Kumar Singh and Satyawan Singh Garbyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coastal-body-gets-ngt-rap-for-being-careless-and-negligent/articleshow/78454361.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: No vote for criminals & kin of netas, say RWAs||HYDERABAD: Even as political parties are formulating their strategies for the GHMC elections, the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) have four points on their agenda.  They are: the contestant’s family should not have a criminal track record, ward development plan, ward committee members are not the family members or sidekicks of politicians, and ward manifesto by the contestants. “We request political parties to ensure people with criminal record are not given a ticket. Even their family members should not have a criminal record. People with good track record should be encouraged in politics,” said BT Srinivas secretary of United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS). “RWAs in their respective localities have started approaching residents to make the list of grievances and activities that have to be taken up. Based on residents’ inputs, a ward development plan will be chalked out,” said Major (retd) Shiva Kiran, vice-president, UFERWAS. “We will discuss our ward plan and manifesto to get an idea about the working plan of the contestant. It will help us to decide our vote,” said K Ragavender Rao from UFERWAS. RWAs have decided that waste management will also be one of the priorities apart from urban infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-no-vote-for-criminals-kin-of-netas-manifesto-must/articleshow/78454358.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 3, 2020||Trichy||IIIT Trichy campus expected to be ready by June next year||Trichy: The construction work on the permanent campus for the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Trichy is expected to pick up pace as pre-fabricated components will be used. Although the work was planned to completed by March next year, it is expected to ready by June. The construction activity on 56.4 acre campus at Sethurapatti in Srirangam gained pace after relaxation of Covid-19 lockdown norms. A three-storey administrative and academic building besides mess and student’s hostel were part of the first phase of work on 2.5 lakh sq.ft. at an outlay of Rs 104 crore. “The work may not extend beyond June as the entire construction is planned to be built through pre-cast construction technology,” said a senior official from the institution. IIIT Trichy is among the 19 IIITs which were declared institute of national importance started specifically to cater to the needs of information technology companies. Started in 2012, as a non-profit public-private partnership model by the ministry for human resource development, it started operating on the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy campus from 2013. With roughly 180 students, IIIT-Trichy moved to Oxford engineering college in Trichy three months back. TCS, Cognizant, Infosys, Ramco, Elcot and Tech Solutions each have 15% stake in the institution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iiit-trichy-campus-expected-to-be-ready-by-june-next-year/articleshow/78454360.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Tributes paid to eminent jurists||Trichy: Supreme Court judge Justice V Ramasubramanian on Friday paid glowing tributes to the late eminent jurists Nani Palkhivala and C Natarajan, saying the contribution of Tamil Nadu in the legacy of the two outstanding jurists is phenomenal. The judge inaugurated the XVI Nani Palkhivala Tax Moot organised by Sastra Law School and also launched the C Natarajan Chair for Legal Studies at the Sastra Law School. Elaborating on their contributions, he recalled the famous copyright infringement case before Justice A S P Iyer in Madras high court in which Nani Palkhivala argued as second defendant and as a witness and rose to become one of the country’s outstanding jurist-statesmen. He said Natarajan shaped the contours of complicated tax jurisprudence, especially when Tamil Nadu took the lead in sales tax. Guest of honour and solicitor general Tushar Mehta encouraged Sastra to undertake meaningful work under the C Natarajan Chair with a focus on churning out quality legal professionals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tributes-paid-to-eminent-jurists/articleshow/78454352.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth outfit protests against teen’s suicide||Aurangabad: A day after a teenager from Beed committed suicide, allegedly over Maratha quota, the Maratha Kranti Yuva Morcha staged a demonstration here on Friday to protest against the incident and raise the demand for restoring the quota in education and jobs for the community. The outfit has also sought financial aid of Rs 25 lakh from the government to the family of Vivek Rahade (18), who committed suicide. While police have said that the teenager was upset with his NEET exam performance, his family claimed that he was also dejected over the SC stay on Maratha quota. In a memorandum submitted to the district administration, the outfit has demanded that the central and state governments take quick measures to offer relief to the Maratha community. Vickyraje Patil of the youth outfit, said, “As the reservation for the community has been stayed by the Supreme Court through an interim order, we demand that the government does not conduct fresh recruitment until a legal remedy is available for the community.” Meanwhile, a group of Maratha activists held a protest in front of Union minister and senior BJP leader Raosaheb Danve’s house in Jalna to demand different benefits for the community in the wake of SC stay on quota. The group, which gathered under the banner of Maratha Kranti Morcha, said they would stage a demonstration in front of every public representative to highlight their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-outfit-protests-against-teens-suicide/articleshow/78451472.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Allahabad||Not possible to take up Kashi, Mathura issues right now: Rai||PRAYAGRAJ: Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) vice-president and Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Kshetra Trust’s general secretary Champat Rai said here on Friday that the organisation’s single focus was the Ram Temple in Ayodhya and it was at present not possible to support any claims over Gyanvapi Mosque in Varanasi and Shahi Idgah in Mathura. Rai was in the city on Friday to chair a meeting of office-bearers of the four pranths of VHP’s Lucknow Kshetra at Kesar Bhawan. “Wise are those who take up a mission and then work dedicatedly to complete it and only then move on to the next task. In the present circumstances, the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhyay is our single-point agenda and it is not possible to take up the Kashi and Mathura issue,” said Rai. His remarks on Mathura and Varanasi mosques comes at a time when Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) — the apex body of monastic orders in the country — has said that it is ready to go to court, if the issue is not resolved amicably. In Varanasi, Kashi Vishwanath Temple shares a boundary with the Gyanvapi mosque. In Mathura, the Shahi Idgah is adjacent to the Krishna Janmabhoomi temple complex. Rai said that although he doesn’t take any decisions in VHP and only give his advice, in his opinion VHP is at present fully focused on the construction of a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Hence, Mathura and Kashi for the moment are not on his organisation’s agenda.” Talking about the construction of the temple, Rai said “In the construction of the temple, no iron would be used and the foundation would be made strong using concrete piling at 1,200 spots. The construction would take around three years to complete.” He also said that a meeting of VHP members has been scheduled in Delhi on November 10-11, which would be attended by around 300 seers. “The organisation plans to bring 11 crore Hindu families on board for the temple’s construction. During the meeting, we would discuss ways in which this could be achieved.” Clarifying his stand on the design of the Ram temple, Rai said that no changes will be made to the original design of the temple. “It is true that when VHP raised the issue of the Ram temple, we were talking of about 1,500 square feet of land. However, around one acre land was required for the construction. The design was made accordingly in the past. When the Supreme Court gave its verdict in favour of the Ram temple in November 2019, it allotted 70 acre land. As a result, now the temple alone will be constructed on an area spread over three acre. Obviously, this means that the temple will be bigger in size,” he said. The VHP leader said that there might be a change in the blueprint of the temple, but not in the original structure. “This means that the number of pillars and their height will remain the same, but one additional floor will be constructed. However, the sanctum sanctorum of the temple will remain at the original spot and also Ram Lalla will remain installed where he is presently situated.” VHP’s Kashi pranth president Shubh Narayan Singh and vice-president Vimal Prakash also attended the VHP meeting with Champat Rai. Talking about the 19-year-old woman who was allegedly gang-raped by four men in Hathras, Rai said that law-breakers should be dealt with strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/not-possible-to-take-up-kashi-mathura-issues-right-now-rai/articleshow/78451765.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Bar council warns of stir if physical hearing not started||CHANDIGARH: The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana on Friday announced that if the Punjab and Haryana high court administration fails to resume 50% physical hearing in courts by October 12, the council will resort to agitation, including starting chain hunger strikes and boycott of virtual courts. A representation requesting the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court to start 50% physical hearing, alongside the virtual hearing, by October 12 was submitted to the HC by the council. Citing that the Centre has announced Unlock 5, under which almost every activity has been permitted, including opening of theatres from October 15, and several high courts have already started physical hearing, the lawyers’ body urged the high court to start at least partial physical hearing. The council has backed its contention by saying that even the Election Commission has decided to hold Bihar assembly polls. The council has also given the examples of Delhi high court and subordinate courts, where physical hearing has been started in 30% courts. Similarly, physical hearing has resumed in 65 districts of Uttar Pradesh and similar is the case with Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. Karanjit Singh, chairman of the state bar council, informed that they are sending this representation on behalf of all advocates of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh with hope that the Chief Justice would heed to the request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bar-council-warns-of-stir-if-physical-hearing-not-started/articleshow/78454372.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi shows zeal as it cycles for change||NEW DELHI: Over 1,500 people participated in ‘Cycle 4 Change’, a nine-day pilot initiative of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), which kick-started on Friday from Bikaner House at 7am. Initially, about 150 cyclists joined the event and made their way to Lodhi Garden. Seeing the enthusiasm and increasing number of participants, the timings for cycling on the 6km corridor were extended till 12pm against 9am earlier. “October 2 is a public holiday, which is why the turnout was more than expected. Cyclists who came for morning exercise or activities to India Gate and Lodhi Garden also decided to participate in the event. Seeing the footfall, we extended the timings. The programme was successfully implemented with the help of Delhi Traffic Police,” said an official. In the evening, too, many people turned up, but due to CrPC Section 144 being in force in New Delhi district, the entire route could not be covered and only those coming from Jor Bagh, Lodhi Garden and neighbouring areas could participate. The tour will continue till October 10 from 6am to 9am and between 5pm and 7pm on the dedicated corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-shows-zeal-as-it-cycles-for-change/articleshow/78452707.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Not having valid driver’s licence costs 10% of compensation||Chennai: Not possessing a valid driving licence has cost an accident victim’s family 10% of the compensation money awarded to him. An accident claims tribunal held that a percentage of compensation money ought to be deducted for contributory negligence. The victim, a retiree, was killed after a truck mowed down the motorcycle he was driving. According to a petition moved by B Jayalakshmi of Ambattur, her husband Boopalan was killed in the accident on August 24, 2017, when he was riding along Redhills-Ambattur Road. The petition stated that the truck driver had driven in a rash and negligent manner and rammed into the motorcycle, leading to the Boopalan’s death. The truck’s insurer disputed the claims and also contended that the victim was not in possession of a valid driving licence and that the two-wheeler was not insured at the time. Tribunal judge P Revathy, after perusing documents and evidence submitted, noted that while the deceased did not have a valid driving licence, it was clear that the accident occurred due to the rash and negligent driving of the truck driver and held that the insurer was liable to pay compensation. According to the petition, the victim had sought voluntary retirement from a biscuit manufacturing company and was running a grocery store. Based on various factors including loss of dependency, the tribunal arrived at an amount of Rs 5.3 lakh as compensation. After deducting 10% for contributory negligence, the tribunal directed the insurance firm to pay Rs 4.8 lakh to the victim’s family within two months. Of Rs 4.8 lakh, the wife is to get Rs 1.75 lakh and three daughters Rs 1 lakh each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/not-having-valid-drivers-licence-costs-10-of-compensation/articleshow/78452697.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Housing societies take up SVEEP activity||Hyderabad: RWAs and members of housing societies have decided to be a part of the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activity. Identifying new voters and also those who no longer live in their locality, correction of details in existing voter cards are the activities RWAs and housing society members will take up along with booth level officers. “We are ready to work with officials and be a part of the electoral process to increase polling percentage. . We will also write to residents seeking their participation in electoral process” said Praveen Rao, secretary of My Home Vihanga (Financial District). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/housing-societies-take-up-sveep-activity/articleshow/78454368.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 3, 2020||Goa||Sensitise students on cybercrimes, online bullying: Edu dept tells schools||Panaji: As children are spending more time on the internet during the pandemic to access their classes online, the directorate of education (DoE) has asked schools to make parents and students aware of the dangers of cyberbullying, sexual exploitation through online means and other such crimes. Schools have been asked to inform parents and children about ways to avoid and overcome such ills. “Various measures have been taken by the states for online teaching of students. However, as children spend more time on the internet, often unsupervised, they are more vulnerable to being targeted online by unwanted elements,” schools have been told in a circular issued this week. Institutes have been asked to use NCERT’s guidelines on ‘safe online learning in times of Covid-19’ to educate and sensitise parents and children. “It has been informed that during the lockdown, there are reports about the possibility of online exploitation of children and increase in activity related to child sexual abuse material as per a study conducted by India Child Protection Fund,” director Santosh Amonkar has said. Institutes have been told to sensitise parents and children through ‘SMS, online teaching and other means which are being used to reach out to children’. The DoE guidelines ask parents and students to create a ‘strong’ password and frequently change it . “Communicate only with known people. Be careful while posting photos, videos and any sensitive details on websites as they leave digital footprints which stay online forever. Report immediately to the networking site’s support team if you suspect that your account has been hacked or stolen. Use only verified open source or licensed software,” the students have been told. The guidelines also state that it should be ensured that only authorised persons have access to the devices and computers being used. “Don’t reveal your password to anyone other than your parent or guardian. Don’t reveal personal details like age, address, phone number, school name, etc, as this can lead to identity theft. Don’t post anything that hurts others’ feelings. Don’t post your friends’ details online, which can put them at risk,” the guidelines state. They also ask students not to leave accounts open when unattended, log out of account when not in use, not to create fake profiles, and not to share any information online which is unverified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sensitise-students-on-cybercrimes-online-bullying-edu-dept-tells-schools/articleshow/78454369.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Rahul’s arrest: Congress protests ‘high-handedness’ by BJP govt||MARGAO/SALIGAO: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday condemned the “high-handedness” of the BJP government in UP, for detaining Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Further, he warned of revolt by the people of the state “if this attitude of the government continues”. “Protesting against injustice is the constitutional right given to every citizen. The issues can be solved by a dialogue, and not by using police force. Today, the entire nation is grieving about the gruesome rape incident in Hathras,” Kamat told reporters. He was participating in a protest by Congress at Lohia Maidan, Margao, held “to condemn the atrocities against women by BJP government and high-handedness of the UP government against Congress leaders Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi.” GPCC president Girish Chodankar, general secretary Subhash Faldessai and South Goa district president Joseph Dias were among those who participated in the protest. Kamat said the time has come to start another agitation against the dictatorial BJP government. Veering to the state government, he condemned the imposition of Section 144 by the Goa government to stop the peaceful “Save Mollem and anti-double tracking” protest march. Chodankar accused the BJP government of suppressing voices of farmers, dalits and women in the country and “trying to bulldoze the democratic rights of the citizens.” He said the Congress party would fight for the rights of the common man and would continue to be the voice of citizens. In Mapusa, too, party members protested against the “draconian anti-farming” bills passed in the parliament and the “manhandling” of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by UP police. Calangute MLA Agnelo Fernandes said, “India had lost its democracy and had gone into dictatorship. We have to topple this government by following Mahatma Gandhi’s ideology of non- violent protests,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rahuls-arrest-cong-protests-high-handedness-by-bjp-govt/articleshow/78454375.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Vijayawada||SEB tackles internal challenges in its fight against illegal liquor||Vijayawada: While facing many challenges on the ground to curb illegal liquor transportation and selling, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) is also fighting internal challenges as some of the lower cadre officials are resorting to corrupt practices. As many as 19 officials of SEB have been suspended and six others issued charge memos for their misconduct in the last four months. Out of the 19 suspended, 10 of them were arrested for their direct involvement and are now facing criminal cases. The latest suspension was that of V Srinivasa Murthy, circle inspector of Yerraguntla unit in YSR Kadapa district, for his alleged collusion with belt shop organisers. As the preliminary inquiry concluded his involvement in allowing belt shops, the commissioner of SEB Vinit Brijlal placed him under suspension. Three SI rank officers and five constables were suspended earlier apart from three CI rank officers, two SIs and one constable issued charge memos. These are excluding the 10 officials arrested and subsequently suspended. The SEB has been playing a major role in curbing illegal transportation of liquor since its inception in May, especially the Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) from other states. The SEB booked more than 40,000 cases arresting more than 50,000 persons and seized about 3 lakh litres of NDPL in a span of four months. Speaking to TOI, Vinit Brijlal said that it is a challenge for a new department which is only four months old. “It’s a delicate balance to keep the momentum going in enforcement and at the same time to keep a check on corruption. However, we are working with a zero tolerance policy and no one is being spared if found tainted,” he said. “The SEB is an integrated force created with officials from excise department and police. It was created with a futuristic approach to deal with illegal liquor so as to implement complete liquor prohibition in a phased manner. SEB is still in emerging stage and we are preparing to take up larger responsibilities in future,” said Brijlal. “There can always be some black sheep in the force but the fact of the matter is how we are dealing with them,” he said. The SEB has arrested several government employees for their involvement in illegal liquor activity. The police and Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation (APBCL) employees top the list as they are directly connected to enforcement and running government liquor shops, the SEB also arrested employees from other departments like panchayatraj, endowments, mines, income tax, revenue, APSRTC and railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-tackles-internal-challenges-in-its-fight-against-illegal-liquor/articleshow/78451474.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||2,782 new cases, 80 die of Covid in region||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The adjoining states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Friday posted a combined total of 2,628 Covid cases, while the region saw as many as 80 patients succumbing to the virus. In Punjab, which attained grim milestones one after the other, recorded 1,071 new cases — its lowest single-day count in the last 50 days. There was, however, no letup in the casualties, with a total of 50 deaths reported during the day that pushed the toll to 3,501 and the state’s fatality rate to 3.01%, highest in the country. A total of 1,840 people were reported recovered, taking the overall count of cured patients to 97,777 and the state’s recovery rate to 84.13%. Among the districts recording 100+ cases on Friday, Amritsar was at number one with 134 cases, followed by Mohali (131), Jalandhar (128) and Ludhiana (111). Haryana minister of state Anoop Dhanak tested Covid-19 positive in a rapid test in Hisar on Friday. He was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurgaon. He was brought to Jindal hospital at about 7am on Friday after he complained of discomfort. On being tested, he was found to be Covid-19 positive. Dhanak had taken part in a programme at Sirsa on September 25 and in Rajali village in Hisar on September 27. Haryana registered 1,476 new cases and 23 patients lost the battle against Covid, taking the state’s case tally to 131,388—out of which 13,247 are active cases—and death toll to 1,425. With a total of 116,716 persons discharged after treatment so far, the recovery rate in Haryana stands at 88.83% and the doubling time at 31 days. Total 272 persons in the state are currently on oxygen support and 40 on ventilators. The hill state of Himachal on Friday reported seven Covid deaths and 235 new positive cases, while 388 patients were also declared cured. Now, the state has 15,454 positive cases, of which 3,256 are active, and total 197 patients have died. The overall count of recoveries is 11,976. Of the latest deaths, three were reported in Solan district, and two each in Kangra and Shimla districts. The positive cases reported during the day included 45 from Kangra, 30 from Solan, 28 from Mandi, 25 from Shimla, 19 from Chamba, 18 from Una, 17 from Bilaspur, 15 each from Kullu, Hamirpur and Sirmaur districts, and eight from Lahaul-Spiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2782-new-cases-80-die-of-covid-in-region/articleshow/78454366.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Court upholds RBI circular on Rs 8,415cr Yes Bank bonds||Chennai: The Madras high court has refused to set aside a circular issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) writing down to zero the additional tire 1 (AT1) bonds of Yes Bank worth Rs 8,415 crore. The issue pertains to a circular issued by RBI in March, writing down the AT1 bonds issued by Yes Bank as part of a government-approved restructuring plan for the insolvent lender. The write down was based on Basel III norms that allowed banks to extinguish these instruments in an emergency. Aggrieved, one of the investor Piyush Bokaria moved the high court challenging the move. Upholding the validity of the RBI circular, the first bench of chief justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy dismissed a plea moved by investors of Yes Bank challenging the move. The investors invested knowing the risks associated with the instrument and cannot challenge the decision of the regulator now, the bench said. “RBI is not just like any other statutory body created by an act of legislature. It is a creature, created with a mandate to get liberated even from its creator,” the bench said. It observed that if the argument of the petitioners about the legal incapacity of the RBI to issue the master circular is accepted, then the entire investment through the offer of instrument would be without authority of law. “This argument would amount to something like dismembering the same branch of a tree on which one is sitting. The entire edifice of the transaction from its very inception will fall through,” the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-upholds-rbi-circular-on-rs-8415cr-yes-bank-bonds/articleshow/78452702.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||‘Mahatma would have had bigger stir’||Panaji: Mahatma Gandhi’s values about Satyagraha and Ahimsa are still relevant today, said Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro on Friday as he called for a revolution against the NDA-led government. South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha said that the Centre was trying to destroy agriculture and push farmers into penury. The two were speaking at the party’s head office at an event to commemorate the 151st birth anniversary of late Mahatma Gandhi and the 116th birth anniversary of Lal Bahadur Shastri. “If Gandhiji was alive, he would have led a much bigger agitation against the present governance which is against the common man,” said Faleiro. “We need the mahatma’s principles today.” The Congress said that the policies of the government, particularly demonetisation, have proved that the BJP is against the common man.“This government is trying to finish off farmers. About 60% of the nation’s economy is dependent on farming,” said Sardinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mahatma-would-have-had-bigger-stir/articleshow/78454381.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Over 6,000 Hry gram panchayats go digital||CHANDIGARH: Taking a step forward towards digitisation of villages by uploading records of all developmental activities as well as of various government departments on a single digital platform, the Haryana government, on Friday, digitally launched ‘Gram Darshan.’ The platform enhances accessibility of the data of as many as 6,197 gram panchayats of the state. Sudhir Rajpal, principal secretary, development and Panchayats department said the key objectives of ‘Gram Darshan’ are to use information and communication technology (ICT) to make it act as a hub of information for rural citizens, increase transparency, accountability, efficiency and RTI compliance of panchayats. It also aims to improve local self-government, providing easier, faster and cheaper access to information uploaded by line departments. It is expected to contribute towards social empowerment by engaging all sections of the community in the task of village development, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-6000-hry-gram-panchayats-go-digital/articleshow/78454376.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras SP, 4 cops suspended; village sealed off for 2nd day||HATHRAS / LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday suspended Hathras police chief Vikrant Veer and four other cops following the preliminary report of the special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the alleged rape of 19-year-old girl in the district on September 14. Meanwhile, the village in Hathras where the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped before she died was off limits to the media and politicians for the second day in a row. Many who tried to enter and reach out to the bereaved family were manhandled, pushed to the ground and forced off on Friday. Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal has been made the new police chief of Hathras. No action, however, was taken against the district magistrate so far. The SIT also recommended Narco and polygraph of accused, victim family members and cops in the case. A government spokesperson also said that allegations of some outsiders trying to influence the victim's family were being probed, too. The suspended officers, apart from the SP, are Sadabad circle officer Ram Shabd, station house officer Dinesh Kumar Verma and sub-inspector Jagveer Singh — along with head moharrir (clerk) Mahesh Pal. Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal will take over as Hathras SP. There is one main access point to the village and a tertiary route from behind farmlands leading up to a cluster of Dalit houses. Both had been barricaded, with six cops at one and 15 at another. Police stopped a TOI team from entering the village around 11am, warning against “moving any further” and saying they had “strict instructions from higher authorities” to not let anyone pass. Six cops, including three women constables from Kasganj, were stationed there, with several police and government vehicles parked a few metres away. A four-member Trinamool team — MPs Derek O’Brien, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Pratima Mondal and ex-MP Mamata Thakur — that was approaching the village met a similar resistance. Around noon, about 1.5 km from the village, O’Brien was seen being pushed to the ground by joint magistrate Prem Prakash Meena in a video that went viral. “The country is unsafe for women. Their honour is in danger. We only wanted to meet the victim’s family,” a Trinamool representative said. Police put this down to a need for enabling investigation. “Media entry has been banned so the SIT investigation is not hampered. Counter-questioning is on, statements are being recorded. We will allow entry only after the probe is over,” Hathras additional SP Prakash Kumar said. “Politicians will, however, not be allowed because of the law and order situation. They will only be let in after the administration thinks the situation is normal.” Later in the evening, ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand said media could be allowed to enter on Saturday. “Statements of the family members and others have been recorded.” Their protest marches cut short, some political workers set up base at the barricades. AAP workers sat on a dharna. When police used “mild force” to remove them, they started singing the national anthem. Members of the Sangh Parivar outfit Hindu Mahasabha also converged on the site to register protest and demand action against the accused. They were also made to leave. Within the village, upper caste community members were seen moving freely, putting together a “counter-protest” to demand “justice for the accused”. The four accused are from their community. The SIT was formed on the CM's instructions on September 30. It was headed by state home secretary Bhagwan Swarup, inspector general Chandraprakash and PAC commandant, Poonam. The team was instructed to submit a report within seven days. The SIT team stayed for over 48 hours in the village of victim and recorded statements of over 100 persons and also met cops. It submitted a preliminary report with its recommendations on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-sp-4-cops-suspended-village-sealed-off-for-2nd-day/articleshow/78455057.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Special rituals performed at Gandhi temple in Erode||Coimbatore: Special puja was performed at the Mahatma Gandhi temple at Kavundhapadi in Erode district to mark his 151st birth anniversary on Friday. Environment minister K C Karupannan participated in the function and distributed sweets to the public. The temple was built in 1997 at a cost of Rs 10 lakh by Vaiyapuri Mudaliar, a resident of the village. It has two shrines – one for Gandhi and the other for his wife Kasturba Gandhi. Vaiyapuri used to perform puja in the temple every day and political leaders, freedom fighters and their children made it a point to offer prayers at the temple whenever they visited the village. After Vaiyapuri passed away six years ago, his son Thangaraj has been administering the temple. Puja is performed on the Independence Day, Republic Day and Gandhiji’s birth anniversary. On Friday, abhishekam was performed at the idols of Gandhi and Kasturba with milk, curd, turmeric, sandalwood and tender coconut water accompanied by chants of hymns. The idol was adorned with new khadi clothes and deeparathana was performed. Statues and photographs of Gandhi were garlanded across the region. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani garlanded the bust of Gandhi at the Khadi store on the Avinashi Road in Coimbatore. Accompanied by collector K Rajamani, the minister launched Diwali sales at the store. Urging people to buy more khadi clothes, Velumani said that 15 temporary outlets have been opened across Coimbatore for Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-rituals-performed-at-gandhi-temple-in-erode/articleshow/78452700.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Two men held for threatening, extorting boy||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: The Satara police have arrested two men and are on the lookout of a woman, who allegedly forced a minor boy to have physical relationship with the woman last month. The suspects also threatened to circulate a video of the boy and extorted money from him. Assistant police inspector Santosh Salunkhe, who is investigating the case, told TOI that they had established the identity of the woman and she would be arrested soon. Police swung into action when the boy’s father approached the police, stating that the minor had been sexually exploited at a lodge. The boy was forcibly taken to a lodge, where the woman was already sitting in the room. The boy was severely beaten up in the room by the woman and the duo and was forced to have physical relation with the woman. The duo asked for Rs 17,000 from the boy on the same day. They threatened that they would show the video to his family and make it viral through social media. The boy, who was scared of the incident, took the amount from a cupboard in his house and gave the cash to duo. After a few days, the duo again called the boy and demanded rs 13,000 from him. They threatened the boy that they would show the video to his family. The frightened boy again took the cash from the cupboard and gave to the duo. After few days, boy’s father came to know about the missing cash from the cupboard. The father, who had already noticed a change in his sons’ behaviour, took the him into confidence. The boy then revealed his traumatic experience. The duo was arrested under various sections including 363 (kidnapping), 384 (extortion) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and sections of POSCO (The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-men-held-for-threatening-extorting-boy/articleshow/78451501.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Police busts betting racket at Morjim||Panaji: Crime Branch of Goa police on Friday arrested three persons for organising Indian Premier League (IPL) betting from Goa. Acting on a tip-off, a team of crime branch officials raided a hotel in Morjim where three persons from Hyderabad - Sandeep Patel, Krishnakant and Bhoja Bhopal Yadav - were found accepting bets on IPL matches from punters across India, said crime branch SP Shobhit Saksena. He said that the accused would register these bets on high-tech software to calculate winnings at the end of each game. Saksena said that the trio is a habitual gang of bookies who have been operating since the past years. Every year they establish a base at different places in India. At the beginning of each season, they accept deposits from customers, and at the end of the season, accounts are settled as per winnings and losses based on the software’s calculations. The crime branch team consisted of police inspectors Maguesh Valvaikar, Rahul T Parab and Narayan Chimulkar.During the raid, police seized one laptop, one LED screen, eight mobiles phones and cash of Rs 19,200. In another case, five persons were arrested by Calangute police late Wednesday night at Candolim for allegedly betting on IPL matches. Police said they conducted a raid at a villa in Candolim on Wednesday night and apprehended Raju Singh, Mohit Kumar, Ravi Mamtani, Sagar Rathore, all from Rajasthan, and Suraj Soni, a native of Nepal. They also seized Rs 95,000 in cash, nine cellphones, and two laptops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-busts-betting-racket-at-morjim/articleshow/78454384.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Jalna court rejects bail of Samruddhi contractors||AURANGABAD: Jalna district and additional sessions court has rejected the anticipatory bail application of two Samruddhi Expressway contractors booked for death of a teenage shepherd, who died after falling in a pit dug in the vicinity of Dudhna river. The incident took place on July 30. However, Jalna police registered the FIR only on August 26. The complaint was lodged by 15-year-old deceased’s father, Pandurang Kokan, and six contractors belonging to two different companies were booked by Badnapur police under section 304 (for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and also under relevant sections of Mines Act 1952. After two suspects, Anilkumar Das form Jharkhand and Jagjitsingh Ujagarsingh from Pune, moved an application seeking anticipatory bail, district and additional sessions judge AL Tikle rejected their anticipatory bail. Representing the state, assistant public prosecutor Deepak Kolhe told TOI, “The contractors, working on Samruddin expressway, while lifting large amount of sand and other minor minerals from the banks of Dudhna river, allegedly led to left pits.” Following incessant rainfall this year, the pits were filled with water. The teenager, Deepak, while grazing his goats ended up falling in one such pits and drowned. The incident came to light only after his body was found floating in the pit. “The contractor was duty bound to either fill up the pits, if not, put warning signs and install barricades around the pits, so that no one inadvertently ends up landing in those pits running several foot deep on the banks of the river. A police officer said that this was the first attempt by the suspects to get bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-court-rejects-bail-of-samruddhi-contractors/articleshow/78451488.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 3, 2020||Goa||Leopard crushed under train in Canacona||Poinguinim: A fully grown female leopard was crushed under the wheels of a Konkan Railway train at Canacona in the early hours of Thursday. Assistant public relations officer (APRO) of the Konkan Railway Corporation (KRC), Leora D’Cunha said the wildcat must have tried to cross the rails at Pansulem in Canacona. While the leopard’s upper torso was found about 100m from the accident spot, its abdomen and mid ribs were totally crushed by the other speeding trains. After the KRC authorities informed the range forest officer (RFO) Sangam Gauns, he and his team rushed to the accident spot and collected the parts of the wildcat and took them to their office at Sheler, Canacona. After the post mortem was conducted at the veterinary office at Chaudi, the remains of the leopard were cremated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/leopard-crushed-under-train-in-canacona/articleshow/78454438.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||86-yr-old man found dead at Singanallur||Coimbatore: An elderly man from Singanallur was found dead at his house at Singanallur in the city on Friday. The deceased, identified as S Krishnasamy, 86, was living alone at his house. Police said Krishnasamy’s house was surrounded by multiple warehouses. A watchman came around 9am to check on him but found that the building was locked. He then informed his relatives who in turn rushed to the house, and were shocked to see Krishnasamy sitting motionless on a sofa with a cable wire wrapped around his neck. Singanallur police officers rushed to the spot and sent the body to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. A police officer said, “The victim was strangled to death. The exact details of the death would be known only after the postmortem.” Krishnasamy’s daughter lives abroad, he said, and only after she returns, police will know if cash or valuables were stolen. A case against unknown people was filed under IPC Section 302.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/86-yr-old-man-found-dead-at-singanallur/articleshow/78452708.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Collector Desai orders ‘oxygen security audit’ of Covid hospitals||Kolhapur: After carrying out the fire audit, the Kolhapur district administration is going to carry out the oxygen security audit of all Covid-19 hospitals. District collector Daulat Desai has issued an order appointing three teams for three dedicated covid hospitals — CPR Hospital, IGM Ichalkaranji and Gadhinglaj sub-district hospital. The teams comprises doctors and engineers to carry out the audit. Desai said, ‘The teams will have to scrutinise the old and new gas supply and monitoring systems at these hospitals. The teams have been authorised to draft the plan required to make the oxygen supply systems more safe and efficient. The reports have to be submitted in a week’s time. Already orders have been issued to carry out fire safety and electrical audits of these hospitals.” The decision has come after fire broke out in CPR Hospital’s Trauma Care Unit on Monday. Desai had then suggested to ensure separate oxygen supply and monitoring mechanisms for each floor of the hospital so that fire like disasters the lives of the critical patients can be saved. Meanwhile, the panel appointed under B Y Mali, head of physiology department of the Rajarshi Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, is yet to submit the report to state directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/collector-desai-orders-oxygen-security-audit-of-covid-hospitals/articleshow/78451517.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Recovery order in illegal mining by Nov||Panaji: The directorate of mines and geology (DMG) is likely to pass an order to recover money in illegal mining cases, based on an audit report submitted by a team of chartered accountants. The order is likely to be issued by November. On August 4, the state government told the high court that the directorate would decide within four months on the show cause notices to mining companies for the recovery of over Rs 3,000 crore. A senior official said that every day, four leaseholders are summoned to the department for hearing. He said that while the process had slowed down because of the pandemic, it is now being done as usual. Goa Foundation — an environmental action group — filed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the state government to recover Rs 3,431 crore from mining companies within a time-bound period. Last year, the directorate had issued notices to 42 leaseholders to file their final replies, and from October to December, it held final hearings in the matter. The order was expected in January 2020. However, since the directors kept on changing, the order is yet to be issued. After the transfer of Prasanna Acharya and Ameya Abhyankar, Ashutosh Apte was appointed mines director. He was followed by Arvind Bugde, and now, Vivek H P is heading the directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recovery-order-in-illegal-mining-by-nov/articleshow/78454409.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Atal Setu ride: Khan pays fine, D’Souza seeks more time||Panaji: Superintendent of police (Traffic) Dinraj Govekar on Friday said that Bollywood actor-choreographer Salman Yusuf Khan appeared at Panaji traffic cell and paid the challan of Rs 700 for reckless and dangerous riding, after a video of him riding a bike on Atal Setu went viral recently. Govekar said that director-choreographer Remo D’ Souza has sought time to come to traffic cell to pay the fine. Traffic cell of the Goa police has summoned Khan and D’Souza for riding bikes on cable-stayed bridge Atal Setu in violation of the rules. Last week, two videos surfaced on social media and vigilant citizens of the state immediately demanded action against them for violating traffic rules. Taking note of the public outcry over the 21 and 32-second clips, the two-wheelers were traced and seized by police. On Thursday, they found the bikes. “Thanks #Goa for bringing traffic violations to notice. Recently, two bikers were seen riding on Atal Setu where entry is restricted. Govekar took cognisance and not only identified and impounded the bikes but has summoned riders for legal action. #goapolice,” DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena had tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/atal-setu-ride-khan-pays-fine-dsouza-seeks-more-time/articleshow/78454419.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris sees decline in Covid-19 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris added 73 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday taking the tally to 4,318 even as 120 patients recovered and were discharged from care facilities on the day. As many as 3,490 patients were discharged after recovery so far in the district. Showing an improvement, the recovery rate stood at 80.8%, which was 76% three days ago. As many as 803 active cases are being treated at health facilities currently. While 18 patients are being treated at ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 190 patients are kept under home quarantine and monitored. The remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, besides care centres. Of the new cases, including a13-year-old boy, only two cases were reported from Ooty while Gudalur reported eight cases. The remaining cases were reported from rural areas. The Nilgiris has been seeing decline in new cases of the virus since the past three days. The number of swab sample tests for Covid-19 in the district crossed one lakh mark and stood at 1,05,000 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-sees-decline-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78452704.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile unit sets up 4MW solar plant||Tirupur: Dollar Industries Limited, a leading innerwear company, has set up a 4MW solar power plant at its manufacturing facility here. The company invested Rs 18 crore for the plant, set up as part of its green mission aimed at making the unit self-reliant with sustainable power. The plant was commissioned by Coimbatore-based Indway Power Energy Limited. It has the capacity to generate 75 lakh units of electricity annually. Installation of the plant will not only make the Tirupur unit self-reliant, but also enable the firm reduce expenditure. Apart from using the power generated by the unit, surplus power will be utilised by the company’s dyeing unit located in the Sipcot industrial park in Perundurai, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-unit-sets-up-4mw-solar-plant/articleshow/78452706.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Ukkadam flyover extension work to commence soon||Coimbatore: The state highways department is likely to commence Ukkadam flyover extension work in the city in a month. The flyover would be extended to Athupalam Junction from Karumbukkadai Junction on one end, and to Oppanakara Street from Ukkadam Junction on the other end, for a total of 2km at a cost of Rs 265 crore. The extension work is expected to be completed in two years. A source with the state highways department said they had floated tender and were in the process of evaluating the bidders. “Work order would be issued as soon as we award the tender to the successful bidder. The work is expected to start in a month.” He said the flyover would be extended for 600 metres till Athupalam Junction, where a loop would be constructed for commuters who want to enter Palakkad Road from the flyover. Ramps would be set up along both the Pollachi Road and Palakkad Road, he said. “On the other end, two loops - one near Ukkadam bus stand and another at Perur Bypass Road - would be constructed. Those coming from Town Hall have to use the loop near the bus stand to enter the flyover, while those travelling to Town Hall from the flyover have to use the other loop. To enter Sungam Road, commuters have to use the ramp connecting the loop near the bus stand. The ramp ends near Pullukadu,” the source said. The flyover extension, he said, was proposed to regularize traffic from Sungam, Town Hall, Palakkad Road and Pollachi Road. “Once the extension work is over, travelling time would come down considerably.” Presently, the state highways department is constructing the flyover from Karumbukkadai Junction to Ukkadam Junction for a distance of 1.47km. “We have completed about 80% work,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ukkadam-flyover-extension-work-to-commence-soon/articleshow/78452710.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 3, 2020||Nashik||Woman robbed of her cellphone||Nashik: Unidentified people robbed a cellphone from a woman while she was talking over the phone in the Panchavati area on Wednesday at around 8 pm. The incident took place near Vajreshwari slum along the canal there. The complainant, a 47-year-old, resident of Avida Society, said in her complaint that when she was returning home from a hospital on her scooter, she received a phone call near the canal on Dindori Road. She stopped her vehicle to speak over the phone when two people came close to her and one of them snatched the phone from her. As the place was scarcely populated and it was dark, the duo escaped the scene. Panchavati police have registered an offence against the two people . Over the past couple of months, cases of robbery have increased in the city. It has been observed that women are robbed of their gold chains while others are robbed of valuables like cellphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-robbed-of-her-cellphone/articleshow/78578549.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Aurangabad||HC grants bail to forest officer||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, while granting anticipatory bail to a forest department official in a case under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of atrocities) Act, has set aside section 66-A of Information and Technology Act imposed in the case. The HC has observed that 66-A has already been repealed by the Apex court. Justice Vibha Kankanwadi observed that an offence under section 66-A of the Information Technology Act has been involved, though it has been set aside by the Supreme Court. An explanation was called from the police inspector, Osmanpura police station, Aurangabad and he stated that since the complainant had come with an advocate and a prepared complaint and to due to work load, he did not change the sections. ‘He has asked for pardon. So, there is no necessity to take any action for contempt of court,’ the court observed. A assistant conservator of forest had lodged a complaint on July 30 stating that another officer allegedly barged into his house on June 6 and showered caste abuses at his house. A few days later, he claimed that the same officer allegedly posted caste-based abuses in a WhatsApp group comprising 210 members. He further claimed that some criminal elements also threatened him at the behest of the officer. Lawyer Prashant Nagargoje, who represented the officer, contested that it was a case of false implication and citing official records pointed out that the officer was present on duty at a forest, away from the city, on the day of the incident. Justice Kankanwadi concluded, ‘Taking into consideration all the four incidents, prima facie offence under Atrocities Act is not made out. We need not go into the enmity in department between the informant and accused. It need not be considered whether there was intention to insult a member of Scheduled caste or scheduled tribe, as the facts in the FIR, for the reasons above stated, do not attract prima facie offence.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-grants-bail-to-forest-officer/articleshow/78451545.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 3, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Test positivity rate drops in PCMC areas, stable in Pune||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Covid-19 test positivity rate has registered a small, but noticeable drop in Pimpri Chinchwad and appears to have stabilised in areas under Pune Municipal Corporation limits, officials stated. Officials from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) said the positivity rate, which was around 28% towards the end of August, is now 24%. At 1.6%, the fatality rate has also been lowest in PCMC limits, compared to the 2.2% overall in the PMR. In Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and the rural parts, the fatality rate is currently at 2.4% and 2.5% respectively. Health officials in region have welcomed the dip in Pimpri Chinchwad — home to major industries that have been working with nearly 60 to 70% of their workforce. But they admitted the cause of the drop is still unclear. “We are not sure. The number of absolute positives has reduced over the last fortnight. Perhaps, increased testing is why the positivity rate has also dropped by 4% over the past month,” said Santosh Patil, the PCMC's additional commissioner. The total number of daily positive patients in PCMC limits fell by over 170 to an average of 862 between September 15-29.  It was an average of 1,043 every day between August 31 and September 14. Testing during this periods in PCMC limits has remained at a consistent 4,000 daily samples. The total tests in the PMR region has been between 13,000 and 15,000 daily, of which 6,000 samples are tested every day within Pune Municipal Corporation limits. Health officials were also reluctant to state if these reductions indicated a slowing of Covid-19 spread. “It is too early to make that assumption. We have to wait at least two months or more before we can actually say that. But most cases are asymptomatic. If people continue to wear masks in public places and crowded areas, the trend should hold,” a Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/test-positivity-rate-drops-in-pcmc-areas-stable-in-pune/articleshow/78452717.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid no deterrent, thousands of migrants return to Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Months after they left Hyderabad in droves, struck by the fear of coronavirus and job losses, the pressure of running homes has driven thousands of migrant workers back to the city, to resume work. While tall promises of higher wages haven’t been met, the workers say it’s better than being unemployed. Even the deadly virus is no longer a deterrent. Over the last few weeks about 20 to 25 buses filled with workers, mostly from Bengal and Odisha, have reached labour camps dotting Hyderabad’s hi-tech landscape. While many of these are old faces, there are some new ones too who’ve come to try their luck in the city. “I had come home on a 45-day holiday when the lockdown was announced; but then couldn’t go back,” said Jayanta Hira from 24 Parganas, who worked as a chef in Kuwait till February. With no work in his village for the last seven months, the hotel management graduate has now come to Hyderabad on a carpenter’s assignment. His daily wage: Rs 400 to Rs 500. “For months, I tried to get work in and around my village. But nothing came through and my savings started to dip. So, when the contractor called from here asking if I would want to return, I agreed instantly,” said Aftab Shaheen from Malda, who is back at Hyderabad’s largest labour camp in Nanakramguda that he had left four months ago. “Just like earlier, even now I have to work 12-hour shifts to earn Rs 500 a day. But at least I am earning something to support my family back in Bengal,” said the unskilled labour. The camp with a total capacity of 4,000 (approx) workers, which had fallen near empty post April-May, is now brimming with people again. At least 3,500 labourers from across India, have come back to the site, contractors say. “About 130 labourers from our area have already come back and we are expecting another 50 workers to join soon,” said Raj Kishore a contractor from Bihar’s Chapra city. He added: “The situation there is very bad. Job opportunities are few and far between. People have no choice but to come back.” And the fear of Covid-19? “Now, everyone has learnt to live with it and so have we. How long can we sit at home without a job?” said Amlan Sheikh who’s come back from Malda to re-join his Rs 800 per day job at a construction site in the Financial District.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reverse-exodus-thousands-of-migrants-return-albeit-same-wages/articleshow/78454439.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Khadi board to set up 15 stalls to kick off Diwali fest season||Coimbatore: The Khadi and Village Industries Board will set up 15 temporary stalls in the district ahead of Diwali. They are likely to become operational from next week. There are already three khadi stores in the district. P N Giriayyapan, assistant director of the board, said the temporary stalls would be set up at panchayat union and transport department offices, and function till Diwali. “This year, we have decided to deploy most of our employees at the stalls to increase the sales. We usually set up temporary stalls twice a year - during Diwali and Pongal – when sale of khadi products would increase manifold.” Products such as handloom silk saris, towels, bed sheets, honey, soaps, footwear and other puja items would be available at the stores. “We clock close to Rs 20 lakh business a month in the district. At least Rs 10 lakh of it comes through the sale of soaps through the ration shops in the district. There is also high demand for silk saris, which are sold in large numbers. The sales had dipped during the lockdown. Now, the business has started to pick up gradually,” Giriayyapan said. The board has set a target of Rs 2.57 crore sales in the district for 2020-21. It had earned Rs 1.79 crore last year. In addition to the sales through stores, the board also distributes uniforms to government departments such as central prison, transport, civic body and hospitals. The existing stores are located at Uppilipalayam, Periyanaickenpalayam and RS Puram. In neighbouring Tirupur, there are five khadi stores. The board has a set a target of Rs 2.53 crore sales there this year. It had sold khadi products worth Rs 1.48 crore in Tirupur last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/khadi-board-to-set-up-15-stalls-to-kick-off-diwali-fest-season/articleshow/78452718.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Won’t interfere in AIADMK’s internal feud’||Coimbatore: The BJP is neither interested in intra-party affairs of the AIADMK nor will it interfere in their internal feud, said state BJP vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan. Launching a campaign to strengthen booth committees of BJP (Tulsi Yatra) in Coimbatore on Friday, she said even in the past the BJP never interfered in AIADMK affairs or mediated for a patch-up of EPS and OPS camps. “BJP has no interest in internal affairs of other parties. We did not mediate in the past when there was a rift in the party. But if AIADMK leaders want that their differences are resolved by someone else, then it’s their decision and not ours.’’ She criticised the state government for cancelling gram sabha meetings. “It was unnecessary to cancel the meetings. Since Covid incidence is less in rural areas, the meetings could have been conducted with adequate precautions.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wont-interfere-in-aiadmks-internal-feud/articleshow/78452716.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Pollachi-based company gets India Organic logo||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Organic Certification Department (TNOCD) has given the licence to use India Organic logo to a private label. It was awarded to Pollachi-based Regal Foods and Beverages, well-known for its chocolates called Soklet. The logo was awarded to the company at a function held at the Directorate of Seed Certification and Organic Certification in Coimbatore on Thursday. The label can now carry the logo on its organic cocoa powder. Officials said this was the first time that they were issuing the logo to a company in Tamil Nadu since the department’s inception in the district in 2007. The logo is valid for a period of one year. The company can use it only for its organic cocoa powder, said the quality manager, TNOCD, Eapen Vettath Eapen. “We have 75,000 acres of land under certified organic cultivation in Tamil Nadu and hope this licence will encourage more farmers to bring their lands under this fold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pollachi-based-company-gets-india-organic-logo/articleshow/78452713.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two men stole Raghav Chadha’s laptop for drugs, held||NEW DELHI: Two men have been arrested from south Delhi’s Madangir for allegedly stealing Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha’s laptop from his car in Naraina Vihar on Tuesday night. The men are members of a gulel gang and had targeted Chadha’s car when it was parked outside his employee’s house, police said on Friday. A window of Chadha’s Swift Dzire car was broken with the help of a catapult and the laptop was stolen. They have been identified as Deepak (28) and Bharat (26), both drug addicts. They used to steal items after breaking glasses of parked vehicles and sell off the stolen items at dirt cheap prices to fulfil their need for drugs, police said. The cops recovered two stolen laptops, including the one belonging to Chadha, and two mobile phones from the duo. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said that as the modus operandi suggested involvement of the gulel gang, the cops started tracking the criminals with similar records in the area. “During our surveillance, we zeroed in on two suspects who were present in Naraina Vihar at the time of the incident. With the help of CCTV footage, they were identified as residents of Madangir in south Delhi,” Thakur said. On Thursday, a tip-off was received that the two suspects would come to Madangir and a trap was laid on BRT Road near Pushpa Bhawan, the DCP said. “Around 8.30pm, when the two men were spotted, our teams arrested both of them,” Thakur added. While Deepak was earlier involved in four cases of theft, gambling, excise Act and robbery, Bharat had faced two cases of theft and sexual assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-men-stole-chadhas-laptop-for-drugs-held/articleshow/78452729.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mangaluru||DK Congress to launch protest condemning Rahul Gandhi’s detention||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee (DCC) will launch protest across the district condemning the manhandling of Rahul Gandhi by police in Hathras. DCC president Harish Kumar said the protest will be held in all constituencies of the district condemning the assault on Rahul Gandhi by the Uttar Pradesh police in Hathras. He also questioned the silene of BJP MPs Shobha Karandlaje, Nalin Kumar Kateel and D V Sadananda Gowda, who were otherwise vocal against assaults on women in coastal districts. “They have been speaking even for silly issues, but have been silent on this rape and murder,” Kumar said. Former minister and Mangaluru MLA U T Khader said no opposition leaders were assaulted in the history of Congress rule in India. “Uttar Pradesh police, who back the rape accused, held Rahul Gandhi’s collar. They failed to suppress Congress leaders using Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate. Hence, they have now started assaulting opposition leaders. The government in Uttar Pradesh is in favour of accused. There is jungle raj in Uttar Pradesh. Let us see how many days they will continue this,” Khader said lashing at the BJP. Meanwhile, former minister B Ramanath Rai said Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has no moral rights to continue in power. “They have cremated the body of a dalit rape victim without allowing her parents to see the body. Such a government has no moral rights to continue in power,” Rai said demanding President’s rule in Uttar Pradesh. Congress workers held a protest condemning Hathras incident in the city on Friday. Dr Ballal gets Lifetime Achievement Award Dr C R Ballal, head of department Surgery (retired), KMC Mangaluru has been chosen for Lifetime Achievement Award for the year 2020, by the Association of Surgeons of India. It will be conferred to him during the annual virtual conference of the ASI, to be held in December. This is the highest honour a surgeon can aspire for in this country. CR Ballal belongs to the third batch of UG and first batch of PG studies at KMC, Mangaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-congress-to-launch-protest-condemning-rahul-gandhis-detention/articleshow/78450392.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||No let up in number of patients on life support||Vadodara: While a significant fall is witnessed in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city and district every day, there, however, seems to be no major decline in critically ill persons. Health officials usually consider patients breathing with the help of BIPAP machines or ventilators as serious patients. While sufficient numbers of BPAP machines and ventilators are available in the city, no fall in the number of such patients raises concern. Officials believe that reluctance to go to the hospital till their condition aggravates could be a major reason for the patients becoming severe cases. After September 19, the number of new cases reported in the city and district has come down barring some exceptions. But the same is not reflected in the number of severe cases that have stayed around 65 to 71 barring some days. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that this trend was because of late presentation of case. “Most persons prefer home quarantine and are not willing to go to the hospital till their condition turns serious. This has led to the situation,” he said. The administration has also taken steps to strengthen home-based Covid care by mobilizing 254 teams to take care of patients isolated at home. They have been asked to pay special attention to high-risk Covid-19 patients. The high-risk patients include those above 50 years and those with co-morbidities having mild or moderate symptoms. The health teams will remain in touch with such patients over phone twice a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-let-up-in-number-of-patients-on-life-support/articleshow/78451966.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 3, 2020||Goa||On Gandhi Jayanti, people undertake peaceful walk against Mollem projects||Panaji/Vasco: On the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, October 2, hundreds of citizens from various walks of life undertook a peace walk between Mollem and Vasco. The walk was aimed at protesting against the infrastructure projects in Mollem. “The three projects in Mollem - double tracking of the railway line, power transmission line and the highway expansion - are bound to destroy the environment and our peace. To urge the authorities to retain our peace and environment, we have undertaken the peace walk,” Fr Bolmax Pereira, parish priest of Chicalim. The participants included Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha, Margao MLA and former CM Digambar Kamat, state Congress committee president Girish Chodankar and Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who joined in at different places. “If we do not act today, our future generations will blame us for being silent spectators. If the coal is for Karnataka, why is Goa being used as a transit point, causing irreparable destruction? The people should understand this,” Kamat said. Lourenco said, “I have been opposing coal right from 2012. When such a protest, against coal, is happening in the state, I cannot be sitting at home. I will take part in everything that opposes Goa becoming a coal hub.” The protestors started from Mollem at around 5am and passed through Usgao, Ponda, Borim, Bethoda, Chicalim, Cortalim and Sancoale among others. Panchas and locals joined the march in their respective villages. The participants reached Vasco at around 6pm and the march culminated at the MPT yard. In Vasco, the protestors submitted a memo to local MLA Carlos Almeida. The event was registered with the global climate strike movement. A rally was also organised in Chandor against coal transporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-gandhi-jayanti-people-undertake-peaceful-walk-against-mollem-projects/articleshow/78454437.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Girl dies after father assaults her over affair||Bicholim: Pratima Sunilkumar Ranjan, 20, a native of Jaunpur-Sikara, Uttar Pradesh, but presently residing at Gokulwadi in Sakhali, died after she was allegedly assaulted by her father at their residence on Thursday night. The father was later arrested for the crime. At around 1am on Friday, Dr Anuja Dabholkar, medical officer at Sakhali community health centre (CHC), informed Bicholim police about the incident and also lodged a complaint. Police said Sunilkumar, 46, was enraged as his daughter was allegedly having an affair with a man. To dissuade her from meeting the man, the accused assaulted Pratima with a cricket stump on Thursday night. The grievously injured girl was rushed to the CHC. However, after midnight, she succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment. Police said the victim’s two minor brothers witnessed the incident, while their mother, who is a fruit seller, had not returned home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/girl-dies-after-father-assaults-her-over-affair/articleshow/78454432.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||500 acres of govt land freed from encroachers||Visakhapatnam: The district administration has recovered over 500 acres of government land from encroachers in various mandals of the district, keeping the land bank ready for future needs. Joint collector M Venugopal Reddy has been monitoring the removal of encroachments and taking over possession of government lands from the illegal occupants. The district has 41 mandals, of which around 15 mandals are close to Vizag city. Land prices have soared in those areas, particularly after the government’s decision to shift the state’s executive capital to Visakhapatnam. Tahsildars in charge of the mandals have been told by the district administration to remove encroachments on government lands. “We are on a mission to remove encroachments. We have given instructions to remove encroachments and protect non-occupied government lands,” the joint collector said. Most of the encroachments were in Visakha rural and Pendurthi mandals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/500-acres-of-govt-land-freed-from-encroachers/articleshow/78451548.cms||Siva G
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore records 495 fresh cases, 6 deaths||Coimbatore: The district recorded 495 fresh cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of cases to 33,116. However, with 637 people getting discharged in a single day, the number of active cases fell below the 5,000- mark to 4,913. The district recorded six deaths taking the death toll to 450. The number of people recovered climbed to 27,753 pointing to a recovery rate of 83.8%. Neighbouring Tirupur saw a spike with 149 fresh cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of cases to 8,530. The health department has again begun noticing a centrifugal shift in the spread of the infection. Officials say that in the last five days, there has been a spike in the number of cases in rural areas. They say compared to a time when rural areas would account for 10% of the cases, it has now increased to more than 30%. For example, on Friday, 143 of the 495 cases were from rural areas pointing to 28.8%. The Coimbatore Corporation recorded 335 cases, accounting for 67.67%. In a bid to handle the growing number of cases in rural areas, the district administration has decided to set up Covid-19 control rooms at each of the 12 rural blocks so that monitoring of patients in home isolation and those who have been discharged from hospitals and Covid care centres can be decentralized. “These control rooms will also be able to answer anxious phone calls on people’s test results, requirement of a hospital bed and guide people on what to do if they test positive among others,” said the health department official. “This way the load on 1077 helpline will reduce. They can focus on airport arrivals and corporation,” he added. Meanwhile, the corporation’s triage centres, which is the screening point for newly tested positive patients, are all set to get X-ray machines, so the doctor can check if the virus has affected a patient’s lung, which is where complications usually begin, before referring them to a hospital, Covid care centre or home isolation. While the central zone’s triage centre in Padmavathi cultural and south zone’s in CBM College of Arts and Science have already received X-ray machines, the corporation has arranged to acquire one for their centre in Government College of Technology. “We are in the process of arranging for X-ray machines in north and east zones too,” a corporation official said. In a Covid care centre in Tirupur, a section of the patients conducted a protest stating that they were not getting enough food and not regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-records-495-fresh-cases-6-deaths/articleshow/78452711.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Recoveries surpass new cases in rural parts in last week of Sept||Pune: The number of people recovering from Covid-19 in rural Pune surpassed that of new patients in the seven-day period from September 24 to 30 for the first time after the outbreak of the pandemic.There have been a few more positives in this period. The death rate in rural Pune dropped to 2.5% from 3.2% on August 23; the recovery rate climbed up to 76% from 61%, recorded on July 23; and the case doubling rate period improved to 27 days from 20 in a week’s time.Pune zilla parishad’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad and district collector Rajesh Deshmukh attributed the improvement to the stepped-up focus on health infrastructure, testing and treatment. They also credited the “Majhe Kutumb, Majhi Jababdari” (My Family, My Responsibility) campaign — a Mumbai style “chase the virus” initiative of testing, identifying and treating patients at early stages — for the brighter situation.After presenting a joint weekly review report to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday, Prasad told TOI, “Rural Pune had a lower recovery rate compared to the municipal corporation areas in the district. It has taken almost six months for us to reach the present stage. We could achieve it because of early detection and treatment of Covid-19 patients. We were struggling on both these fronts earlier. The ‘Majhe kutumb…’ campaign has given us positive results in two weeks and we shall soon roll out the second phase of the campaign.”He said, “Our aim is to further reduce the death rate. Over the last fortnight, we have added 334 oxygen beds, 132 ICU beds and 50 beds with ventilators at various facilities across the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-surpass-new-cases-in-rural-parts-in-last-week-of-sept/articleshow/78452725.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Covid screening a must for market vendors in Hadapsar and Mundhwa||PUNE: The civic body has decided to screen all vendors at vegetable and fruit markets in Hadapsar and Mundhwa while undertaking measures for strict monitoring of mask usage in public places to check further spread of Covid-19. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s screening drive has begun at local vegetable markets and is expected to continue for the next 10 days. The authorities have warned of suspending permits of vendors resisting screening or those not revealing their symptoms, if any. The combined caseload of Hadapsar and Mundhwa has surpassed 10,000. The locales are among the top five areas in Pune reporting the highest number of cases. In the past five days, the Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward has added over 500 cases. The most-affected areas are the gaothans (old villages) of Hadapsar, Satavwadi, Phursungi, Mundhwa and Keshavnagar. Implementing the containment measures in the areas had been challenging because of the prevalence of both residential and commercial activities, said a source in the PMC. “Local markets have been witnessing a huge footfall daily. Some vendors and farmers travel from nearby villages to the local markets. The commercial activities allow an influx of people from outside,” Ramesh Satav, a local activist, said. An official from the local ward office said, “We shall not allow vendors with symptoms to be at the markets. Visitors are being asked to follow social distancing norms and wear masks.” Local corporator Yogesh Sasane said the PMC had decided to shut down a swab collection centre in the area. “We have approached the authorities with a demand to not shut the facility till daily cases drop,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-screening-a-must-for-market-vendors-in-hadapsar-mundhwa/articleshow/78452720.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 3, 2020||Goa||Fatorda, Margao continue to lead Salcete Covid spike||MARGAO: Fatorda continues to top the list in terms of the number of Covid-19-infected people in Salcete. The latest official figures, containing data till September 28, has put the number of people who have tested positive in Fatorda at 1,346, followed by Margao at 1,093 cases. However, Margao has the highest number of active cases with 363, followed by Fatorda at 340. Salcete has recorded altogether 6,318, cases with 1,832 cases currently active, down from 1,958 active cases till August 31. Both Margao and Fatorda, however, accounted for 10 deaths of Covid patients each until September 28 — the highest in Salcete. Gogol, which saw 377 positive cases so far with six deaths, currently has 160 active cases. Both Fatorda and Margao continue to report a high number of fresh Covid-19 cases. Currently, there are over 350 active cases in areas coming under the jurisdiction of the Margao urban health centre. Cuncolim, which saw a spurt in cases in the industrial estate recently, has recorded altogether 367 cases, though the number of active cases has reduced by almost half — from 111 in August to 55 now. Two persons from Cuncolim have succumbed to the infection so far. Of the 177 cases reported from Navelim so far, 73 are currently active, with five deaths reported from the village so far. Davorlim, which has seen 237 cases of Covid 19 so far, currently has 74 active cases, with two persons from the village having succumbed to the infection. A spike in cases was witnessed in Raia in September, with the number shooting from 85 in August to 276 in September. Raia has recorded three Covid deaths so far. Aquem-Baixo with 89 active cases, Curtorim with 90 and Rumdamol with 76 are the areas under the watch of health authorities. While Aquem-Baixo has not recorded any death so far, three lives each have been lost to Covid-19 from Curtorim and Rumdamol so far, data revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fatorda-margao-continue-to-lead-salcete-covid-spike/articleshow/78454453.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kanpur||Auraiya horror saga: Mother hangs self after triple murder||KANPUR: The postmortem report of three minor girls, including the 15-day old infant, who along with their mother were found hanging in their house at Seud village in Auraiya district on Thursday, indicated they had been strangled. Their necks bore strangulation marks. According to police, the investigation indicates that after snuffing out lives of three kids, the woman, Sadhna, hanged herself. Police, however, said that there was no definite lead on what exactly drove Sadhna to take such an extreme step as no suicide note was recovered from the spot, but her father Sipahi Lal and brother Awadh Bihari said she had given birth to a baby girl about 15 days ago for which she was reprimanded by her husband Kuldeep and her in-laws, who wanted a boy after two girls. Kuldeep’s neighbours also conceded that he (Kuldeep) and other family members constantly scolded Sadhna since she delivered the third girl child. Besides Kuldeep's neigbours, the woman’s parents and siblings too accused Sadhna's husband and her in-laws for harassing her following the birth of their third daughter. Fed up with the harassment, she ended her life. “Later, following a complaint, Kuldeep was arrested on charges of abetment to uicide. Further investigations are on in this regard," said inspector Dibiyapur Kotwali Ram Sahay. "Following ruckus created by the kin and relatives of the deceased, the administration on Friday deployed heavy police force in Kuldeep’s village”, the inspector further said. After the postmortem, the bodies of the woman and her three kids were handed to her parents, who stay in Sahail area of the district, the inspector further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/auraiya-horror-saga-mother-hangs-self-after-triple-murder/articleshow/78454122.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 3, 2020||Goa||As sand erosion ravages coastline, crucial relief measures remain buried||Colva: Given the devastation caused due to sand erosion, a stroll down a beach will surely give one the impression that those responsible for managing the state’s 104km-long coastline belt are not taking their job seriously. A visit to any of Salcete beaches viz Cavelossim, Varca, Benaulim, Sernabatim, Colva and Betalbatim is sufficient to gauge the extent of the damage caused by sand erosion. A restaurant owner in Benaulim pointed out to as many as three layers of sand erosion at one location. He said that after the sand dune first eroded, over the last two years the erosion took place below this dune. This year, the erosion has occurred further below, he said. “It is a general notion that the sand washed away during the monsoon is brought back, but there is no specific proof of it,” said the restauranteur, who fears that in the years ahead, the erosion might take a toll on his outlet which is just above the beach. In 2018, the Union ministry for water resources had funded a project wherein the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) in collaboration with the state’s water resources department (WRD) would conduct prolonged monitoring of Goa’s coastline to study erosion. Under this initiative, NIO was to recommend measures to curtail the phenomenon. When contacted, WRD’s executive engineer Ankush Gaonkar told TOI that NIO had submitted reports on certain beaches where sand erosion occurs annually. However, he was unaware whether WRD has acted on the suggestions. An official from the environment department, who refused to come on record, informed that there is ambiguity regarding which government agency should oversee matters related to the coastline. “While district collectors are overall in-charge, it is not clear whether it is the responsibility of the Goa State Pollution Control Board, Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority, WRD or the environment department,” the official said. When contacted, environment minister Nilesh Cabral said that matters petaining to sand erosion comes under WRD’s domain. An official from the South Goa district collector’s office said that during the assembly’s monsoon session last year, chief minister Pramod Sawant had promised to appoint a scientific agency to study the beach erosion phenomenon during the monsoon, but so far nothing has happened on this front. Despite several attempts, calls to South Goa collector Ajit Roy went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-sand-erosion-ravages-coastline-crucial-relief-measures-remain-buried/articleshow/78454442.cms||Nisser Dias
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Why viral load is tough to detect||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 patients have been flooding laboratories with requests to know the cycle threshold (CT) value of their RT-PCR test. Many believe that the CT value, which refers to the number of cycles needed in RT-PCR test to amplify the viral RNA to reach a detectable level, can help in knowing infectiousness and severity of the disease. However, microbiologists said there weren’t enough reliable studies to show a definitive and direct correlation between the two. “RT-PCR is a qualitative and not a quantitative test where viral load can be defined clearly,” said Dr Arvind Lal, executive chairman, Dr Lal Path Labs. RT-PCR, the gold standard for Covid-19 testing, detects the presence of infection in a clinical sample by targeting specific gene sequences of SARS-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19, which is usually found inside the nasal cells. A swab sample taken from a person is put in a viral transport medium and then RNA is extracted from it. The RNA is then amplified using Polymerase Chain Reaction, which can run up to 40 cycles. However, depending on the viral load of a patient, the RNA of the virus could be detected in 15, 20 or even 30 cycles. Dr Pratibha Kale, associate professor, clinical microbiology at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said the CT value was considered inversely proportional to the viral load. “If RNA is detectable in just 15 cycles, it will mean the viral load of the person is very high. However, there are many factors at play. For example, if the swab sample hasn’t been collected properly, the CT value would be high, but the viral load would also be high,” she added. In many other illnesses, for example Hepatitis C, quantitative tests are available, which can tell the viral load in a patient. “In the case of Covid-19, quantitative testing is difficult because it requires tissue culture and a biosafety level-III lab, which isn’t readily available. It’s time consuming and could be dangerous given the high transmissibility of the virus,” Kale said. Dr Navin Dang, founder and chairman of Dr Dang’s Lab, said they were flooded with requests for knowing the CT value. “We try to explain to patients that CT value doesn’t help much in knowing the infectiousness or severity of the disease, but they insist on it. Indian Council of Medical Research and Society of Clinical Microbiologists have also clarified this,” he added. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine at Max Saket, said a high viral load didn’t necessarily lead to the infection. “Almost half the people who get Covid-19 stay healthy even after having a similar amount of the virus compared with patients who fall ill. As a physician, CT value is not the only thing I will use to decide the course of treatment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-viral-load-is-tough-to-detect/articleshow/78454509.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Cab operators in Ooty seek loan holiday||Udhagamandalam: A collective of private cab operators here has sought a loan holiday till December for repayment of auto-loans due to Covid-19. There are over 1,000 tourist taxi operators in Ooty taluk itself. According to S Govardhan, president, Ooty Tourist Taxi and Maxi Cab Operators’ Welfare Association, there seems to be no hope for them this year. April and May are two months when tourist taxies are engaged. Given the ongoing pandemic, people are scared to hire a taxi even for an emergency. “The income in those two months is the main resource for the whole year. This year, our livelihoods are at stake. Seven months have gone, and we see no hope. Most tourist taxi operators are facing a dire situation,” said Govardhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cab-operators-in-ooty-seek-loan-holiday/articleshow/78452724.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Budget-conscious shoppers step gingerly into city malls||Coimbatore: Malls continue to receive lukewarm response a month after the state government allowed them to reopen. Even during weekends and public holidays like Gandhi Jayanti on Friday, the malls hardly saw 30% of their pre-Covid-19 footfalls. The reasons behind the slow response is attributed to the economic slowdown and the fear of pandemic. At 1pm on Friday, there were only 200 shoppers spread across the five-storeyed Brookefields mall. There was a noticeable change in the crowd profile no children and people above 60 years. Almost all of them were teenagers, college-goers and young parents. A representative of Lifestyle in Prozone Mall said they hardly get leisure shoppers. “People hesitate to use the trial room and instead keep the clothes against their body to check if they fit. Some customers ask the staff where a particular item is, pick it up, pay and leave. We hardly get window shoppers.” Many college-goers and youngsters who used to hang out at malls and grab a bite at the food court, keep away as the number of Covid-19 cases continues to increase in the district. Multi-brand outlets are benefiting from pent-up demand, leading to ‘value for money goods’ moving fast. “Sportswear, nightwear and daily wear clothes seem to be moving faster than our celebratory wear,” said Darshak of Westside, which is seeing 30% of sales in Prozone and touching close to 50% of sales compared to the last year in Brookefields. Mall operators said the footfalls are linked to the number of Covid cases. “When the public realize that the cases are going up, footfalls drop,” said COO of Brookefields Ashwin Balasubramaniam. “However, malls in tier II and tier III cities are doing better.” There is less money in people’s hands and they are buying only what they need, said a representative of Allen Solly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/budget-conscious-shoppers-step-gingerly-into-city-malls/articleshow/78452719.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||Small tea farmers cheer as prices soar||Udhagamandalam: Green leaf tea price has increased to Rs 30.03 per kg from Rs 27 to Rs 28 in the past month, bringing cheer to small tea farmers. The average price for this month was fixed by the Tea Board (south) based on the consolidated auction sale average of cut, tear, curl (CTC) tea from bought leaf factories in the district in August. In September, the average green leaf tea price that was fixed by the Tea Board was Rs 27 per kg in the district, while the Tamil Nadu Small Tea Growers Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories Federation Ltd (Indcoserve), had fixed the same at Rs 28 per kg. All the bought leaf factories in the district have been instructed to adhere to the average green leaf tea price while buying green leaf from small tea farmers. M Balaji, executive director, Tea Board (south), said officials should ensure that bought leaf factories were not paying the farmers lower than the fixed rate for the month. J B Subramaniam, president, Nilgiris Small and Tiny Tea Growers’ Association, said, “It is a golden period for small tea farmers. We hope the trend will continue. We also request the Tea Board to ensure that Indcoserve factories also stick to the average green leaf tea price.” In August, the green leaf tea was priced at Rs 20.90 per kg. Now, it has gone up by nearly 43%. Before August, the price ranged anywhere between Rs 14 and Rs 17 a kg. The surge in price over the past three months is attributed to the high demand and low production in northeast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-tea-farmers-cheer-as-prices-soar/articleshow/78452721.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Varanasi||7 Indian workers kidnapped in Libya||GORAKHPUR: Seven Indian workers, including two from Maharajganj and Deoria districts of UP, have been held hostage by terrorists in Libya since a fortnight. Kidnappers have demanded $20,000 ransom for the release of Indians, who were working with a firm in Libya. All seven workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh were scheduled to return to Delhi on September 17 after expiry of their visa. The family of Munna Chauhan, resident of Garhiya Basantpur village in Kushinagar and currently in the custody of Libyan captors, has appealed to the ministry of external affairs to rescue the Indians. Chauhan went to Libya in September last year through a Delhi-based recruitment company, ND Enterprises Travel Agency. He bagged a job of an argon welder and his visa expired on September 13 this year, said his relative Lallan Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/7-indian-workers-kidnapped-in-libya/articleshow/78453762.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC improves tax collection over previous fiscal||Visakhapatnam: Despite the Covid-19 outbreak, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has been able to over Rs 151.6 crore in property tax, including vacant land tax, by the end of the April-September cycle this financial year. In fact, this represents a marginal increase over Rs 150.7 crore in tax collection in the corresponding period in 2019-20. Revenue ward numbers 4, 6, 8, 16, 20 21, 39, 40, 43, 44, 50 and 66 saw an increase of at least 10% in tax collection compared to the corresponding period during the last fiscal. The corporation had set itself a target of Rs 380 crore in property tax, against last year’s collectible demand of Rs 350 crore. The ongoing pandemic has severely affected the civic body’s revenue in the 2019-20 fiscal. Due to poor collections in March, the GVMC could collect only Rs 236 crore against its target of Rs 350 crore. The GVMC usually collects between Rs 80 to Rs 100 crore in March – the end of the financial year. This year, collection drastically fell to Rs 10 crore in March. Tax collection for 2019-20 were far behind the Rs 300 crore collection for the 2018-19 financial year. In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the GVMC extended the 5% early bird rebate till the end of June, which otherwise would have ended in April. Speaking about tax inflows this fiscal, GVMC deputy commissioner (revenue), MVD Phani Ram said the civic body created awareness among the public about taxes through autorickshaw advertising. “They were also educated on the interest which would be levied if the public fail to clear their half-yearly dues within the stipulated time,” said Phani Ram. This year, the GVMC tops other urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state in terms of tax collection. While a majority of ULBs have registered a downward trend in collections, the GVMC is one the few to see an improvement in collections over last year. However, the civic body has been struggling to collect arrears from various government and private organisations for several years now. Failure to clear dues on time has escalated the arrears of these organisations to tens of crores over the years. Interestingly, tax arrears of some of these institutions date back to two decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-improves-tax-collection-over-previous-fiscal/articleshow/78451571.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 3, 2020||Coimbatore||MTR offers shelter for vultures||Udhagamandalam: At least 150 shola tree saplings were planted in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Friday to mark the Wildlife Week celebrations. The drive was carried out in association with Arulagam trust. L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone, said they had also planted 150 saplings of marudha maram (Terminalia Arjuna) along the Segurallah river in the Segur forest range in MTR on the day to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. According to him, four species of vultures - white-rumped vulture, long-billed vulture, king vulture and Egyptian vulture - were found in the Segur plateau of MTR, where they make nests on neermaruthu trees, the natural regeneration of which was not good in recent years. “Hence, we chose to plant the tress in the Segur forest range.” K K Kaushal, field director, MTR, said India was the number one among the developing countries when it came to conservation of forest and wildlife. “The forest cover has been stable in the country since 1980.” An online elocution competition would be conducted for school children as part of the wildlife week celebrations, which would go on till October 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mtr-offers-shelter-for-vultures/articleshow/78452726.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Rajkot||Three of family burnt to death as car catches fire in Gujarat||PALANPUR: Three of a family — a 70-year-old woman and her two granddaughters — were burnt to death when the car in which they were travelling caught fire early Friday morning about 4km from Kheralu in Mehsana district. Two others who suffered severe burns in the incident were admitted to Mehsana Lions hospital. The deceased were identified as Ambaben Patel (70), her granddaughters Hemi Patel (17) and Nani Patel (12). The incidence happened when the Patel family was travelling from Ahmedabad to Ambaji. According to C B Gamit, police inspector of Kheralu police station there were five persons in the car when it caught fire suddenly on the highway. A fire fighter from Kheralu and police reached the spot but three persons were already charred to death. The injured, Rakesh Patel (42), son of deceased Ambaben, and his wife Varsha (40), suffered severe burns and were admitted to Vadnagar Medical College, but were later shifted to Lion Hospital in Mehsana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-of-family-burnt-to-death-as-car-catches-fire/articleshow/78451642.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Why more choices will matter this engineering admission season||CHENNAI: Arming oneself with a wide choice could be a deciding factor in getting a preferred seat in top engineering colleges in the state this year due to the large variations in grouping of students in the rank list released by the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee. Normally, the rank list has 200-500 students with a .25 difference in cut-off marks in one group. This year, as many as 1,580 students found themselves in one group, while some groups had members in single digits. Such variations could make it tough for even top rankers to get a seat of their choice, experts say. Usually, 10-digit random numbers are used to break a tie when fewer than 50 candidates have the same score. This year, they were used to break a tie among 791 candidates. “As many as 1,580 students got 190 out of 200 cut-off marks, an all-time high. There were only five students with 190.25 marks and 11 with 189.75, a point before and after the 190 cut-off. The huge variation in distribution of students at different cut-off points will impact online counselling,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi. “If a student with a 190 cut-off gives fewer choices, he/she may not be able to get the preferred choices despite scoring well due to more students scoring the same cut-off. Candidates need to prepare a wide choice list to have a better chance,” he added. Overall, the number of students with a cut-off above 178 remains more or less the same. Last year, 9,872 students scored above 178; this year, it was 10,319. In 2019, 2,653 students got the choice list wrong and were allotted seats way below their ranking in subsequent rounds of counselling. TNEA secretary T Purushothaman said students should give more choices. “They should prepare a list with preferential order of courses and colleges referring to previous year’s cut-off marks. The allotment will be based on the preferential order.” Experts said giving the college code instead of names would be ideal as many colleges have similar names. “Choice filling is a task even IIT aspirants have not mastered,” said educational consultant D Nedunchezhiyan. The number of students with a particular cut-off mark varies every year. “Preparing the choice list based on ranks would be ideal instead of previous year cut-off marks which may not be accurate,” he added. Going by the admissions to management quota seats, computer science and IT branches are the most sought-after this year so far. “The newly introduced artificial intelligence and data science and electronics and communication engineering also attract more students,” said a principal from a city college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-more-choices-will-matter-this-engineering-admission-season/articleshow/78452734.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Five nCoV facilities to shut down||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body cited a drop in Covid patients for its decision to shut down five of its underutilised Covid care centres in Pimpri Chinchwad. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) officials said that they have ample beds available at 25 Covid care centres. Moreover, with over 30% active patients in home isolation, the five facilities have remained underutilised. According to the officials, the facilities at Kiwle, Chinchwad, and Mhalunge, among places, would be shut in the coming days. Santosh Patil, additional municipal commissioner, PCMC, said that since positive cases are under control for quite some time now, there is no point in keeping the facilities open if they are to remain underutilised. “If in future, there is a sudden spike in cases, we can always restart the Covid care centres, but until then they will remain shut,” they said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-ncov-facilities-to-shut-down/articleshow/78452739.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Fake sting operations: ‘Scribe’ held for extortion||NEW DELHI: A purported “journalist” was arrested for allegedly conducting sting operations in order to extort money. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said the accused, identified as Afsar Ali alias AK Chaudhary, ran a digital news channel called “Jansatya News” with an office under the name of Global News Media Pvt Ltd at Film City, Noida. He would allegedly record videos of people and later demand money for not airing the tapes on his online news portal, police claimed. “A complaint had been lodged against Chaudhary by an advocate at Greater Kailash police station about being blackmailed for Rs 5 crore on the basis of a sting operation conducted by the accused. Subsequently, an FIR under IPC Section 384 (extortion) was registered,” Thakur said. Chaudhary, a resident of Sector 78 in Noida, was arrested after a raid at his studio. He was then produced before a magistrate. Police claimed that he admitted to having made sting videos of the complainant and demanding Rs 5 crore. Three criminal cases, two of cheating and one of vehicle theft, were found lodged against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fake-sting-ops-scribe-held-for-extortion/articleshow/78452743.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kanpur||Man arrested for attacking two cops with iron rod||KANPUR: A man was arrested after he attacked two policemen of the Police response Vehicle (PRV) with an iron rod at Rajepur village in Saadh police area of the district on late Thursday night. The incident occurred when the policemen identified as Hargovind and Brijesh, deployed at 0407 PRV, had gone to rescue a woman at Rajepur after receiving an SOS call. “As soon as they reached the man’s house, the man allegedly attacked policemen by an iron rod following which they received multiple injuries,” said station house officer Prabhunanath. The accused, identified as Shyamveer Singh, was arrested by the police. “Preliminary probe so far has revealed that Shyamveer had a heated argument with his wife over some domestic issue. He was so angry that he started hitting his wife with an iron rod. Soon his family members made an SOS call to the police control room,” SHO added. The officer added that the accused has been booked under relevant sections and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-arrested-for-attacking-two-cops-with-iron-rod/articleshow/78454760.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Varanasi||Woman attempts suicide over eve-teasingin Maharajganj, cops claim land dispute||GORAKHPUR: A 22-year-old woman tried to end her life by slitting her wrist in Maharajganj late Thursday evening. While the family claimed that she took the step as she was fed up with eve-teasing at the hands of four brothers living in the neighbourhood, the police maintained that a land dispute between the two families was the reason for the suicide attempt. The woman is undergoing treatment at a hospital where her condition is said to be stable. Talking to reporters, the woman’s mother said: “My daughter was upset as four brothers living in the neighbourhood often used to tease her. On August 17, we resisted their act and lodged an FIR against them the next day. On September 29 again, they harassed my daughter. Upset over this, she slit her wrist on Thursday night. We rushed her to Siswa health centre where doctors referred her to the district hospital.” Maharajganj SP Pradeep Gupta said, “The woman’s family and their neighbours have a land dispute. On August 18, a case under Section 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of IPC was registered after the two groups clashed. They had an altercation again on September 29. An FIR has been lodged against the four brothers for voluntarily causing hurt. One of them, Rajmohan, has been arrested while search has been launched for others.” The woman’s mother, however, denied any land dispute with the family of accused men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-attempts-suicide-over-eve-teasingin-maharajganj-cops-claim-land-dispute/articleshow/78453802.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||2,799 patients discharged in PMR, 89 people dead||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region continued to report more discharges than new cases of Covid-19. On Friday, a total of 2,799 patients were discharged in the region, while 2,571 people tested positive. This took the total recoveries in the region to 2.44 lakh, while the progressive caseload (overall positive tally) touched 2.89 lakh. The municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad too reported more recoveries than fresh cases — about 1,209 patients were discharged in PMC limits and 1040 in PCMC. At the same time, PMC areas recorded 1,024 new cases, with Pimpri Chinchwad adding 624 patients. However, rural areas, municipal councils and cantonments added more positive patients — a total of 923 new patients were reported in these areas, while 550 people were discharged. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 89 people succumbed to the contagion on Friday, pushing the death toll to 6,687. Of these, PMC areas had the highest number of fatalities, at 43, followed by 32 deaths in rural areas and 14 in PCMC limits. Meanwhile, the tally of active patients in the region on Friday further dropped to 37,731, with 21,661 people being treated in hospitals and 16,070 in home quarantine. Health officials said about 13,147 samples were tested in the region on Friday, including 5,724 in PMC limits and 3,796 in PCMC areas. According to a report issued by PMC, about 3,077 patients were put on oxygen support on Friday at various hospitals; about 910 patients were in a critical condition — 508 were on ventilator support and 402 have been admitted to intensive care units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2799-patients-discharged-in-pmr-89-people-dead/articleshow/78452732.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 3, 2020||Pune||Action against hospital in Pune over inflated bill complaints||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has cancelled its permission to a private hospital in Kondhwa for treating Covid-19 patients following allegations of overcharging. “A notice regarding overcharging was served on the hospital, but it did not adhere to the directives,” said Rubal Agrawal, additional commissioner, PMC. “The action has been initiated after repeated complaints against the hospital,” said a senior official of PMC. The civic administration would issue notices to other hospitals for not following norms. Repeat offenders would lose hospital licence. As per the civic official, a hospital can charge up to Rs 9,000 for ICU, but the private hospital charged more. The PMC had asked the hospital to refund the extra money charged, but the directives were not followed. “The expenses have gone up due to high demand for oxygen and increased usage. Even the fees for doctors had to be increased. The number of paramedical staff has also increased. All this has put a heavy burden on the hospital,” said a doctor who is also a member of the senior management of the hospital. The hospital was an orthopaedic unit, but started Covid-19 treatment in view of the demand. It has now stopped admitting Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/action-against-hospital-over-inflated-bill-complaints/articleshow/78452735.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Custodial death case after detained youth dies||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna Lanka police registered a custodial death case on Friday after Dovari Ajay, a 25-year-old youth, died under suspicious circumstances on Thursday night after being detained by special enforcement bureau (SEB) sleuths. Krishna Lanka CI Satyanandam said they have registered a case under section 176 of CrPC and are waiting for Ajay’s post-mortem report. Meanwhile, family members of the deceased staged protests when Vijayawada sub-collector Dhyana Chandra visited the hospital to take stock of the situation. The sub-collector said he has recorded the statements of Ajay’s family members and SEB officials, and added that a judicial inquiry would be ordered by the district collector soon. On their part, SEB officials said they had detained the youngster in a case of illegal transportation of non-duty paid liquor and questioned them for more than three hours. During questioning, he suddenly lost consciousness and was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, SEB officials said. However, the deceased’s family members alleged that Ajay was manhandled by SEB sleuths during interrogation. Ajay was caught by SEB sleuths while transporting liquor in an APSRTC bus near Pandit Nehru bus station. He was being interrogated to give details of his friend Sandeep, who is said to be the main accused in the illegal sale of liquor case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/custodial-death-case-after-detained-youth-dies/articleshow/78451592.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 3, 2020||Chennai||As monsoon nears, Chennai corporation begins desilting of stormwater drains||CHENNAI: Before the onset of northeast monsoon, Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to desilt 1,262km of stormwater drains in the city to ensure that the city’s roads are free from waterlogging. This is a periodic exercise carried out every year by the civic body. This time, the work has been divided into around 500 contracts with up to 10 package tenders being floated in every division. According to corporation sources, the work involves desilting of 6,031 drains in the city from which an estimated 1.86 lakh cubic metres of silt is to be removed. The work is scheduled to be completed by the end of this month, a senior official said. If the silt is not removed, excess rainwater would stagnate on the roads and lanes. “Whenever desilting of the drain is done, the contractor and the local official supervising it has to take a photo of the drain and the silt and send it in the official group,” another official said. After that, the silt will be weighed and sent to a common dumping ground. The contractors would be paid based on the weight of the silt. Data shows that the maximum silt accumulation is likely to be in drains in Valasaravakkam, Kodambakkam and Adyar, which may more than 14,000 cubic metres. Last year, corporation had problems as movement of vehicles carrying the silt was hampered due to flow of traffic. The silt-laden vehicles plied late in the night and hence work was slow, officials at that time had said. However, this year, with the traffic thinner due to Covid-19, desilting work may be faster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-monsoon-nears-corpn-begins-desilting-of-stormwater-drains/articleshow/78452800.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Chit-fund scam: How woman was tracked down||NEW DELHI: With the help of social media, Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) managed to nab a fugitive woman who was absconding after allegedly duping over 200 Delhi residents of crores in a chit fund scheme. The cops tracked down the woman’s activities via her Instagram account to Gujarat and nabbed her, they said on Friday. The woman earlier ran a boutique and induced customers into investing in her male associate’s chit fund scheme, promising high returns. The cops haven’t disclosed her identity, citing ongoing investigation as they are still looking for him. “It was alleged that the two were operating a co-operative Thrift & Credit Society, along with a clothes shop in east Delhi,” said O P Mishra, joint CP, EOW.  It was found that the society was not registered with the Reserve Bank of India and the two were not authorised to collect money from public in any scheme. Mishra added that the two have also been declared proclaimed offenders by a Delhi court. An FIR was registered in 2018 against them but the couple had absconded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chit-fund-scam-how-woman-was-tracked-down/articleshow/78452853.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||First e-auction of properties fetches MC Rs 7.76 cr||LUDHIANA: The municipal corporation (MC) organised its maiden e-auction for prime properties, which fetched fund starved civic body Rs 7.76 crore. The officials had earmarked 24 properties for the e-auction initially but on the final day only 17 received bidders. Even out of these 17, 16 were auctioned while bid for one property was rejected as there was only a single bidder. The bidding process came to end on Thursday late evening and on Friday the officials came out with calculations. The vacant plots opposite Keys Hotel for shop-cum-offices, vacant plot in Jamalpur Awana, vacant plot backside Kailash cinema and vacant shops in bearing market at old GT Road were kept auctioned this time round. Nobody showed interest for Jamalpur Awana and Kailash cinema, while Keys Hotel road site and shops in bearing market were sold out. Superintendent of MC, Rajiv Bhardwaj said it was almost after three years they had organised any auction of properties. “And for the first time, the response was good from bidders,” he added. The officials claimed e-auction opened the platform for bidders from anywhere in the world and there was complete transparency in the system. Joint commissioner Kulpreet Singh confirmed that the MC sold properties worth Rs 7.74 crore. “The 13 shops in bearing market were sold at good price. The maximum amount MC got was Rs 35 lakh for one shop against reserved price worth Rs 15.75 lakh. Three SCOs were also sold at good revenue. For payment, the bidders will get 72 working hours for 10% payment and they have time till Wednesday evening but we have kept office open even on Saturday and Sunday for the convenience of bidders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-e-auction-of-properties-fetches-mc-rs-7-76-cr/articleshow/78454460.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Sewage inflow plugged, NGT was told, but Pallavaram Lake continues to get polluted||CHENNAI: The Pallavaram Municipality may have told the National Green Tribunal that sewage inflow into Pallavaram Lake has been arrested, but videos shot by residents showed that the lake continues to get polluted. Two main channels carrying excess rainwater to the lake are blocked for long because of encroachment. Though Pallavaram has an underground drainage system, houses built on encroached land cannot to utilise this facility. Encroachers have begun to release sewage directly into these two channels. Recently, Pallavaram Municipality started cleaning and desilting these channels and identified 342 houses as sources of pollution. Toilet outlets of nearly 150 houses were sealed and officials said the rest will be done before the monsoon. Houses in the encroached portion will be connected to a peripheral drain that is under construction. Domestic waste collected through this drain will be pumped through a lifting station and sent to Kodungaiyur separately. The project, worth Rs 14.98 crore and funded by the World Bank, was supposed to be completed in 2019 but the World Bank released funds only after encroachments were removed. Now, the municipality has promised to finish work in three months. Calling it an “impossible” deadline to meet, David Manohar, a civic activist from Pallavaram, said the municipality has cleared only the top layer of slush in the channels near Shanthi Nagar and no efforts were made to expand the width by clearing encroachments. The channel, which used to be 15-metre wide, is less than one metre wide now. The municipality had promised that pending biomining work to clear legacy waste dumped in the lake will be finished in December. Of the total 1,08,000 cubic metres of waste, 91,200 cubic metres have been cleared, the municipality had told the NGT. But K Rajesh, a resident of Gandhi Nagar, said heaps of waste can still be seen and the municipality has not begun digging underground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sewage-inflow-plugged-ngt-was-told-but-pallavaram-lake-continues-to-get-polluted/articleshow/78452751.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 3, 2020||Kanpur||Admin appeals to NGOs, private doctors to run upcoming L-2 hosp at Paramedical College||JHANSI: The district administration on Friday announced that a 100-bed fully equipped L-2 Covid hospital would soon be launched at Maharani Laxmibai Paramedical College. The administration also requested the NGOs and private doctors to run the hospital. Giving details, Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi informed that the upcoming L-2 hospital will be equipped with ventilators, HFNC and BiPAP machines, and will have enough number of paramedical staff. “The facility will soon be functional, and if any private doctor, nursing home or NGO is ready to run it, the administration will support them in every way possible. I appeal to all those capable of taking up the responsibility to come forward and help combat the pandemic,” said Vamsi. Meanwhile, a Covid patient died while 45 new Covid cases surfaced in Jhansi on Friday. The total number of Covid deaths has risen to 156 in the district. On the other hand, the rate of recovery has further improved to 88.95%. As per the medical bulletin released by the DM, total number of Covid cases reported in the district is 7,367, of which 5,668 have been discharged so far including 39 discharged on Friday. Presently, active cases are 658. Of these, 156 are symptomatic—23 severe, 68 moderate and 65 mild in nature. The number of Covid deaths is 156, having a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.1%. Currently, 885 patients are in home isolation in the district. The Covid patient who died on Friday was a 55-year-old man from Shivaji Nagar. He was undergoing treatment at Jhansi Medical College. In addition to Covid, he was suffering from a chronic renal disease and also diabetes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/admin-appeals-to-ngos-pvt-doctors-to-run-upcoming-l-2-hosp-at-paramedical-college/articleshow/78454140.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Varanasi||Flights from Kushinagar airport from mid-Oct||GORAKHPUR: Kushinagar airport is 90% ready and flights will take off from second week of October, said, coordinator of Kushinagar International Airport, Anil Dwivedi, on Friday. He said, “The airport is almost ready and flights will commence from the middle of this month. In view of the pandemic, the government will take a decision on international flights. On the day of inauguration, the Centre may allow an international flight to take off.” Cause for another cheer was that passenger movement at Gorakhpur airport crossed 2,000 mark on Friday, for the first time since the pandemic began. Dwivedi, who’s also director of Gorakhpur airport, said, “There’s a demand for more flights, but our terminal and parking area is small and we need to expand both. Currently, we have nine flights every day with 1,400 passengers, mostly migrant labourers. They came home after the lockdown and are returning to their workplace, causing a spike in passenger movement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/flights-from-kushinagar-airport-from-mid-oct/articleshow/78453882.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||For patients with mental illness, virtual doctors offer way out of social stigma||Visakhapatnam: The concept of ‘virtual doctors’ in psychiatry has made treatment for mental illnesses accessible and affordable to a vast majority, unlike earlier times when people hesitated to visit psychiatrists in person for reasons like stigma of being discovered and time constraints. On the occasion of World Mental Health Week (October 4-10), experts say that digital mode of treatment from the safety and privacy of their houses has encouraged many patients, including those from rural areas to approach doctors. Tele consultation, digital psycho-therapy, multi-lingual translation software found in psychiatry websites put up by certain doctors and counsellors are acting as game-changers where seeking psychological health and well-being is concerned. Speaking to TOI, Dr C Radhakant, professor of psychiatry at NRI Medical College and consultant at Apollo Hospital, said, “In keeping with this year’s theme given by World Federation of Mental Health, ‘Mental Health for All: Greater investment, greater access,’ it can be said that online psychiatry and psycho-therapy on digital platform due to Covid-19 pandemic, has led to a wider reach or accessibility to treatment than in pre-Covid times. Patients seem to be more comfortable with the concept of ‘virtual doctors.’ We first email them a questionnaire for testing their psychology, which is followed by a video chat on google meet or WhatsApp. Patients are relieved that they do not have to travel, can avoid the interference of family members and strict privacy can be maintained. For us doctors, we are also safe from risky in-person interaction during Covid-19 times and can keenly observe the patient’s without-mask facial expression and body language during online consultation.” In pre-Covid-19 times, often family members would accompany the patients to the clinic, who would be uncomfortable opening up, family would try to arm twist and interfere but now, without family butting in, there is a positive transparency, with improvement in terms of privacy, time, quality and doctor-patient rapport, enabling faster healing as per mental health experts. “Sometimes, family members are seeking advice by sending across short videos of schizophrenic patients. Also, for every 10 patients, three-four are old rural patients and another one or two are new ones from semi urban and rural areas, who are consulting us using smartphones,” added the psychiatrist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/for-patients-with-mental-illness-virtual-doctors-offer-way-out-of-social-stigma/articleshow/78451641.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 3, 2020||Goa||Delayed aid for destroyed crop fatal for wild animals||Keri: In recent years, construction and other human activities across the state have moved dangerously close to wildlife habitat. This has led to fragmentation of habitats resulting in increased instances of human-wildlife conflict being reported across Goa in recent years. Forest officials admit that to reduce such instances, the process compensating farmers whose agricultural produce has been destroyed by wild animals must be expedited . The government has proven ineffective in coming out with a mechanism to deal with this issue, agriculturists said. Social activist and a farmer from Khandola, Ponda, Madhu Gaonkar has witnessed this rising man-animal conflict first hand. “In Ponda, very few contiguous forested areas are left now, with concrete structures seen built even on hill slopes by mercilessly felling trees. This has led to wild animals, like bisons and wild boars, entering agricultural and horticultural areas in search of food, destroying crops in the bargain,” Gaonkar said. In Sattari and Sanguem, there is a tradition of growing tuber crops during the monsoon. However, when these crops are ready for harvest, wild boars and porcupine raid the farms. Gaonkar said that farmers are left exasperated as they often fail to get compensation. This leads the agriculturists to begin considering wild animals as enemies which they leads them to device ways to drive away or kill the animals,” he said. Even protected areas in Goa are no longer in their pristine state with increasing human settlements as well as agriculture and horticulture activities coming up very close to them. In April 2020, Goa government has revised the scheme for grant of compensation on account of loss of human life, permanent disability, injury or damage to cattle or property, caused by wild animals. But the time taken to grant the compensation can be painfully slow. “The forest department has to plan a strategy to minimise human-wildlife conflict as anthropogenic modifications to the environment have resulted in deforestation and fragmentation of wildlife habitats. The time lag between the conflict incident and settlement of compensation needs to be minimised and amount of compensation paid should actually be able to recompense the farmers for their losses,” former deputy conservator of forest in Goa, Milind Karkhanis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delayed-aid-for-destroyed-crop-fatal-for-wild-animals/articleshow/78454554.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Road to perdition: Delhi fails to walk the talk||NEW DELHI: Looking at the condition of Kohlapur Road in Kamla Nagar market, it’s difficult to believe that nine months ago it had been declared a pedestrianised stretch. Cars, tempos, rickshaws, two-wheelers, and everything else on wheels still move freely on the congested stretch. The situation is the same in other parts of the market where parking of vehicles is banned. To streamline traffic movement in busy markets and provide sufficient space for pedestrians to walk and shop conveniently, the municipal corporations had introduced parking management plans at prominent places last year. Kamla Nagar was among the first three places chosen for a pilot project approved by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority in September 2019. The project involved utilisation of a centrally located mall’s parking lot by local residents at night to ease the traffic problems in congested lanes, no parking or one-side parking on the remaining stretches and hawkers were to be shifted elsewhere. However, when TOI visited the market on Thursday, the pedestrianised streets were choked with traffic and vehicles were parked on both sides, including Madelia and Agrasen Road. No one-way parking norm was being followed, pavements were flooded with hawkers and plastic bollards placed there to create space for pedestrians were damaged. “The plan lasted barely a month after being implemented in December. Lack of enforcement and non-cooperation by people have made things ugly again. It seems nobody cares about pedestrians,” said Anita Dhawan, a regular shopper. Nitin Gupta of Kamla Nagar Traders’ Association said they had complained to the authorities when the hawkers returned to the pavements, but to no avail. “North corporation’s plan to relocate hawkers has not been implemented till date. We even raised objections over the placement of bollards, but no official responded,” he added. Kamla Nagar is not the only market where efforts to fix the parking issues and encroachment of pedestrian space have failed. The same story can be witnessed at Karol Bagh and Lajpat Nagar. Karol Bagh’s Ajmal Khan Road, which was clogged with haphazard parking and encroachments for decades, was declared a pedestrian zone in May 2019. The first-of-its-kind project soon became an example for other congested markets like Chandni Chowk, Connaught Place, Lajpat Nagar, Kamla Nagar and Krishna Nagar. However, In July, the traders removed the barricades to allow one-way movement of traffic on Ajmal Khan Road after taking permission from the civic agency to increase footfall after the Covid-19 lockdown was lifted. “There is no clarity on resuming pedestrianisation of this stretch. What is even more annoying is that traffic jams are back with vehicles being parked on both sides of connecting streets like Padam Singh Road and Arya Samaj Road. Cars are parked in 2-3 rows,” said Shekhar Singh, a resident of Karol Bagh. Asked about the issue, north corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We made a lot of effort in conducting a study of these markets, arranging for parking and spots for hawkers, apart from beautification. We can’t let these things get ruined. A meeting will soon be called with departments concerned and market associations to reinforce all plans.” Murli Mani, president of Beopar Mandal Karol Bagh, said they had asked PWD to widen the footpaths on Gurudwara Road and Arya Samaj Road to stop people from parking vehicles in three rows. However, no efforts were made due to lack of funds. “Certain lapses are occurring on the part of traders, visitors and the authorities, but they will be resolved when the Covid situation improves,” he added. At Lajpat Nagar, parking didn’t look systematic on the main road when TOI visited the market. In the inner lanes, two-wheelers and e-rickshaws were found moving freely. However, the entrances of the pedestrianised stretches had ropes, iron barricades and metal detectors to stop cars from going inside. “We towed away vehicles from Lajpat Nagar-III last week after violation of norms was reported, but residents got agitated. They wanted time for things to get normal post the lockdown. We will soon implement the norms forcefully,” said a South Delhi Municipal Corporation official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/road-to-perdition-city-fails-to-walk-the-talk/articleshow/78452840.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Hospitality industry honours MLA Vaid for getting their demands accepted||LUDHIANA: A day after demands of hospitality industry were accepted by the Punjab government, several businessmen owning hotels, marriage palaces and restaurants organised an event on Friday to thank Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and also honoured Congress MLA from Gill constituency Kuldeep Singh Vaid for taking up their issues with the CM. Notably, on Thursday the CM had increased the capping of number of people allowed in the marriage and other functions from 30 to 100, lifted night curfew and Sunday lockdown as well, which were the major demands of the hospitality industry. Pritam Singh Saini, one of the organisers of the event, said, “We are thankful to the chief minister for giving a new lease of life to our industry. With the restrictions in place, it was becoming impossible for the owners of hotels, restaurants, bars and marriage palaces to save themselves from bankruptcy. We are happy that all our demands — be it reducing the bar license fees, increasing the number of guests allowed in every function or lifting the night curfew and Sunday lockdown — have been accepted by the government.” Meanwhile, MLA Vaid said, “Punjab government is fully committed to resolve the issues of our industry. Earlier, due to the high number of cases of coronavirus, we were forced to put some restrictions in place. But now, due to efforts of our CM and government, we have been able to reduce the cases by massive testing and timely treatment. The situation is now conducive for lifting these restrictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hospitality-industry-honours-mla-vaid-for-getting-their-demands-accepted/articleshow/78454513.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kanpur||Boat club likely to start functioning from next year||KANPUR: The boat club is expected to start functioning next year as around 90 percent work has already been completed and the remaining work is likely to be finished this year by the December end, said officials of the Kanpur Development Authority (KDA). Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar on Thursday inspected the ongoing construction work at the boat club and the Atal Ghat. The KDA officers told him that the club was being developed as one of the best places of the city. Around 90 percent work had been completed and the remaining ten percent would be completed soon. It was expected that the administration would commence water sports activities next year from January, the officials told the commissioner. KDA vice-chairman Rakesh Kumar said the idea of the boat club was presented by the integrated development committee about 10 years ago. Secretary of the boat club and coordinator of the integrated development committee Neeraj Srivastava had presented the resolution of the club to the state government. The government later gave its nod to the proposal and released funds from time to time, said Kumar. The process of issuing a tender for purchasing boats would start soon, and a hanger or shed would also be developed for keeping boats, he said. The commissioner asked the KDA vice-chairman to review all pending works at the Botanical Garden project and keep informing him about its progress. Raj Shekhar later inspected the Atal Ghat and directed municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi to get cleaned the silt deposited in its stairs. The municipal commissioner informed the commissioner that the ghat had to be closed for the general public due to the corona pandemic. The commissioner directed the municipal commissioner to take steps under unlock-5 provisions and get the ghat cleaned within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/boat-club-likely-to-start-functioning-from-next-year/articleshow/78454773.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kanpur||Congress and SP workers sit on silent protest in Jhansi on Gandhi Jayanti||JHANSI: Workers of Congress and Samajwadi Party sat on dharna in front of the Gandhi bust statue near Kachari Chauraha in Jhansi on Gandhi Jayanti to protest against the high-handedness of police in the Hathras rape and murder case, and the role of police in the death of a businessman in Mahoba As part of the Gandhi Jayanti celebrations, hundreds of Congress party workers led by UPCC state secretary and Bundelkhand in-charge, Rahul Richariya, a and former union minister, Pradeep Jain Aditya, marched to the Gandhi statue at Kachari Chauraha. After garlanding the statue, all the workers sat on a silent dharna for over an hour. Talking to TOI, Richariya said that law and order situation of the state has been at its worst recently, as the police have taken the law in their hands. “The recent case of gangrape and murder of the Dalit girl in Hathras and the way the police and administration handled it is shameful, to say the least. Similarly, allegations of extortion on a senior-most police official, followed by the death of a businessman in Mahoba, are condemnable. On top of all this, the state government is trying to suppress our dissenting voices by putting us under house arrest, which is totally undemocratic,” said Richariya. Later, members of Samajwadi Party, led by Rajya Sabha MP Chandrapal Singh Yadav, also reached the same spot, and after garlanding the statue, staged a sit-in-stir for over an hour, protesting the growing high-handedness of the police, and lawlessness in the state. Earlier on Thursday evening, a number of senior Congress leaders including Aditya, Richariya and city Congress president Arvind Vashisht were put under house arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/congress-and-sp-workers-sit-on-silent-protest-in-jhansi-on-gandhi-jayanti/articleshow/78454758.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Counselling for 12K paramedical seats goes online||Chennai: The medical selection committee attached to the directorate of medical education has started the process of online admission to paramedical and allied health sciences courses for academic year 2020. “This time the admission process has started before medical and dental admissions. And the entire single window counselling for the nearly 12,500 seats in 17 courses will be done online,” said selection committee secretary G Selvarajan. Admission to management quota seats will be done by respective institutions. “Online counselling schedule will be available only on the selection committee website and candidates should lock their choices of colleges and courses as per the schedule,” he said. The decision to go online was made in view of the pandemic, he added. Like every other year, admissions to these courses will be based on Class XII marks and rule of reservation. The committee will moderate scores of different boards to ensure there is a level-playing field, officials said. The online sale of applications for nursing and allied health courses in colleges affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University began on October 1 and students have been asked to send the filled in forms before 5pm of October 17. The application form can be downloaded until 5pm on October 15 from www.tnhealth.tn.gov.in / www.tnmedicalselection.org. A copy of the filled in application should be sent to the selection committee office after which the committee will publish the merit list. The fees for the online application process is Rs.400/- and should be paid through netbanking. The processing fee of Rs 250 should be paid online to participate in the counselling. Candidates can track their online applications on the websites by entering their online application number or Class XII (equivalent examination) registration number of first appearance with the year, officials said. Meanwhile, the admission process to the deemed universities is being done by the respective universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/counselling-for-12k-paramedical-seats-goes-online/articleshow/78452861.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||MC says contractor started laying road without work order||Ludhiana: A day after the residents of Laxman Nagar Giaspura questioned the quality of the road being laid down in the area, the civic body is claiming that it has not issued work order to the contractor and that he without informing the officials laid down the road in locality. Even area councillor had raised hue and cry over the road work. The superintending engineer of bridges and road department, Rahul Gagneja said, “The XeN concerned has issued notice to the contractor asking him to explain why he started work when MC did not issue him work orders yet.” He said once he gets an explanation, he will request the authorities to allow him to dismantle the road that has been constructed without permission. Gagneja claimed that tenders for the said work were done and the contractor had given the lowest bid. But without work orders, he cannot start work, added Gagneja. The residents of area had complained that after a long wait, the road work was started on Wednesday and without proper steps the road was laid down by evening. Cracks have also developed at the road. The sides of the road were not locked properly and there were chances that such road will not sustain for long. The residents had demanded action against contractor and had demanded road should be laid again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-says-contractor-started-laying-road-without-work-order/articleshow/78454556.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Just eight satisfactory air days in Delhi: Why September 2020 was worse than last 2 years||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded only eight “satisfactory” air quality days and 22 “moderate” ones this September, with a monthly average Air Quality Index (AQI) of 118. An analysis of the September data of the last three years showed that there were fewer “satisfactory” air days this year than in the last two years, with a higher average AQI level as well.  Track the pollution level in your cityIn September 2019, Delhi enjoyed 19 “satisfactory” and 11 “moderate” air quality days, with an average AQI of 98. However, the capital recorded 13 “satisfactory”, 16 “moderate” air quality days along with one “poor” air day in the same month in 2018. The average AQI of September 2018 was 112. An AQI reading of 50 or below is classified as “good”, readings between 51 and 100 fall in the “satisfactory” category and those between 101 and 200 are classified as “moderate”. “Poor” air ranges from 201 to 300, “very poor” from 301 to 400 and “severe” from 401 to 500. Experts said the average AQI of September was better in 2019 mainly due to weather conditions. Dipankar Saha, former head at CPCB’s air laboratory, said, “As there was low pressure formation in Bay of Bengal, the air didn’t flow from south to north. The stagnation in the air increased the concentration of pollutants in the air and hence, AQI level went up this year in September.” Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said, “September is a transition phase between monsoon and winter and weather has a role to play. The air was cleaner in September 2019 and 2018 as the city received better rain as compared with this time.” She added, “The pollution level is rising due to unlocking phases. Though public vehicles are limited, locals are using private vehicles. Waste burning has also been observed.” However, the city this year recorded a better AQI from January to August as compared with 2019. The period from March to July was primarily impacted by the lockdown, which saw a considerable drop in air pollution. January, February and August have all been significantly cleaner than 2019, too. In fact, August this year has been the cleanest month since the AQI was launched in April 2015, with four ‘good’ air days recorded and an average AQI of just 64.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-eight-satisfactory-air-days-why-sept-2020-was-worse-than-last-2-yrs/articleshow/78452868.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Ramakrishna Mission aims at developing 100 urban forests in city||Mangaluru: Ramakrishna Mission is aiming at developing 100 Miyawaki urban forests in the city. The mission’s second urban forest comprising 56 varieties of 460 saplings provided by the forest department was inaugurated by Rajendra K V, deputy commissioner and Akshy Sridhar, commissioner, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) at the math premises on Friday. The urban forest is being developed under the CSR initiative of Syngene Biocon Foundation. Miyawaki is a technique pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, that helps build dense, native forests. The approach is supposed to ensure that the plant growth is 10 times faster, and the resulting plantation 30 times denser than usual. It involves planting dozens of native species in the same area, and becomes maintenance free after the first three years. Stressing that Miyawaki forests are important in the present situation, Swami Jitakamanandaji, secretary, Ramakrishna Mission, said that the aim is to develop at least 100 such forests in the City. Referring to Mahatma Gandhi’s quote, ‘Be the change you wish to see in the world’ Akshy Sridhar mooted the idea of developing urban forests in open dumping yards. Stating that he is open for discussions on solving issues at Pachanady, the waste dump yard of MCC, he said the goal is to make Mangaluru a green city. Range forest officer P Sridhar said that the responsibility of individuals does not end with only planting saplings. Nurturing them is also important. Sridhar, who recently recovered from Covid-19, said that people must realise the importance of oxygen, especially during the pandemic. Though there were plans to develop three other Miyawaki forests in the city, the pandemic has put these plans on hold. On the Ramakrishna Mission’s urban forest, he said that there is a provision to plant another 100 saplings.  Rajendra stressed on conservation and cleanliness on the occasion. Meanwhile, Mangala Resource Management Private Limited, a startup by the volunteers of the mission, have reached out to 12 apartments (350 houses) and introduced pot-composting through which compost is prepared from the wet waste collected. Ramakrishna Mission is also looking for a solution to reduce waste generation, and solve the problems at the Pachanady landfill. (EOM)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ramakrishna-mission-aims-at-developing-100-urban-forests-in-city/articleshow/78450504.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||‘Pashu Mitra’ launched for dairy farmers||Vadodara/ Anand: Dairy farmers across the country will be able to resolve their queries related to animal health, nutrition or breeding. The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) on Friday launched ‘Pashu Mitra’ – a call centre for dairy farmers of the nation. “From guiding the farmers to providing crucial information for enhancing animal productivity, NDDB’s call centre will prove to be a true companion of farmers. This exclusive call centre’s aim is to further strengthen dairy farming and help farmers emerge as an empowered community,” said NDDB chairman Dilip Rath. “Pashu Mitra will provide substantial relief to the farmers in such difficult times. This will facilitate awareness creation on scientific dairying. The facility can be used by the dairy farmers for their queries related to animal health, animal nutrition and animal breeding. Farmers can dial 7574835051 and their questions will be answered by concerned experts from NDDB,” he added. The centre will operate from Monday to Friday from 9:30 am to 6:00 pm on working days. Farmers can leave a recorded message on holidays and will be contacted on the next working day. Rath also released a handbook for NDDB officers and board members of dairy cooperatives. The handbook broadly covers foundation, evolution, development of dairy cooperatives, policy governance and relevant legal framework and role of NDDB nominees. “It highlights the role of dairy cooperatives as a tool for socio-economic development and technological empowerment,” a release issued by NDDB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pashu-mitra-launched-for-dairy-farmers/articleshow/78451988.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||September high: One lakh new Covid-19 cases, 15 lakh tests in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In September, Delhi recorded more than one lakh Covid-19 cases, the highest in a month since March when the city saw its first Covid-19 case. The major reason behind this spike is also the record number of tests being carried out last month — 15.2 lakh, around 50,000 a day. On Friday, Delhi recorded 2,920 fresh Covid-19 cases. In all, 56,258 tests were carried out, with a positivity rate of 5.1%. The number of deaths recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin, was 37, taking the overall Covid toll to 5,438. The death rate, based on the last 10 days’ data, is 1.1%. Friday’s figure of new cases took the tally of total positive cases to 2.85 lakh. In the last 24 hours, 3,171 patients have recovered, discharged or migrated, taking the total recovery figure to 2.5 lakh, with an overall recovery rate of 88.8%. The cumulative case fatality rate stands at 1.9%. From more than 30,000 at a point of time in September, the number of active Covid cases in Delhi has come down to 26,450. Of the total 56,258 tests carried out in the last 24 hours, 11,105 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 45,153 rapid antigen. With nearly 32 lakh Covid tests conducted since the outbreak in March, the tests per million carried out in Delhi stands at 1,67,981. Of all the tests carried out till date, nearly half were carried out in September. However, the lion’s share of these tests was rapid antigen tests, which are not as reliable as RT-PCR ones. Out of the total 15,844 Covid beds in Delhi’s hospitals, 6,071 are occupied and 9,773 are vacant. The 8,137 beds in the dedicated Covid care centres have 5,937 beds vacant and 1,291 occupied but the vacant beds include 909 beds occupied by people under quarantine, including travellers who came by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights. Out of the 527 beds in the dedicated Covid health centres, 316 are occupied and 211 vacant. The number of Covid-19 patients recuperating in home isolation is 15,852. Last month, Delhi saw 1,05,692 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest for a month since the city saw its first corona case. September also saw 917 deaths and 93,885 patients recovering from the disease. In August, Delhi recorded 40,344 new cases and July 46,914 cases, which is less than the number of cases in September even when combined. June, which had seen the last peak of Covid-19 cases, had recorded 68,968 fresh cases. However, compared to the 917 deaths in September, the fatality count stood at 2,269 in June. While September saw more than 15.2 lakh Covid tests being carried out, the number of tests carried out in earlier months was much lower. More than 5.5 lakh tests were carried out in August, 4.9 lakh in July and 3.3 lakh in June. The number of tests carried out before June was even lower and records are not available in the public domain. While the number of new cases recorded in September is the highest, the positivity rate is the lowest since June. The overall positivity rate in June was 20.6%, with the rate even going beyond 30% during the peak. In July, the positivity rate dipped to 9.3%, and in August, it came down further to 7.2% and was 6.9% in September. The cumulative positivity rate in Delhi till date is 8.9%. By the end of August, as the number of Covid-19 cases started rising, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that Covid-19 tests in the capital would be doubled to 40,000 a day, compared with about 20,000 tests a day being carried out till then. In September, on average 50,000 tests were carried out every day, though a huge number of these were rapid antigen tests, which provides results within half an hour but are not as reliable as the RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/september-high-1-lakh-new-cases-15-lakh-tests/articleshow/78454585.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||To celebrate Gandhi Jayanthi, MC begins 15-day ‘keep city clean’ drive||LUDHIANA: Under Swachhta Survekshan 2021, the civic body launched ‘my garbage, my responsibility’ drive on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti in every ward of the city on Friday. The councillors from various wards of the city participated in the drive along with shopkeepers and other residents of those areas. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal also visited the railway station road where sanitation drive was going on and asked people gathered at the spot to support civic body in this drive. The MC commissioner claimed that this drive is for 15 days. In first phase, all main roads of the city have been taken up for clean up and afterwards even internal areas of the city will also be taken up. Through ward level sanitation drives, councillors are helping in teaching people about the importance of sanitation and people are being educated how they should segregate household waste so that at garbage dump solid waste could be managed properly. The residents are also being encouraged to start composting at home and the manure that will be produced through composting can be used in plants at home. The shopkeepers are being advised to keep two dustbins at their shops. Meanwhile, joint commissioner Swati Tiwana said they also cleared heaps of garbage lying in every book and corner of worst kept areas of the city under this drive. She also appealed to public to keep the surroundings clean in future as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/to-celebrate-gandhi-jayanthi-mc-begins-15-day-keep-city-clean-drive/articleshow/78454529.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||By when will pre-2017 grads get DU degrees?: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has ordered Delhi University (DU) to specify a deadline to issue paper degrees to students who graduated prior to 2017 and those graduating this year. The court said that a mechanism has to be framed by DU to ensure those in urgent need get online transcripts and other paper degrees. The high court’s direction came after it was informed that many students who have graduated from DU colleges prior to 2017 or even till 2019, have not received their paper degrees. Justice Prathiba M Singh noted the online digital degree certificates, which are now being issued, are monolingual — only in English — unlike the previous degree certificates which were bilingual — in English and Hindi. “It is ordered that both formats of the online degree certificates whether in monolingual format or bilingual format will be valid for the candidates to submit to their respective universities/ authorities in foreign countries and the present order may be used for the said purpose,” the high court said, seeking a stand from DU by October 20. Earlier, the high court had directed DU to issue within seven working days digital degree certificates to students who have already graduated and urgently require the document for taking admission in a foreign university or for employment. It had passed the order on a bunch of petitions, putting in place a proper procedure for issuance of degree certificates through an online mechanism to ensure that delay in printing of degree certificates does not become an impediment to students who need it. For providing online degree certificates to students who graduated prior to 2017, DU expressed difficulty in creating an online mechanism, since printing of degrees has already been undertaken for ex students and paper degrees have been sent to the respective colleges. The court then sought an affidavit from DU confirming if all students who graduated prior to 2017, will get their paper degrees from their respective colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-by-when-will-pre-2017-grads-get-du-degrees/articleshow/78452874.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||Conviction rate for crimes under IPC improved marginally in 2019||NEW DELHI: The all-India chargesheeting rate for crimes under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that were investigated in 2019 was 67.2%, a slight dip from 68.1% in 2018, while the conviction rate improved marginally to 50.4% from 50% in 2018. Chargesheeting rate, an indicator of disposal of crime cases by the police, is a calculation of such cases as a percentage of total cases disposed of by the police. Conviction rate, indicator of disposal of crime cases by the courts, is defined as such cases as a percentage of those in which trial was completed by the courts. In rape cases, the chargesheeting rate was 81.5% in 2019, registering a notable fall from 85.3% in 2018, though the conviction rate rose to 27.8% in 2019 from 27.2% in 2018. Among the states, the highest chargesheeting rate for crimes against women was in Kerala (93.2%), though conviction rate there was a low 13.4%, way below the national average of 23.7%. The best conviction rate for crimes against women was in Mizoram (88.3%). In Uttar Pradesh, which is in the news due to Hathras atrocity, the conviction rate for IPC crimes was 59.2% in 2019, while the conviction rate for crimes against women was 55.2%, best among the bigger states and also higher than the all-India average of 23.7%. As per the ‘Crime in India’ data for 2019 released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Tuesday, disposal of crimes registered under the special and local laws (SLL) – such as Dowry Prohibition Act, Excise Act, Arms Act and POCSO Act – in 2019 was better than in IPC crimes with 93.3% all-India chargesheeting rate, up from 92.2% in 2018, and 80.3% conviction rate, down from 81.8% in 2018. Among the states, the conviction rate for all IPC crimes was highest in Kerala (85.1%), followed by Tamil Nadu (63.2%). The states with a low conviction rate in 2019 were Bihar (6.1%) and West Bengal (13.4%), though the figure for West Bengal pertains to 2018 as the 2019 data was not submitted to NCRB by the state. Crime head-wise, the chargesheeting rate for murder crimes was 85.3% last year as against 84.2% in 2018, and the conviction rate in murder cases too improved from 41.4% to 41.9%. As many as 5.42 lakh crime cases of the total 83.8 lakh registered under IPC, that were taken up for trial by the courts in 2019, ended in acquittal, while 2.34 lakh of the total 16.3 lakh SLL cases put on trial ended in acquittals. As many as 44.75 lakh persons were arrested across the country in 2019 for crimes against women, 5.05 lakh chargesheeted, 46,164 convicted, 13,896 discharged and 1.61 lakh acquitted. The number of those acquitted in states like Maharashtra (20,526) was higher than those convicted (2,046). In UP, 83,582 persons were arrested for crimes against women, 1.03 lakh chargesheeted, 15,579 convicted, 2,096 discharged and 13,248 acquitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/conviction-rate-for-crimes-under-ipc-improved-marginally-in-2019/articleshow/78455489.cms||Bharti Jain
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||DC to issue show cause notice to officials who did not report for meetings||LUDHIANA: Annoyed by the attitude of officials who did not bother to come for the meeting called to finalise the dairy shifting process, deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal have decided to issue show cause notices to them. The meeting was held on Thursday late evening, as many did not come, the committee members decided to postpone the meeting for another day. A committee has been formed under mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu for making a plan to shift dairy units outside city limits for which regular meetings are being held. One such meeting was held on Thursday evening, but deputy director animal husbandry and XEN drainage department did not come for the meeting. The officials claimed that in some of the meetings that took place earlier these two officials again were absent. This annoyed the DC and the MC commissioner who directed the officials concerned to prepare show cause notices to these officials. Mayor Sandhu claimed if quorum of officials was not complete at the time of meeting, it was not possible for them to submit their report to the government. So DC will issue the show cause notices to the absentee officials. As of now, the civic officials have conducted meetings with dairy farmers of Hambran Road and Tajpur Road asking them about the requirement. The dairy farmers have demanded that dairy units should not be shifted at far off place and at the present location where dairy units are located MC should allow change of land use without at fee. The civic officials also took scientists from Guru Angad Dev Veterinary And Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu) to dairy units for a visit and these scientists are to submit their report about requirements of new dairy units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dc-to-issue-show-cause-notice-to-officials-who-did-not-report-for-meetings/articleshow/78454580.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Cancelled trains pose problem to garment bizmen of city||Ludhiana: Garment businessmen of Ludhiana are a worried lot, as both passenger and goods trains to and fro from Ludhiana remained suspended on Tuesday as well. A large number of parcels sent through the railways are still undelivered. There is also no clarity about when the trains will resume service. Due to the uncertainty, many businessmen have now started scouting for other modes of transport to work out their logistics. Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “Train connectivity from Ludhiana to other parts of the country remained suspended today as well due to farmers agitation and at this moment even goods trains are not running. There is still a lot of confusion — we have come to know from reliable sources that next week too trains will not run beyond Ambala. We cannot afford such uncertainties. So almost all the manufacturers and traders of garments have started using road transport for sending their consignments to other states. Though this is costing us more than what it would cost us to send these via railways, we have no choice. After months of sitting without business, we have started getting some orders.” According to Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana, “Till now, majority of the garment industry sent consignments through railways as it was reliable and cheaper. But farmers’ agitation has turned our lives upside down too. Lot of consignments are lying at railway station for the last few days as most trains have remained cancelled or were short terminated at Ambala. We have now started sending our consignments using other means of transport so as to ensure that they reach the buyers on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cancelled-trains-pose-problem-to-garment-bizmen-of-city/articleshow/78454576.cms||Mohit Behl
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s Dev Javia makes it to French Open boys’ main draw||Ahmedabad: Gujarat’s Dev Javia, India’s No. 1 under-18 tennis player, took a giant leap when he became the first Gujarat boy to make it to the main draw of the French Open boy’s singles at the Roland Garros in Paris on Friday. In his second league match on Friday, the 18-year-old rallied to beat Mexico’s Emiliano Agilera Guerrero 2-6, 6-3, 10-8 in the super tie-break to enter the main draw. After losing the first set 2-6, the youngster fought back to win the second set 6-3. In a thrilling super tie break he prevailed 10-8. On Thursday, Javia had started his campaign with a tough 0-6, 6-1, 10-4 victory against Brazil’s Nicolas Marcondes Zanellato in the first league encounter. “Dev has become the first male player from Gujarat to play at the Roland Garros. I am very happy that a Gujarat boy has won the wildcard event. His playing in a Grand Slam will inspire many more in the future,’’ said Dev’s coach Shrimal Bhatt from Paris. “It was a slow court which initially favoured Dev’s opponent. Also Dev lost focus in the first set and went down 2-6. In the beginning, Dev’s opponent played a slow game with long rallies,’’ said Bhatt, who is also the secretary of the Gujarat State Tennis Association. “It feels pretty good to be in the main draw here. I’m happy I got through the match even though I was struggling with the conditions and my game,’’ said an excited Dev after the match. Prior to his departure for Paris from Ahmedabad, Dev had said that it would be a dream come true for him playing at the Roland Garros. He has made one big stride. Doing well in the tournament will be a big boost to his promising career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-dev-javia-makes-it-to-french-open-boys-main-draw/articleshow/78453989.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Building to reflect Gandhiji’s ideals||Ahmedabad: When the World Monument Fund (WMF) put the iconic Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Stadium on its watchlist in October 2019, it was with the hope that Amdavadis will come forward to conserve some of 20th century’s most iconic buildings built in post-Independence India, and sprinkled across the city. SP Stadium is one such daring example of world-class structural engineering along with other contemporary buildings in the city. Its construction was one of the longest and the project ran from 1959 to 1966. Charles Correa came to the city in 1958 to design Cama Hotel. Not many know that he had designed 20 works in Gujarat, of which 12 were executed in Ahmedabad, two in Anand and one in Bhavnagar. Correa’s early works explored a local vernacular within the modern environment. He was one of the few architects in the country searching for an Indian identity and reflection of Gandhian philosophy in his works. His iconic work is the Gandhi Smarak Sangrahalaya at Sabarmati, which he began designing in 1960 and finished in 1963. The materials used in the construction are similar to other buildings in the ashram: tiled roofs, brick walls, stone floors and wooden doors. No glass windows are used anywhere; light and ventilation are provided by operable wooden louvres. These elements combine to form a pattern of tiled roofs, in a typology analogous to the villages so central to Gandhiji’s thinking. Correa’s dream of SP Stadium’s open concrete cantilever structure would not have been realized without Mahendra Raj’s pioneering engineering. Raj provided the elegantly zig-zagging exterior wall that added reinforcement. Even though these were the best available technology of the time, today AMC engineers say that the steel-reinforced concrete is showing visible signs of strain. “The challenge is of using a new concrete mix to stabilize the old concrete structure,’ said a senior AMC official. Interestingly, several projects in the city planned by Correa were never executed — one was the Correa House which he wanted to build for himself in Ahmedabad in 1968. Correa’s close friend, the renowned architect B V Doshi, recalls how Correa owned a plot just besides Sangath building on the Drive-in Road, which he had sold a few years ago. Correa did not accept any new works in Gujarat after 1971.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/building-to-reflect-gandhijis-ideals/articleshow/78452890.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hubballi||Man murdered by wife, her lover||Hubballi: A woman allegedly spent the entire night with her husband’s body after she and her lover murdered him in her house at Kabayalatakatti village in Gadag taluk, late on Thursday night. The deceased is Laxman Lamani, 39, while the accused are his wife Lalita Lamani, 35, and her lover Somappa Lamani of neighbouring Attikatti Tanda. Laxman and Lalita used to sell fish in Goa, and had returned to their village after the nationwide lockdown was announced. Lalita, who earlier had an affair with Somappa, continued her relationship with him after returning to the village. Circle police inspector Ravikumar Kappatanavar of the Gadag Rural police station told TOI that Laxman came to know about the affair, and told Lalita to stay away from Somappa. However, Lalita did not heed his words. On Thursday night, Lalita and Somappa hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Laxman. The duo strangled Laxman to death by using a rope. They destroyed all the items they used to kill Laxman, after which Somappa returned to his house, police said. In the morning, Lalita created a scene at her house, claiming that her husband had died a natural death. However, the neighbours noticed some marks around Laxman’s neck and informed the police. Police then took Lalita into custody, after which she confessed to the crime. Somappa too was later arrested. A case has been registered at the Mulugund police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-murdered-by-wife-her-lover/articleshow/78450554.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Bedlam outside Congress office, as BJP leaders protest||LUDHIANA: Local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders sat on protest against state government outside Congress office at railway station road on Friday. For almost two and half hours, the BJP leaders continued their protest outside Congress office where police were deployed in large number. The protesting leaders also argued with police for not allowing them to reach the Congress office. They were demanding action against district youth Congress president Yogesh Handa and another leader Mohit Nagpal for their alleged attack at BJP office on Thursday. Protesters showed scant regard for social distancing and also some workers were without face masks. The BJP leaders condemned the Congress government for inciting the farmers against Union government and farm bills, which they said was to divert attention from its failure and “will take state towards terrorism days again”. The BJP leaders gathered outside Congress office at 9.30am and started protest from 10am that continued till 12.30pm. Initially, the BJP leaders sat under elevated road flyover in front of Congress office and raised slogans against Congress government and chief minister Amarinder Singh. Then they tried to enter the Congress office where they jostled with policemen. There was proper barricading outside Congress office and the force was deputed in large number. The BJP leaders threw bangles towards Congress office for hiding behind police cover. Though BJP district president Pushpinder Singal tried to enter the Congress office while crossing the barricading, cops did not let him break the security. When protesters could not enter the office, they marched towards MC zone A building and BJP ended the protest after paying floral tribute to the father of the nation. The BJP district president Singal said, “The Congress government failed to fulfil its promises to the public and now, when it is clear that voters will reject this government in the upcoming elections, CM Amarinder Singh and his leaders are trying to spoil peaceful environment of the state. This is the reason that Congress leaders entered the BJP office.” He said they have been demanding FIR and arrest of those leaders who attacked the BJP office and if police did not register the case, they will plan further course of action. Meanwhile, BJP state vice-president Parveen Bansal said the Congress workers have a right to protest but it cannot take place inside anybody's house or office. When asked about violation of Covid norms, especially social distancing, he admitted that BJP functionaries violated the norms but also pointed out that Congress leaders are violating the norms daily. He said they will not let Congress leaders to damage the peace of the state. When contacted, Congress district Ashwani Sharma said nobody entered the BJP office as protest took place at the first floor. He said the BJP is trying to create a scene without any reason just to gain mileage. Poster war The BJP leaders were trying to paste posters against CM Amarinder Singh on Thursday night but the police removed the posters from outside Congress office. Then again on Friday morning when BJP leaders had pasted posters, the Congress leaders tore away the posters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bedlam-outside-cong-office-as-bjp-leaders-protest/articleshow/78454588.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: SDMC to call, help patients in home care||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has started a dedicated Covid-19 call centre to help patients under home quarantine in its jurisdiction areas. Over 40 operators, including nurses and pharmacists, have been tasked to call the patients and check whether any assistance is required. The call centre is contacting 1,500-1,700 patients per day, a senior corporation official said. Besides addressing the problem of biomedical waste not being lifted, these operators will also help the patients secure medicines and ration in cases of economically weaker households. The leader of the House, Narendra Chawla, said the staff would call patients to gather information about problems being faced by them. “We have got the details of patients in our areas from the district-level surveillance teams. The unit staff will be in touch with these houses and the operations will continue till the pandemic ends,” he added. “We will do everything possible to assist the patients under home quarantine. If requests are out of the scope of SDMC’s jurisdiction, then the staff will coordinate with other agencies and district administrations,” Chawla said. An official said if the callers find any patient experiencing breathing problems, the corporation will use its resources to transfer them to isolation centres and hospitals. “All the four zones have at least one such unit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-call-help-patients-in-home-care/articleshow/78454619.cms||Paras Singh
October 3, 2020||Agra||Boy slips past barricades, says Dalit family ‘held captive’, phones seized||Hathras: While the media and politicians made failed attempts to enter the Dalit girl’s village for hours on Friday, a boy from the family managed to dodge the police, slip past the barricade and hurriedly relate an account of how his family is being held against its will. The boy, 10, a cousin of the 19-year-old who died on Tuesday after being allegedly gang-raped, suddenly emerged at 9am. The media gathered around him immediately. “All phones have been taken away and switched off. We are not allowed to go anywhere. My aunt (the victim’s mother) wants to talk to the media,” he said. “Our house has been surrounded by the police on all sides. They are everywhere — on the terrace, outside the house, on the streets. We are being threatened. An officer with the administration kicked my uncle (the victim’s father) yesterday." When asked how he managed to slip past such heavy security, he said, “I came across the fields.” Just as he finished speaking, two cops who were posted there noticed the clamour and seeing him gave chase. The boy ran back the way he had come. When police stationed there were asked by journalists why they were treating him that way, they said no one was supposed to “move around” like that. Over the day, all attempts to go past the barricade met physical, often violent, resistance from the police. Hathras additional SP refuted what the boy had said: “There is no truth to the allegations levelled by the victim’s family.” TOI had last spoken to a member of the victim’s family, his brother, on Wednesday evening. On Thursday, when a video of the district magistrate purportedly threatening a family member went viral, he disconnected all calls. Since then, his phone has been switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/boy-slips-past-barricades-says-dalit-family-held-captive-phones-seized/articleshow/78451712.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 3, 2020||Agra||Dalit man, 25, kills self over 'police torture' in UP||Agra: A 25-year-old Dalit man, who used to work at a bangles manufacturing unit in UP's Firozabad, killed himself on Friday, following alleged torture by police. The man's family claimed that the cops were trying to frame him in a case of loot and asked him to pay Rs 50,000 for his "freedom". They also alleged that the police warned them not to give any statement on the "torture". The man, identified as Pintu Diwakar, was a father of four children. His body was found hanging from a tree in a field around 1.5-km away from his house. He belonged to Dheerpura village under Nagla Singhi police station. Pintu's elder brother, Hariom told TOI, “Without giving any reason, Pintu was taken by cops to Nagla Singhi police station at 2 am on Tuesday. He was tortured and given electric shocks throughout the night. He sustained serious injuries in his limbs, back and chest. He was unable to eat and walk properly. They allowed him to return home only after an assurance that he would pay Rs 50,000, or else he would be again sent to jail in a case of loot. He was not able to bear the pressure of paying Rs 50,000. After failing to arrange the money, he took the extreme step." According to Hariom, he was booked in a fake case of loot a few years ago and sent to jail. Gram Pradhan Dheerpura JP Yadav said, “Pintu was a family man. He was not involved in any criminal activity. He was working hard for a living." Pintu had killed himself following physical and mental torture, Yadav added. Dismissing the family's allegations, SP (city) Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Pintu was brought to Nagla Singhi police station on September 29 as a suspect in a recent case of loot. He was released within 24 hours. The details in this regard were recorded in the general diary of the police station." The SP added, "In 2014, Pintu was arrested and sent to jail in a case of loot. We have not received any formal complaint of police torture from his family so far. His body has been sent for a postmortem." Meanwhile, sub-divisional magistrate, Tundla, Rajesh Kumar said, “We have taken cognizance of the suicide following alleged police torture. Legal action will be taken based on the family's complaint. We will ensure a time-bound probe."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dalit-man-25-kills-self-over-police-torture-in-up/articleshow/78451725.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 3, 2020||Udaipur||Violent protest: BTP accuses Udaipur police of witch-hunt||JAIPUR: The Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) has accused the Udaipur range police of the witch-hunt of the innocent tribal youths in connection with the violent protest in Dungarpur and Udaipur recently. The party leaders are camping in Jaipur to apprise chief minister Ashok Gehlot of police filing FIRs at the behest of the BJP and Congress leaders targeting the party workers of the BTP. The leaders who couldn’t able to meet Gehlot have a set of 36 FIRs, video footage of Congress and BJP leaders and testimony of tribal families suffered in the hands of police. Sharing the FIR filed by the Bicchiwada Police station in Dungarpur, BTP state president Vela Ram Ghogra says that 759 persons were booked for arson and looting. “A careful examination of the FIRs by us says that many of those named in the complaint have been living and working in other states. Even those who died in the last few years were also named shows the police is acting with vengeance against the tribals,” said Ghogra. They also contended that police have detained over a 1,000 tribal youths and they have been subjected to physical torture. “We have learnt that the CM sahib is not well and not meeting anyone. We are here to take assurance from him that those who have nothing to do with the violence will not be subjected to any police action,” said Rajkumar Roat, BTP MLA from Chorasi. Reacting on the BJP’s claim of terming the tribal protest sponsored by the naxalite, Ghogra says that BJP should either prove the charges or apologise to the tribal community of Rajasthan. “BJP leader Madan Dilawar is a motormouth leader which was sent by the BJP for the purpose of creating sensation. The tribals have taken the allegation seriously and will ask every tribal MLA to respond or face boycott,” said Ghogra. Later, in the evening, the BTP has shot a letter to the CM and governor Kalraj Mishra accusing the political parties of instigating violence in the region. Udaipur IG Binita Thakur informed that over 100 persons have been arrested in connection with the violence till Thursday. Dungarpur SP Jay Yadav said that they have arrested 90 persons and 36 FIR have been filed in the district. “Those arrested are from Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara and Pratapgarh. The arrests are being made on the basis of CCTV and police surveillance footage,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/btp-accuses-udaipur-police-of-witch-hunt/articleshow/78452927.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Land acquired for NPCIL no ground to reject claim for job: HC||CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that the Haryana government cannot reject the job claims of those whose land was acquired to set up the 2,800 MW nuclear power plant in Gorakhpur village merely because it was a project of the Centre’s entity -- Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL). The HC has directed Haryana government to reconsider the case for providing jobs to such families whose land was acquired for the project and take a final decision within three months. “There is no denying the fact that the land of the petitioners had been acquired by the NPCIL, a Central government entity through the government of Haryana, when notifications under Sections 4, 6 and 7 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 were published on July 29, 2010, July 25, 2011 and November 29, 2011 by the power department, Haryana. From the said factual position, it is clear that the land had been acquired with due approval and consent of the government of Haryana,” HC observed. Earlier, Haryana government rejected the claim on the grounds that providing jobs by the state government is not possible because the land was acquired for the project of (NPCIL). Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill of the HC passed these orders while disposing of a bunch of petitions filed by Pramila and several other residents of Gorakhpur village whose land was acquired for the nuclear power plant. Counsel for the petitioners, Sandeep Goyat informed the HC that earlier, HC had asked the state government to consider the claim of providing jobs to family members of those residents of Gorakhpur village whose land was acquired for the power project. However, their claim was dismissed by state authorities on the grounds that it was a Central government project. Goyat contended that while rejecting the claims, the state government has failed to consider the provisions of the state’s policy dated November 9, 2010 which says that wherever 75% or more land of a landowner in a revenue estate, subject to a minimum of two acres, is acquired for other infrastructure projects, thereby impacting his sustenance to a considerable extent, one dependant of the land-owning family would be provided with a job in the government or its Boards/Corporations/State PSUs in Group ‘D’ and Group ‘C’ categories, subject to the incumbent fulfilling the qualifications prescribed for such posts. Hearing the case, the HC has now set a deadline of three months for the state to take a fresh decision on the issue. The state government had acquired around 1,500 acres of land from farmers of Gorakhpur, Kajalheri and Badopal for the nuclear power project. Most of the land was from Gorakhpur village. As many as 847 families of these three villages had been affected by the land acquisition as their land was acquired to set up the project. Inaugurated on January 1, 2014 by former PM Manmohan Singh, the Rs 23,502 crore project of Nuclear Power Corporation of India limited (NPCL) would be the country’s largest nuclear power plant with a target of producing 2,800 MW power. Construction of the project is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/land-acquired-for-npcil-no-ground-to-reject-claim-for-job-hc/articleshow/78454599.cms||Ajay Sura
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s unsung hero of landmarks||Ahmedabad: Mahendra Raj, 96, like all structural engineers is an unsung hero who helped prominent modern architects turn their design visions into reality. He worked with Le Corbusier in Chandigarh, Louis Kahn on the IIM-A project, and with A P Kanvinde, B V Doshi, Minoru Yamasaki, Charles Correa, J A Stein, and Raj Rewal. In his six-decade career, Raj was involved in the creation of several Ahmedabad landmarks. He worked with Kahn while building IIM-A in 1961, and was part of the NID project in which Doshi was on board. Raj was at the same time involved in realizing Correa’s SVP Stadium vision. Many of Doshi’s and Raj’s contemporaries remember how Raj spoke his mind to Kahn if he did not agree on certain things. Kahn had back then insisted that the building be done in brick. “Somehow Kahn had the impression that Ahmedabad did not have the expertise to deal in open concrete buildings,” says a senior professor at Cept University. Kahn conceived a brick structure for IIM-A, but incorporated suggestions from Raj in which he allowed wide arches for extra protection during earthquakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabads-unsung-hero-of-landmarks/articleshow/78452946.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Amritsar||RCMP allows bearded officers to join operational duties||AMRITSAR: Bearded Sikh officers of Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) will be able to return to operational duties. The RCMP had removed bearded Sikh policemen from frontline policing duties and had placed them on desk duties due to the coronavirus pandemic. Their contention was that N 100 masks didn’t seal properly for persons with facial hair. In a compromise, the police force has now allowed its personnel with beards to return to frontline duties. “The impacted bearded members across Canada may return to operational duties wearing appropriate PPE assigned to them based on a risk assessment carried out by the commanding officers in their respective provinces,” RCMP chief human resources officer Gail Johnson said on Friday. “We have heard the concerns of our members — especially Sikh and Muslim members — regarding the lack of safe facial personal protective equipment (PPE) for members with beards. Throughout the summer, we have been examining mask technologies that would meet Canada labour code standards. The affected Sikh RCMP officers were feeling disheartened that this situation had dragged out for six months and this will be a relief to them,” Johnson added. Earlier, Mary Liz Power, spokesperson for Canada’s public safety minister Bill Blair had said that it was essential for the RCMP to provide necessary PPE in a timely manner for Sikh officers. Reacting to the development, World Sikh Organisation (WSO) of Canada president Tejinder Singh Sidhu said: “We are glad that bearded Sikh RCMP officers will be able to return to operational duties like Sikh officers in every other police force across Canada.” WSO of Canada had earlier taken up the issue of removal of bearded Sikh officers of RCMP from the operational duties. He said they were hopeful that this incident would create momentum to find more permanent PPE solutions for bearded frontline workers so that they could continue to contribute in their respective positions. Johnson said that the decision to return to operational duties would always rest with the affected members. “Should they prefer to be assigned to other policing duties as a safety precaution, we will continue to make that accommodation. Each case will be assessed on an individual basis and in cases where we find accommodations were not appropriate, we will address them through internal processes,” he clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/rcmp-allows-bearded-officers-to-join-operational-duties/articleshow/78454603.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Parents’ body looks to crowd-fund fees||NEW DELHI: As the last date for paying the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examination fees is nearing, a parents’ body has started crowdfunding to help those in trouble. The Delhi chapter of All India Parents Association (AIPA) has received over 200 applications from parents and students stating they will not be able to pay the fees. Many guardians have lost job due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The fees for Class XII vary between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,400, depending on the number of subjects. For Class X, the fees range from Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800. The last date is October 15. Last year, Delhi government paid the registration fees of all government school students. This year, the schools didn’t receive any instruction till last Friday when they were sent a circular to submit by October 10 a list of candidates for classes X and XII as per the procedure followed in 2018-19. Ashok Agarwal, president of AIPA, has written to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank seeking his intervention. A similar letter has also been sent to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Many students are finding it very difficult to pay the fees. Moreover, many parents have gone back to their hometown and it has become difficult for them to come all the way here to deposit the fees,” Agarwal wrote. He has also made an appeal to common people to help the needy. Following a TOI report on September 20, seven students have been helped by two individuals in Delhi. One of them, Arun Vyas, paid fees for two girls at a school in Madanpur Khadar, while Ravi Marwah helped the rest. Prior to 2019, the government used to bear the cost of only SC/ST students who used to pay just Rs 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parents-body-looks-to-crowd-fund-fees/articleshow/78452958.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi goes for a spin to remember Bapu||NEW DELHI: It was the first time that Gurpreet Singh, who works at Park Hotel, used a charkha to spin a thread and felt that it was “a unique and interesting experience”. Singh was one of the many who turned up at Jantar Mantar to use charkhas or spinning wheels set up by Archeological Survey of India (ASI) on Gandhi Jayanti. ASI decided to bring in 16 portable spinning wheels to “educate and inform people about the thread spinning activity and its connection with Mahatma Gandhi”, an official said. Stating that this was the first such experiment by ASI, the official said the main target group was the youth who might have never seen a charkha in their life, let alone used it. “We have also set up a selfie point for them with a cutout of Gandhiji. With this, they can also be informed about the ideals of swadeshi that Gandhiji had promoted,” he added. Class IV student Prashasti was one of the young visitors. The nine-year-old “found it fun to make my own thread”. Another visitor, Poonam Gaur, an MCom student, said “it is a little tricky to deal with, but I am enjoying the experience. It is fun and educative to know how one can easily spin a thread from just wool”. The portable charkhas were provided by Gandhi Smriti Darshan Smriti. Its officials spent some time tuning the charkhas for participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-goes-for-a-spin-to-remember-bapu/articleshow/78454674.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana halves rate of RTPCR test||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government on Friday reduced the rate for RTPCR test for Covid-19 by private laboratories in the state from Rs 2,400 to Rs 1,200. The order has come into force with immediate effect. A formal order in this regard was issued by Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, department of health and family welfare, Haryana. According to the order, no private laboratory can charge more than Rs 1,200 for each RTPCT test. The rate has been fixed “after due consideration of the matter, advice of experts, taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and consent of leading private laboratories...”, the order said, adding that the amount chargeable is inclusive of all taxes. However, no changes have been made in the rates of Rapid Antigen and IgG-based Elisa tests, which stay at Rs 650 and Rs 250, respectively. It has also been directed that all laboratories conducting COVID-19 testing must adhere to the guidelines and SOPs as mentioned in the previous orders, and follow all the testing protocols as laid down by the ICMR and the MoHFW, government of India from time to time. The government has also clarified that non-adherence to these orders may invoke penalty under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-halves-rate-of-rtpcr-test/articleshow/78454640.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Bihar man held for making formula to brew spurious rum||AMBALA: Investigating an illicit liquor smuggling case registered at Panjokhra, the special investigation team (SIT) of Ambala police on Thursday arrested Dhananjay Singh of Chhotka Jhinga village in Gopalganj district of Bihar, who had allegedly prepared a formula to make spurious rum. SIT in-charge and Ambala DSP Madan Lal said Dhananjay was produced in the district court, which sent him to three-day police remand for further investigation. “A huge quantity liquor of four brands of IMFL was recovered in Panjokhra area of the district on September 11 and 12. Among these, rum has been found spurious following which Dhananjay was arrested for preparing its formula. This spurious rum was found bottled in plastic bottles with the labels of Old Monk Rum ‘For sale in Haryana (CSD)’ which is sold in military canteens only and it was stocked in blue color plastic drums at one of the godowns in Mandour village. Other recovered brands of IMFL were found genuine. So far, we have arrested 10 persons in this case and further investigation is being carried out,” said DSP Madan. Three accused Gaurav of Saraswati Nagar, Ambala City; Prince of Chandigarh; Satpal alias Vicky of Jandali, Ambala City were arrested on September 16. Two accused Pradeep Mittal of Ambala City, a liquor contractor holding several contracts in Ambala district, and Avinash of Jandali, Ambala City were arrested on September 17. Two accused Shankar Bhai More of Vadodara, Gujarat, and Pradeep of Mukandpur village in Ambala district were arrested on September 19. Two accused Mohammad Manan of Girewala village in Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Gurmeet Singh of Chourmastpur village in Ambala district were arrested on September 25. The police said on September 11, a racket was busted which conspired to smuggle illicit liquor into dry state Gujarat in name of supplying aloe-vera juice. Police had recovered 290 boxes of quarts (750 ml) of whiskey from a truck near Kalarheri village chowk in Ambala district. SDM Sachin Gupta said, “So far, we are tracing the accused involved in this racket so as to understand how these people were smuggling liquor and preparing spurious one too. Police have made several key arrests and we are also holding meetings to discuss the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bihar-man-held-for-making-formula-to-brew-spurious-rum/articleshow/78454632.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||Former minister holds day-long hunger strike in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: Former minister and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesman Kimmane Ratnakar on Friday observed a day-long hunger strike in Thirthahalli in Shivamogga district to protest the amendments passed to the agriculture legislations by the central government and the proposed change to farm laws in Karnataka. Ratnakar said that the legislations would sound the death knell for the farming community. On the controversy surrounding former All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Rahul Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh, Ratnakar said, “The BJP unit in Uttar Pradesh has no humanity. In Karnataka, the BJP is muzzling the press. A day will come when all this will end.” Meanwhile, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) members and activists on Friday assembled at Gopi Circle in Shivamogga town to protest the amendments made to the APMC and land reform laws by the Centre. KRRS working president HR Basavarajappa said that Mahatma Gandhi’s dream of ‘Rama Rajya’ had been turned into a corporate state. “They are allowing for conversion of land and making it easy for private players and making life difficult for farmers,” he said. Meanwhile, members of the Shivamogga District Congress Committee protested the gangrape in Hathras, UttarPradesh, while Akhila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad activists sought capital punishment for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/former-minister-holds-day-long-hunger-strike-in-shivamogga/articleshow/78451959.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Sympathy for drug peddlers may prove counterproductive: HC||CHANDIGARH: Voicing concern over the rising drug trafficking cases in the region, the Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that the drug peddlers need to be dealt with firmly and sternly and no sympathy can be shown to them as it could prove counterproductive and result in more drug trafficking. Justice H S Madaan of the HC has made these observations while dismissing the bail plea of Amrik Ram, 32, a resident of district Mansa in Punjab who is an accused in a drug case in the adjoining Sirsa district of Haryana. "Drug trafficking is rising at an alarming rate in this region, which has ruined the lives of young men and women. Drug peddlers, for a small monetary consideration, make the youth use drugs for a small time excitement/kick. The drug peddlers have successfully destroyed the social fabric of our society and led youth to the wrong path. Such types of persons need to be dealt with firmly and sternly and no sympathy can be shown to them lest that should prove to be counterproductive and result in increased drug trafficking," the judge has observed. In this case, a team from police station Rori in Sirsa had intercepted a two-wheeler being ridden by one Darshan Ram, a resident of Kodi, on January 22, 2020, near Sardulgarh town of Mansa district in Punjab and 1600 boxed of Tramadol Hydrochloride Tablets were found in a black polythene bag hanging from the vehicle. Darshan Ram was arrested in this case and during his interrogation he named Amrik Singh as its source, leading to the latter’s arrest on February 11. In his plea for bail before the HC, counsel for Amrik argued that he had been nominated on the basis of the statement of co-accused, which is not admissible and furthermore no recovery had been affected from him and he does not have any past criminal record, as such he be granted concession of regular bail. Strongly opposing the bail plea, the counsel for the state government argued that the petitioner being a supplier of the drugs of commercial quantity was not entitled to grant of bail. After hearing all the parties, the HC observed that the recovery from the co-accused of the present petitioner involved in this case amounts to commercial quantity.The court also did not accept the counsel’s contention on the admissibility of Darshan Ram’s statement, nominating the present petitioner as a culprit for the reason that he had purchased the drugs from him. "The disclosure statement made by the co-accused can certainly be taken into consideration since it provides leads in the investigation. Furthermore, there is every possibility of petitioner taking to the path of crime again and indulging in drug peddling, if granted bail," observed the HC while dismissing the bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sympathy-for-drug-peddlers-may-prove-counterproductive-hc/articleshow/78454654.cms||Ajay Sura
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||‘BJP drawing false equivalence of Rajasthan with UP over rape cases’||JAIPUR: Taking on the BJP for drawing equivalence with Rajasthan over the rape incident in Hathras, Govind Singh Dotasra said that BJP is desperate to turn away the nation’s attention from the failure of Yogi government. “I would like to ask BJP leaders has the Congress government delayed in filing FIR related to any crime or related to rape cases which they are mentioning? Has ever the police stopped anyone from meeting the victim’s family including BJP leaders? Has our police called any complaint fake without investigating?” asked Dotasra. The nation has seen how the DM of Hathras is bullying the victim’s family which has brought the entire nation to shame, says Dotasra while asking BJP to recall any such incident of an officer harassing the victim’s family in Rajasthan or the manner in which the fourth pillar of democracy, the media, was treated by UP police. He said that the manner in which Yogi government has stopped the Congress leaders— Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, has set a new low in politics. Meanwhile, former CM Vasundhara Raje tweeted, “Such incidents in the midst of corona pandemic are a challenge for the civilised society,” and asked the state government to keep a note of such incidents and those involved in such crimes should be brought to justice. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-drawing-false-equivalence-of-raj-with-up-over-rape-cases/articleshow/78452960.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bareilly||UPSRTC resumes Moradabad-Uttarakhand bus service||BAREILLY: After a gap of six months, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) on Friday resumed bus service between Moradabad region and Uttarakhand. The service was stopped on March 22 due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Initially, 21 buses will be operated on five routes from Moradabad to Dehradun, Haldwani, Haridwar, Ramnagar and Kashipur respectively. Prior to the pandemic, around 200 UP roadways buses plied between Moradabad and Uttarakhand. Atul Jain, UPSRTC regional manager, Moradabad, said, “After getting nod from the state government to resume bus services for Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand in August, operations have started." All Covid-19 protocols -- wearing face masks, frequent sanitization of hands and adequate distance -- shall be adhered to, Jain said. No extra passengers will be allowed to board the buses to prevent overcrowding, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/upsrtc-resumes-moradabad-ukhand-bus-service/articleshow/78451779.cms||Maria Khan
October 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man, wife detained for raping, threatening woman in Gujarat||RAJKOT: Police on Thursday detained a couple on charges of raping a woman in Meghpar Kumbharadi village of Anjar taluka in Kutch district. While the man raped the woman, his wife threatened her with dire consequences, if she complained about the crime. Police said the accused, Rajesh Vyas (27), allegedly raped 21-year-old survivor, who was the friend of his wife, Khushbu. “Vyas transferred the survivor’s photographs from Khushbu’s cellphone to his own and contacted the survivor, threatening to defame her with her photographs. Around a month ago, Vyas took the survivor to a guest house in Anjar and allegedly raped her,” said N B Zala, sub-inspector with Anjar police station. According to the police, Vyas made a video of the crime and started blackmailing the survivor with it. When she blocked his number, he started harassing her from his wife’s number, following which the survivor blocked her number too. “Four days ago, Khushbu went to the survivor’s house and threatened her with dire consequences, if she complained about the crime to anyone. Fed up of the constant harassment, the survivor confided her sordid tale to her mother who took her to the police station and lodged the complaint,” said Zala. “At present, we have detained both Vyas and Khushbu. Both will be formally arrested once they undergo Covid-19 test,” Zala added. Vyas, who works as a priest had also performed some ritual at the survivor’s house three months ago. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-wife-detained-for-raping-threatening-woman/articleshow/78452464.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hubballi||Now employees of aided edu institutions also covered||Dharwad: The state government has extended the facility of Covid insurance cover and medical treatment to the teachers of aided educational institutions engaged on Covid duty. Earlier, the government had issued orders stating that the family of any government employee who gets infected by the novel coronovirus and succumbs to it while on Covid prevention duty would get a insurance claim of Rs 30 lakh and the government will bear the cost of the treatment. The government had also deployed the teachers of aided schools on Covid duty, and the Teachers’ Associations had demanded extension of the facilities to the aided school teachers also. MLC and former minister Basavaraj Horatti had met chief minister B S Yediyurappa and urged him not to discriminate between government employees and aided school employees while paying compensation and treatment. Acceding to the demand, the chief minister had asked the officials to issue an order extending the facility to the employees of private aided educational institutions also. Accordingly, the government has issued the orders, said Horatti. He has thanked the government for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/now-employees-of-aided-edu-institutions-also-covered/articleshow/78450590.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||Fake currency notes circulation rampant in prosperous Gujarat||Vadodara: Watch out when dealing with cash transactions in Gujarat. For, you may land up with fake currency notes.The state that is known for its prosperity and cash-rich businesses has one of the highest fake currency seizures in the country. The data released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2019 revealed that Gujarat tops the list of states in the number of currency notes seized.In fact, in the previous two years too, the state ranked number one in the country when it came to the number of fake currency notes seized. And the large seizures of fake currency notes has kept the police department on the toes since last few years. “One of the main reasons for large seizures of fake currency notes in Gujarat is that we share both sea and land borders with Pakistan. A lot of fake currency flows in Gujarat from Pakistan and the aim is to destabilize the country’s economy,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime) who has investigated many fake currency cases in the state.“Also, Gujarat is a prosperous state and is home to many industries apart from cash-rich businesses. It’s easier to circulate fake currency notes in the market without getting noticed. The special operations group (SOG), though, monitors such fake currency rackets and regularly arrests the gangs involved,” Jadeja told TOI. Many gangs also source fake currency notes from Malda district in West Bengal that is one of the hubs for such rackets.Traders community in the state said that counterfeit currency note rackets spread in the state after the demonetisation in 2016. Over 30,000 fake Rs 2,000 currency notes were seized from Gujarat in 2017 while the total seizure amounted to over Rs nine crore. Recently, the ministry of home affairs revealed that in the last four years, Gujarat topped the list of states where high denomination currency notes were seized. West Bengal stands at number two in the list.“The amount of fake currency notes circulated in Gujarat is a cause of concern for the business community. The numbers shot up after demonetisation as many fake Rs 2,000 notes were seized in the state. Many dealing in cash do have counting machines that can detect fake notes. But we always ask the traders dealing in cash to be alert,” said Paresh Parikh, general secretary, Confederation of All India Traders, Gujarat chapter.Parikh said that his association is also planning to start an awareness programme for the traders to detect fake currency notes and how to deal with the racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-currency-notes-circulation-rampant-in-prosperous-gujarat/articleshow/78452003.cms||Tushar Tere
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Toll at 750 as Covid claims 6 lives; 111 test +ve in dist||TNNLudhiana: Six persons from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 111 tested positive on Friday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 77-year-old woman of Gandhi Nagar; a 72-year-old man of GTB Nagar, Jagraon, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 27-year-old man of Toosa village; a 68-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan; a 46-year-old woman of Hambran Road with diabetes and hypertension; and a 60-year-old man of Khanpur Mandi. The day also saw six from outside the district succumbing to the virus and 22 testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said Ludhiana toll tally now stood at 750 and that of outsiders at 259.To date, 2,83,000 suspects have been tested.Of the 111 positive cases, 35 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 13 positive cases’ contacts, 27 from OPD, three cops, four health-care workers, two domestic / international travellers, one pregnant woman, 24 through tracing process and two severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases.The Ludhiana case count has increased to 18,198 and that of outsiders to 2,272.So far, 16,559 patients have recovered in the district which constitutes 90.99% of the total cases.There are 886 active patients here. The number of persons home quarantined is 3,300. On Friday, 120 persons were sent for home isolation and 4,137 samples collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/toll-at-750-as-covid-claims-6-lives-111-test-ve-in-dist/articleshow/78451776.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Chemist, supplier arrested with 75,000 narcotic tablets||KURUKSHETRA: Kurukshetra police and special task force (STF) arrested a chemist and his supplier with 75,000 narcotic tablets, Kurukshetra DSP Mamta said. The accused were Kishore Kumar, who had a medical store at Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra district, and Sushil Kumar of Mehra village in Kurukshetra district, who allegedly supplied the banned tablets to Kishore. In his complaint, sub-inspector Naresh Kumar, SHO Thanesar Sadar police station, said, “We set up a checkpost near T-Point on Kadami-Ladwa road and stopped a vehicle driven by Kishore. While checking, our team recovered 15 boxes (75,000 tablets) of narcotic tablets.” DSP Mamta said, “During the preliminary investigation, Kishore disclosed that he procured the tablets from Sushil Kumar of Mehra village.” “Kishore had already been booked in an NDPS case in Ambala district,” the DSP added. Both were produced in a court on Friday, which sent them to two-day police remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chemist-supplier-arrested-with-75k-narcotic-tablets/articleshow/78454670.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Threat mail: Three school employees give statements||AHMEDABAD: Cyber-cell sleuths of the city police recorded statements of three administration employees of the Satellite school, which cancelled midterm exams after receiving an e-mail threat. The mail stated that if the exams are held then morphed nude photos of girl students will be made viral. Cyber cell officials said they have written to service providers for the IP address log to track the device from which the mail had been sent. School authorities avoided further comment on the issue. On Thursday, the school administration had lodged a complaint with cyber cell about the mail and had also informed students about cancellation of exams. The trustee of the school confirmed this. “The investigation has just begun and it will take some time. Our assumption is that the mail was sent by some insider who doesn’t want the exams to be held,” said a cyber-cell official. According to the complaint lodged by the school principal who is working in the school for more than 11 years, there are about 600 students, 64 teachers and six staff members in the school. The school was currently taking online classes of the students. Meanwhile on September 9, the school administration got a mail written in English at about 1.48am in the night threatening them to cancel the midterm exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/threat-mail-three-school-employees-give-statements/articleshow/78452961.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two killed as tanker hits camel cart in Sikar district||JAIPUR: Two persons, including a woman, were killed while four others injured in Sikar’s Fatehpur when a tanker collided with the camel cart in which the victims were going to the fields on Friday early morning. The accident happened on NH-58 and the injured were taken to the hospital for treatment. The truck driver fled from the spot and is yet to be caught. The deceased were identified as Parmeshwar and Manju Devi. The hind legs of the camel also fractured due to the impact. “Around 6 am, six persons, including a child, were going to the field for cutting of crops when the tanker loaded with milk collided with them from behind. Due to the impact, the cart broke and the passengers were grievously injured. Two of them died on the spot,” said an official of Sadar police station. The tanker driver fled from the spot and abandoned his vehicle around 25 kilometres from the accident site. Elaborating further, the official added, “It appears that the driver was driving rashly and perhaps over speeding because of which he could not stop in time and hit the cart. The impact was so severe that the cart broke. We are looking for the driver.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-killed-as-tanker-hits-camel-cart-in-sikar-dist/articleshow/78452957.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Locals give govt 15-day ultimatum to start 10-bed hospital at Ribandar||Panaji: Unhappy with the government’s plan to start a primary health centre (PHC) for Ribandar, residents have started an agitation demanding a full-fledged 10-bed hospital to be set up at the old Goa Institute of Management campus. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the state government is considering converting the Old Goa Medical College building at Ribandar into a PHC. The government had earlier given its nod to start a day-care dispensary for Ribandar at the old GMC complex, which locals had protested saying that they require a full-fledged hospital. Sawant was speaking to reporters after paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary at Old Goa. He told reporters that the request for a health centre at Ribandar had come from Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate and Cumbharjua MLA Pandurang Madkaikar. “The proposals had been delayed due to the pandemic. We have been considering converting the old GMC hospital at Ribandar into a primary health centre to cater to people from Ribandar, Old Goa and surrounding areas,” Sawant said. Residents of Ribandar, Chimbel and Merces, led by local councillor Rupesh Halankar, who is also the convenor of Ribandar healthcare committee, gave the state government a 15-day ultimatum to approve a health centre with X-ray, sonography, CT scan, MRI, laboratory and other facilities. The meeting was attended by members of the Old Goa, Chimbel, Merces panchayats and locals. A resolution passed at the public meeting reminded the government of the then chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s August 2017 assurance to residents of restoring within three months, full medical care services and facilities at the old Ribandar hospital. The resolution also drew the government’s attention to a similar promise made by Panaji MLA Monserrate in his May 2019 by-election manifesto of a 24x7 health care centre at Ribandar with a full-fledged casualty unit. Halankar said that locals require a full-fledged hospital and not a day-care dispensary. “Besides catering to Ribandar, the medical centre would also benefit residents of Old Goa, Corlim, Divar, Chorao, Merces and Chimbel,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-give-govt-15-day-ultimatum-to-start-10-bed-hospital-at-ribandar/articleshow/78454710.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vimannagar doctor walks into online gift trap, loses Rs 9.3 lakh||PUNE: A 47-year-old doctor from Vimannagar lost Rs 9.3 lakh to an online gift fraud between July 1and 23 this year. Police said the doctor bought shoes for Rs1,499 from a website. Soon, she started getting phone calls from fraudsters, who claimed to represent the e-commerce portal. They told her she was selected for a gift from the company. Under this pretext, they asked her to transfer money via netbanking towards various charges — GST, insurance and others. She made multiple transfers totalling Rs9.3 lakh to different bank accounts without verifying the suspects’ credentials, police said. “The complainant said the caller(s) gave her a choice between a laptop, an iPhone and a television for the gift. She selected the iPhone, but the caller sought time to deliver it to her as the lockdown was in force then. The caller then convinced her to accept money in return and told her to transfer the fees into their bank account,” inspector Balwant Mandge (crime) from the airport police said. The fraudster called her on numerous occasions and got her to transfer more money by offering various excuses (her transactions failed, the bank’s server was down, technical glitches, etc). “She made repeated transfers. On one occasion, the doctor also shared her bank details via a link shared by the suspects for transferring a significant sum,” Mandge said. When she realized she had been tricked, the doctor filed a complaint application with the cybercrime police station in July. The cyber police transferred the case to the airport police on Wednesday. “We will collect details of the transactions done by the doctor and the fraudsters from the respective banks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vimannagar-doctor-falls-for-gift-bait-loses-rs-9-3l/articleshow/78452970.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan police in MP to arrest BJP minister’s son||JAIPUR/BHOPAL: Rajasthan police arrived in poll-bound Morena on Thursday to arrest the son of BJP minister Adal Singh Kansana for allegedly thrashing two police constables. He could not be traced on Friday as well. Kansana’s son Banku is among 14 people booked for allegedly beating two cops of Dholpur police, Hariom and Vijaypal, in October 2019. Kansana is among the Congress MLAs who switched to BJP and now eyeing re-election from their previous seats. SP Dholpur, Keshar Singh Shekhawat told TOI, “We got the warrant from court following which a team was sent to MP. We have time till October 6 to arrest the accused following which they would be declared absconders and we would further proceed with filing the chargesheet against the others who have already been arrested.” The two cops were allegedly abducted by over half a dozen people from near Sagarpada police outpost in Dholpur when they were on patrol. They were taken to the ravines on the Rajasthan-Madhya Pradesh border and assaulted, said police. The constables who were stationed in Kotwali in Dhoplur were patrolling on a bike, late night on Chambal River bridge when the accused overtook them in a car and forcibly took them in the forest area where they mercilessly beat them with sticks and belts before fleeing. The constables informed their colleagues who rushed to the spot and took the injured to the hospital. Both of them were supposedly beaten up for nearly an hour The constables alleged that Adal Singh Kansana’s son Banku had ordered the accused, over phone, to beat them. A case against 14 people was registered with Kotwali police station. Banku Kansana is named in the FIR. Nine people have already been arrested. Dholpur police has also shared the copy of the warrant with police stations in MP as well to ensure that they can arrest the accused as well when found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-cops-in-mp-to-arrest-bjp-ministers-son/articleshow/78452980.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Viral video of party at civil hospital shows norms thrown out of window||TNNLudhiana: In an embarrassment for the health department, a video of a retirement party at the civil hospital, showing little regard for compliance of Covid-19 norms, has gone viral. The health department officials said the department would contemplate action after verifying facts. Sources in the department said 10 staff members, including a pharmacist, four staff nurses, a laboratory technician and four Class IV employees, had retired recently and a retirement party was planned. They added that besides the department employees, relatives of retired staff and some officers had also joined the party held at the seminar hall of the civil hospital. Officials said around 150 persons were present in the party, including some employees who were on Covid-19 duties. In the video guests are seen dancing to songs and most are neither wearing masks nor following social distancing. A source said, “It is shocking that the norms were ignored at the party by those who are entrusted with the job of educating people about them. Some of the officers also attended the party and watched rules being flouted. Though cases are decreasing now, if norms are ignored like this, there can be a spurt again.” The civil surgeon expressed ignorance about the party at the civil hospital. “We have had two retirement parties in the past and we maintained social distancing and wore masks during those events. This party is not in my knowledge. If norms were ignored, we will take action,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/viral-video-of-party-at-civil-hospital-shows-norms-thrown-out-of-window/articleshow/78451784.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||NRI wife booked for man’s suicide||Ahmedabad: A woman from Paldi locality of Ahmedabad, who now lives in South Carolina in the US, has been booked by Kheda district police for the alleged abetment to her husband’s suicide. Meera Kachchhi has been booked for the abetment to her husband Kamal Vyas’ (48) suicide. Kachchhi had allegedly pressurized and tortured Vyas to buy a property in the US which he could not afford. Sick and tired of this, Vyas finally ended his life by consuming poison at his home in Mahemdavad on September 12. Vyas’ brother Mayur states in his FIR that Vyas had married Kachchhi in 2004 in Paldi. After their marriage, they had moved to South Carolina in the US on a visitor’s visa. Mayur said that when Vyas and Kachchhi were staying in the US, she began harassing him while pressuring him to buy some property in the US. But Vyas was against it as they were on the visitor’s visa. He alleged that Vyas was even forced to move out of their house and that he had to sleep in pubic places in the US. He alleged that Kachchhi had even threatened to book him in false cases so that the US police would keep him behind bars for a lifetime. Mayur alleged in the FIR that not only Kachchhi but also her brother and parents harassed Vyas due to which he returned to India in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nri-wife-booked-for-mans-suicide/articleshow/78452976.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Cash, ornaments worth Rs4 lakh stolen from a flat in Kondhwa||Pune: A 39-year-old catering firm employee registered a complaint with the Kondhwa police on Thursday stating that unidentified men stole cash, ornaments and a wristwatch, collectively worth Rs4.15 lakh, from his flat in a housing society at Saibabanagar in Kondhwa between September 24 and 30. Sub-inspector Santosh Shinde from Kondhwa police said on Friday, “Mardanali Khan lived on his own in a flat at Nazir Heights. He had saved money and purchased gold ornaments as he was in the process of visiting his native place in Uttar Pradesh for constructing a house.” Shinde said, “Khan had travelled out of Pune for catering work. He found the flat burgled on his return.” “An inspection revealed that unidentified men broke open the door and cupboard locks with sharp weapons, stole cash and ornaments and took to heels. The building does not have CCTV cameras,” he said. “We are checking criminals on record and working on certain clues for detecting the case at the earliest,” he added. Offences were registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cash-ornaments-worth-rs4-lakh-stolen-from-a-flat-in-kondhwa/articleshow/78452982.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Court verdict in Babri mosque demolition case surprising: Pawar||Pune: NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said the special CBI court’s recent verdict in the Babri Masjid demolition case came as a surprise to him.Responding to a query from reporters, Pawar said, “I won’t comment on if the court’s verdict acquitting all the 32 accused would adversely impact people’s faith in justice and judicial system. However, the verdict came as a surprise considering that so much of evidence was presented.”Former Union minister Pawar said he was a part of the P V Narasimha Rao-led Union Cabinet when then Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh had promised Rao that the disputed structure would not be touched. “Madhav Godbole, the Union home secretary then, had his apprehensions about the promise being kept. But Rao was of the opinion that we must believe in the word given by the chief minister of a state,” he said.“Eventually, what happened was exactly what Godbole had feared and hence, the latter had his reasons to step down from his post then,” Pawar said.On the Maratha quota issue, Pawar appealed to the youth that suicide was no solution and that they should rest assured that the state was with them. “I am discussing with some of the country’s finest legal brains like Kapil Sibal how the Supreme Court stay on the state’s decision on extending the quota is vacated at the earliest. I am also, taking up the issue with the central government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/court-verdict-in-babri-mosque-demolition-case-surprising-pawar/articleshow/78453003.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||2 held in Wagholi carjacking case||Pune: The Lonikand police on Thursday arrested two men and detained their minor accomplice on the charge of robbing a cab driver of cash and the vehicle he was driving, collectively worth Rs1.7 lakh, on September 23. Police have identified the arrested men as Sagar Pingle (25) and Bhushan Mali (19), both from Koregaon Bhima. Police said Pingle is a criminal on police records and has cases of robbery and extortion registered against him. Police made the arrests after constables Samir Pilane and Datta Kale received a tip-off that the suspects would be coming to Koregaon Bhima on Thursday. “We laid a trap and nabbed the duo. We have also seized the robbed vehicle from them,” an officer from the Lonikand police said. On September 23, three persons, who had hired a cab for Aurangabad, threatened its driver with sharp weapons and drove away with the four-wheeler after forcing the driver to encash his e-wallet amount of Rs10,000 at a fuel station in Wagholi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-in-wagholi-carjacking-case/articleshow/78452990.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man beaten by lover’s husband||AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old man from Vastral, Bharatkumar Patel, was kidnapped in a car and beaten up on Thursday over an affair he was allegedly having with a married woman. The woman’s husband was one of the kidnappers, along with three persons unknown to him. Ramol police lodged a complaint of kidnapping and assault and are searching for the accused. The complainant confessed that he had an affair with a certain married woman one and a half years ago. According to police sources, the complainant also stated that he had messaged her a week ago. The woman’s husband then called him and asked who he was but the complainant disconnected the phone. According to Patel’s complaint, he works as an accountant from home had gone to drop his wife to her workplace on Thursday morning. “After dropping her off, he was sitting downstairs at about 9am when a car sped in and stopped near him. The woman’s husband got out with three others and dragged him into the car,” said a police official. Patel stated that the four started hitting him in the car while driving towards CTM Crossroads and kept asking him about the affair. “He was beaten with sticks inside the car and at about 10am he was thrown out near Anmol Complex. The car then sped away towards CTM Crossroads,” a police source said. Patel’s wife had learned that her husband had been kidnapped and called the police control room. “When Patel reached his wife’s workplace, the police were already there. He was taken to LG Hospital in an ambulance and lodged a complaint against the woman’s husband and three other unknown persons from there. We are searching for the accused,” said K S Dave, inspector of Ramol police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-by-lovers-husband/articleshow/78453006.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: ATS seizes 3,000kg poppy husk in Bassi, two arrested||JAIPUR: The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) arrested two accused in Bassi on Friday morning with nearly 3,000 kilogram of poppy husk (doda post) which was being transported in a truck. The officials had prior information about the transport due to which the vehicles were checked at various points. The poppy husk was being supplied from Bihar. The accused were identified as Mohammad Qureshi and his helper Mohammad Qasim. They both hail from Bihar. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS told TOI, “This catch of poppy husk is an important one to underline that narcotic substances are coming from Bihar and Odisha to the state. Two months back, we had seized 444 kilogram of ganja too, which also came from Odisha.” The poppy husk was in 143 sacks and weighed 21.25 quintal. It is valued between Rs 55 lakh to Rs 60 lakh in the market. “This is the second major haul of poppy husk by ATS and SOG this year. The investigation has commenced to unearth the forward and backward linkages of the trafficking,” added the ADG. The ATS team was pursuing a lead on illicit trafficking of firearms when they found the narcotics. The poppy husk was to be delivered to Hanumangarh and the two accused have been booked under relevant sections while cops interrogate them further. In Chittorgarh also, the local police seized 29.8 kilograms of poppy (opium) and arrested three accused in what the district police is calling the biggest seizure of this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ats-seizes-3000kg-poppy-husk-in-bassi-two-arrested/articleshow/78452999.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bareilly||Argument over holding silent protest turns ugly, Cong’s dist prez tries to immolate himself||BAREILLY: Congress’ Bareilly unit president Vinodh Gumber allegedly tried to immolate himself by sprinkling kerosene oil on his clothes after an argument with some Samajwadi Party functionaries in the Civil Lines area of Moradabad. The confrontation between Gumber and the SP men broke out over observing silent protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi statue opposite Company Garden in Civil Lines. Gumber was taken to district hospital after he complained of burn and irritation. According to police, Gumber indulged in an argument with Moradabad police for letting SP workers sit on silent protest at the same time when Congress party workers had to hold the protest. An irritated Gumber later tried to immolate himself. He was later arrested, police said. Moradabad’s superintendent of police Amit Kumar Anand said, “Gumber arrived at a public park located opposite the Company Garden in Civil Lines and started indulging into scuffle with Samajwadi Party workers and police personnel on Friday afternoon. The party worker started complaining that SP workers cannot sit with them during the protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/argument-over-holding-silent-protest-turns-ugly-congs-dist-prez-tries-to-immolate-himself/articleshow/78451806.cms||Maria Khan
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||In Kolkata, app bike rider held for molestation||KOLKATA: Following a two-week-long investigation, led Haridevpur police on Thursday arrested an app bike rider, Ataul Rahaman (26), for allegedly molesting a woman returning to her Behala home from Acropolis mall on September 19. Rahaman is a resident of Tiljala. The 26-year-old woman, employed with a private firm in Salt Lake, said the accused kept slamming the brakes for no apparent reason all through the journey, forcing her to fall on him on a number of occasions. Several times, he tried to touch her inappropriately. However, the issue of passengers’ security on such app bikes took a whole new dimension soon after Rahaman was arrested. The probe revealed that the booking made by the woman was assigned by an app bike rider, who quit the job two years ago. “When we identified the person, Aslam, from the booking ID, we called him to the police station. The complainant, however, said Aslam was not the person who dropped her home,” said DC (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas. The woman recalled that “she had received the call from the rider as soon as she received the message of her ride allotment.” The police then checked the mobile number from which the victim had received a call on September 19 just before she took the ride. “We used that lead to fix up the identity of Rahaman. During questioning, the accused claimed he was expelled by the app-bike aggregator some months back but kept using Aslam’s ID to log into the network,” said Biswas. “We found it odd that the accused, Rahaman, could manage to operate despite not possessing the phone accessed by Aslam. He claimed he received the booking messages in his present number and then himself called up passengers so that they do not get the opportunity to call on Aslam’s number. But it still does not answer the OTP issues. We believe that both of them are lying. We have asked the app bike aggregator to reply to our queries at the earliest,” explained a senior investigator. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bike-taxi-rider-held-for-molestation/articleshow/78454703.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 3, 2020||Bareilly||Conjoined twins fused at abdomen born at home in UP survive despite odds||BAREILLY: In what is being touted as a “rare case of survival against odds” by doctors, a pair of conjoined twins were born at home to a woman in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. The twins are omphalopagus, meaning they are joined near the belly button, and the survival rate in such cases is usually only between 5% to 25%, according to experts. Omphalopagus twins generally share a liver but some also share the lower part of the small intestine (ileum) and colon. The incidence of conjoined twins ranges from 1 in 200,000 live births, said doctors. Usually conjoined babies require surgical delivery by cesarean section (C-section) due to their anatomy, but in this case they were born through normal delivery and at home in Danduri village in Ramiabehad block on Thursday. The baby girls were taken to a community health centre (CHC) on Friday morning by their father where the staff found them to be healthy. The twins have been referred to a higher centre in Lucknow for further medical tests. The district’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Manoj Agarwal told TOI that conjoined twins have a high mortality rate and the birth of the baby girls was a rare case of survival. “We will check the possibility of treatment of the babies.” The family, which belongs to the Dalit community, has appealed to the authorities for help. “We didn’t have any money to go to the hospital which is why we had a home birth,” said father Ram Kumar Gautam, who works as a labourer. The mother, Nindara, said she was worried about the future of her daughters. “They might need treatment at some point to lead a normal life. I hope we can get some support from the authorities,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/conjoined-twins-fused-at-abdomen-born-at-home-in-up-survive-despite-odds/articleshow/78451802.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Waive motor tax for lockdown, demand transport operators||Hyderabad: Expressing disappointment over inaction of state government in resolving the problems being faced by them, transport operators submitted a representation to transport department authorities demanding waiver of Motor Vehicle (MV) Tax for the lockdown period due to Covid-19. The operators, who also staged a protest at the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) Khairatabad office earlier this week said no decision has been taken on the issue despite the authorities giving an assurance to resolve the issue every time they approached them. When we tried to hold a protest two days before the commencement of the assembly session last month, we were assured by authorities that our demand would be implemented and orders would be issued within a day or two but no action has been taken,” said Syed Nizamuddin, president, Telangana State Cabs & Bus Operators Association. “The proposal is being reviewed and a decision in this regard will be taken at the earliest,” an RTA official said. The operators said they were recently arrested when they tried to visit Pragathi Bhavan to submit a memorandum to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waive-motor-tax-for-lockdown-demand-transport-operators/articleshow/78453014.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Six-year-old sodomised by minor in Sawai Madhopur||JAIPUR: A six-year-old boy was sodomised allegedly by a juvenile boy who stayed in the same neighbourhood in Sawai Madhopur on Thursday afternoon. Cops have detained the 16-year-old accused and the survivor is undergoing treatment at the hospital, though he is said to be out of danger. The incident is of Malarna Dungar police station in Sawai Madhopur district. Sudheer Choudhary, SP, Sawai Madhopur, told TOI, “We were informed by the hospital about the assault and immediately started the investigation. The accused saw the child along with his cousin and on a pretext, he sent the other boy away, following which he sexually assaulted the child.” After receiving the report, cops detained the accused and the child’s medical examination also confirmed the assault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/six-year-old-sodomised-by-minor/articleshow/78453007.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Online classes valid, med body clears air||Chennai: The National Medical Commission which has replaced Medical Council of India (MCI) has clarified that online classes conducted for medical courses in view of the pandemic are valid and approved by the commission.The commission made the clarification in response to media reports that MCI has informed a group of medical students that such classes are not valid. “It is clarified that in view of the pandemic medical colleges are conducting online theory classes for MBBS students. Online classes are valid and are approved for teaching during the pandemic only," a statement released by the commission said.Such online theory classes are required to be supplemented by practical and clinical training as per the current curriculum in all MBBS subjects when the colleges are reopened, it added.It further clarified that the media reports appeared to have relied upon reply given by the erstwhile MCI in response to a RTI query regarding medical courses conducted by foreign universities through online medium only.On September 28, a group of medical students who approached the Madras high court seeking wavier in fee due to lockdown informed the court that the MCI has informed them that such classes are not recognised.Informing the Madras high court about the stand of the MCI, senior advocate R Vaigai representing the students said, “The MCI has informed the students that it does not recognise online teaching for medical courses. Students are worried about their future now.”Vaigai made the submission on the batch of pleas moved by parents of medical students of SRM challenging the college’s demand to pay full fee even for the lockdown period.Recording the submission, Justice N Anand Venkatesh said, if the MCI is not going to recognise online classes, then the whole point in conducting such classes goes.The court then directed the MCI to clarify its stand by October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-classes-valid-med-body-clears-air/articleshow/78453025.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra reports 6.5k new Covid-19 cases, 31 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,555 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its cumulative caseload to 7,06,790. The toll increased to 5,900 as 31 more people succumbed to the disease. This is the lowest casualty count in the last 75 days, after 37 deaths were registered on July 13. As many as 7,485 patients were cured and discharged. There are currently 56,897 active cases in the state with 6,43,993 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 91 per cent. For the fourth day in a row, all districts reported fresh cases in only three-digits. East Godavari registered 975 fresh infections, followed by West Godavari (930), Chittoor (925), and Prakasam (668). About 59.48 lakh samples have been tested in AP so far, including the 70,399 people tested on Friday. The case positivity has come down to about 10% in the last one week, while the overall positivity rate stands at 11.8%. The case fatality rate stands at 0.83%. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/andhra-reports-6-5k-new-covid-19-cases-31-deaths/articleshow/78453062.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sabarmati Central Jail launches Radio Prison on Gandhi Jayanti||AHMEDABAD: On the occasion of the 151st Gandhi Jayanti on Friday, additional DGP jails K L N Rao launched ‘Radio Prison’, a radio station that will be run by prisoners. Rao said Ahmedabad Central Prison, which is also known as Sabarmati Central Prison, will be the first in Gujarat to have its own radio station. Addressing the prisoners, Rao said programmes on the radio station will bring a positive approach among inmates and change their lives so that after their release they can lead good lives and be part of society. Rao also put forth his thoughts on Mahatma Gandhi and his way of living life. He also said that the efforts of the state government have enabled them to start the radio station. “Programmes with educational value, those related to various professions and entertainment will be carried on the radio, which will give prisoners a lot to learn,” added Rao. Rao also inaugurated a staff dispensary for jail officials and personnel. “The dispensary will help jail staff in a great way as primary treatment will be available at their doorstep,” added Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sabarmati-central-jail-launches-radio-prison-on-gandhi-jayanti/articleshow/78453048.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bareilly||Minor boy booked for 'sexuallyassaulting' 6-year-old in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A woman in Faridpur area of Bareilly district has given a written complaint that her six-year-old daughter was sexually assaulted by a 12-year-old boy who lives in the neighbourhood. Police have registered an FIR in this case. However, during preliminary investigation, it was found that there was an enmity between the two families over a dispute. An FIR was registered against the girl's father on September 29 following a quarrel between them. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “It is a sensitive case. So, we started the probe, on priority. The medical examination didn’t confirm any assault. Preliminary investigation suggests there is a political rivalry between both parties and the complaint was lodged to take advantage. We will further probe the matter and take necessary action according to the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-boy-booked-for-sexuallyassaulting-6-year-old-in-bareilly/articleshow/78451818.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 3, 2020||Pune||1-year-old girl falls to death from fifth floor in Narhe||Pune: The Sinhagad police are investigating the circumstances under which a one-year-old girl died after falling into an open duct area from the fifth floor of a building at a housing society in Narhe, Ambegaon. The incident occurred around 7.30pm on Wednesday. The girl succumbed to injuries at a private hospital around 3.30pm on Thursday, following which the police have registered a case of accidental death. Senior inspector Nandakumar Shelke of the Sinhagad police said on Friday, “The victim’s family was celebrating her birthday on Wednesday. Her mother had gone to meet some person on the second floor of the building, while her father was in the washroom. Some other guests were inside when the girl, while playing in the flat, found the front door open and walked out to reach a parapet wall connecting two flats. As no one noticed her approaching the parapet, we are in the process of establishing what exactly may have happened and how the girl fell from the parapet into the open duct that goes down to the parking lot on the ground floor.” Shelke said, “The building’s residents rushed the critically injured girl to a private hospital. She later succumbed to multiple injuries.” Sub-inspector Vinod Mhangade, who is investigating the case, said, “We shall try to find out how the girl might have climbed the more than two-foot-high parapet wall. We are questioning the invitees and residents of the building to find out if anybody had placed her on the parapet wall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-year-old-girl-falls-to-death-from-fifth-floor-in-narhe/articleshow/78453013.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||HPCL donates garbage truck||Pune: Oil marketing company Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) recently donated a garbage compactor truck and nine jumbo dustbins to Kadamvakwasti Grampanchayat as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activity. The truck runs on state-of-the-art technology and picks up and empties dustbins automatically. The truck can accommodate eight cubic metres of waste in a single go. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hpcl-donates-garbage-truck/articleshow/78453021.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Thieves hit 13 industrial sheds||Ahmedabad: Theives had a merry time at Rameshwar Estate near Ramol police station on Thursday night. They broke into 13 industrial sheds in the estate and stole engineering tools, laptops and other valuables worth Rs 1.17 lakh. Locals questioned how the thieves managed break into the sheds with the police station in close proximity to the estate. Ramol police registered an offence and are hunting for the burglars with using CCTV footage from the units that were broken into. According to the complaint lodged by Sandeep Patel, 25, he runs an engineering unit in a rented shed at the estate. “According to the complaint, on Thursday night he went home after locking his shed and when he returned at 8am on Friday, he found the window of his office wide open and thing lying scattered all over the office. On checking, he found that some 200 inserts that are used in machines, , worth around Rs 77,500, were stolen,” said a police official. The CCTV camera installed in the office captured images of the theives. Another person, Mehul Gajjar, told police that a laptop was stolen from his office at Shed No.1 of the estate. The owner of Shed No.12, Prahlad Panchal, also reported that a laptop was stolen from his office in the shed. The owner of Shed No.36 Harshad Patel had the same complaint. The owner of Shed No.47 Chandresh Keraliya also reported the theft a laptop,” a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thieves-hit-13-industrial-sheds/articleshow/78453079.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||DMK convenes ‘people’s sabha’ to protest govt move||CHENNAI: With the AIADMK government preventing the scheduled grama sabha meetings on October 2 citing Covid-19 pandemic, the opposition parties slammed the ruling party for preventing participative democracy from flourishing in the state. If the AIADMK’s executive committee meeting can be held and Tasmac shops could be opened with police protection to maintain physical distancing, what prevented the state government from permitting grama sabha meetings from taking place, they asked. “It is the fear of the DMK getting closer to the people and highlighting the ill-effects of the farms acts, which were blindly supported by the AIADMK, to the villagers that provoked the state to issue a late night order to cancel all grama sabha meetings that were scheduled to take place on Friday,” DMK president M K Stalin said. With the state cancelling the official grama sabha meetings, the DMK opted to organise ‘people’s sabha’ in villages across the state. Stalin attended one such meeting organised at Pudhusathiram village in Thiruvallur district. “The AIADMK government is fearing the DMK more than it fears the coronavirus. We will continue to work to bring people together to oppose such anti-farmer initiatives like the farm laws,” Stalin said. “We passed resolutions against the farm acts at the meetings held in our region. The government thought by preventing the grama sabha meetings, they will prevent us from passing such a resolution,” DMK MLA from Mannargudi T R B Rajaa told TOI. “We will send the resolutions it to our party headquarters,” he said. Condemning the state government’s decision to cancel grama sabhas, AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran questioned the attempts to gather large crowds to attend chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s district tours. “Grama sabha meetings provide the opportunity for villagers to meet, discuss and demand the required facilities for their villages. Will Covid spread only through such meetings,” Dhinakaran asked. Actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), which brought renewed focus on grama sabhas last year by highlighting the benefits of such meetings, too hit out at the state government. “One is left to wonder how Covid-19 spread became a threat uniformly across all districts on Thursday night that forced district administrations to ban the meetings. When the state could deploy police force to streamline crowds, while reopening Tasmac shops, what prevented the authorities from doing the same to hold grama sabha meetings,” R Mahendran, vice-president, MNM asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-convenes-peoples-sabha-to-protest-govt-move/articleshow/78453064.cms||D Govardan
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CBI unearths Rs 1 crore assets of GST official||HYDERABAD: CBI on Friday conducted searches on offices and residences of Hyderabad GST superintendent KSS Janardhana Rao in connection with disproportionate assets cases. CBI named Rao and his wife K Sailaja as accused in the FIR, stating the accused had amassed wealth by corrupt means. CBI also unearthed Rs 1.3 crore worth properties. CBI conducted searches on the residence of Rao at Kakatiya Hills, his office and residence of in-laws. They found most of the properties are agriculture lands in Amaravati, apart from properties in Hyderabad. CBI said Rao’s wife claimed she used to impart tuitions to students in IT returns. However, the probe revealed she claimed so falsely to channel ill-gotten wealth of her husband. Rao’s wife is accused of abetting her husband in amassing disproportionate assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-unearths-rs-1cr-assets-of-gst-official/articleshow/78453075.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Two boys killed in accident||Warangal: Two minor boys were killed after a speeding truck rammed into a culvert at Rampur GWMC limits on Friday. The deceased were identified as Teppa Nagaraju and his cousin Teppa Vishal. According to Dharmasagar inspector B Ramesh Kumar the children were reportedly sitting on a culvert when the vehicle crashed into it after one of its tires got punctured. The bodies were shifted to MGM hospital for postmortem. Kazipet ACP also visited the spot. The truck drives is absconding. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-boys-killed-in-accident/articleshow/78453121.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 99% of stray dogs have ticks, pets too unsafe||CHENNAI: About 99% of the stray dog population in Tamil Nadu is afflicted with ticks, posing a grave danger of spread, the state veterinary institute has found. A team from the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Tanuvas) randomly examined 230 dogs and found almost all of them had ticks, with some hosting different types. Overall, 67.8% of the dogs tested positive for at least one pathogen, the team discovered. Professor of parasitology and team leader M Raman said ticks are fatal to pets as they are difficult to control and have developed resistance to vaccines including chemical-based ‘Acaricides’ available across the counter. It is difficult to develop vaccines to control the larva, nymph and adult stages of ticks, he said. Adults pass on resistant genes to the next generation, making it tough to make vaccines. Ticks, at the most, can be checked, he said. A male is very small, while the female, size of a tamarind seed, can lay up to 5,000 eggs after which it dies. Ticks hide under tables, chairs, desk and other places, proliferating gradually. The only way to avoid ticks attacking pests is to keep them away from a tick-infested area for six months so that the tiny pests shift to other places, he said. Raman said his team had identified that apart from ticks, mosquitos were spreading new diseases among canines. Dirofilaria Hongkongensis and Brugia Malayi were new diseases that were found to have spread to stray dogs from mosquitoes, he said. These new diseases were earlier found in dogs in Kerala, the first time they were seen to have affected pets in South India. In Tamil Nadu, a small population of dogs has been affected, he said. Mosquitoes and ticks are blood suckers that transmit diseases among pets, he said. When mosquitoes are unable to attack humans, mainly due to the various types of repellents and devices, they look for alternative hosts including stray canines, Raman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/99-of-stray-dogs-in-tn-have-ticks-pets-too-unsafe/articleshow/78453095.cms||P Oppili
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Four youths held with country-made firearms||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths on Thursday nabbed four youths — Jayrajsinh Dodiya, 26; Paramjitsingh Tomar, 25; and Deepaksingh Tomar, 25; residents of Bopal, and Jaydeepsinh Parmar, 21, a resident of Junagadh — with three country-made firearms and two live cartridges from Ambli Road. All four youths are well educated. “Jayrajsinh did his BSc in the city and MBA from Australia, Jaydeepsinh has done his BSc (Botany) from a city college, Paramjeetsingh has a BCom degree and Deepaksingh has a BSc (Electronics) degree,” said a crime branch official. ACP, crime branch, D G Chudasama, said they also seized four mobile phones, Rs 830 cash and the car they were travelling in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/four-youths-held-with-country-made-firearms/articleshow/78453117.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Rajkot||Girl detained for plotting her mother’s murder||Rajkot: The murder of a woman in Sukhpar village near Bhuj has turned out be the plot hatchedby none other than her own 16-year-old daughter and her boyfriend, who was their neighbour. On September 30, Mankuvwa police had detained the victim Vijaya Bhudia’s husband over suspicion that he had killed her. His detention had also led to a lot of resentment among villagers. However, a detailed investigation revealed that the woman was hacked to death allegedly by her daughter’s boyfriend Sunil Joshi with the help of his friend Anand Suthar, both aged 21. Vijaya’s daughter, said police, was an equal partner in the crime. On Friday, police detained the girl and the two men who had slit Vijaya’s throat, stabbed her in the chest and thrashed her on the head. They had used a scythe, knife and an iron pipe. KB Vihol, inspector with Mankuwa police station, said murder was the result of a dressing down that Vijaya had given to her daughter and Joshi when she caught them dating. Vijaya had clamped restrictions on her daughter’s movement and she was no longer able to meet Joshi. “It was then that the girl, Joshi along with Suthar plotted the murder. The duo asked the girl to call them when she and her mother were alone at home. On September 30, they got the chance and committed the crime,” said Vihol. “Suthar was caught on CCTV visiting Joshi’s house. When we probed the background of Suthar and Joshi, we came to know about Joshi’s relationship with the girl. When we rounded up Joshi and Suthar, both confessed to their crime,” Vihol added. They will be formally arrested once they undergo Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/girl-detained-for-plotting-her-mothers-murder/articleshow/78451875.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana not a city for women||2019 NCRB REPORTLudhiana: Ludhiana is not a safe city for women.For the third year in a row, Ludhiana commissionerate recorded highest crimes against women in the state in 2019, according to the recently-released National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report.However, there has been a fall in the cases as compared with the preceding year. As per the NCRB data of 2019, Ludhiana commissionerate registered 595 cases of crime against women in 2019. It was followed by the chief minister’s district Patiala with 431 cases and Mohali with 354. At 93, Pathankot had lowest number of such cases.In 2018, too, Ludhiana commissionerate was at the top with 662 cases, Patiala at number two (418 cases) and Mohali third (297 cases).2017 was no better, with the Ludhiana commissionerate again registering the highest cases of crime against women (535), followed by Patiala (293) and Mohali (267).An analysis of the sub-categories showed that of 595 cases in the industrial hub in 2019, the maximum were of kidnapping and abduction of women to compel them for marriage (195) and that of cruelty by husband or his relatives came next (143). Assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty cases (72) were the third highest, of which 61 were related to above 18-year-old women and the remaining to minors. Among the other major cases of crime against women here, 74 were registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.As many as 62 rape cases were reported, of which 17 involved minor girls. There were 12 cases of dowry death and 11 of abetment to suicide.With the city failing to play fair with women, residents say stern measures are needed to protect them.“There is an urgent need to arrest cases of crime against women. Policing must be strengthened and there should be fear of law among criminals. Ludhiana should be a safe city for women even at night,” said Amarjeet Kaur, a social activist from the city.City does not play fairBox 1:Area Cases of crime against women in 2019Ludhiana CP 595 Patiala 431Mohali 354Jalandhar CP 315Bathinda 312Sangrur 291Hoshiarpur 288Amritsar CP 220 CP is commissionerate of police Box 2:Year Rape cases Involving women Involving minors Total cases 2019 62 45 17 5952018 76 55 21 6622017 70 36 34 5352016 88 NA NA 587Wrongdoings against childrenAt 74, the cases of crime against children were higher in 2019 as compared with 2018, when the figure was 60 in Ludhiana commissionerate. The number was the highest in 2017, when 81 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act were recorded. The number of child rape cases has been on the rise. While 34 such cases were recorded in 2017, the number rose to 54 in 2019.Kids unsafeYear POCSO* FIRs Rape Sexual assault2019 74 54 162018 60 53 72017 81 34 14* POCSO: Protection of children From Sexual Offences Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-not-a-city-for-women/articleshow/78451858.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||‘No leniency in prohibition laws’||Vadodara: Minister of state for home Pradeepsinh Jadeja on Friday said that there would be no compromise on liquor prohibition in the state. Jadeja was speaking at an event in Godhra held on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti and also addressed media persons on the sidelines. Liquor prohibition in the state is being debated in the state off late after it came to light that ‘wet’ states raked in high revenue from liquor sales after the lockdown was released. Former chief minister Shankarsinh Vaghela is also batting for removal of prohibition in the state. The prohibition policy has also been challenged in the Gujarat high court. Movements are also being conducted both online and otherwise against the policy. Jadeja said that it was Mahatma Gandhi who gave the message of prohibition. “Some say if remove prohibition, there will be income in crores using which we can do a lot of development and take up new projects,” he said. “But we are committed to prohibition. We do not want a situation where men come drunk home and harass women. Women have been widowed and several women have committed suicide due to this,” said Jadeja. He expressed confidence that the police was doing the needful to ensure prohibition is implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-leniency-in-prohibition-laws/articleshow/78452025.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||PG entrance coaching for SC students||Hyderabad: Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) has extended the last date to submit online applications for free online postgraduate medical entrance coaching for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates till October 8. Medicos studying in MBBS 2nd, 3rd, and 4th years, house surgeons and MBBS pass outs are eligible for free online coaching. For more details, visit www.tswreis.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pg-entrance-coaching-for-sc-students/articleshow/78453107.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools exploiting despite GO: Parents||Hyderabad: Alleging that students are being targeted if their parents raise voice against irregularities in private schools, the Hyderabad Schools Parents’ Association (HSPA) on Friday said that many of them have been forced to take TC. They added that access to virtual classes has also been restricted in several cases, when schools were asked to follow government norms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-exploiting-despite-go-parents/articleshow/78453099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fake call centre busted, five held||KOLKATA: Cops from Maniktala police station busted an illegal call centre for allegedly duping US-based clients on Friday, a day after cops had recovered Rs 7 crore from the owner of a fake BPO operating in the Rashbehari Avenue area. The call centre used to dupe around 10 or 15 people daily and its total forgery was estimated to be nearly Rs 2 crore. Cops arrested five people in this connection so far and detained three others for questioning. Cops found 38 computers inside the call centre that had dozen employees. They are trying to nab the centre’s at least five directors and promoters for further leads. The five arrested were identified as Sk Alauddin alias Binod (22), Sahil Alam (21), Hemant Kumar Prasad (22), Sumit Pal (25) and Ankit Jaiswal (22). “We were informed by a credible source on Thursday that an illegal call centre was running in our area and it did not have valid documents. During the investigation, we came to know that the employees of the centre used to make VOIP calls to the citizens of the US, impersonating themselves as employees of a leading software security company. We collected primary evidence and decided to raid the office,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. The accused would call the victims, telling them that the security of their computers was being compromised or their personal data was on the verge of being hacked. On the pretext of providing solution, they asked took control of the computer and in the process, asked the victims to open their internet banking accounts. Thus, they got the victim’s banking details and siphoned off money from their accounts. Those who have landed in the police net could not provide any satisfactory answer regarding the operation of the call centre. They claimed that they took orders directly from the owners and directors of the centre. “They provided us five names of their owners and directors. After this, a search was conducted on the premises where several articles and documents were seized in presence of the independent witness and IT professional, Aniket Jaiswal,” said Prasad. The office was sealed by cops for further legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fake-call-centre-busted-5-held/articleshow/78453110.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Fatalities finally drop to 2, active cases cross 5,000||PANAJI: Goa reported 513 new cases of Covid-19 pushing its tally of active cases past the 5,000-mark on Friday. With two deaths, the state’s mortality count reached 443. With 479 recoveries during the day, total recoveries crossed 29,000. Two deaths were reported from the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. A 73-year-old man from Sanguem and a 79-year-old woman from Canacona died after three days of hospitalisation. The man did not have any comorbid condition, however both patients were detected with acute respiratory distress syndrome shortly after they were brought to the hospital. New cases found on Friday were 11 less than that of Monday when 524 cases were reported. However, the number of tests done on Friday were lesser than those carried on Monday. As many as 1,388 samples were tested on Friday as against 2,096 a day earlier. In North Goa, Porvorim had over 21 new cases, which took its count to 336. Porvorim, Panaji, Mapusa, Sankhali and Pernem have been witnessing more cases as compared to other centres in North Goa. The Colvale primary health centre (PHC) with jurisdiction of Tivim and Revora saw its active cases cross 100 yet again after a slowdown in infection for a few days. Its tally had dropped way below 100 earlier this week. Only Mayem and Casarvarnem PHCs in North Goa each have less than 100 cases. In South Goa, Ponda with a population of over 70,000 is witnessing a spike yet again and its total of active cases reaching 234 on Friday. The centres that have been seeing a rise in infections are Canacona, Sanguem with both having crossed the 100-mark. Most of the other South Goa centres, except for Margao, Vasco and Cortalim, have a case tally of 100 each. Little after a month after Ganesh Chaturthi, most parts of South Goa have witnessed a slowdown in infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fatalities-finally-drop-to-2-active-cases-cross-5000/articleshow/78454721.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Speed up cases against legislators: HC to judges||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered all principal district judges to see that the proceedings in criminal cases involving the legislators are expedited and hearing is taken place on day-to-day basis.The HC has also asked the principal district judges to monitor these cases closely and report about the development every fortnight. They have been told to mention the reason for any adjournment granted by concerned judicial officer, if any delay is caused. The high court has issued a communiqué to this effect on Wednesday in response to the instructions received from the Supreme Court last month. The apex court had issued directions for speeding up criminal cases involving all members of Parliament (MP) and members of Legislative Assembly (MLA). With the instructions, the high court has also sent a list of 98 criminal cases that are pending in various courts across the state against sitting as well as former legislators. There are in all 25 cases pending against former legislators. Kutiyana MLA Kandhal Jadeja and Jhagadia’s legislator Chhotubhai Vasava are facing five cases each. The cases against Vasava are under Electricity Act, and cases against Jadeja include two cases of Arms Act involving punishment up to life imprisonment. Most cases lodged against legislators are for violation of public notification during public agitation. Former MLA from Mahuva, Kanubhai Kalsariya, is facing two such cases, and there are many legislators like him who are facing charges that are punishable with six months to three years in jail.Out of 98 cases, there are 12 cases which are serious in nature in which punishment prescribed is either 10 years or above. There are two former MLAs – Chhabil Patel from Mandvi and Maheshbhai Bhuriya from Dahod district who are facing murder charges. Other serious offences include violation of arms act, attempt to murder, cheating, forgery and corruption. There are seven sitting legislators who are facing serious charges. Those who are facing criminal charges include former Congress party president Rahul Gandhi with two defamation cases; state home minister Pradeepsinh Jadeja with poll code violation case; Jignesh Mevani with four different cases involving minor punishment, fisheries minister Parshottam Solanki with three cases including a corruption case in Gandhinagar; food and civil supplies minister Jayesh Radadiya etc.Three cases have been stayed by higher courts involving home minister Jadeja, minister Solanki and Kandhal Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/speed-up-cases-against-legislators-hc-to-judges/articleshow/78453180.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Phase out non-BS IV vehicles: NGT||KOLKATA: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the state government to phase out non-BS IV emission-compliant vehicles, both private and commercial, in a time bound manner. The NGT said that allowing vehicles to pollute is violation of the Article 21 of Indian Constitution (right to life). However, the government, the bench of Justice S P Wandi (judicial member) and Dr Nagin Nanda (expert member) said, must “accelerate the process of phasing out non-BS IV transport or commercial vehicles to reach a situation when only BS-IV would ply in two cities, Kolkata and Howrah.” In response to the case filed by green crusader Subhas Datta, the NGT criticised the government for lacking “serious efforts in phasing out old commercial vehicles”. Datta told TOI that Bengal is the capital of diesel-run vehicles and it has also the largest number of banned vehicles plying in and around the city. They are system locked, but not scrapped. The NGT asked the state government to submit its compliance report within six months. It also expressed dissatisfaction regarding the management of legacy wastes. The bench has described the capping of the mountain of legacy wastes without biomining as illegal according to the solid waste management rule, 2016. As a warning to regulatory authorities like pollution control board, the NGT says, if regulatory body either connives or acts negligently by not taking prompt action to prevent or avoid or control damage to the environment, natural resources and the people health and property, the principle of accountability for restoration and compensation will have to be applied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngt-phase-out-non-bs-iv-vehicles/articleshow/78453136.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Fund release brings cheer to SCB’s elected members||Secunderabad: The elected members of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) are delighted after much awaited funds have been released by officials. With SCB sanctioning Rs 1 crore for each civilian ward, the representatives, facing elections in four months, are keen to complete pending works. The SCB received Rs 11.06 crore as part of funds sanctioned to civic bodies on recommendations of 14th Finance Commission. Ward members are planning to invite ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Ch Malla Reddy and Cantonment’s MLA G Sayanna for inaugurating the works. “It’s a huge relief for us to receive funds at this stage. We have identified the works on priority basis,” an SCB ward member told TOI. “Most of the works are related to water and sanitation. We are urging SCB officials to take up road repair and re-carpeting works. Roads are in bad shape after heavy rains. We are asking contractors to speed up the works,” said J Lakanatham, an elected member. Another board member, Pandu Yadav, is busy with water and sewer line works. “My aim is to complete the Ramannakunta lake facelift works before the election notification is issued,” Yadav said. The ward members are planning to meet SCB CEO B Ajith Reddy and request him to sanction work orders before model code of conduct is imposed for SCB polls. “SCB is ready to sanction some more important works after Telangana government sanctions Rs 80 crore pending dues,” said an SCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fund-release-brings-cheer-to-scbs-elected-members/articleshow/78453142.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Jailed woman’s kids to be shifted to child care home||Ludhiana: Acting on a TOI report about a woman, who was forced by the police to keep two minor children after the arrest of their mother over the murder of their father, the Ludhiana Child Welfare Committee on Friday talked to the children and also their jailed mother and asked the jail superintendent to provide a letter of woman’s consent for shifting the children to the child care home. Committee member Sanjay Maheshvari said, “I first talked to Rupa Devi (name changed), who has been handed over the custody of the minor children. Thereafter, I approached Ludhiana women’s jail, but came to know that she has been shifted to Nabha jail. I somehow managed to talk to her through the Nabha jail superintendent.”“The woman said she has relatives in Ludhiana, but they are not willing to keep her children. We have asked for a consent letter allowing us to keep the children in the child care home. Soon, we will shift the children there,” Maheshvari said.On Thursday, TOI had reported how the Daresi police personnel had forced Rupa of a Ludhiana village to keep minor children after the arrest of their mother. The murder accused and Rupa are close friends. However, Rupa’s financial condition does not allow her to keep the children, as she lost her job during the lockdown and her husband is also without work. The family has to borrow money to arrange for their food. She also told TOI that the cops had asked her to keep the children for a few days. However, when she went to the police station a few days later to hand over the children, the cops allegedly misbehaved with her and did not agree to take them back.According to the rules, in such cases, children below the age of six years are sent with the mother in the jail, while those above six are either handed over to close relatives after taking an affidavit from them or are sent to the child care home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jailed-womans-kids-to-be-shifted-to-child-care-home/articleshow/78451873.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three murders every day in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: In 2019 in Gujarat, 1,034 persons were killed in 993 cases of murder, according to ‘Crime in India 2019’, a report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The figure represent an average of three persons murdered every day. On the positive side, the state recorded a slight dip in murder cases compared to 2018, while 1,072 FIRs for murder were recorded in 2018, the figure declined by 7% in 2019 to 993. Both major cities of Gujarat that featured in the report – Ahmedabad and Surat – recorded declines of 17% and 10% in the number of FIRs lodged under IPC Section 302 (murder). According to the report, 44% of murders took place due to disputes such as family disputes (106), monetary disputes (80), and property disputes (41). Water disputes claimed four lives whereas petty quarrels accounted for 228 murders, the report states. The state also saw three deaths due to witchcraft, one murder due to road rage and three murders due to dowry disputes. Analysis of the murder victims revealed that 87, or 8.4% of all murder victims, were below 18 years of age. On the other hand, 71 of the accused in murder cases were also juveniles. Of the total, 66 victims were senior citizens whereas in 31 murder cases state police also applied provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. An analysis of murders in Ahmedabad and Surat revealed that personal vendetta was cited as the reason for murder in 22 and 43 cases, respectively. Love affairs killed four in Ahmedabad and 10 in Surat, whereas family issues were behind the murder in five cases in Ahmedabad and 11 in Surat. In 2019, two persons in Ahmedabad and four in Surat lost their lives during a dacoity or robbery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-murders-every-day-in-state/articleshow/78453161.cms||Parth Shastri
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Swimmers ready to take the plunge||CHENNAI: After being away from the pool for more than six months due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, city swimming enthusiasts are delighted that they can now dive into the waters again. Following the Union home ministry order, swimming pools for professional sportspersons and club members are all set to reopen in the city from October 15. It was learned that the TN revenue and disaster management department and sports ministry have assured Tamil Nadu State Aquatic Association (TNSAA) of complete cooperation. Initially, six swimming pools — SDAT Aquatic Complex in Velachery, Anna swimming pool (Triplicane), Shenoy Nagar, Orca (Chetpet), Dolphin Academy (Mogappair) and Turtle Swim School (Chepauk) — will be reopened. The TNSAA will follow the Swimming Federation of India (SFI)’s guidelines and standard operating procedure regarding the safety measures. As part of precautionary measures, swimmers will be asked to bring their own kick-board, goggles, pull-buoy, hand paddles, stretch cords, towels and drinking water bottles. Facilities will be responsible for periodic cleaning of water and there will be increased chlorination. “The safety of the swimmers is our top priority. We will have thermal checks at regular intervals to ensure that no infected personnel, including swimmers, coaches, officials among others can enter. We don’t want any untoward incident for which we need to close the pool,” TNSAA secretary T Chandrasekaran told TOI. The TNSAA has devised a ‘chain training’ method to ensure swimmers maintain physical distancing inside the pool. While the number of swimmers per lane will depend on the size of the pool, it will be limited to 100 swimmers per day inside the pool. Two swimmers cannot enter a lane together and need to maintain a distance of minimum five metres or use alternate lanes. A few clubs are also mulling to operate on alternate days and ask swimmers to come in batches. S Dhanush, who represented India in 50m, 100m and 200m breaststroke and had won two silver medals in South Asian Games last year, is motivated to start training again. But he wants to take it easy to avoid injuries. “I have kept myself fit but then for a swimmer fitness outside water doesn’t matter. You need to see the condition of your strokes, whether your body is in rhythm and get a feel of the water. We will definitely take two months to reach our best condition,” he said. Despite all the safety measures, the state swimmers aren’t dropping their guard. “There was a risk that the entire year might have gone to waste but I am glad we are starting. But we need to be careful. So our plan is to take a hot shower immediately after coming out of the pool. We need to have a healthy diet to increase our immunity,” said swimmer Jayaveena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/swimmers-ready-to-take-the-plunge/articleshow/78453145.cms||Shilarze Saharoy
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Normal monsoon rainfall in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The city has clocked a slender 1% rain deficiency and Gangetic Bengal an 11% deficit this monsoon between June 1 and September 30, the official rainy season. A deficit or a surplus of up to 19% is taken to be normal, said RMC director G K Das. Monsoon though continues to remain active in south Bengal and is expected to bow out only around October 10. Despite the marginal shortfall, the rain count has been normal, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). Kolkata has received 1,308.9mm rain against a normal of 1,326 mm, a deficit of 1%. Gangetic Bengal, has, however, received 1,056mm, while the normal count is 1,181mm, a wider deficit of 11%. “So, both the city and the region have received normal rain this season. We expect more rain over the next one week, though it will not be included in the official monsoon count,” said Das.There are three major parameters, which determine the exit of monsoon—dry days, reduced moisture in the air and the north-westerly wind. These conditions are yet to be met and monsoon remains active, according to the Met office. While at least three consecutive dry days is taken as a pre-condition, the extent of moisture drop depends on several other climatic conditions. Kolkata and Gangetic Bengal last year recorded bigger deficits of 11% and 19%, but both were within the normal range. “Kolkata and south Bengal had a relatively dry beginning to monsoon. Rainfall remained deficient due to the absence of low pressures that drive the rain count here. But systems started forming from the latter half of August and continued through September, helping push the rain count up,” said Das. Rainfall is considered normal if it remains between a deficit of 19% to a surplus of 19%. A count of -20% to -59% is termed ‘deficient’, while a deficiency of more than 60% is categorized ‘scanty’. If the count touches 110% of the normal mark, it is termed ‘higher normal’, while a count of up to -19% is taken to be ‘lower normal’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/normal-monsoon-rainfall-in-state/articleshow/78453167.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 3, 2020||Goa||Parulekar suffers stroke, is ‘stable’||Panaji: Former tourism minister and BJP functionary Dilip Parulekar suffered a stroke on Friday afternoon. He was immediately rushed to a multi-speciality private hospital in Mapusa. Later in the evening, he was taken to another private hospital in Panaji for further investigation. The doctors there said his condition was “stable”. “He has an embolism in the brain with slurred speech and mild disorientation. He underwent a cardiac valve surgery a few years ago in Mumbai,” a senior doctor attached to the private hospital said. The former Saligao MLA had reactivated himself lately possibly for the next assembly polls. Meanwhile, the condition of former minister Pandurang Dhavalikar, who is undergoing treatment at the Goa Medical College for a heart attack he suffered a few days ago, is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parulekar-suffers-stroke-is-stable/articleshow/78454729.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hubballi||This govt school in Hubballi was ahead of the curve||HUBBALLI: Much before the government in Karnataka launched ‘Vidyagama’ as part of its efforts to take learning to the doorsteps of children, a state-run school at Sutagatti in Hubballi had been ahead of the curve. Not only had the government primary school been using WhatsApp to impart lessons to students, but the teachers of the institution had also been visiting their wards either in their homes or other open spaces. The Sutagatti Government School, with 180 students, had earlier grabbed headlines when the teachers shelled out money from their pockets to have the building painted in the likeness of a railway bogie. Furthermore, the school is equipped with a closed circuit television (CCTV) camera and projectors, bringing it on a par with many private institutions. In addition to the large-heartedness of the teachers, generous contributions from philanthropists has helped this state-run institution boast excellent infrastructure. M B Tahsildar, the school’s headmaster, said that the initiative to monitor and ensure continuity in the students’ education was launched in June. “We created WhatsApp groups for separate classes and imparted lessons using audio-visual tools,” the tahsildar said. Ashabegum Munavalli, a class teacher for students of the sixth standard, said that classes were being held for nearly 90% of the school’s students a month before the government started ‘Vidyagama’. “Children who did not have smartphones were grouped with children in the neighbourhood, so they could continue learning. Parents of students who had smartphones were willing to allow other children to join their kids,” Ashabegum said. She added that video lessons helped children with pronunciation, while teachers made regular visits to students’ homes to clear doubts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-govt-school-in-hubballi-was-ahead-of-the-curve/articleshow/78450741.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC to e-dispatch bail orders for four cities||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday launched a service for use of digitally signed electronic copies of bail orders for use of lower courts and jail authorities, doing away physically signed and stamped copies of bail orders in order to save time and resources. Chief Justice Vikram Nath launched this project which will presently cover four cities – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. The ICT and eGovernance committee of the HC has developed an ‘eWrit Module’ by which the digital copies of bail orders will be used. The high court will e-dispatch digitally signed bail orders in PDF format to the lower courts across the state through eWrit Module.  The bail order will be digitally signed at three hierarchical levels in the concerned judicial department of the HC so as to ensure complete authenticity and accuracy. On receiving the bail order through the module, the subordinate court concerned will accept the surety etc and upload a copy of the communication for the jail. The jail authorities will access the order for cross checking with the Jail Yadi received from the court and release the prisoner. The HC officials said this system will save the time spent on physical transmission of bail orders and prisoners will not have to remain unduly incarcerated. Prisoners’ lawyers will receive e-mails about developments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-to-e-dispatch-bail-orders-for-four-cities/articleshow/78453173.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress leader booked for attack on scribe||Hyderabad: Central Zone police on Friday booked Congress leader Feroz Khan for allegedly assaulting an electronic media reporter. He was produced before a magistrate through video conference. Though police wanted Feroz Khan to be sent for judicial remand, the magistrate declined the plea and let him off. Police are expected to serve a notice to Feroz Khan. The incident took place on Thursday night when the Congress party conducted a meeting near Tank Bund to protest against the alleged rape and murder of an 18-year-old girl in UP. While the reporter was covering the event an argument broke out with Feroz Khan. In the presence of policemen, Khan and his followers attacked the reporter. Later, the reporter lodged a complaint with the police. Meanwhile, in the statement released to the media, Feroz Khan said that police registered the case against him on the direction of two rival political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-leader-booked-for-attack-on-scribe/articleshow/78453187.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Lake damage: NGT notices to Centre, cos||Hyderabad: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has issued notices to the Centre and two construction firms in the city over alleged damage to a water body by a project near Narsingi. The order was passed in response to a plea by Congress MP Revanth Reddy. According to Revanth’s petition, the construction firms have damaged the “water channel which supplies water from Narsingi lake-2, Muskin Cheruvu to Nagireddy Kunta”. With no proper precautions taken, the entire stream was covered by the project, resulting in waterlogging in the residential complex, it said. The plea sought to declare the construction in prohibited natural water body as illegal and against provisions of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. Admitting the application and serving notices, the NGT ordered a previously-appointed committee to look into the issue. The committee includes district collector of Rangareddy, an officer of Chennai regional office of Ministry of Environment & Forests and an officer from lake protection committee. The committee has been asked to submit a factual report that will include the proposed action to be recommended in case of a violation and imposition of environmental compensation with remedial measures.The report will be considered during the next hearing on December 14. The committee was also directed to check whether there existed any water canal or stream as alleged by the applicant and whether there was any encroachment by the respondents while taking up the construction. The committee is to clarify if any conditions of the environmental clearance have been violated. The application cites environmental violations on five grounds. The state of Telangana, state environment impact assessment authority, TSPCB, GHMC and other agencies have also been named as respondents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lake-damage-ngt-notices-to-centre-cos/articleshow/78453169.cms||Uttara Varma
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Registration IG transferred||Hyderabad: Inspector general and commissioner of registration and stamps department T Chiranjeevulu was transferred on Friday. V Sheshadri, who was posted as secretary in the CMO, has been made incharge commissioner of registration department. Sources said the commissioner sought to go on leave due to ill health. Chiranjeevulu said he sought transfer due to personal issues and the state gave consent. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/registration-ig-transferred/articleshow/78453261.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Cinemas fail to reopen in West Bengal as Mumbai distribution offices stay shut||KOLKATA: The chief minister might have given the nod to reopen cinemas from October 2, but not a single theatre in Bengal could screen films from Friday owing to the challenges of the digital cinema distribution network, the head offices of which are still shut, being located in Mumbai. In the days of digital distribution, an exhibitor has to ask a producer/distributor to grant a release order to the digital cinema distribution network, which seeks confirmation from the exhibitor. Once the nod comes through, a person is physically sent from the digital cinema distribution network to load the content in the theatre’s server. After that, the licence is provided by the digital cinema distribution network to the cinema’s server for screening. President of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association Piya Sengupta said many cinemas in Bengal were ready for screening on Friday. “But unless the digital cinema distribution networks, including UFO, Qube and United Media Works (UMW), provide the licence, cinemas in Bengal can’t screen.” Champak Kundu, owner of Karuna Cinema in Arambagh, said, “I had even printed posters. But my booker called up, saying halls would open from October 15.” On September 30, booker Nimai Sengupta had told TOI Upohar (Chaitanyapur), Karuna Cinema (Arambagh), Bardhaman Cinema (Burdwan), Ellora (Champati), Miloni Cinema (Basirhat) and Purbasha (Maslandapur) would reopen this Friday. “But in absence of an SOP, the digital cinema distribution networks can’t start work. Without the licence, cinemas can’t open,” he said. Rajkamal Chourasia, manager of Arti Cinema Pvt Ltd, the regional dealer of UFO Cine Network Mumbai, said it would take two weeks to work out. “All-India activities have been permitted from October 15 in areas outside containment zones. Our head office and server are in Mumbai. Our offices will begin operations on the 15th,” he said. On finances surrounding the release of one Bengali film at a theatre, Chourasia said, “To convert content of a Bengali film from the hard disc to the digital format, we charge Rs 75,000 and GST. Also, the virtual print charges for 2K resolution is Rs 9,000 for 7 shows and Rs 18,000 for unlimited shows per Bengali film. For single screens, with non- 2K resolution, the charges are Rs 7,000 for 7 shows and Rs 14,000 for unlimited shows.” Though the Centre has allowed cinemas to reopen from October 15, not all states are keen. “States, where halls can open are Bengal, UP, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat and Karnataka. But operations can’t start in Jharkhand, Odisha, Delhi, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala till October 31,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cinemas-fail-to-reopen-in-bengal-as-mum-distribution-offices-stay-shut/articleshow/78453246.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chavda, Congress workers detained||Ahmedabad: Around 30 Gujarat Congress workers including its state party chief Amit Chavda were detained on Friday for holding a protest without permission over various issues, including the new farm laws. The protest against the BJP-led Union and state governments was held outside the Ahmedabad district collectorate near Subhash bridge at RTO circle. Apart from opposing the newly-enacted farm laws, Chavda also sought a complete fee waiver for all the school and college students in the state in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Deputy commissioner of police (zone 2) Vijay Patel said, “We detained around 30 Congress workers and Chavda for holding the protest without permission. They had not even maintained social distancing during the protest.” Before his detention, Chavda accused the Gujarat government of suppressing people’s voice. “Since schools and colleges are shut, we want the government to waive 100% fees of all the students. We are also protesting peacefully against the anti-farmer laws enacted by the Parliament,” he said. The state government recently asked the private schools to take a 25% cut in the annual fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chavda-congress-workers-detained/articleshow/78453221.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Plumber held for kidnapping 1-yr-old girl||Hyderabad: Gopalapuram police on Thursday arrested a plumber for kidnapping a one-year-old girl from Secunderabad. The accused was apprehended by Medipally police after locals from Boduppal alerted them about the girl on Thursday night. He was later handed over to Gopalapuram police. According to the police, D Shankar, a resident of Boduppal, abducted the baby when her mother Deena from Mustabad in Sircilla handed her over to her friend Ajay for some time, near Secunderabad railway station on Thursday. Deena lodged a complaint with the Gopalapuram police and a case was registered. Shankar was arrested and the girl was handed over to her mother. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plumber-held-for-kidnapping-1-yr-old-girl/articleshow/78453225.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||New spin: Delhi RTA officials under lens in Ferrari case||HYDERABAD: Suspecting that certain officials of Delhi Regional Transport Authority (RTA) have colluded with high-end car dealers, city police wrote to Delhi transport commissioner seeking details about how a city businessman’s Ferrari ended up getting registered in the name of a Delhi car dealer. In May 2019, Mahendra Hills-based businessman Divesh Gandhi purchased the Ferrari car from Jessique of Kozhikode in Kerala for Rs 2 crore with the help of city car dealer Neeraj Sharma and his friend Ganesh of Bengaluru. In November 2019, Divesh sent the ownership transfer documents through Neeraj to Delhi-based high-end car dealer Prince Pathak, to get the vehicle transferred to his name. “The car was registered in Delhi and the victim was trying to get the ownership transfer done in Delhi to his local address there. Neeraj was overseeing the process with the help of Pathak,” Karkhana inspector P Madhukar Swamy said. In December 2019, Neeraj went to the US and Divesh assumed that the ownership transfer remained pending as the former was stuck in US due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, Divesh was parking his Ferrari at a neighbour’s house in Mahendra Hills. At 8pm on June 23, three people went to Divesh’s neighbour’s house and introduced themselves as Divesh’s friends, who had come to check the mechanical problems of the vehicle. The trio took car keys from the family and drove it away. Alerted by the family, Divesh lodged a complaint with police on June 23. Police arrested Neeraj Sharma, Pathak and Bilal’s associates Bhupinder and Saddam of Delhi on June 26 and recovered the car. The police found that the car, which was supposed to be transferred in the name of Gandhi, had initially been transferred in the name of Pathak and he in turn sold it to Bilal. While police are trying to arrest Pathak and Bilal, the latter obtained anticipatory bail claiming he purchased the car from Pathak after giving his Audi car worth Rs 1 crore and the balance amount in cash. “Bilal claimed that Pathak showed him the Ferrari when it went for servicing in Delhi and also told him to collect the car from Hyderabad in exchange for the Audi and cash,” said a police official. Meanwhile, North Zone police wrote to Delhi RTA officials asking them to furnish details of how the ownership of Ferrari was transferred from Jessique to Pathak. Despite writing twice to RTA officials and also to transport commissioner, police have not received any response yet. The police team is now preparing to go to Delhi to apprehend Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-spin-delhi-rta-officials-under-lens-in-ferrari-case/articleshow/78453298.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||Rape, murder accused held after 12 years||VADODARA/ANAND: An accused in a rape and murder case was nabbed by the local crime branch (LCB) of Anand police in Anand district on Friday. The accused, Budha Talpada, who was allegedly involved in criminal offences registered outside Anand district, had been absconding for the last 12 years. Apart from the rape and murder case, Talpada also had a case of burglary registered against him. “We had received a tip-off that Talpada was going to pass by Kankapura village in an autorickshaw. He was on his way to the coast for fishing in the sea,” said P A Jadav, in-charge inspector, Anand LCB. “We cross-checked and matched the description of the accused as he had been on the run for a long time,” said Jadav. Talpada, a native of Dehvan village of Borsad taluka, has two offences registered against him at Mehmedabad police station and Mansa police station in Gandhinagar district, both lodged in 2008. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rape-murder-accused-held-after-12-years/articleshow/78452039.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Rajkot||Man, wife detained for raping woman||Rajkot: Police on Thursday detained a couple on charges of raping a woman in Meghpar Kumbharadi village of Anjar taluka in Kutch district. While the man raped the woman, his wife threatened her with dire consequences, if she complained about the crime. Police said the accused, Rajesh Vyas (27), allegedly raped 21-year-old survivor, who was the friend of his wife, Khushbu. “Vyas transferred the survivor’s photographs from Khushbu’s cellphone to his own and contacted the survivor, threatening to defame her with her photographs. Around a month ago, Vyas took the survivor to a guest house in Anjar and allegedly raped her,” said N B Zala, sub-inspector with Anjar police station. According to the police, Vyas made a video of the crime and started blackmailing the survivor with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-wife-detained-for-raping-woman/articleshow/78451958.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||‘Enrol local youth in forest exploration’||Panaji: There is a need for village youth to act as facilitators in the forest areas to explore responsible tourism activities, said ACF, forest department, Paresh Porob. He was speaking in an online session with Global Shapers on the occasion of Wildlife Week celebrations. “Forests gives out vapourised alkalines which can be beneficial to human health – an aspect that people are discovering owing to the pandemic. To help people trek, we require facilitators in each village to assist the visitors as well as ensure the forests are kept plastic-free,” he said, adding that this could help in revenue generation for the youth. He also said that the forest department usually ropes in youngsters from the tribal communities of Goa for their better understanding of the forests. “Better management of wildlife and protected areas is done by uniformed guards with the help of their knowledge,” he said. Porob pointed out that bird watching has become an active part of eco-tourism in Goa. However, there is also an increasing interest in photographing butterflies, spiders, bracket fungi and dragonflies. “The tourism department must provide a platform for these interests,” Porob said. He also stressed on the need for wildlife researchers in Goa, protection of forests and wildlife and the mapping of forests in the state. “Wildlife is not just tigers, elephants and gaur but a lot more. Even the marine life are a part of wildlife and a lot needs to be done in forest research. Often, the tourists at Dudhsagar take selfies but don’t realise that the rock their standing on is millions of years old. People need to take their eyes away from their mobile phone screens and spare a few minutes for nature; interest will automatically develop,” he said. Porob also pointed out how technology has changed in the forestry sector, especially in recording tiger census. Earlier, forest officials would follow tigers around for days to get a clear picture. Since 2013, however, the camera trap method is being used to record tiger census. For mapping of forests as well, the department is keeping with the times and has adopted drone photography, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/enrol-local-youth-in-forest-exploration/articleshow/78454780.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Monitor lizard poachers on the prowl in Srisailam forest||HYDERABAD: With demand for monitor lizard’s genitals going up in the wake of the pandemic, poachers are on the prowl in the Nallamala forest tracts in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Known as ‘hatha jodi’, the genitals of a male monitor lizard are sold as a plant product having magical powers by the poachers. Recently, Karnataka forest department officials arrested a gang of poachers with hatha jodi. During the interrogation, the poachers told officials that their source of operation is the dense Srisailam forest. Wildlife consultant and member of Telangana State Wildlife Board Rajeev Mathew said thanks to the prevalence of Covid-19 and lack of employment, some of the youth are resorting to killing the monitor lizard. “Animals that were otherwise killed for food or having medicinal value are much in demand now. The biggest victim is the monitor lizard. Its genitals are sold as a charm or an aphrodisiac,” he said. Following a series of incidents of poaching of these animals in the forest areas, Karnataka officials alerted their counterparts in Telangana and AP to take steps to stop poaching. Recently, Karnataka officials seized a consignment of hatha jodi. Meanwhile, the Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species (LaCONES) said most of the wildlife forensic cases it received are those related to monitor lizards’ hatha jodi. CCMB (LaCONES is part of CCMB), in its annual report, said: “During April 2018-March 2019, we received 281 wildlife crime cases. We also received 554 varieties of biological samples such as meat, cooked meat, bones, faeces, dried chemically treated skin, ivory, hair, nails, snake venom and bloodstains for identification of animal species.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monitor-lizard-poachers-on-the-prowl-in-srisailam-forest/articleshow/78453391.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 3, 2020||Ludhiana||Factory worker shot at, robbed in Jamalpur||Ludhiana: Three miscreants opened fire on a factory worker and robbed him of cash and cellphone on 33 Feet Road of Jamalpur on Thursday night.Sanjay Singh, 44, of Guru Nanak Nagar, 33 Feet Road, is under treatment at a city hospital.Sanjay said in his police complainant, “After calling it a day, I was on way home when three unidentified men intercepted my bike. The trio was on a black motorcycle. One of them had a pistol and another a sharp-edged weapon. They asked me to hand over to them my cellphone and cash.” When Sanjay resisted, the accused fired a shot at his leg, snatched his cellphone and wallet containing Rs 2,600 and documents and escaped. On hearing Sanjay’s cries, passersby took him to a nearby hospital. Jamalpur police station sub-inspector Jatinder Singh said a case has been registered against the accused under sections 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life of personal safety of others) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the IPC. “The CCTV cameras installed near the spot have captured the three accused. We are trying to trace them,” the cop added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-worker-shot-at-robbed-in-jamalpur/articleshow/78451941.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gandhi envisioned Ram Rajya, Modi fulfilling it: Gujarat CM||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Friday said Mahatma Gandhi had dreamed of a ‘Ram Rajya’ (an ideal society) in the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to turn the Father of the Nation’s vision into reality. Speaking on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary, Rupani termed the under-construction Ram Mandir in Ayodhya as the “manifestation of Ram Rajya” as envisioned by the Father of the Nation. “Gandhiji believed in Lord Ram. Ram Rajya was Gandhiji’s idea. Even his last words were ‘Hey Ram’.” “Lord Ram had all the qualities of a perfect ruler. He was pro-people and loved his citizens. That is why Lord Ram’s rule was considered ideal and that is why Gandhiji dreamed of Ram Rajya,” said Rupani. He was addressing a small gathering at Kirti Mandir, a memorial house in Porbandar, via video conferencing from Gandhinagar. The memorial is built close to Mahatma Gandhi’s ancestral house, where he was born. “But unfortunately, some people attached Lord Ram to only one religion and created unnecessary controversies, which was driving us away from Ram Rajya. “But, I am glad that the Ram Mandir (in Ayodhya) is now emerging as a manifestation of Ram Rajya and our PM is trying to make India as envisioned by Gandhiji,” the BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gandhi-envisioned-ram-rajya-modi-fulfilling-it-cm/articleshow/78453485.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Manickam Tagore invokes Telangana’s self-respect, sets 79-seat target in 2023 polls||HYDERABAD: Seeking to invoke the ‘self-respect’ of the people of Telangana, AICC general secretary in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore on Friday called upon the people to prove to the ruling TRS that they cannot be bought over with Rs 2,000 per vote. “CM K Chandrasekhar Rao thinks he can buy your self-respect with Rs 2,000 per vote. Prove to them that your self-respect cannot be purchased with money,” Tagore said, addressing a gathering at Sangareddy where he launched ‘Kisan mazdoor bachao diwas,’ a state-wide protest of Congress against the three farm laws. The money earned through commissions from escalated prices of project contracts is being spent to buy the self-respect of Telangana people. “In the last five years, KCR family has become richest in Telangana. Even the washroom being used by KCR family is costlier than the price of a 2BHK unit being constructed by the government for the poor,” Tagore said. Tagore also set a target ‘vision 2023’ to the rank and file of the party. “We have 37 months before December 2023 polls. Work hard to win at least 79 of the total 119 seats,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tagore-invokes-ts-self-respect-sets-79-seat-target-in-2023-polls/articleshow/78453273.cms||Roushan Ali
October 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Local democracy goes online as villagers log in for gram sabha||PANAJI: Grassroots democracy was practiced virtually on Friday after the gram sabha in a couple of villages, probably for the first time ever, was held on the internet. In Agasaim and Chodan-Madel, members logged in to participate in discussions — in the former, discussions included the preparation of the gram panchayat development plan (GPDP). The Agasaim gram sabha also reviewed and discussed support activities taken up by the panchayat during the pandemic. “We used to have gram sabhas earlier, but due to Covid-19, we had the option of an online meeting,” said panch Succorina Gonsalves. “We went ahead and conducted our first socially-distanced online gram sabha.” Tiswadi BDO Anil Dhumaskar said that the panchayat of Chodan-Madel also had an online gram sabha on Friday. Block development officer Prasidh Naik said that panchayats in the state usually have a special gram sabha on October 2. “Since any of the 195 panchayats may have had organized special gram sabhas, we had given instructions this year to follow social distancing guidelines due to the pandemic,” he said. At Agasaim, various support activities were explained via Powerpoint presentations, and 47 residents participated in the session. Later, in an open forum, several suggestions were made by the people on the subject, which were accepted. Sarpanch Emmie Fernandes promised to incorporate them while preparing the GPDP.  She also told people to immediately contact the panchayat in case of any problem. The panchayat highlighted successes in agriculture, wherein around 200 bags of paddy seeds weighing 50kg each that were distributed among farmers during the lockdown are fruitfully growing. Some villagers of one ward also took up terrace farming within their property, in a bid to encourage them to grow their own food in the wake of the pandemic. Vegetables like bitter gourd, okra, cucumber and leafy greens have therefore been harvested as a result. Inspired by this, other villagers have taken up kitchen gardening by growing chili, tomato and radish crops in their vases. “The idea was to encourage people to stay at home for as long as possible,” said chairman of the Agasaim biodiversity management committee Xavier Gracias. “By growing their own food, they’re eliminating the need to venture into the market or crowded spaces to purchase vegetables. Owing to this initiative, many people in the village have successfully started growing their own food.” Due to the pandemic, many youngsters in the village who either worked as seafarers or in the hospitality industry were suddenly left with no income. The panchayat guided them to take up government schemes. Drop-outs and other unemployed youth were urged to take up online courses in plumbing and electrical training, so as to develop skills and gain employment within the village in the absence of migrant labour. The panchayat also assisted them in purchasing the equipment required to practice these skills. Through the agriculture department, some were trained in the art of toddy tapping or coconut plucking. The panchayat members said that freshly-trained plumbers, electricians and coconut tree climbers have been working in their roles and are now able to earn their own income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/local-democracy-goes-online-as-villagers-log-in-to-gram-sabha/articleshow/78454767.cms||Nida Sayed
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ABCD of assessing corona severity||AHMEDABAD: Is it possible to quickly assess the severity of Covid-19 patients before assigning them wards? Can there be a universal practice through which doctors and patients can communicate with each other about symptoms and severity? These were some of the questions a team of doctors from Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI) at the Civil Hospital campus started working on to form a sort of universal language which they have termed ‘ABCD.’ The concept – which resulted in two academic papers that were published in international journals – also found a place in the World Health Organization (WHO) repository on research papers related to Covid-19 on Thursday. The authors included Dr Abhijeet Salunke, Dr Vikas Warikoo and Dr Shashank Pandya from GCRI among other experts from Pune, Ambala and Rajnandgaon. “In the simplest of form, we can explain the system as a scoring of factors including age, body ache, body temperature, contact, cough, co-morbidities and dyspnoea, which makes up ‘ABCD’. Patients and doctors are asked to mark each factor with 0 or 1,” said Dr Salunke. “If the score is 0-3, the patient has mild symptoms, if it’s 4-6, it’s moderate, and if it’s above 6, it’s severe.” In mild cases, patients can be advised isolation at home, in moderate cases they can be directed to a doctor and if symptoms are severe, the patients need to be shifted to an ICU. Dr Shashank Pandya, director of GCRI, said that almost all triage areas (the first section of Covid-19 hospitals where the severity of the patients’ condition is assessed and they are assigned wards) have their own systems based on the severity of the infection, HRCT scan results and the condition of the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abcd-of-assessing-corona-severity/articleshow/78453397.cms||Parth Shastri
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Parents sell two-year-old girl for Rs 30,000||HYDERABAD: Apparently driven by poverty, a couple sold one of their daughters, aged two, to a family for Rs 30,000 in Jogulamba- Gadwal district. Officials have rescued the girl and admitted her to Sishu Vihar in Mahbubnagar. District child protection officer D J Sumalatha told TOI that action was being initiated against a ‘mediator’ and the girl’s parents. According to officials who probed the matter, the father of the girl, Papanna, a mason, was unable to take care of his children. “Papanna and his wife Devi are parents to three daughters. Papanna was working at a construction site and reportedly mentioned to other workers there that he is unable to raise the three girls. One of the workers told him about a childless couple in Beerepalli village in Gadwal looking to adopt a child. On September 26, Papanna sold the two-year-old girl for Rs 30,000. Of the total amount, the mediator took Rs 5,000,” an official said. Police began investigation after receiving a tip off that the child was missing from her house in Mallemdoddi village in Maldakal mandal, and later alerted the district child protection officer. “The couple who had bought the baby moved to Hyderabad on September 28. The couple said that they had only adopted the child as the girl’s father had said that they were poor. They parted with the child without any resistance and said that it was against the law to keep the child,” Sumalatha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-sell-two-year-old-girl-for-rs-30k/articleshow/78453292.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Strengthen public prosecution: HC over 200 vacancies||Hyderabad: Wondering how the state would deal with crimes against women and vulnerable sections of the society if 75% of its criminal courts do not have regular public prosecutors, the Telangana high court on Friday directed the state to come up with a concrete plan to strengthen the system of public prosecution to ensure speedy justice to the needy sections and victims of crime. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, which took up the cause suo motu, directed advocate general BS Prasad to come up with a clear plan by October 14. The high court bench in its order expressed concern over huge vacancies and said only 70 public prosecutors were appointed when the vacancies are 270. The bench termed it as failure of the state. Several courts are running without public prosecutors and most of them are running with in-charge public prosecutors who, in turn, are in-charges for three or more courts. The bench in its order said that the “perusal of the judgments and the records of the trial courts reveal that the PPs are not as well trained as they should be. For, many a time, the public prosecutor (PP) either does not examine a material witness, or does not submit a material document. Due to the lack of relevant information, offenders are being released on bail, or are being acquitted.” Directing the state to equip PPs and their offices with good infrastructure, research material, laptops etc, the bench said “the PPs are the backbone of the criminal justice delivery system. The trial depends on the availability, training and knowledge of PPs. Thus. the PP happens to be the pivotal point, and one of the main stakeholders, for ensuring justice to the victim and society at large.” The high court bench in its order expressed concern over huge vacancies and said only 70 public prosecutors were appointed when the vacancies are 270||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/strengthen-public-prosecution-hc-over-200-vacancies/articleshow/78453285.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Startups need global dimension’||Ahmedabad: Encouraging startups to sniff out opportunities amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Sunil Parekh, the India co-chair of techXchange, emphasized the need to develop products and services that may aid in the current times. Such products and services could have a potential across the globe. Parekh was in discussion with Dr Param Shah, director, FICCI-UK, during a recently organized webinar by techXchange. “During the pandemic, we have learnt how fragile the world is, right from the healthcare system to public distribution systems to even the need for data,” said Parekh. “Startups have a huge opportunity here.” He went on to say: “There is a lot of potential in Indian startups and what they need to do is internationalize their business. For instance, when Zoom reached India, it grew tremendously. Our startups therefore need a global dimension too to expand.” Speaking of the techXchange platform, Parekh said, “Startups are now aware of what to do in the UK to start a business, with facilities available.” He added: “After initial exposure through techXchange, startups came back with a lot of ideas and even success stories.” Shah said that of the 35 Indian startups which came in during the past years, at least six have a presence in the UK and are growing well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/startups-need-global-dimension/articleshow/78453281.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Long weekend sees domestic tourists rushing to Goa||PANAJI: After six months, Goa tourism is finally seeing its first busy long weekend. Gandhi Jayanti (Friday) coinciding with the weekend has led to the influx of domestic tourists in a big way. Most starred hotels—that have opened so far—have done well with many offering fantastic packages. Non-starred hotels too have made gains though not in a big way. Goa will do well with increased domestic tourists even as the footfalls will be lesser than past seasons, said Nilesh Shah, president of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG). “Many of the hotels have sold out. In some cases, the occupancy has been 70-80% and some hotels have 100%,” the TTAG president said. Of a total of 3,870 hotels, Shah said, over 600 have resumed operations and more will follow suit in the coming days. A starred hotel in North Goa had a three-night package, including air travel, at Rs 18,000. Former TTAG president Savio Messias said it is totally a buyers’ market and hotels will have to offer discounted packages. “All hotels are offering the best value packages and trying to attract tourists,” said Shah, adding that with more airlines resuming operations to Goa, the inflow of travellers will rise. “At the moment top-end hotels are benefiting the most. Gradually, smaller hotels too will get business. Even customers are calling seeking information,” he said. He said China is experiencing a boom in domestic tourism with international travel restrictions in place. India will also go through a similar experience once Covid cases dip and a vaccine is available in the market. “Goa will benefit being the country’s favoured holiday destination,” he said. He added that the key to success will be to follow all guidelines, standard operating procedures and safety norms. With the 7th season of the Indian Super League (ISL) set to commence in November in Goa, starred hotels have seen increased bookings. “Teams are already in Goa for training sessions. Besides the organisers, sports channel crew and officials are also camping in Goa,” said Messias.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/long-weekend-sees-domestic-tourists-rushing-to-goa/articleshow/78454774.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for 10-month-old’s murder||Kolhapur: Satara police have arrested a 28-year-old resident of Satara’s Phaltan taluka on the charges of allegedly murdering a 10-month-old baby boy because his mother refused to reciprocate his feelings. The arrested suspect is a graduate and was preparing for Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exam, said police. The suspect has been identified as Abhijit Ramdas Lokhande, a resident of Talwade village of Phaltan, Satara district superintendent of police Tejswini Satpute said on Friday. Police said that the suspect was arrested with the help of mobile location and statements given by a few people. According to police, the murder took place in Kalaj villageof Phaltan on Tuesday evening. They said that the suspect allegedly approached the victim — Omkar Adhik Bhagat — when he was sleeping in his house and took him. When the child’s mother realised that he was missing, she raised an alarm and gathered her neighbours. The villagers set out on a search mission for the missing boy, but failed to trace him. On Thursday, Omkar’s body was foung floating in a private well, about 500 feet away from his house. The villagers immediately informed the police and filed a complaint in this regard. Upon investigation, police had zeroed down on a few suspects with the help of their technical team. However, their list was soon narrowed down to Abhijit after some of the victim’s neighbours confirmed that Abhijit had visited his house wearing a mask. Satara district SP Satpute said that Abhijt was angry as Omkar’s mother was not responding to his phone calls and had refused to meet him. “It’s revenge because of one-sided love”, she said, adding that Abhijit had confessed to the crime and has been remanded to four-day police custody. Police said that initially Abhijit had refused to accept his involvment in the crime. However, he broke down when police told him that they have proof of his mobile location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-10-month-olds-murder/articleshow/78450866.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Land case: HC tells Telangana govt to grant e-pattadar passbooks||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that the 38.5 acres of land in survey numbers 1 to 5, 17 and 18 in Sikandarguda village in Gandipeta mandal of Rangareddy district is neither government land nor Paigah land, the Telangana high court on Friday directed the state government and its revenue authorities to grant e-pattadar passbooks to the farmers, who were holding valid pattas and titles over the land. The court also slapped costs of Rs 5,000 each on revenue secretary, district collector, RDO and MRO of Gandipet. The judge found fault with the MRO for his actions in the case and said that he has no power to cancel the pattadar passbooks given to the petitioners. “Give them e-pattadar passbooks within two weeks from now,” the HC told the officials. Justice M S Ramachandra Rao pronounced the judgement after hearing Burra Venugopal Goud and five others who questioned the interference of the third parties in their land and the tacit support extended to them by the revenue authorities. The judge dealt with the claims of third parties who claimed rights over the village land and found that the village was removed from the list of Paigah villages and the same was confirmed by the Board of Revenue in 1976 itself. The judge rejected the argument that the land was under the custody of the court of wards and said that the question would not arise as Sikandarguda was not a Paigah village. The judge recorded the contention of Vajani Infra company that initially claimed rights over the land on behalf of some alleged successors, but later withdrew its claims from the land. Burra Venugopal and other farmers and their ancestors were in possession of the land for the last 120 years and they, apart from their names in the revenue records, were also given occupancy rights certificates by the same revenue authorities in 1978.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-case-hc-tells-govt-to-grant-e-pattadar-passbooks/articleshow/78453316.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 3, 2020||Goa||30-year domicile must to buy property from Goa Housing Board||PANAJI: The Goa Housing Board has amended its registration, allotment and sale of tenements rules of 2016, making 30 years of domicile mandatory for an applicant seeking to buy a plot or flat offered by the board. Under the old rules, 15 years of domicile was sufficient to apply for such a plot or flat. Also, for the first time, overseas citizen of India (OCI) cardholders will be eligible to apply for Goa Housing Board’s tenements. Under the amended rules, an applicant has to be a citizen of India or an OCI, and must be born in Goa on or before December 19, 1961, or born of a parent who resided in Goa for the last 30 years, or was born in Goa and has been a resident of the state continuously for the last 30 years. Applicants born in Goa of parents who have been residents of the state for the last 30 years on the date of making an application for the tenement, are also eligible. OCIs were included after Congress legislator Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco stated that the amendment to rule 5 had not considered the Goan diaspora who are Indian citizens or OCIs in various parts of the world. Lourenco said he had pursued the matter with the Goa Housing Board, pointing out that it would be a grave injustice to the sons of the soil if they were excluded from the benefit. “We submitted that 30 years of domicile ought to be made mandatory for persons of non-Goan origin to protect the interest of Goans,” he said. If the applicant is an OCI, he will require to obtain clearance from the competent regulatory authority prior to making the application. It is also mandated that plots/flats be released through e-auction, which is conducted by using web-based software whereby the applicant submits price bids online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/30-yr-domicile-must-to-buy-property-from-state-housing-board/articleshow/78454781.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 3, 2020||Goa||No UK charters to land in Goa till December 18||PANAJI: Goa will not receive any charter from the UK — one of the state’s main international markets — till December 18. Leisure travel company TUI UK has cancelled their package programmes to Goa as a result of the continued travel restrictions to India due to the pandemic. After UK’s oldest travel firm Thomas Cook went bust in September 2019, TUI stepped in to fill the gap and salvaged the situation for Goa. It even added more flights to Goa. During the last season, Goa received five flights a week from UK. “As a result of the UK government’s travel restrictions to India we have been forced to suspend our programme to your destination. Even now, after weeks and months, sadly, there is still no sign of a relaxation which would allow TUI UK to resume operations to Goa in the immediate future,” TUI UK group purchasing director Helen Caron wrote to its Goa partner. Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) former president Savio Messias said TUI was compelled to cancel its plan to Goa till December 18, since till date there is no announcement regarding resumption of international flights. “International flights can start in January, but the announcement ought to have been made in advance to facilitate bookings and enable potential travellers to plan their vacations. Potential travellers have to be apply for leave and plan their budget,” he said. He said Goa operators had received good bookings in March-April from UK, at the start of the pandemic in India, but those were subsequently cancelled with no signs of Covid retreating. After Russia, the UK is Goa’s biggest charter market. Goa receives 2 to 2.5 lakh charter tourists every season, though the numbers have been dwindling over the last few years. On September 21, chief minister Pramod Sawant wrote to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking intervention for resumption of charter flights to Goa with suitable standard operating procedure (SOP). In the letter, the chief minister stated that Goa’s hospitality industry will be adversely affected if charters are not permitted. “The charter operations provide great economic support and livelihood to all sectors of industry such as hotels, travel agents, tour operators, excursion operators, transport operators, shacks,” the chief minister’s letter read. The state government is yet to receive any response from the Union home ministry, while industry stakeholders in the state are keeping their fingers crossed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-uk-charters-to-land-in-state-till-dec-18/articleshow/78454777.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Give operation control of Srisailam reservoir, K Chandrasekhar Rao tells Centre||HYDERABAD: Ahead of next week’s Apex Council’s meeting chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao demanded that the Centre should handover the operational control of the Srisailam reservoir to the Telangana government to stop Andhra Pradesh from expanding the Pothireddypadu regulator and constructing the Rayalaseema lift irrigation project on the Krishna river. KCR on Friday wrote to union minister of jal shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, requesting him to include water allocation issues in the Apex Council meeting scheduled to be held on October 6. In the 14-page letter to Shekhawat, KCR said that Telangana had struggled for six decades to get an equitable share of water. “Instead of prolonging the meaningless dispute between the two newly-formed states, the Centre should come up with the terms of reference to the present tribunal for the allocation of a fair and equitable share of Krishna water,” the CM said. He said, according to 53 years of Central Water Commission’s (CWC) gauge records at the last gauging station on Godavari river, at least 3,000 tmcft of water empties into the Bay of Bengal. The united AP itself had allocated 65.13% of the Godavari water to the Telangana region. “Based on the total water requirement for irrigation, industry, and drinking, Telangana will use 1,950 tmcft water per year in comparison to the present allocation of 967.15 tmcft. This additional water is needed to meet the requirements of more than one crore population of the mega- metro city of Hyderabad which also has 30 to 40 lakh migrant workers. The city needs more water due to the expansion of IT and pharma industries and the growth of its urban agglomerations,” KCR said. The chief minister said that it is the right of Telangana to know its share. The illegal Pothireddypadu head regulator project and its unauthorised expansion by AP affect the interests and rights of Telangana. He said that the ineffective supervision of Krishna River Management Board and issues related to Section 89 of the AP Reorganization Act 2014 should be discussed during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-operational-control-of-srisailam-reservoir-to-t-kcr/articleshow/78453351.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 3, 2020||Nashik||Relief to NMC as Bamu lab provides free RT-PCR tests||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), which is facing financial crunch due to drop in revenue, has received a helping hand from Aurangabad-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu).The university has agreed to conduct free RT-PCR tests of the swab samples of all the suspects from the civic hospitals in its laboratory. Over the past two days, the NMC has sent around 300 swab samples to the university and Bamu has assured the civic bodyto conduct over 500 RT-PCR tests per day.Earlier, a Mumbai-based private lab used to test the swabs of suspects free of charge under CSR, but from October 1 they have stopped the free tests. Hence, the NMC was in the process of floating an expression of interest (EoI) from the private labs to carry out the RT-PCR tests of the Covid suspects under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).“We were also in talks with the government security printing press in Nashik to bear the expenses for the RT-PCR tests, but it could not work out,” an NMC official said. “But Bamu has agreed to conduct the RT-PCR tests of the swab samples sent by the NMC for free. We sent around 350 swabs of Covid-19 suspects in the past two days. Now, we will send around 400 swabs every day to the Bamu lab for testing. The university has assured us to conduct around 500 tests per day for free,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/relief-to-nmc-as-bamu-lab-provides-free-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78578816.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 3, 2020||Hubballi||Four-laning work progresses at a snail’s pace, may miss deadline||Hubballi: The much anticipated work of converting the two-lane road into four-lanes from Anchatgeri to Gadag road via Karwar road may take a few more months to complete. The work which is expected to reduce traffic problems in the city is progressing at a snail’s pace. The ground-breaking ceremony of the development work was conducted in 2018.Till then the road work hardly made any progress, say residents of Karwar Road. Anil Malamaddi, a resident of Arvind Nagar said the road widening work should be completed on a war-footing, as the road is dangerous due to being narrow. Since the city lacks an outer ring road, heavy vehicles and buses take this route to reach Karwar Road. From the Anchatageri side, the road has become completely non-motorable. A lane has been converted into a concrete one, but another lane, which was dug for development work, is causing problem to commuters, says Kempgeri residents, who live adjacent to this road. Manoj J Toshikhani, a government employee and resident of Kanya Nagar, said that from the Gadag side, the stretch was dug on one side, and it progressing at a slow pace, causing inconvenience to the public. According to the officials of the National Highway division, Hubballi, the Rs 109 crore project which is to be completed by December this year, is lagging behind due to many reasons, including shifting of utility lines, excessive rain last year and this year as well, and the Covid-induced lockdown. Work has been hampered due to non-availability of labour. Executive engineer R K Mathad said that so far only 30% of the work has been completed due to unavoidable circumstances, but that now the work has picked up speed. “ We are waiting for rain to stop, so that the road can be converted into a concrete one from Gadag side. A lane from the Anchatageri side will be open for traffic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-laning-work-progresses-at-a-snails-pace-may-miss-deadline/articleshow/78450848.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||Covid infected over 12K till now, killed 199||Vadodara: With 116 new Covid-19 cases being reported in the city and district during the 24 hours ending on Friday evening, the total number of cases reported since the pandemic began crossed 12,000. The new cases were identified from the 4,409 tests conducted during the 24 hours. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district now stands at 12,033. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed the deaths of two more persons due to Covid-19. The total number of victims who died due to Covid-19 being the primary reason has now reached 199, excluding cases where a Covid-19 positive person died due to co-morbidities. As any as 106 persons were discharged from various hospitals or home isolation after they recovered. In all, 10,170 persons have been cured of the disease so far. After the fresh round of discharges, 1,664 persons remained under treatment including 71 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 179 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-infected-over-12k-till-now-killed-199/articleshow/78452053.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 6,555 fresh Covid-19 cases, 31 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,555 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its cumulative caseload to 7,06,790. The toll increased to 5,900 as 31 more people succumbed to the pandemic virus. This is the lowest casualty count in the last 75 days, after 37 deaths were registered on July 13. As many as 7,485 patients were cured and discharged. There are currently 56,897 active cases in the state with 6,43,993 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 91 per cent. For the fourth day in a row, all districts reported fresh cases in only three-digits. East Godavari registered 975 fresh infections, followed by West Godavari (930), Chittoor (925), and Prakasam (668). The remaining nine districts reported less than 500 new cases, with Kurnool recording 204 fresh cases, the lowest of all districts. East Godavari continues to lead the table with an aggregate caseload of 99,135, followed by West Godavari (69,390 cases) and Chittoor (63,671). Of the 31 deaths, six are from Krishna district, four each from Anantapur and East Godavari, three each from Chittoor, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, two each from Guntur, Prakasam and West Godavari, and one each from Kadapa and Srikakulam. Chittoor district has accounted for 665 Covid-19 deaths, followed by Guntur (536) and East Godavari (532). About 59.48 lakh samples have been tested in AP so far, including the 70,399 people tested on Friday. The case positivity has come down to about 10 per cent in the last one week, while the overall positivity rate stands at 11.8 per cent. The case fatality rate stands at 0.83 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-reports-6-5k-fresh-covid-19-cases-31-deaths/articleshow/78456364.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: During lockdown, demand for MNREGA jobs jumped 15 times||PANAJI: Demand for unskilled employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) increased over 15 fold during the lockdown in Goa, shows data released by the Union ministry of rural development. While 49 households were provided employment in May 2019, 112 households in June 2019, the figure jumped to 795 and 680 households for the same period this year. The data also shows that demand for unskilled labour more than doubled in the month of May and June this year compared to the preceding months. Peak demand for work in May and June under MNREGA this financial year coincides with the commencement of the kharif farming season and the lockdown period. In comparison, peak demand in 2019-20 was seen during the months of December and January. Along with the increase in demand for employment, the average wage per day also increased from Rs 254 in 2019-20 to Rs 280 per day in 2019-20. The data also shows that demand for employment dropped by 60% in July as Covid restrictions were eased and farming activity tapered off. As per the MNREGA mandate, states have to provide at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every rural household whose adult member volunteers to do unskilled manual work. The act says that work has to be provided within 15 days from the date on which the employment has been sought. If the household cannot be provided work, then the state government has to pay unemployment allowances to the household. On an average during the period March to September, in 99.8% of the cases, the government has been able to offer employment to households against the demand. If an applicant does not accept the job, the household is not entitled for unemployment allowances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/during-lockdown-demand-for-mnrega-jobs-jumped-15-times/articleshow/78454790.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 3, 2020||Amaravati||Bleeding crores: Andhra Pradesh top of chart for costliest scams||VIJAYAWADA: While Andhra Pradesh stands seventh in terms of economic offences compared to other states, it tops the chart when it comes to having the costliest scams in the country as per the Crime in India-2019 report released by the National Crime Records Bureau. For instance, property loss in 302 of the 3,675 cases of forgery, cheating and fraud is between Rs 50 crore and Rs 100 crore. Bigger states like Maharashtra, in comparison, have only four cases under the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore ballpark. Even in terms of cases pertaining to criminal breach of trust, AP saw losses ranging between Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore. In 30 cases, property loss was in the range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore. Apart from that, in 37% of the cases property loss was below Rs 1 lakh while 39% cases saw property loss between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Overall, AP saw 332 cases where the scam amount lay in tens of crores. In comparison, Maharashtra which stands second in terms of costliest scams, despite a much bigger population and economy, has 97% fewer cases than AP. It may be noted that the state did not witness a single scam in the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore range in 2018. However, one case of cheating was reported wherein the property loss was over Rs 100 crore. Since 2016, the state has witnessed a rising trend in white-collar offences. In the latest NCRB report shows the biggest jump of 26% in 2019. Andhra Pradesh accounts for 5.3% of the country’s economic offences with a crime rate of 16.8% under the category. Close to 88% of economic offences in the state pertain to cheating, forgery and fraud while 10% of them fall under criminal breach of trust. It is pertinent to note that criminal breach of trust charge can overlap with that of cheating or forgery in several instances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/bleeding-crores-ap-top-of-chart-for-costliest-scams/articleshow/78457228.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Bleeding crores: Andhra Pradesh top of chart for costliest scams||VIJAYAWADA: While Andhra Pradesh stands seventh in terms of economic offences compared to other states, it tops the chart when it comes to having the costliest scams in the country as per the Crime in India-2019 report released by the National Crime Records Bureau. For instance, property loss in 302 of the 3,675 cases of forgery, cheating and fraud is between Rs 50 crore and Rs 100 crore. Bigger states like Maharashtra, in comparison, have only four cases under the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore ballpark. Even in terms of cases pertaining to criminal breach of trust, AP saw losses ranging between Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore. In 30 cases, property loss was in the range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore. Apart from that, in 37% of the cases property loss was below Rs 1 lakh while 39% cases saw property loss between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Overall, AP saw 332 cases where the scam amount lay in tens of crores. In comparison, Maharashtra which stands second in terms of costliest scams, despite a much bigger population and economy, has 97% fewer cases than AP. It may be noted that the state did not witness a single scam in the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore range in 2018. However, one case of cheating was reported wherein the property loss was over Rs 100 crore. Since 2016, the state has witnessed a rising trend in white-collar offences. In the latest NCRB report shows the biggest jump of 26% in 2019. Andhra Pradesh accounts for 5.3% of the country’s economic offences with a crime rate of 16.8% under the category. Close to 88% of economic offences in the state pertain to cheating, forgery and fraud while 10% of them fall under criminal breach of trust. It is pertinent to note that criminal breach of trust charge can overlap with that of cheating or forgery in several instances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bleeding-crores-ap-top-of-chart-for-costliest-scams/articleshow/78451408.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Photos: Last resort at Hippies’ Island near Hampi demolished||BENGALURU: With the Hampi World Area Management Authority (HWAMA) on Friday demolishing the last hotel-cum-resort at Virupapura Gadde, the island near World Heritage Site, a favourite spot of foreign tourists has gone into history. The authority officials and Gangavathi taluk administration demolished Lakshmi Golden Beach Resort after the high court vacated the stay on September 15. Since March, the authority had demolished 23 illegal hotels and resorts (including Lakshmi) at the island formed by Tungabhadra river. "Now, there are no structures. Except agriculture, no other activities will be allowed there from now on," an authority official told TOI. The government started evicting illegal structures in 2009 but the process continued till now as owners of these structures questioned their move in the high court and the Supreme Court. While the high court dismissed their plea in 2015, the apex court upheld the verdict in February 2020. The apex court said these structures are in violation of the Mysore Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites & Remains Act. With limited access and quiet surroundings, Virupapura Gadde was a favourite spot for international tourists so much so it came to be known as Hippies' Island. Since foreigners stayed for months, hotels, restaurants with Continental cuisine, shops selling garments, liquor and cosmetics flourished. Owners of these resorts were in the news last year when the island was flooded with Tungabhadra water. They were accused of putting the lives of around 500 tourists at risk by persuading them to stay put in their hotels ignoring a flood alert from authorities. The NDRF had to rescue these tourists and the Koppal district administration had booked cases against the owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/photos-last-resort-at-hippies-island-near-hampi-demolished/articleshow/78452508.cms||Anil Gejji
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Power plant a hazard, needs rethink, say residents||BENGALURU: Residents living around the upcoming 370MW LNG-based combined cycle power plant in Yelahanka, who have been opposing the facility, on Friday said the accident reiterated their fears that the project endangers their safety. Arguing that the proximity of the plant to tens of residential units, which were allowed to be built by authorities, defies logic. There are multiple apartment complexes within 300 metres of the said plant. Residents are concerned about air quality and increasing temperatures, among other issues. Simmi Kumar, who lives near the plant, said several apartments have joined hands with Yelahanka-Puttenahalli Lake and Bird Conservation Trust, which is fighting a legal battle, as they are concerned about the hazards such a plant will pose to human habitation and the surrounding ecosystem. Friday’s accident, she said, should be an eye-opener, prompting the government to take serious note of the dangerous situation, considering the plant is being constructed in such an enclosed and densely populated area. “The government must reconsider its decision,” she said. Prathima Singh, who resides in an apartment very close to the plant, said: “I live on the 20th floor. I can clearly see the fumes polluting the air. I’m very scared to reside here and want to move out of this place. We don’t use our balcony, nor can we enjoy the view any more. The government should intervene and stop this completely. Even with the best safety measures, such hazards are inevitable. It affects everyone living in the vicinity of the plant.” Another resident demanded the government stop the plant, stating that this defeats the purpose of residential and industrial area demarcations. “The residents of this area have been trying so hard to explain the issues to the authorities, but everyone has turned a deaf ear. After what happened today (Friday), even the faintest of noise will scare us at night,” the person said. Originally, the site on which the plant is coming up was in the industrial zone — and it continues to be so — making use of provisions under which Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) has obtained permission for the plant.  However, land-use patterns in the area have changed over the years and as per the 2015 masterplan, more land is earmarked for residential purposes compared to industrial activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/power-plant-a-hazard-needs-rethink-residents/articleshow/78452684.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 6,555 fresh Covid-19 cases, 31 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,555 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its cumulative caseload to 7,06,790. The toll increased to 5,900 as 31 more people succumbed to the pandemic virus. This is the lowest casualty count in the last 75 days, after 37 deaths were registered on July 13. As many as 7,485 patients were cured and discharged. There are currently 56,897 active cases in the state with 6,43,993 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 91 per cent. For the fourth day in a row, all districts reported fresh cases in only three-digits. East Godavari registered 975 fresh infections, followed by West Godavari (930), Chittoor (925), and Prakasam (668). The remaining nine districts reported less than 500 new cases, with Kurnool recording 204 fresh cases, the lowest of all districts. East Godavari continues to lead the table with an aggregate caseload of 99,135, followed by West Godavari (69,390 cases) and Chittoor (63,671). Of the 31 deaths, six are from Krishna district, four each from Anantapur and East Godavari, three each from Chittoor, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, two each from Guntur, Prakasam and West Godavari, and one each from Kadapa and Srikakulam. Chittoor district has accounted for 665 Covid-19 deaths, followed by Guntur (536) and East Godavari (532). About 59.48 lakh samples have been tested in AP so far, including the 70,399 people tested on Friday. The case positivity has come down to about 10 per cent in the last one week, while the overall positivity rate stands at 11.8 per cent. The case fatality rate stands at 0.83 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-6-5k-fresh-covid-19-cases-31-deaths/articleshow/78451647.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh reports 6,555 fresh Covid-19 cases, 31 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,555 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking its cumulative caseload to 7,06,790. The toll increased to 5,900 as 31 more people succumbed to the pandemic virus. This is the lowest casualty count in the last 75 days, after 37 deaths were registered on July 13. As many as 7,485 patients were cured and discharged. There are currently 56,897 active cases in the state with 6,43,993 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 91 per cent. For the fourth day in a row, all districts reported fresh cases in only three-digits. East Godavari registered 975 fresh infections, followed by West Godavari (930), Chittoor (925), and Prakasam (668). The remaining nine districts reported less than 500 new cases, with Kurnool recording 204 fresh cases, the lowest of all districts. East Godavari continues to lead the table with an aggregate caseload of 99,135, followed by West Godavari (69,390 cases) and Chittoor (63,671). Of the 31 deaths, six are from Krishna district, four each from Anantapur and East Godavari, three each from Chittoor, Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, two each from Guntur, Prakasam and West Godavari, and one each from Kadapa and Srikakulam. Chittoor district has accounted for 665 Covid-19 deaths, followed by Guntur (536) and East Godavari (532). About 59.48 lakh samples have been tested in AP so far, including the 70,399 people tested on Friday. The case positivity has come down to about 10 per cent in the last one week, while the overall positivity rate stands at 11.8 per cent. The case fatality rate stands at 0.83 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-reports-6-5k-fresh-covid-19-cases-31-deaths/articleshow/78456365.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: NCRB data reveals rise in number of first-time offenders||VISAKHAPATNAM: As many as 80% of juveniles and over 96% of adults arrested in the state in 2019 were first-time offenders. The recidivism - going back to committing crime repeatedly - is decreasing even as first-time offenders are increasing. As per the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) Crime in India-2019 report, 1,12,387 persons — including 1,832 juveniles and 1,10,555 adults — were apprehended under various IPC sections in the state in 2019. According to the data 1,466 of the 1,832 juveniles and over 1,07,152 of the 1,10,555 adults arrested under IPC were first-time offenders in the state. Of the adults, 2,849 persons were arrested under IPC earlier but not convicted, whereas 554 were arrested and convicted in the past. Of the juveniles, 283 juveniles were apprehended but not convicted while 84 juveniles were apprehended and convicted. A senior police officer with the crime wing in the Visakhapatnam police commissionerate said there are several reasons behind why first-time offenders are increasing. These include financial issues, a wish for making easy money, attraction towards a lifestyle, and also revenge. The police observed that some repeat offenders have been roping in youngsters, who are drop-outs, unemployed or addicted to vices, to commit offences. The habitual offenders brainwashed youngsters by offering money, liquor, drugs, high-end phones and then made them commit crimes. In some cases, first time offenders have been involved in clashes and murders to take revenge on their rivals. Factors such as lack of parental control, poverty, lack of education were reported to be reasons leading to crimes by juveniles.“Parents need to take proper care of their kids and have to seriously check the school drop-outs. Poverty is also one of the main factors are driving the teens to commit crimes,” said A Narasimha Murthy, a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ncrb-data-reveals-rise-in-number-of-first-time-offenders/articleshow/78451426.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bleeding crores: Andhra Pradesh top of chart for costliest scams||VIJAYAWADA: While Andhra Pradesh stands seventh in terms of economic offences compared to other states, it tops the chart when it comes to having the costliest scams in the country as per the Crime in India-2019 report released by the National Crime Records Bureau. For instance, property loss in 302 of the 3,675 cases of forgery, cheating and fraud is between Rs 50 crore and Rs 100 crore. Bigger states like Maharashtra, in comparison, have only four cases under the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore ballpark. Even in terms of cases pertaining to criminal breach of trust, AP saw losses ranging between Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore. In 30 cases, property loss was in the range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore. Apart from that, in 37% of the cases property loss was below Rs 1 lakh while 39% cases saw property loss between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Overall, AP saw 332 cases where the scam amount lay in tens of crores. In comparison, Maharashtra which stands second in terms of costliest scams, despite a much bigger population and economy, has 97% fewer cases than AP. It may be noted that the state did not witness a single scam in the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore range in 2018. However, one case of cheating was reported wherein the property loss was over Rs 100 crore. Since 2016, the state has witnessed a rising trend in white-collar offences. In the latest NCRB report shows the biggest jump of 26% in 2019. Andhra Pradesh accounts for 5.3% of the country’s economic offences with a crime rate of 16.8% under the category. Close to 88% of economic offences in the state pertain to cheating, forgery and fraud while 10% of them fall under criminal breach of trust. It is pertinent to note that criminal breach of trust charge can overlap with that of cheating or forgery in several instances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bleeding-crores-ap-top-of-chart-for-costliest-scams/articleshow/78457227.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Eight minor girls forced into child labour in Guntur rescued||VIJAYAWADA: Police rescued eight minor girls, who were forced into child labour by traffickers, in Nallapadu police station limits in Guntur district on Friday. According to Guntur urban SP RN Ammi Reddy, the police received a call from a 13-year-old, who escaped from the residence where she was forced to work. The girl told the police control room her ordeal. She said she was sold by a child trafficking gang to a household. When she requested to go to her home village at Jirukovada village of Ranasthalam mandal in Srikakulam village, the house owner refused her request. “Depressed of working with no pay and home sickness, she contacted us,” Ammi Reddy said. After Nallapadu circle inspector Venkat Rao rescued the girl, she provided further information about seven other minor girls, who were sold to different houses in Tadepalli, Dolas Nagar and other places.  Police raided all seven houses and rescued the girls. They arrested three alleged traffickers – Karappu Asiraiah alias Chiranjeevi, Vempada Padalu alias Srinu and Khambham Ramu – all from Chillapetarajam village in Srikakulam. The SP explained that the accused had sold the children for Rs 50,000 each. “They had taken advance amount from wealthy households in Nallapadu and handed over teenagers. The kids don’t get anything apart from food and a place to sleep in their house and they are forced to do all kind of household chores from cleaning to cooking,” Reddy told the media. Cops booked cases against the three traffickers and against the house owners, who employed the children under relevant Sections of Child Labour Act and Juvenile Justice Act against them. Meanwhile, the rescued children were handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) officials, who provided them with accommodation at an Ashram owned by an NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eight-minor-girls-forced-into-child-labour-in-guntur-rescued/articleshow/78451450.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||Mahouts, kavadis of Dasara jumbos to be tested for Covid-19||Mysuru: The district health department has decided to test mahouts, kavadis and helpers to prevent any untoward incident during Dasara festivities. Around 30 of them will be tested, including the forest staff who will be managing the elephants. District health officer R Venkatesh said that the health staff will conduct the coronavirus test as per the request of the forest department. “The mahouts, kavadis and others who are taking care of the Dasara elephants will be tested at 9.30 am on Saturday. The test will be conducted inside the Mysuru Palace premises near their tents,” he said. DCF (wildlife) Alexander M G said that they will leave no stone unturned to ensure that Dasara festivities are conducted in a safe manner. “The health of mahouts and kavadis’ is very important. This year the department has arranged for healthy food for elephant handlers during their stay in Mysuru Palace,” he said. The food will be prepared by Mysuru’s Indira Catering for 25 days. Meanwhile, wildlife veterinarian D N Nagaraj said that the elephants will be trained within the Mysuru Palace premises. “Everyday elephants will be taken for rounds around the palace inside the premises. Each round around the palace will be for around 1.5km. There will be two to three rounds in the morning and in the evening,” he said. Nagaraj said that after three days, they will start placing weights on the howdah elephant. “We place a ghaadhi (cushion), on the howdah elephant’s back. On the ghaadhi, we tie a tottilu (cradle) which we call Chardhama. We place sandbags inside it. Initially we start with 300 kg, and gradually increase the weight to 750 kg. Later, we make elephant Abhimanyu practice with a wooden howdah and sandbags, just a week before the Jamboo Savari,” he said. Nagaraj said that there will be changes in the diet for the elephants. “The special diets will be gradually increased every day. They will be provided with cooked food which includes green gram, parboiled rice (kusuballakki rice),wheat, uddu and onion mixed with vegetables and butter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mahouts-kavadis-of-dasara-jumbos-to-be-tested-for-covid-19/articleshow/78451437.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Virus outbreak delays stalled Kovvada project||Visakhapatnam: The proposed nuclear power project at Kovvada coastal village in Etcherla mandal of Srikakulam district, 80 km from here and proposed in 2015, continues to gather dust. When contacted, Srikakulam collector J Nivas said “To an extent, Covid-19 has been one of the reasons behind the lack of progress on the project as meetings could not be held and surveys could not be conducted.” A review meeting over the project was held recently, the collector said, and the valuation of horticulture crops and forest trees have started. Ranasthalam tehsildar Sudharani told TOI that they were given instructions to speed up pending works on the project, including revenue clearances. “An alternative site was also identified for the rehabilitatiob colony, but it is still under consideration. We are presently carrying out field work and will give a detailed report on the progress by October 15,” Sudharani said. The proposed project area falls under cultivation of horticulture and commercial crops such as cashew and mango. At the review meeting, Kovvada project additional chief engineer Bangaru Setty is said to have requested the government to provide 350 acres of land for the township and 216 acres of land for the rehabilitation and resettlement colony. Meanwhile, M Polisu, former sarpanch of Kovvada and an activist with the Kovvada Nuclear Power Plant Oustees’ Welfare Association, said nearly 20% payment to those who will be rehabilitated and land acquisition, among other payments, are still pending. “Neither government officials nor Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited representatives have taken any step related to the project since the new government at the state and Centre came to power,” Polisu told TOI. “Nor did district collector J Nivas visit the proposed site since his posting here,” Polisu said,e adding that Etcherla MLA Gorle Kiran Kumar from the YSR Congress has also not brought the matter of the project to the notice of the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/virus-outbreak-delays-stalled-kovvada-project/articleshow/78451461.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||NGT-appointed body probing project||Bengaluru: Arguing that Puttenahalli Lake in Yelahanka is a renowned sanctuary for birds, including many migratory ones, residents and organisations have been fighting a legal battle to prevent the said power plant from coming up. The Heritage Estate Apartment Owners Association and Yelahanka-Puttenahalli Lake and Bird Conservation Trust, among others made multiple representations to Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd and the government before moving courts. “The National Green Tribunal, after hearing our petition on August 19, 2020, constituted a joint committee to look into the matter,” said Abdul Azeem Kalebudde, the advocate on behalf of the petitioners. The committee will have one senior officer each from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change’s regional office here, the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) and the office of the principal chief conservator of Forests, head of forest force and a senior scientist from the Central Pollution Control Board’s Bengaluru office. The NGT has directed the committee to look at the possibility of environmental degradation likely to be caused by the power plant and if any violations were committed by KPCL while carrying out construction activities. “It will also look at whether there is any impact on livelihood and in case of any violation assess the environment compensation and suggest remedial measures for restoration of damage, if any. The panel’s report is awaited,” said Kalebudde. Residents argued that the state government had, on April 29, 2015, declared the lake a Bird Conservation Reserve. “The wall of the power plant is built against the lake bunds, preventing movement of water as the channels have been filled with concrete,” said Kalebudde. He alleged KPCL obtained environmental clearance from SEIAA and started construction of the plant by suppressing the fact that the lake has been declared a Bird Conservation Reserve. “Hence, the clearance granted by SEIAA is illegal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ngt-appointed-body-probing-project/articleshow/78452810.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Citing tech issues, Hyd FSL returns Sanjjanaa, Ragini’s hair samples||Bengaluru: The Hyderabad FSL has returned the hair follicle samples of actresses Sanjjanaa Galrani and Ragini Dwivedi to CCB police, citing technical problems. Investigators will resend them with some packaging modifications. The development comes amid claims from the actresses that CCB arrested them though it hasn’t recovered any material evidence linking them to drug peddling or possession/consumption. Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime), on Friday said the problem has been resolved and the hair sample test will be done for the purpose of additional evidence only. “It’s for the first time that hair sample test is being done to get additional evidence. We have enough evidence in the form of technical data, eyewitnesses, mobile phone analysis and seizures. Our case does not stand only on hair evidence,” Patil said. Police sources said doctors had collected samples of blood and urine from the actresses along with their hair follicles. “We had collected their hair samples for hair follicle drug test. We were supposed to send them to the lab in a packed foil. But we packed them in plastic cover. So Hyderabad FSL has returned the samples. We’ll send them back with proper packaging,” a police officer said. Police collected the samples from the actresses at KC General Hospital on September 9 and they were sent to Hyderabad on September 18. FSL officials returned the samples the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/citing-tech-issues-hyd-fsl-returns-sanjjanaa-raginis-hair-samples/articleshow/78452465.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Rallies held to honour village and ward staff||Amaravati: Hundreds of people appreciated the services of the volunteers of village and ward secretariats by clapping hands in front of their residences on Friday. Rallies were held at many places to thank the ground level staff of the state government for their unhindered services during the Covid-19 pandemic. This was in response to a call given by chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. Jagan had urged people to honour the staff and volunteers of village and ward secretariats, by clapping hands in front of their houses. Most of the government services including distribution of pensions at doorsteps were carried out unhindered even at the peak of the pandemic and during the lockdown. Meanwhile, ward and village secretariat staff thanked the chief minister for launching the secretariat system a year ago. Holding placards, “Thank You CM Sir”, the staff participated in rallies. Panchayat Raj officials also took out rallies for granting promotions to MPDOs through creation of divisional developmental officer posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rallies-held-to-honour-village-and-ward-staff/articleshow/78451630.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Rajkot||3 loan sharks booked for trying to kill friend||Rajkot: Three loan sharks were booked for attempt to murder on Thursday night for allegedly firing at the friend of one of the borrowers in Sudamada village of Sayla taluka in Surendranagar district on Thursday. Police said the accused, Nagraj Khachar, Devendra Boricha and Sidha Bhaliyani, opened fire at Mangalu Khawad (50). Khawad’s friend Suresh Sarala had borrowed money from the accused, on which the accused were charging 35% interest per annum. During the lockdown, when Sarala was unable to pay the amount, he fled from the village. Angry at this, the accused demolished the compound wall of his house with a JCB and threatened his mother Asu that if she did not produce her son, they would demolish her house as well. “When Asu told this to Sarla’s friend Khawad, he took up the issue with the accused, which they did not like. On Thursday morning, while Khawad was on his way to the village temple, the accused allegedly opened fire at him from their country-made pistol,” said an official from Sayla police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-loan-sharks-booked-for-trying-to-kill-friend/articleshow/78452331.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Renaming of Kasturba junior college sparks protests||RAJAHMUNDRY: The AP government has renamed Kasturba government junior college at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district after the father of a local legislator, sparking protests from Gandhians. Though the state government issued orders (GO Rt No 182) on September 8, the renaming of the college came to light on Gandhi Jayanti when a few freedom fighters and Gandhians lodged their protest. They demanded that the original name of the college be retained as a mark of respect to Kasturba Gandhi, wife of Mahatma Gandhi. The GO stated that the government “after careful consideration” accorded permission to rename Kasturba college after Sri Grandhi Venkateswara Rao. Rao is the father of YSRC legislator Grandhi Srinivas. The GO was signed by B Rajasekhar, principal secretary to the government. The college was established by Gandhian Chintalapudi Varaprasada Murthy Raju, who named the institution after Kasturba in 1969 to mark the birth centenary of Mahatma Gandhi. The land for the permanent building was donated by a philanthropist in 1977. However, the land donor’s heirs had approached the high court, which gave a verdict in their favour about five years ago. Later, the legislator donated 30 cents of land to the college and the building was named after his father, though the name of the institution remained unchanged. Indukuri Prasada Raju of AP Gandhi Smarak Nidhi said Murthy Raju had established 68 educational institutions and named all of them after freedom fighters. “Murthy Raju had put a condition before handing over the institution to the state government that its name should not be changed. We will launch a protest against the name change,” he said, adding that there is a high court direction to not change the name of the institution. When contacted, Grandhi Srinivas said he donated land for the college when the old building was in a dilapidated condition, and mobilised funds for the new building. “The so-called Gandhians, who are talking about the name change now, did not bother to construct a new building,” he said, and alleged that the issue is being politicised. He, however, said he had no intention to insult Kasturba Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/renaming-of-kasturba-jr-college-sparks-protests/articleshow/78451584.cms||Samson Raj
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Man accused of killing father held after standoff||Hyderabad: Police were in for a shock on Thursday night while trying to catch a man who locked himself up inside his house after killing his 60-year-old father in Shankarapalli. A water cannon was brought to spray pressurised water to first disarm him. He was then nabbed by anti-terror commandos of OCTOPUS. Cyberabad police said M Yadaiah (40) killed his father Anjaiah by piercing his head with knife. Soon, locals came to know about it and gathered at Yadaiah’s residence. On seeing the gathering, Yadaiah locked himself inside. At 7.30pm on Thursday, Yadaiah turned the lights off inside his house, which only made matters worse for cops who arrived by then. Police made several pleas to Yadaiah to open the door and surrender. But he did not relent. Cyberabad police called the commandos of OCTOPUS. When cops tried to open the door forcefully, Yadaiah threatened to kill them with the knife. “To make sure that no cop or the accused or the onlookers are hurt, we tried to use pepper spray. But, he resisted. Later, we used tear gas shell. Then, he climbed the terrace by holding the knife,’’ DCP (Shamshabad) Prakash Reddy said. Finally, police sprayed pressurised water using a water cannon on the accused. Due to the force of the water, the knife fell from his hand. Immediately, the commandos jumped from the neighbouring building and apprehended him at 12.30am on Friday. Police found that in the past the accused had undergone treatment in a private hospital for his mental condition. A year ago, his wife left him and took away their three children after she got vexed with his behaviour. After the death of his mother six months ago, he was staying with his father. “What made him kill his father is still not known,’’ the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-accused-of-killing-father-held-after-standoff/articleshow/78453401.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Deccan Queen, Pragati Express back on track from mid-October||PUNE: The Deccan Queen and Pragati Express are expected to start running between Pune and Mumbai from mid-October in the first phase of resumption of inter-city services. Railway board officials said running all the inter-city trains between Pune and Mumbai was unlikely even if the state government permits. Passengers who either have confirmed tickets or those travelling for essential services will be allowed to travel by the two Pune-Mumbai trains. A senior official with the Central Railway said, “A consolidated proposal about all inter-city trains plying across the state has been sent to the railway board for approval. Running all the trains, including those between Pune and Mumbai, is not a good idea revenue-wise. For now, we expect the Deccan Queen and Pragati Express to start by mid-October.” The official said the Railways have started two intra-state trains, the Konkan Express and the Tutari Express, recently but there are not enough passengers. Many people prefer to either be at home or travel in their own vehicles due to the fear about Covid-19. Sources told TOI that the Deccan Queen and Pragati Express have a maximum number of people shuttling between the two cities. “The timings of the trains are in sync with the working hours of many. The Sinhagad Express leaves Pune at 6.5am and on its return journey leaves Mumbai at 2.35pm, which does not suit office-goers,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deccan-queen-pragati-express-back-on-track-from-mid-october/articleshow/78453408.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 3, 2020||Goa||Dudhsagar trips: Forest dept to allow only 5 persons per jeep||Ponda: After over six months, Dudhsagar waterfalls will open for tourism next week. Keeping in mind the need of the pandemic situation, the forest department has taken the decision to reduce the number of tourist allowed per jeep for the Dudhsagar falls trip from seven to five. Additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) Santosh Kumar said that the opening of the falls for tourism has been deferred by a week as the level of water in the river is still high. Normally, the season starts by October 2 at Dudhsagar. “Of the five, one passenger will sit besides the driver, two will be seated on the first seat and two on the next seat to enable maintaining of social distance,” Kumar said. The forest department has prepared SOPs for the reopening of Dudhsagar and the zoo, which are currently pending approval of the state disaster management committee. The Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, Mollem, and the Dudhsagar falls that lies within this protected area, have been closed for visitors since March 16. Between October 2, 2019, and March 15 this year, nearly 11 lakh tourists have visited the falls.  “The virus is said to have come from animals and is multiplying in humans, but you never know if the virus could go back to animals and there are more chances that the animals can acquire infections,” Kumar, who is also the chief wildlife warden, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dudhsagar-trips-forest-dept-to-allow-only-5-persons-per-jeep/articleshow/78454810.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
October 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Postcard on Sawantwadi toys brings cheers to artists||KOLHAPUR: Raghwendra Subhash Chitari’s family Sawantwadi in Maharashtra has been crafting and selling wooden toys and artefacts for the past century but the lockdown this year had left them in lurch. They are hoping that the recent release of a special Indian Postcard of the Sawantwadi toys will help revive the market. A set of postcards on ‘Traditional Toys of India’ was released online from nine states earlier this week. H C Agrawal, chief postmaster general, Maharashtra circle released the picture postcard on Sawantwadi toys. Sawantwadi in Sindhudurg is a pit stop destination during travel to Konkan and Goa. It is considered the country’s largest market for wooden models of fruits and toys. Chitari, who owns that Radha Bai wooden arts, said that the postcard was a nod to the 400-year old tradition of the wooden craftsmanship from Sawantwadi. “We are into wooden art making from more than hundred years. The condition of the wooden toy market is miserable these days. Our entire business is dependent on tourists but we didn’t get any visitors due to the lockdown. Hopefully, with travel resuming, we will get some customers during the rest of the year,” he said. Most of these toys are made in the Kolgaon village in Sawantwadi taluka. The Chitar lane or Ubha Bazar are dedicated lanes for the wooden toys in the city. Craftsmen, who make these toys belong to Chitari community, which migrated to Sawantwadi from Karwar and Goa centuries before. The royal family of Sawantwadi has recognized and continues to support this wooden carving tradition for years. These toys are made by assembling flat shaped solid woods, chisled or carved into desired toy shape. The cut-out pieces are finished on a sander, painted and then assembled into a master product. Ankita Kanekar, owner of the popular P B Kanekar shop, said that Ganijfa (wooden card game), wooden fruit baskets, lacquer toys, kitchen sets, rocking horses, jewellery boxes, bamboo craft made from Indian Coral tree, Mango and jackfruit trees are the main attraction of tourists visiting Sawantwadi. “These wooden toys are durable compared to plastic and are priced a bit higher. Plastic toys have taken over the market with their low pricing. The demand for traditional wooden toys has gone down. The postcard should bring some popularity to the toys but the survival of the craft is tough,” she said. Artisan Amit Chitari said there are just seven to eight families engaged in wooden toy making but were struggling to make their ends meet due to the lockdown impact. He said the government should step in to boost this traditional sector. “The youth are not much interested in following the age old tradition of wood carving. We used to work on daily wages and got Rs 700 daily for 12 hours of work. But due to Covid-19, shops are closed and the demand from the retailers across the country has gone down drastically,” he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/postcard-on-sawantwadi-toys-brings-cheers-to-artists/articleshow/78450892.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
October 3, 2020||Rajkot||nCov slayer kept a tight rein on her co-morbidities||Rajkot: Her will to survive won against the odds that co-morbidities threw her way and not only did 68-year-old Jyoti Parmar slay the deadly Coronavirus, she also kept her urinary infection, diabetes and blood pressure in a tight leash. Parmar had been battling a kidney ailment for the past five years, during which she had also developed diabetes and blood pressure. Parmar was admitted to Samras Covid Care Centre in Rajkot along with her brother Dilip Chavda after the brother-sister duo tested Covid-19 positive. “The doctors and the staff in the hospital did not let me have the time to sink into depression,” says Parmar, adding that it generally made most patients lose out on the virus. “The doctors and the staff would take care of me like their own family members. They would talk to me, sympathize with me and at the same time infuse a positive attitude in me, which helped me fight the disease,” Parmar recounts. “I had lost my sense of taste and appetite. But the staff ensured that I never went to sleep on an empty stomach,” said the patient who cannot stop singing paeans of the care taken at the hospital. “My sister and I were very well taken care of. The doctors would visit us thrice in a day. I thank the doctors and the staff of the hospital profusely for their selfless services,” echoed Parmar’s brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ncov-slayer-kept-a-tight-rein-on-her-co-morbidities/articleshow/78452071.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat crosses 1.4 lakh total tally; records 15 more deaths||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Friday added 1,310 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total of positive cases to 1.4 lakh. It was the fourth consecutive day for the state to record below 1,400 daily positive cases. The number was the lowest in the past 22 days. The new cases included 278 from Surat, 198 from Ahmedabad, 151 from Rajkot, 129 from Vadodara and 86 from Jamnagar. The cumulative cases in the four major cities of Gujarat include Ahmedabad (37,324), Surat (29,650), Vadodara (12,349) and Rajkot (9,557). The state also recorded the deaths of 15 patients, taking the total death toll to 3,478 on Friday. The deaths include three each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot, two each from Surat and Vadodara, and one each from Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Surendranagar and Banaskantha. The total death toll in four major cities include Ahmedabad (1,818), Surat (771), Vadodara (188 ) and Rajkot (144). A total of 1,250 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total of discharges to 1.19 lakh. The discharges include 295 in Surat, 258 in Ahmedabad, 164 in Rajkot and 105 in Vadodara. The number of active cases in Gujarat reached 16,762 — one of the highest in the recent times. The figure is 12% of the total Covid-19 positive cases recorded in Gujarat so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat is 85.5% and 2.5% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 56,732 tests, taking the total of test numbers to 45.31 lakh. The state health department officials said that the figure is 873 tests per day per million population. As on Friday evening, Gujarat had 5.98 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which, 425 were under facility quarantine, whereas the rest under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-crosses-1-4-lakh-total-tally-records-15-more-deaths/articleshow/78453482.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Tope says no more jumbo Covid hosps required anywhere in state||Pune: Health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the government would emphasize more on home isolation across all districts with 85% cases turning out to be asymptomatic.“No more jumbo facilities will come up in the state,” the minister, who was in Pune, told TOI.The Maharashtra government has announced its Unlock 5 guidelines and allowed restaurants and food joints to operate with 50% dining capacity. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions would, however, remain closed.“We are in the unlock process for a while. More sectors are opening up according to the new unlock guidelines issued on October 1. The state is prepared with infrastructure, medicines and medical staffers to take care of the situation,” Tope said. “I would still upon people testing positive and are asymptomatic opt for home isolation. They should not unnecessarily burden the health infrastructure. The medical fraternity should advise and manage such patients accordingly,” he said.Tope said the government was aware of the chances of rise in cases following the opening of various sectors. He said people should not worry about such a scenario because the government was ready with necessary infrastructure. The health minister said, “We have directed the administration to convert all hospital and health centre beds in the rural areas into oxygen beds. The process has been initiated. We have reviewed preparedness of all districts. There will be no bed shortage.”On the demand of jumbo facilities, especially in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur, Toped said there will be no more such facilities in the state.“We are registering a good percentage of patients’ discharge. The existing private and government hospitals have been told to increase their bed capacity. Rural hospitals have been converted into Covid hospitals. Under such circumstances, there will be no requirement of any more jumbo healthcare unit,” he said.The health minister, however, iterated on low-key celebrations for the coming festival Dasara and Diwali festivals. He said the district administration should slap heavy penalty on people not abiding by the social distancing rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-says-no-more-jumbo-covid-hosps-required-anywhere-in-state/articleshow/78453421.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||8 more arrested in ACP’s DA case||Hyderabad: Eight more persons have been arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in the ACP Y Narasimha Reddy’s disproportionate assets case. The arrested include the four who sold the land near Cyber Towers and the four men who co-owned it along with ACP’s wife. The sleuths stated on Friday that the 1,960 sq yards of land, registered in ACP’s wife’s name and four others, is indeed government’s land. As per the official release of the ACB, the land is on the prohibitory list under section 22-A (1) (a) of the Registrations Act, 1908 as it belonged to government and has been allotted to APIIC, HUDA, and other government organisations. According to ACB, without mentioning the survey number of the land, in 2016 the four accused - G Sajjan Goud, P Thirupathi Reddy, Y Chandrasekhar, A Jaipal - got the fraudulent gift deeds for each of the four plots of 490 sq yards (1,960 sq yards in total) registered in their names, showing as if they got the land from their fathers by mentioning fictitious house numbers and fake tax identification numbers (PTIN). In 2018, the same four plots were purchased by ACP Y Narasimha Reddy in the name of his wife Y Manga, along with four other accused - Madhukar Sri Ram, MPP of Karimnagar, B Chandra Reddy, a realtor, B Ramesh, a realtor, and A Srinivasa Reddy, a contractor for Rs 80 lakh (Rs 20 lakh per each plot). The market value of the property is Rs 50 crore and the accused are said to have conspired to grab high valued government land. The accused have been produced before the ACB magistrate for judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-more-arrested-in-acps-da-case/articleshow/78453511.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Rape bid on Class 7 student inside housing society||GHAZIABAD: Three people allegedly tried to rape an 11-year-old girl while she was playing with other children in her society's park in Raj Nagar Extension. However, an FIR in the case was registered only on Friday, 12 days after the incident. The girl's family has alleged that the accused are harassing them with threat calls. According to police, the accused, identified as Anil Chaudhary, Kaalu Pradhan and Rohit alias Rinku Chaudhary, run a real estate office in the society premises. Only one of them has been arrested. The girl is a Class 7 student of a private school. Her father is a manager at a real estate company in Noida. Her mother told police that on September 20, around 9am, the girl was playing in the society’s park with other children when the three men came and dragged her to their office. “They tried to rape her there. When she raised the alarm, some residents came to her rescue. They beat up the three men and handed them over to police,” she added. The woman said police issued a challan under Section 151 of CrPC, and turned it into a case of heated argument between two groups. “Now, the accused are threatening us saying that they will kidnap my daughter and kill us. We have also asked for police protection,” the girl's mother said, adding that after several threat calls, her daughter has now stopped going outside to play. “She is not even able to concentrate on her studies and has stopped taking her online classes as well,” the woman said. Abhishek Verma, SP (city), said that on the basis of her complaint, an FIR has been registered at Sihani Gate police station against all three accused under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the IPC and relevant sections of Pocso Act. “We have recorded the girl’s statement. She told police that only Anil Chaudhary had tried to rape her. On the basis of her statement, we have arrested him,” Verma said. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani has asked the SHO of Sihani Gate to submit a report within two days on why an FIR was not registered earlier. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Ghaziabad: Rape bid on Class 7 student inside housing society||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/rape-bid-on-class-7-student-inside-housing-society/articleshow/78454698.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
October 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist reports 535 Covid cases||Kolhapur: As many as 535 cases of Covid-19 were reported across Satara district on Thursday along with 27 deaths, taking the total number of cases in the district to 38,467. According to a health official, more than one fourth of the new cases are being reported from Satara tehsil. “Satara tehsil recorded 171 new cases, while 109 of them are from Satara town,” he said. Karad tehsil recorded 80 new cases on Thursday, while Patan tehsil added 19 cases. “ Out of the 27 deaths — 22 men and five women — reported, 18 are senior citizens. Six deaths were reported from Satara tehsil while Karad and Phaltan tehsils recorded five deaths each. Khatav tehsil reported three deaths,” the official said. So far, 28,060 have been cured and discharged. The district has recorded 1,187 deaths, while the number of active patients is 9,100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-535-covid-cases/articleshow/78451052.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body will review requests from citizens for reopening public gardens||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is reconsidering its decision of closing the civic gardens under its jurisdiction. The decision to keep them out-of-bounds was taken three months ago to avoid crowding and the spread of the coronavirus. “We are considering reopening of the gardens. After a review, a final decision will be announced soon,” municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said. Civic officials said when the civic body had reopened the gardens in June, it led to severe crowding. Many citizens have used the jogging tracks too. The open gyms were started and these were being used by many people which may have led to the spread of the virus. After a spike in the cases, the decision to shut them temporarily was taken. “Senior citizens and children were using the gardens in large numbers. Both these age groups are susceptible to infection. Senior citizens fall in the high-risk category. So, the PMC preferred to keep the gardens closed,” a senior PMC official said. Now, there is a demand from people to reopen these facilities. “The norms for social distancing must be followed. Even steps to control the spread of the virus need to be taken before allowing gardens to reopen,” Kumar said. Factors like the monsoon and heavy rains were also kept in mind while keeping these public places closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-likely-to-consider-requests-to-reopen-public-gardens/articleshow/78453416.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Dance floors, bar area to remain out of bounds to patrons for now||Pune: When bars finally open doors on October 5, loud music, live gigs and tipplers walking up to the bar for a drink may not be an option from the get-go. Owners of several pubs and lounges in Pune, which have been conducting dry runs before reopening, told TOI there will be no loud music or gigs as these either prompt people to shout or take to the dance floor. Singing, yelling or shouting is said to increase the risk of contracting Covid-19 as the virus spreads through small, airborne droplets. Dishant Pritamani, founder and owner of The Daily All Day in Koregaon Park said the music would be softer than before and no gigs will be allowed once the place opens. He added that customized fibre sheets on wheels will be used as table separators. “If a guest is uncomfortable despite the distance between tables, these barriers could be placed between tables. We have also ensured that the bartender will stay inside the bar and, unlike in the past, guests won’t be allowed to walk up to the bar.” Lovely Narang, owner of popular the nightspot Agent Jack’s that as several branches in the city, said, “The lounge would not entertain dancing as there could be a problem ensuring social distancing. While playing music, specific genres will be played like rock, retro, deep house. Commercial, Bhangra and Bollywood music will not be played, as it tends to tempt more people to take to the dance floor. The dancing floors will be closed.” Karan Khilnani, owner of Elephant & Co Gastropub, said that instead of standing at the bar, patrons will be served at their table. “We have also limited the number of servers attending to a particular set of guests. Now, one server will attend to six guests instead of the earlier 20 guests,” he said. Rajat Grover, director of 2BHK Diner & Key Club, The Mills, said, “We are creating private zones at the lounge. Groups of guests will now have their own enclosures, which wasn’t the case in the pre-Covid-19 times.” He added that the Diner Club is likely to open between October 20-25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dance-floors-bar-area-to-remain-out-of-bounds-to-patrons-for-now/articleshow/78453428.cms||Neha Madaan
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||High-risk surgery performed on Covid +ve pregnant woman in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A woman in her early thirties was in labour since early Tuesday morning, she had plans for a normal delivery but by the evening it was clear something was wrong. “The child’s heartbeat was getting erratic and we had to go for a C-section,” said Dr Mitali Vasavada, the gynaecologist who attended to the case. “Meanwhile, her Covid-19 test, conducted at the time of her admission in the morning, returned positive. This created a major challenge for us.” The case needed an emergency surgical procedure to save the lives of the woman and the child. “The child’s head was nearly stuck to the body and e needed to operate on her. As it had become a Covid-19 case, we could not perform this, the hospital was not a Covid-19 designated one. We were advised to send the patient to a government-run Covid-19 facility. Given her condition, we started frantically searching for a medical facility where the procedure could be performed on her,” said Dr Vasavada. They eventually found a private hospital in Navrangpura with the necessary facilities. But another problem cropped up, the in-house gynaecologists said they would prefer the treating doctor to carry out the procedure. “I then listened to my calling as a doctor and performed the surgery. I knew her history and she also had trust in me. Thus, it was a risk I was willing to take,” she said, adding that the child was healthy. “Two subsequent tests of Covid-19 were negative. Thus, the mother and the child were discharged on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-risk-surgery-performed-on-covid-ve-pregnant-woman/articleshow/78453433.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Resident doctors threaten stir as Covid +ve doc denied re-exam||Nagpur: Residents doctors in the Government Medical College and Hospitals in Maharashtra state attached to Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) have threatened to go on strike as one of them, Dr Rohit Garg, could not appear for his PG examination after having tested positive for Covid-19 is now be refused re-examination. Residents are in the forefront of fight against Covid in government hospitals. MARD has written to Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) as well as medical education minister Amit Deshmukh in this regard on Friday. “In this stressful situation of pandemic, our resident doctors have worked very hard day and night to serve the nation. Denying the student re-examination comes as a personal loss for him as well as the patients he would otherwise serve. This would agitate all working residents and we would go for ‘Kaam Bandh Andolan’ amid the pandemic,” states the letter signed by Dr Arpit Dhakate, president and Dr Dharun Prasad, general secretary of MARD unit at GMCH Nagpur. TOI contacted the Controller of Examination, MUHS, in this regard. The official said that the issue was subjudiced as the said student has filed a case in court and refused to comment further. MARD President Dr Arpit Dhakate told TOI that university should consider that the residents are working in exceptional situation and should be given opportunity of examination immediately. Apart from Dr Garg, another PG resident Dr Ashwini Jain from Aurangabad has also filed court case in Aurangabad as she was also deprived of re-examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/resident-doctors-threaten-stir-as-covid-ve-doc-denied-re-exam/articleshow/78453457.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 3, 2020||Pune||Malls prepare to open food courts with caution||Pune: Shopping malls across the city are carefully preparing to open the food courts to the public. Creaticity Mall has launched a mobile app to ensure that visitors maintain social distancing protocol. Mahesh M, chief executive officer of the mall, said, “We invite all customers to download our app. The app sets off an alarm if people breach social distance. We don’t have a typical food court, but quite a few casual dining and fine dine restaurants and outlets. All outlets will follow standard operating procedures (SOP). Our layout is such that there is an outdoor space which will improve the comfort of our customers and provide a sense of safety to customers and restaurant staff.” Representing Phoenix Marketcity on Ahmednagar road, Rajendra Kalkar said, “Food and beverage is one of the most important aspects enhancing the customer experience at the mall. We are confident that our safety SOPs such as crowd density control systems, UV disinfectant systems combined with contactless dining initiatives will offer safe shopping and dining experience for customers.” Amanora Mall has replaced all cutlery that will be used in the food court. Chief operating officer Surjit Singh Rajpurohit said, “We have already made our own SOPs corresponding with those issue by the government. There will be no reusable cutlery in food courts, instead we will provide customers with single-use cutlery. We have been conscious about not increasing our use of plastic so all cutlery, containers or plates will be of biodegradable material. We have rearranged tables to ensure that the area is not as congested as it was earlier.” He added that most chefs had gone to their hometown so they were asked to come back and quarantine themselves for two weeks. “We have also tested them for Covid-19 before they rejoin work. Just like we did for other mall staff when we reopened for business, we will monitor their temperature on a daily basis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/malls-prepare-to-open-food-courts-with-caution/articleshow/78453481.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hubballi||Five held for cricket betting in Gadag||Gadag/Hubballi: Gadag Town police arrested five people involved in cricket betting on September 30. They seized Rs 1.55 lakh and six mobile phones from them. The accused were involved in betting near Balaji Nagar Cross on outer ring road. The accused are Srinivas Habib, a resident of Balaji Nagar, Altaf Tahsildar of Keshav Nagar, Sagar Pawar of Killa Oni, Vinayak Shidling of Dasar Oni and Prakash Baddi of Okkalgeri area. Based on a definite tip-off, police nabbed the accused who were placing bets during an IPL match between Rajasthan Royals and Kolkata Knight Riders. DySP Pralhad SK and CPI PV Salimath led the raid, said SP N Yatish. House burgled  Thieves broke into a house in Gokul Road police limits and made away with gold ornaments and silver articles worth Rs 40,000. The incident took place between September 24 and September 30 but the case was registered on October 1. Thieves entered house number 9 in Nandi Nagar by breaking open the lock of the main door, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/five-held-for-cricket-betting-in-gadag/articleshow/78450925.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Binekar’s family wants probe by crime branch||Nagpur: Unhappy with the probe by Sitabuldi police into gambling kingpin Balya Binekar’s murder case, the deceased’s relatives met commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar on Friday and demanded that the investigation be handed over to crime branch. The CP Amitesh Kumar told TOI that investigation is on in the case and soon the police will come out with result. Balya Binekar was murdered near Bole petrol pump square on September 26. Though police have so far nabbed seven accused, including Chetan Hazare whose father was murdered 19 years ago by Binekar, the deceased’s family feels the mastermind is still behind the curtains. Binekar’s relatives said they want the probe to be supervised by DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane. “Many other names are doing rounds as prime suspects who had masterminded the murder, but it’s the police who should probe this, which is not happening,” said the kin. “It is unbelievable that police are yet to find all weapons used in the murder,” said a relative. “We had all seen in the CCTV footage about the culprits entering the car, but even the cops are not sure as to what they had done inside the vehicle,” said the relative. “The investigation is going nowhere,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/binekars-family-wants-probe-by-crime-branch/articleshow/78453516.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 3, 2020||Ghaziabad||UP-Rera lags behind in securing recovery papers||GHAZIABAD: Since its inception, UP-Rera has disposed of 74% of the total cases in the state. But it has been dragging its feet about securing recovery certificates (RC) from the defaulting builders. Of 2,177 RCs issued in the past three years, only 353 have been realised so far, an RTI response has revealed. UP-Rera chairman says it’s main job is to ensure completion of projects and RCs fall under the purview of district authorities. According to the RTI response, UP-Rera has disposed of 21,200 of a total of 28,438 filed in the state. But it has not been able to achieve its objective when it comes to fixing erring builders — the regulator has been able to realise only 16% of the total RCs issued. “The figures clearly show that on the issue of RCs, the regulator has not been that successful,” said Ghaziabad resident Alok Kumar, who had filed the RTI query. UP-Rera chairman Rajiv Kumar, however, said that the primary function of the regulator is to ensure that incomplete projects are streamlined, keeping in view the interests of all stakeholders, be it buyers or developers. “When it comes to RCs, our job is to issue it and it is for the district magistrates to see to it that buyers get their money back from the developers as mandated by UP-Rera,” he told TOI. “As far as RCs are concerned, the recovery has to be done by liquidating the assets of the developer or the company. However, given the prevailing situation, especially in the times of Covid pandemic when the real estate sector is going through a slump, it is easier said than done,” added the Rera chief. Prashant Kanha, a Noida-based lawyer who deals with real estate cases, said that Rera is just not exercising its powers vested when it comes to RCs. “Under Rule 24 of the UP-Rera Rules 2016, the Authority is empowered to exercise powers of a civil court to ensure compliance of any of its orders, including compliance of recovery certificates through district collector” he said. “The regulator should exercise its powers under Rule 24 and initiate proceedings, thereby fixing dates seeking compliance reports from the district collector on the enforcement progress of the recovery certificate. Currently, Rera does not follow up with collectors post issuance of recovery certificates,” he added. Watch UP-Rera lags behind in securing recovery papers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/rera-lags-behind-in-securing-recovery-papers/articleshow/78453557.cms||Abhijay Jha
October 3, 2020||Pune||Woman fends off robber outside ATM||Pune: An armed robber barged into a woman’s car after she halted at a traffic signal near the PMPML depot on Paud road and threatened her to give him Rs200. Although terrified, the woman did not lose her presence of mind and stopped the car near an ATM kiosk at Bavdhan under the pretext of withdrawing money. She then removed the key from the ignition and ran away. The robber too did not have any option but to flee the spot. The incident happened on September 27. The woman did not approach the authorities but the Kothrud police had received information about the incident and they traced her. Senior inspector Pratibha Joshi convinced her to lodge a complaint on Thursday against the unidentified man. Sub-inspector Chandrakant Kamthe of the Kothrud police station said that the woman had met her friends near MIT College on Paud road. “While returning home in her car, she had stopped at the signal near the PMPML depot. A man carrying a sharp weapon suddenly got into the car and sat next to her,” Kamthe said. He threatened the woman and told her to drive to Chandani Chowk. After reaching there, he sought Rs200 from the woman. “She showed presence of mind and told him that she did not have the money with her. She also told him that she would withdraw cash from an ATM and give it to him,” Kamthe said. He said the suspect agreed and told her to take the car to an ATM kiosk. After reaching the kiosk at Bavdhan, the woman stopped the car and jumped out of it with key. The police are checking CCTV cameras to ascertain the suspect’s identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-fends-off-robber-outside-atm/articleshow/78453505.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Docs call off strike after apology from Yavatmal collector||Yavatmal: The strike called by Maharashtra Association of Gazetted Medical Officers (MAGMO) was called off after five days on Friday after district collector M Devendar Singh tendered an unconditional apology to the protesting doctors and other staffers of zilla parishad (ZP) health department. The association had demanded immediate transfer of the collector for not allowing their representation and threatening to lodge FIR against them. The doctors had alleged that the collector insulted them on a number of occasions. The doctors and other health staffers had tendered their resignations to ZP CEO Shreekrishna Panchal on September 28 to press their demand. Health services in rural areas had come to a grinding halt due to the strike. The collector had initially released a clarification stating that he would resolve issues of the doctors which are of local level. He then released a video clip saying he has neither insulted nor threated doctors. The collector was under pressure right from the chief secretary to the divisional commissioner, Amravati. Deputy director of health Dr Farooqui, divisional commissioner Piyush Singh and district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod held discussions with the striking doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/docs-call-off-strike-after-apology-from-yavatmal-collector/articleshow/78453550.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Business hours same for sealed areas in PCMC limits||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body issued the Unlock 5 guidelines on Friday on the lines of the state and the Union governments, allowing restaurants and food joints to operate with 50% dining capacity in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits from Monday. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to continue with the stipulated timing of 10am to 2pm for the banking service, and grocery and vegetable shops in the containment zones. The ATM kiosks would function full-time in those areas. The guidelines from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, Shravan Hardikar, stated that the schools, colleges, and other educational institutions would remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/business-hours-same-for-sealed-areas-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/78453540.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Students protest as JNTUH releases exam schedule||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) released the timetable for supplementary and regular examinations amid strong opposition from students. According to the timetable, exams for BTech, MTech, BPharm, PharmD, MCA and MBA courses shall commence from October 13. Close to three lakh students from 423 institutions are set to appear for these exams. The question paper pattern for the exams will be the same for all the courses wherein students will have to answer any five out of eight questions. The decision has not gone down well with students. “Many colleges did not even complete the syllabus for the previous semester. After they began classes for the next semester, we were under the impression that the university has promoted all of us. But the timetable issued has come as a surprise,” said Vishnu Prasad, a third year BTech student. The National Students Union of India (NSUI) (Telangana unit) has planned to hold a mass protest on October 3 at Anurag and Sri Indu Colleges and at the JNTUH campus on October 5. The NSUI has also submitted a representation to the university registrar Manzoor Hussain seeking promotion of first to third year students based on their past performance or internal examinations held last year. Officials said the exams are being held in two spells and the university is following University Grants Commission guidelines. “The supplementary exams will be held in October and the regular exams will be held in November. We have relaxed the credit-based detention norms for all students. However, they will have to mandatorily appear for the exams,” said Kamakshi Prasad, director, evaluation, JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-protest-as-jntuh-releases-exam-schedule/articleshow/78453570.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Some city schools reduce fees, bear losses||Nagpur: Even as parents continue to protest the exorbitant fees charged by private schools during the Covid-19 pandemic, some schools have reduced it on their own taking into account the financial difficulties faced by a few families. Some of the prominent among them are Prahaar, Kurveys New Model, Nahate and other schools. None of them slashed salaries of their teaching and non-teaching staff. Kurevys, is a CBSE school having classes till class 10th, decided to reduce fees by 25%. “Being a parent, I am aware of problems faced by them due to job losses and salary deduction. When we calculated our expenses towards library, laboratory, sports and other charges, it came to be around 19.50%. It also included electricity and maintenance charges. Our management under Dr Utpala Kane decided to grant an additional 5% concession to parents for this year,” Sanjay Duragkar who looks after the CBSE school. The school charges only Rs20,000 to Rs22,000 as total fees for students from Std I to X in various slabs which Duragkar claimed as the “lowest among city’s all CBSE affiliated schools”. “We’re non-commercial since the beginning and therefore decided to bear the 5% loss. The parents have also supported us by paying fees in instalments,” he said. Operating from Ravi Nagar, Prahar Military School slashed the fees by Rs43,000 for Std VIII to X and Rs40,000 for Std V to VII. “Since ours is a day boarding school, we provide students with breakfast and lunch along with uniforms. However due to lockdown, classes couldn’t be held regularly and even outdoor visits have stopped. So our management — CP and Berar Education Society and Prahar Samaj Jagruti Sanstha — have decided to pass on benefits to the students,” said principal Shubha Mohgaonkar. She added that they won’t discontinue students’ online classes even if they pay the fees late. “We haven’t set any deadline. We told them to deposit it as per their convenience,” said Mohgaonkar. The Nahate school is a nursery running classes up to KG-II, Its management told parents to pay only 15% fees till regular classes begin. “We know that parents are going through a bad phase, as many have lost jobs while others are facing salary cuts or a dip in businesses. Normally, we charge Rs20,000 to Rs22,000 fees, but we told them to pay only Rs2,500 to Rs3,000. They are also provided with books in the same charges,” said principal Kalindi Nahate. The school has started video lectures for kids, once or twice in a week and told parents that even if regular school started they will be charged on a monthly basis only, instead of full fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-city-schools-reduce-fees-bear-losses/articleshow/78453589.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Hang Hathras rapists, demands Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Joining the citizens’ protest related to the Hathras rape case at Jantar Mantar on Friday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to UP government to ensure the strictest punishment for the culprits, saying they should be hanged. Several Aam Aadmi Party functionaries were also present at the protest. “We are in a deep pit,” began Kejriwal, addressing the protesters. “The FIR for rape was not lodged for many days, no proper treatment was given to the victim, and her body was cremated at night against Hindu customs. Several actions like these have pushed people into believing that the incident is being brushed aside and the culprits are being shielded.” The CM continued, “The whole country would like to appeal to UP government to hand out stringent punishment to the culprits. Hang them till death. They should be given the harshest punishment so that nobody tries to repeat such an act.” Describing the treatment meted to the family as wrong, Kejriwal said at this point, all the family needed was peace and the freedom to meet whoever they wanted to. “There should be no politics on the matter,” he said. “It is not ethical to play politics around a case like this. When one says a rape has happened in UP, another person says a rape has also happened in Rajasthan. This is no argument. Why should such incidents of rape happen in UP or Rajasthan? Why should they happen in Madhya Pradesh, Mumbai and Delhi? Whether they belong to Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata or Bengaluru, they are our daughters. There shouldn’t be any case of rape anywhere in the country.” The AAP national convenor added, “All of us, all the governments, political parties and people of the country, must create a system that keeps our daughters safe. There should be no politics at all on such a heinous matter.” AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed that the reason behind the outrage in the Hathras rape case was because “every officer of the administration, whether the station house officer, district magistrate, DSP, ADG or UP chief minister, everybody is trying to save the accused right from the day of the incident on September 14 till today.” The girl’s body was cremated without the consent of her family to erase any evidence, Bharadwaj alleged. Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam, MLAs Atishi Marlena, Dilip Pandey, Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, Rakhi Birla, Somnath Bharti, Rajesh Gupta, Madan Lal, Vishesh Ravi and several others were also present at the protest. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hang-hathras-rapists-demands-cm/articleshow/78453622.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||Arunachal is Indian territory, reiterates US||WASHINGTON/ NEW DELHI: As the India-China border stand-off continues in Ladakh, the US reiterated its position that it recognises Arunachal Pradesh in India’s northeast as Indian territory. Though this is a stated position, its articulation in the current contest is significant as the US also criticised “unilateral attempts” to advance territorial claims. China claims the Indian state as its territory and had recently, in the middle of LAC tensions, again said that it doesn’t recognise India’s sovereignty over Arunachal Pradesh. A senior State Department official was quoted as saying that the US position on “some parts of the border” for sure was explicitly clear and it has recognised Arunachal Pradesh as Indian territory for six decades. “We strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to advance territorial claims by incursions, by military or civilian incursions across the border or across the established Line of Actual Control. And the disputed boundaries, all we can say is that we encourage India and China to use their existing bilateral channels to discuss those and not resort to military force,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. The official said that despite daunting global challenges like Covid-19, Chinese actions in the Indo-Pacific region and the global economic downturn, India and the US were finding ways to cooperate and collaborate and there was an acceleration in the breadth and depth of the relationship between the two countries. Noting India has been one of the victims of Chinese aggression, the official said that the US exercise of freedom of navigation, of military and defense partnerships, and cooperation with other states in the region was designed to reinforce the basic norms of peaceful solution of problems, resolution of disputes and preservation of rule of law, freedom of navigation and peace in the region. “The discussion of where the actual border is of course is a very sensitive one. So what we have done in the past is supported both sides’ efforts to achieve a diplomatic settlement that both sides can accept,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arunachal-is-indian-territory-reiterates-us/articleshow/78455612.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||Crimes by first-timers shoot up amid Covid distress||BHOPAL: Desperate times seem to be spawning desperate crimes. More and more first-timers, or those with no criminal record, are ending up behind bars for theft and loot since the Covid pandemic struck. Police haven’t collated data on it yet, but nearly every police station in-charge TOI talked to said they were worried by the spurt in crimes by first-timers. Looking at the pattern, it’s mostly youngsters who lost their jobs in the lockdown that are taking to crime, they say. The overwhelming majority of those sacked or unable to continue with their old job due to the lockdown and Covid crisis took to alternative professions. Most began selling vegetables. Some started new businesses, or acquired new skills. A few took to crime. DIG Irshad Wali acknowledged that many people with no crime record have been caught for crimes after lockdown. “I don’t have any analysis on the percentage of such first-timers but they are a real challenge for police,” the DIG told TOI, adding that such people are unmonitored as they have no crime history. So, it becomes difficult for police to identify them, and interrogate them. A senior officer, who has handled such cases, said the main reason for their getting involved in crime is unemployment and financial crisis, though it’s no justification. Recently, Jehangirabad police nabbed three youths for two loots in Hanumanganj and Koh-e-Fiza at the point of a knife. When police finally tracked down the suspects — Faraz Khan, 22, Talib Ali, 19, and Dawoodullah, 20 — they were surprised to see that they were first-timers, SHO Virendra Singh Chouhan said. They committed the crime just to arrange money for their lifestyle expenses, as money had dried up in lockdown and after. Jehangirabad cops have caught many first-timers for petty crimes in recent weeks, he added. The cyber cell busted a gang involved in printing fake gift vouchers of a premium jewellery brand and redeeming them at brand outlets across the country. Following the trail, MP cops nabbed three suspects — Varanasi residents Sanchit Agrawal, 27, and Vikas Mourya, 23, and Ajeet Mourya, 19, of Sant Ravidas Nagar, UP, said cyber cell SP Gurkaran Singh. Sanchit, the alleged kingpin, was an employee with the same jewellery chain. “All three accused are first-timers in crime and have no past crime record,” said SP Singh. In June, Sanchit hatched the plan by stealing details of gift vouchers as he had access to official software, say police. He allegedly got fake vouchers printed and used his accomplices to redeem them in far-off cities. “The suspects told police during interrogation that their household income decreased during lockdown. So, when ‘Unlock’ began in June, they formed a gang and used the fake vouchers to buy gold jewellery worth lakhs at outlets in Bhopal, Ranchi, Bihar and UP,” said SP Singh. The most alarming aspect is that first-timers are committing murders, too. In Bhopal’s Chhola area, a 22-year-old youth sneaked into the house of a 65-year-old former railway guard in Kainchi Chhola area on the night of May 13 to commit theft. When the elderly man woke up and confronted him, the accused stabbed him to death. Investigation officer ASI SK Dwivedi said that when police caught the accused, Sourabh Dubey, who lived right in front of the victim’s house, he said he was in desperate need of money and targeted the victim as he knew he had withdrawn his pension from the bank. First-timers are more likely to commit murder than seasoned criminals because they are more jumpy and lash out in panic when cornered. When amateurs are involved, petty crime has been known to quickly escalate to murder or attempted murder, say police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/crimes-by-first-timers-shoot-up-amid-covid-distress/articleshow/78452153.cms||Sudeept Mishra
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Buses banned, but people allowed to freely cross border at Talapady||MANGALURU: Although the Centre’s Unlock guidelines allowed inter-state public transport to resume without restrictions or need for e-passes, a farcical situation plays out on the border with Kerala at Talapady near Mangaluru. While bus services are banned between Mangaluru and Kasargod, hundreds of people from either side walk across the border at Talapady every day. State-run and private buses from Kerala and Karnataka provide services only up to Talapady at present. People get down and cross the border on foot. They then board buses on the other side to travel towards Mangaluru or Kasaragod. Both sides fear a rise in infection if buses are allowed to ply, but the situation at the moment borders on the comical and commuters have questioned the logic of banning buses, but allowing people to cross over on foot. "Both @KSRTC Journeys (of Karnataka) & @KSRTCGROUP (Kerala) buses travel till Talapady from Mangalore & Kasaragod respectively. But both have permits from State Transportation Authorities of concerned states to run between Kasaragod & Mangalore. Then how can they limit their services till Talapady only," tweeted @sahayaathri, a group of people from Kasaragod who are dependent on Mangaluru for their health, education and job needs. BJP Kasaragod district president K Shreekanth said the party will launch a protest if inter-state buses are not allowed between Kasaragod and Mangaluru. "Though there are no restrictions for inter-state travel across the nation, buses are not plying between Kasaragod and Mangaluru. This makes life miserable for a large number of daily commuters working in Mangaluru. Similarly, poor patients, students, businessmen, farmers and many others too are unable to commute," Shreekanth said. The Kerala government has issued an order promulgating Section 144 of the CrPC for the enforcement of social distancing from Saturday. However, relaxations for categories like weddings and funerals will continue. KSRTC Mangaluru divisional controller SN Aruna said the division is ready to operate inter-state buses between Mangaluru and Kasaragod. "We are ready to operate buses if the government allows it," he added. Covid-19 cases continue to surge in Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts. While Dakshina Kannada reported 493 fresh cases on Thursday, 471 people tested positive for the disease in Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buses-banned-but-people-allowed-to-freely-cross-border-at-talapady/articleshow/78451045.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||Homoeo clinical trial for Covid therapy in final stages||BHOPAL: A clinical trial for homeopathic preventive medication for Covid-19 is on its final lap at the Government Homeopathy College in Bhopal. About 200 people are part of the trials, ratified by Clinical Trial Registry of India (CTRI) and ICMR. “Data collection has been completed. The analysis phase of the clinical trial is underway,” said the college’s medical superintendent, Dr Sunita Tomar, who is also principal investigator for the trial registered with CTRI. The trial began with following up on 58,400 Bhopal residents who were administrated homeopathic ‘preventive medication’ during the Covid lockdown. Encouraged by the results, the Ayush institute — a designated Covid-19 care centre — began a one-of-a-kind clinical trial to determine the comparative effects of pre-identified homoeopathic medicines in asymptomatic Covid-19 patients receiving standard treatment protocol. Two hundred of the 58,400 were selected for the clinical trial. Homeopathy medication is ‘targeted’ treatment of specific conditions arising from the Covid infection. Pre-identified homeopathic medication under the study includes Arsenicum album-30 (four pills twice a day for seven days), Bryonia-30 (four pills twice a day for seven days), Camphora 1M (four pills twice daily for four days), along with standard treatment protocol, say sources. Homeopathy medication Arsenicum album has also been advised for prevention of influenza-like illnesses. The ‘open label randomized placebo controlled trial’ will be able to estimate the comparative effect of pre-identified homoeopathic medicines in asymptomatic Covid-19 patients receiving standard treatment protocol, said Dr Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/homoeo-clinical-trial-for-covid-therapy-in-final-stages/articleshow/78452163.cms||Jamal Ayub
October 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Nigerian, 2 others held in drug case||MANGALURU: Mangaluru City Crime Branch (CCB) has made three more arrests, including a Nigerian resident, in a drug case related to choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty. The accused — Frank Sunday Ibeabuchi, 33, of Bengaluru, Shamin Fernades, 28, of Kuloor, and Shan Nawaz, 34, of Hidayath Nagar in Thokkottu. Shan was arrested in Mumbai, while the other two in Bengaluru. Frank Sunday, a foreign national from Nigeria, was staying in Bengaluru for the past two years. He was arrested in 2018 in an MDMA drug peddling case by SG Palya police in Bengaluru. Shan had also been booked for drug peddling in 2019 by the Economic and Narcotic Crime police in the city. Meanwhile, there have been allegations that a political figure from Dakshina Kannada district may have allegedly pressurised Mangaluru city police to drop the drug case related to choreographer Shetty. Sources claim that a politician had pressured police, particularly the CCB, who are investigating the case soon after his arrest. “Shetty is associated with an illegal cricket betting racket gang in the district. The gang leader is said to be a close aide of this politician. Kishore used to join the gang at parties organised after cricket matches. There was a fear among the racketeers that Kishore would spill beans about their association with them. Thus the politician was requested to influence in the case,” sources added. When contacted, Shiva Prakash Naik, in charge CCB (Mangaluru), denied the allegations and said: “The allegations are far from truth. We have not received calls from anyone to shield accused in the drug case.” There is a rumour that the transfer of Naik, who is investigating the case, was politically motivated. “I’m not transferred due to any political pressure,” Naik clarified. He was recently transferred to the Lokayukta wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/three-more-arrested-in-drug-case/articleshow/78451934.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka crosses 50 lakh tests, but experts want more focused efforts||BENGALURU: Karnataka crossed 50-lakh tests on Wednesday (September 30), a significant milestone in the fight against the virus. Of the 50,36,711 tests conducted till then, more than 18 lakh were rapid antigen tests (RAT) and the rest RT-PCR and other tests. The state’s positivity rate is currently 12%, much higher than India’s average of 8%, as per data from the state Covid War Room. Karnataka, which earlier on — in January and February — had to send swab samples to Pune for testing, now has 144 accredited labs. And yet, despite the number of tests, what is still unknown is the number of people who have been tested. This, since many individuals undergo more than one test. Testing is crucial to Karnataka’s 4T strategy of test, track, trace and treat and while both RT-PCR and RAT have high specificity, the former is time consuming and the latter swift, but not very accurate. The state’s strategy has been to use RAT for swift isolation of infected people and RT-PCR to weed out false negatives. Doctors across Karnataka that TOI spoke with said RAT has made their job easier, but convincing symptomatic RAT negative people to stay in home isolation till RT-PCR confirms or negates infection has been a challenge. “False negative results for symptomatic patients are increasing. RT-PCR takes two days, but by then the symptomatic person who is at home may spread the virus to family members as isolation is literally not possible in a majority of households,” doctors said. Healthcare workers rue the lack of treatment for RAT negative symptomatic patients. “Conditions worsen as people wait for results. The sudden breathlessness they develop could be fatal,” a doctor said. Experts are also critical of the people being tested. They say testing random passersby will increase test numbers and reduce the positivity rate, but it will not check the virus spread. “We need targeted testing. No person who shows symptoms should be told at a fever clinic to come after a day. Irrespective of the degree of symptoms, s/he must be tested and isolated quickly,” an expert said. However, Shalini Rajneesh, additional chief secretary and nodal officer for testing, insisted. “We test symptomatic ILI, SARI, emergency cases and primary contacts through RAT as they have the highest infection possibility,” she said. “Other secondary contacts, corona warriors and suspected superspreaders are tested regularly through RT-PCR.” She added: “Experts say one Covid patient infects 10 people on average. So with 10,000 positives, one lakh tests per day are a bare minimum. The challenge is to get all primary and secondary contacts of a Covid infected person tested immediately. If patients list their contacts and they voluntarily appear for testing, a lot of effort and government machinery could be saved and the spread can be arrested efficiently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-crosses-50l-tests-but-experts-want-more-focused-efforts/articleshow/78451106.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||MP aims to increase testing to 30,000 per day||BHOPAL: The state government is aiming to increase its Covid-19 testing capacity and test about 30,000 samples across the state daily. The decision has been taken after Covid-19 positive cases in the state has doubled in 30 days of September and the numbers of tests done per day were only around 22,000— far less that the target of 25,000 tests per day fixed in August. In August, the positivity rate— number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested—was only around 4.6%, but, now it has increased to 6.29%. Number of tests are still below 25000 per day. And out of the total tests done nearly 40% are rapid antigen tests which are quick but not as reliable as RTPCR tests. While the government aims to conduct around 30,000 tests per day, officials claim that the people are not readily volunteering for tests. Like other states, door to door tests which were being done earlier have not been discontinued in the state. The government is also adopting a no questions asked policy for anyone who reaches fever clinics and opts for getting tested, neither any questions will be asked nor any fee will be charged. Additional chief secretary health, Mohammed Suleman said, “We are aiming to test at least 30000 per day. Challenge is that people are not readily volunteering for testing and do not report to fever clinics. Now each citizen has been given an option to get himself tested free of cost with no questions asked, provided he/she reports to the fever clinics.” “We have also capped the price of tests in private clinics”, he added. Of the total tests that being done 60% are RTPCR tests, Suleman said. The count of positive patients in the state was around 63,965 till August 31, and in September it doubled as 64082 new cases were reported. And it was not only the number of positive cases which increased exponentially, the overall positivity rate also increased to 6.29%. This is an alarming trend as positivity rate above 5% is the stage where more and more tests are required, but going by the average though the number of tests increased in the month of September wherein 6.57 lakh tests were done, 40% of them were rapid antigen tests, averaging to around 21,923 tests per day— it is still below the targeted 25,000 tests per day. And when it comes to testing, Madhya Pradesh is among the worst states which have reported maximum cases or cases above 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-aims-to-increase-testing-to-30k/day/articleshow/78452189.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Edappadi K Palaniswami may okay steering panel, get deputy O Panneerselvam backing for CM post||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is likely to concede ground and agree to the constitution of a steering committee to resolve the deadlock between him and deputy CM O Panneerselvam. It will be a quid pro quo for OPS, the AIADMK coordinator, to end the standoff and announce co-coordinator EPS, as the chief minister candidate for the 2021 assembly election, said a source close to EPS. The party’s deputy coordinator K P Munusamy had, after the acrimonious executive committee meeting on Monday, told reporters that an announcement would be made on October 7. On Friday, after three days of cold war when the two leaders refrained from participating in functions together, they were seen jointly paying respects to Mahatma Gandhi on the Marina beach front in Chennai. Later in the day, OPS left for his native town of Theni. The source said the EPS camp will abide by the bylaws drafted after the merger of the two factions in 2017, when the two sides agreed that any major decision can be made only with the concurrence of OPS. The October 7 agenda is likely to firmed up by Sunday. While the structure and composition of the steering panel is yet to be worked upon, the EPS camp is expected to agree to the constitution of the steering panel in which six of his loyalists and five of OPS supporters would find place. OPS would like to reverse the numbers to have a majority in the panel. The AIADMK general council in September 2017 passed a resolution for a committee and creation of the posts of coordinator, joint coordinator and deputy coordinators, doing away with the post of general secretary, which was held by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa for three decades. “The general council resolves to set up a steering committee,” the resolution said, without getting into the composition or its functions. None of the 34 rules or clauses that replaced the existing rules through another resolution refers to the steering committee. Sources recalled that the 2017 talks between the factions had begun with the offer of making OPS the general secretary in exchange of allowing EPS to be the chief minister. Two days later, however, the EPS camp insisted on the post of coordinator for OPS and joint coordinator for EPS. It was decided there would be six members of the EPS group and five members of the OPS side for the steering committee. On Friday, the AIADMK IT wing created a flutter with its official Twitter handle announcing the “party headquarters” direction to its MLAs to be present in Chennai on October 6, on the eve of announcement of the CM candidate. The party headquarters denied having issued such a direction, and the tweet was removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-may-okay-steering-panel-get-deputy-ops-backing-for-cm-post/articleshow/78453754.cms||Jaya Menon
October 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Dry waste centre in Dakshina Kannada becomes functional on Gandhi Jayanti||Mangaluru: In a pioneering initiative, Hasiru Dala and Anti-Pollution Drive (APD) Foundation have signed a memorandum of understanding with Ullal city municipal council for setting up Dakshina Kannada’s first dry waste collection centre (DWCC) in Ullal. Rayappa, commissioner, Ullal CMC, is a signatory to the MoU. According to the terms of the MoU, Mohammed Nawazuddin, a waste sorter, is the operator and Hasiru Dala and APD Foundation are the project facilitators. As per the MoU, Ullal CMC will provide physical infrastructure for collection, processing and storage of recyclable dry waste. Hasiru Dala/APD Foundation will provide technical knowhow and undertake training and monitoring. Nawazuddin and his team of waste sorters will run the DWCC on a daily basis. The DWCC located at Ullal became functional on October 2. The MoU will be valid for a period of three years, subject to renewal. The concept of DWCC is being implemented for the first time in Dakshina Kannada district. Ullal generates over 18 tonnes of waste per day, out of which about 4-5 tonnes is dry waste. Hasiru Dala/APD Foundation has developed the DWCC after working with Ullal CMC for over 10 months, and getting an understanding of solid waste management there. The survey was done to determine the number of waste pickers in Ullal. Waste picker identity cards have been issued to them. They will operate the DWCC centre. The collected dry waste will be sent to the recyclers. The waste pickers and the operator will get their earnings from revenue generated from the sale of recyclable waste. Surplus generated will be reinvested for expansion of the facility. This project continues Hasiru Dala’s partnership with Mangaluru based APD Foundation from 2019. Abdullah A Rehman, founder and CEO of APD Foundation, said, “We are grateful to Rayappa, health inspectors and environmental engineers who have been supportive of this venture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dry-waste-centre-in-dakshina-kannada-becomes-functional-on-gandhi-jayanti/articleshow/78452097.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||2019 more test positive for Coronavirus in MP||BHOPAL: On Friday, for the first time 29,504 samples were tested in a single day in the state and among these, 2019 people tested positive for Covid-19. The tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the state reached 1,32,107. So far, maximum samples tested in a single day was around 25000 samples, though the average of samples tested per day had remained below 25,000. Overall in September on an average around 22000 samples were tested per day. Thus, despite increase in number of samples the positivity rate remained well above 5% on Friday. Apart from the fresh cases, 36 deaths were also reported, as per the state health bulletin. With these fresh casualties, death toll due to covid-19 reached 2372. On Friday, fresh cases were reported from all the 52 districts of the state. Maximum cases were reported from Indore district where 495 people tested positive, followed by 242 positive cases in Bhopal, 172 positive cases in Jabalpur and 97 positive cases in Gwalior. On the brighter side, 2,332 people recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. With these new people recovering the count of people who have recovered from the disease reached 1,09,611 on Friday. With these people recovering the recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state reached 82.9% on Friday. This has improved in past one month as on August 31 it was around 76%. As on October 2, there were a total of 20124 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2019-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-mp/articleshow/78452215.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||Min’s FB post on hosp embarrasses govt||Bhopal: A few hours after minister Gopal Bhargava embarrassed his own government over the issue of the absence of medical staff in a government hospital at his home town at 2.30 am on Friday, three employees of the community health centre in Gadhakota, were suspended and notices were served to three including the block medical officer. Later Bhargava said, “I have made the chief minister aware of the health services and he has assured me to improve them very soon.” After “complaints” of absence of medical staff from the hospital, Gopal Bhargava rode a scooty in Gadhakota and reached the health centre. It was 2.30 am and he was accompanied by his supporters and staff. The minister went around the hospital calling “koi hai, koi hai” (is there any one ) only to find that none was around. “Not even the chowkidar,” he wondered. He later posted the video of his visit to the hospital on his facebook page. Bhargava said that, “Look at the situation, the minister works in the night while the employees sleep even in the day.” He said, now whenever he would be around in the town, he would make surprise visits. “I will not sleep. And will also not allow them to sleep.” During the corona crisis, he said, such carelessness would not be tolerated. Chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr MS Sagar later visited the hospital on Friday afternoon and suspended Naresh Valmik, a ward boy, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) Priti Mishra and the Lady Health Visitor (LHV) Lakshmi Sen. He also served notices to Dr Subhash Singhai, BMO, Dr Vikas Rajput ,duty doctor and Rajni Prajapati, the in-charge of the nutrition rehabilitation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mins-fb-post-on-hosp-embarrasses-govt/articleshow/78452235.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur records lowest no. of cases in a single day||Kolhapur: The district has reported 316 fresh Covid-19 patients and 12 deaths due to the infection on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 45,049. The death toll has now risen to 1,466.These are the lowest number of deaths and cases reported in a single day since the last few months. Meanwhile, 34,864 patients have recovered and 8,729 cases are active.The number of throat swabs testing positive in private labs too has come down from 60% to 25% in a week.Meanwhile, Anil Mali replaced B C Kempi-Patil as the new civil surgeon of Kolhapur. Patil has been transferred to Satara’s Hospital Training Centre. Sangli reports 497 casesSangli district reported 497 cases of Covid and 11 deaths on Friday, the lowest number of cases and deaths in a single day. The total number of cases rose to 38,125, of which 1,384 have succumbed, 29,817 patients have recovered and 6,924 are undergoing treatment.Meanwhile, the district administration has ordered seven private hospitals to refund the excess amount charged for treating Covid patients. The administration has appointed auditors for auditing the bills. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said, “So far 24 patients have been found to be overcharged by the hospitals. The total excess amount is Rs 4.84 lakh.”An RT-PCR testing lab has been set up at Bharati Hospital. Minister of state Vishwajeet Kadam said the lab can test 400 to 500 throat swabs every day. 410 cases in SolapurSolapur district, comprising rural areas and the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation, registered 410 fresh Covid-19 cases along with 13 deaths on Friday. Of the total number of Covid deaths reported on Friday, 11 were from the rural areas. Four deaths were reported from Pandharpur taluka while two in Madha taluka. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported 42 cases on Friday and two casualties. As of now, the city has 8,561 cases along with 481 deaths. Of the total number of cases, 850 are active. As many as 7,230 patients recovered in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-records-lowest-no-of-cases-in-a-single-day/articleshow/78451137.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Property registrations up in September, but down 18% from January||PUNE: Property registrations across Pune picked up in September after a slump in numbers because of the pandemic. But, the registrations are 18% less than January and February despite a 3% reduction in the stamp duty. The hike in the ready-reckoner rates, especially for Pune in areas where there were sales, has slowed down buyers, realtors said. Confederation of Real Estate Development Association of India (CREDAI) Pune president Suhas Merchant said the festive season may bring about change for Pune like Mumbai which has already registered a slight bounce back, he told TOI. Registrations for Pune city picked up by 27% from August. There were 34,714 registrations in September as against 27,276 registrations in August. The pre-Covid-19 months of January and February had over 40,000 registrations each. “Mumbai property sales have gained from the reduction in stamp duty and ready reckoner rates. In Pune, registrations have not taken place as expected in September, but they may pick up in October,” Credai national vice-president Shantilal Kataria said. He is hopeful that the nine days leading to Dasara will boost property buying in Pune. However, the increase in ready reckoner rates for areas that have seen good sales will continue to be a hurdle, Merchant said. Moreover, the local authorities are busy with Covid-19 mitigation efforts, and are not giving clearances for plinth laying, he added. “On the one hand the government announces stamp duty reduction and at the same time the ready reckoner rates were increased for Pune, the main market where sales could have picked up. But this is the right time to invest in property as new stocks will be more expensive as labour, material and movement costs will increase which will impact the final cost of the property,” Merchant added. IGR Omprakash Deshmukh said there is a steady rise in document registrations and revenue collection in the state. “The state had announced a reduction in stamp duty keeping in mind that registrations will increase. We are slowly seeing the numbers go up as the state is opening up. Registrations are expected to increase in the festive months,” Deshmukh told TOI. The stamp duty reduction, offers and discounts of developers is helping Mumbai property buyers, realtors told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-registrations-up-in-sept-but-down-18-from-jan/articleshow/78453769.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||Chouhan, Nath pay tribute to Mahatma Gandhi, Shastri||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan paid tributes to Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Late Lal Bahadur Shahtri on Friday on the occasion of birth anniversary of the two leaders. Meanwhile at the state Congress headquarters, PCC chief Kamal Nath led the tributes to the two great leaders. After garlanding the portrait of the Father of the Nation at Gandhi Bhawan, he addressed a programme organized on the occasion in Gandhi Bhawan auditorium. Chouhan said that the philosophy and ideology of Gandhian thoughts are very much relevant even today and they hold the solution to several problems. “Today we believe Gandhiji, but do not follow him. The need of the hour is to follow the path of truth and non-violence shown by Gandhiji,” he said. On this occasion, chief minister sought information about the activities of Gandhi Bhavan. Chief minister also paid tributes to the former Prime Minister, Late Lal Bahadur Shastri by garlanding his portrait at the Old Assembly (Minto Hall) Square. He said that Shastri ji became the Prime Minister for a short time but he gave significant services to the nation. Shastri ji’s mantra “Jai Jawan-Jai Kisan” is relevant even today. In his message Kamal Nath said the true tributes said “Gandhi ji always wanted a strong democracy, because democracy is the only system which grants equal opportunity to the weakest and the most powerful.” Nath also garlanded a portrait of Lal Bahadur Shastri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-nath-pay-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-shastri/articleshow/78452299.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Hassan administration may ban devotees at Hasanamba temple||HASSAN: The district administration is planning to ban devotees at the Hasanamba temple in Hassan due to rapidly rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The temple opens only once a year for about a fortnight. This year, the temple will open from November 5 to 17 — a total 13 days. District deputy commissioner R Girish said the administration is keeping options open and a decision will be taken after a meeting with district minister K Gopalaiah. Officials plan to set up LED screens at different locations in Hassan to stream pujas and other programmes live. The temple traditionally opens on the first Thursday after poornima (full moon) in Ashwayuja month of the Hindu calendar and closes a day after Balipadyami. Officials say this year, the first and last day rituals will be low-key affairs, while only priests will conduct pujas in the temple on other days. Last year, the temple opened for 12 days and more than two lakh devotees visited. Authorities say Rs 3.2 crore was collected through hundis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hassan-administration-may-ban-devotees-at-hasanamba-temple/articleshow/78451200.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Agriculture NPAs balloon by 38% in two years||Ahmedabad: While agriculture apparently outperformed other sectors in the first quarter of 2020-21, clocking 3.4% growth, the ground reality seems to be different, as farm loan defaults are only mounting. The latest report by the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) shows that non-performing assets (NPA) in agriculture loans grew by a whopping 38% over a two-year period. The report states that NPAs in agriculture loans, including crop and term loans, rose from Rs 4,270 crore in the first quarter of 2018-19 to Rs 5,916 crore in the same period of 2020-21. Against this, agriculture loan advances grew by merely 10% in the said period, up from Rs 82,075 crore to Rs 90,513 crore. Farmers say the growing agriculture loan defaults is a function of increased financial distress among farmers triggered by various factors. “The condition of farmers was bad even before the lockdown because they were reeling under debt due to crop failure last year because of unseasonal rainfall. The farmers did not get claim settlements under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) because the state government stopped paying premium subsidies to insurance companies. Due to this, their cultivation costs were not covered and they did not get any compensation for lost harvests,” said Sagar Rabari, president, Gujarat Khedut Ekta Manch.“During the lockdown, as several APMCs were shut or were moved, demand crashed and farmers did not get adequate prices for their produce. This further hurt their incomes and weakened their debt repayment capacity, causing bad loans to mount,” Rabari added. Crop loan NPA rose by 39% from Rs 1,478 crore to Rs 2,054 crore during the same period. This is despite the fact that crop loan advances grew by merely 9% from Rs 45,607 crore to Rs 49,749 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/agriculture-npas-balloon-by-38-in-two-years/articleshow/78453813.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 3, 2020||Pune||UGC guidance to promote good research practices, curb plagiarism||PUNE: The UGC this week e-released a guidance document to boost quality academic research and curb plagiarism. Titled Good Academic Research Practices (GARP), the University Grants Commission (UGC) published it in partnership with Clarivate’s Web of Science indexing over 34,000 journals. The document provides a general framework for enhancing research integrity with focus on potential threats and best practices. It addresses how plagiarism, misrepresentation and fabrication can be checked. E-releasing the document on Tuesday, K Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific adviser of Government of India, said, “As the number of researches conducted in the domain of science, technology, humanities and social science grows in India every year, the country should take measures to ensure that good ethical practices are in place. This document will help create a strong foundation for research culture and integrity.” GARP would help researchers plan and design their research subjects, besides executing the work through proper documentation and protected data storage. The 56-page document is designed to provide researchers with the right mentorship, help them choose the right journal for publication and restrain them from falling for predatory journals. During the e-release of the document, UGC vice-chairman Bhushan Patwardhan said, “At the UGC, we felt that there was a need for a document outlining good academic research practices with focus on potential threats. GARP will help bring in integrity in academic research in the country.” So, what is good practice? Patwardhan said, “A practice that has been proven to work better than other methods over time is the best practice. When this practice becomes a part of life, it becomes a good practice. In other words, when a best practice is followed over a period, it becomes a good practice.” GARP provides a general framework for enhancing research integrity by focusing on potential threats. It illustrates good practice at each stage in the research cycle, including ideation, research planning, design, conduct, dissemination, management and training. “I hope GARP, prepared by the UGC in collaboration with Clarivate Web of Science as a knowledge partner, will be useful not only to the Indian academia but will be referred globally to promote academic ethics and research integrity,” said Patwardhan. Clarivate is a global leader in providing trusted insights to accelerate the pace of innovation. It has built some trusted brands across the innovation lifecycle, including the Web of Science. D P Singh, the UGC chairman, in the concluding remarks said, “GARP has been developed as a part of the quality mandate of the UGC.” The UGC has been focusing on the quality of research works over the past few years. It came up with a list of 39,111 national and international journals indexed in Scopus — an international database of journals — in June 2019 to recognize only quality research works. It had issued a public notice to follow the UGC-CARE (Consortium for Academic and Research Ethics) list of journals with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ugc-guidance-to-promote-good-research-practices-curb-plagiarism/articleshow/78453806.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Active Covid cases in UP below 50,000 after 5 weeks||LUCKNOW: The number of active infections in the state slipped below 50,000 on Friday even though 3,946 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours. Active cases refer to the number of persons undergoing treatment for Covid-19 as on date. Of the total 49,112 active infections, 40% are from 10 districts, including Lucknow which accounts for 6,236 cases (or 13% of the total active infections in UP). The other big cities include Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Varanasi and Gorakhpur. Besides, 14 districts in the state have 500 or more active infections. UP government officials said CM has instructed health officials to closely monitor the situation in the 24 districts of which 10 are in western UP. “The last time active infections were below 50,000 was on August 25,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit MohanPrasad, adding, “The maximum number of active cases were reported on September 17 when the count was 68,235.” Prasad said in the wake of the declining active infections, UP had decided to do away with the Level-1 plus paid isolation facility in which people could stay in pre-decided hotels during the prescribed quarantine period. “With the availability of home isolation facility, the Level-1 plus was not being utilized. Therefore, no fresh admissions are being allowed in this category but those under isolation will be allowed to stay till their quarantine period ends,” Prasad said. As per data, 22,987 of the total active cases are under home isolation. Meanwhile, the new cases took the state’s total to above 4 lakh, with Lucknow recording 520 cases and nine deaths. Districts with more than 150 cases included Kanpur, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Gautam Budh Nagar and Meerut. Also, more than 5,000 patients recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 3.51 lakh. With this, UP’s Covid-19 recovery rate climbed to 86.5%. The state also recorded loss of 54 lives on account of the pandemic infection, taking the total deaths to 5,917.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-covid-cases-in-up-below-50k-after-5-weeks/articleshow/78454887.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||On Gandhi Jayanti, row over renaming of Kasturba jr college in West Godavari||Rajahmundry: The AP government has renamed Kasturba government junior college at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district after the father of a local legislator, sparking protests from Gandhians. Though the state government issued orders (GO Rt No 182) on September 8, the renaming of the college came to light on Gandhi Jayanti when a few freedom fighters and Gandhians lodged their protest. They demanded that the original name of the college be retained as a mark of respect to Kasturba Gandhi, wife of Mahatma Gandhi. The GO stated that the government “after careful consideration” accorded permission to rename Kasturba college after Sri Grandhi Venkateswara Rao. Rao is the father of YSRC legislator Grandhi Srinivas. The GO was signed by B Rajasekhar, principal secretary to the government. The college was established by Gandhian Chintalapudi Varaprasada Murthy Raju, who named the institution after Kasturba in 1969 to mark the birth centenary of Mahatma Gandhi. The land for the permanent building was donated by a philanthropist in 1977. However, the land donor’s heirs had approached the high court, which gave a verdict in their favour about five years ago. Later, the legislator donated 30 cents of land to the college and the building was named after his father, though the name of the institution remained unchanged. Indukuri Prasada Raju of AP Gandhi Smarak Nidhi said Murthy Raju had established 68 educational institutions and named all of them after freedom fighters. “Murthy Raju had put a condition before handing over the institution to the state government that its name should not be changed. We will launch a protest against the name change,” he said, adding that there is a high court direction to not change the name of the institution. When contacted, Grandhi Srinivas said he donated land for the college when the old building was in a dilapidated condition, and mobilised funds for the new building. “The so-called Gandhians, who are talking about the name change now, did not bother to construct a new building,” he said, and alleged that the issue is being politicised. He, however, said he had no intention to insult Kasturba Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-gandhi-jayanti-row-over-renaming-of-kasturba-jr-college-in-west-godavari/articleshow/78453898.cms||Samson Raj
October 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Two boats seized for illegal fishing in Arabian Sea||Karwar: Coast Guard (CG) authorities seized two fishing boats from Malpe, which were carrying out bull trawling in Arabian Sea off Karwar coast, and brought them to Karwar fishing port on Friday. Bull trawling, which has resulted in the depletion of fish population in the sea, has been banned by the government. On Friday, local fishermen complained to the authorities against illegal fishing by those onboard the two boats. CG authorities reached the spot and found illegal fishing being carried out mids-sea. They seized the boats and handed them over to the Coastal Security Police, who in turn gave them to the fisheries officials for further action. Fisheries officials said that they would impose fine equivalent to five times the value of the fish caught by the boats. But local fishermen opposed the decision, saying if the quantity of the catch is less, then the errant boat owners would escape with small amount of fine. Instead, the authorities should impose fine that’s equivalent to five times the value of the boats, “as doing so will teach law-breakers a lesson”, they said. The seized boats have been kept at the fisheries port here, and their owners have been informed, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-boats-seized-for-illegal-fishing-in-arabian-sea/articleshow/78452975.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Centre urges PSUs, pvt cos to adopt GSFC’s Atmanirbhar model||AHMEDABAD: Taking a lead in responding to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clarion call of building an Atmanirbhar Bharat, state-owned Gujarat State Fertilizer and Chemicals (GSFC) has planned to invest Rs 1,500-2,000 crore for rolling out as many as 21 products where India has a strong dependency on imports, especially from China. The strategy is to make products that are in line with the current manufacturing facilities. It has been welcomed by the central ministry that has directed other central PSUs to follow this model and even urged private manufacturers to do so. The ministry of chemicals and fertilizers has urged Indian manufacturers in the sector to augment their own research and development department and explore the possibilities of manufacturing import substitutes. Lauding GSFC’s initiative, Amitabh Kant, CEO, Niti Aayog, government of India, said it will chart a new paradigm, especially for the chemicals sector in India. He said that discussions have been held by the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers with companies and all industry associations. The GSFC’s Aatma Nirbhar model is likely to be replicated by other public sector as well as private sector undertakings. Mansukh Mandaviya, minister of state for chemicals and fertilizers said they have identified as many as 59 products where Indian companies can gain a stronghold by augmenting capacities. “GSFC’s model for ‘Aatma Nirbhar’ where it aims to focus on 21 products is something that other Indian companies can follow,” according to Mandaviya. GSFC achieved a total income of Rs 7,730 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020. For the Q1 of FY 2020-21, the company recently announced that it has earned total income of Rs 1,614 crore as against Rs 1,708 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. The company has cited the severe economic impact of Covid-19 pandemic, closure of the plant for three weeks during lockdown 1.0 and lower prices of their products for the reduction in income. GSFC had in May this year set up a research and development wing to identify products that are aligned to their business. “Inspired by the Prime Minister’s vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat, the R&D and market research departments of the company have been strengthened. We have identified 8 new industrial chemicals, 11 pharma and biotech intermediate products and 2 fertilizers for production,” said Arvind Agarwal, chairman and managing director of GSFC. The decision was taken at the GSFC’s 58th Annual General Meeting earlier this week. This unique initiative will result in substantial import substitution; thereby saving precious foreign exchange, according to Agarwal. At a time when companies are taking a conservative approach, cancelling or postponing proposed expansion plans, GSFC has chalked out fresh expansion plans. “We have decided to invest Rs 1,500-2,000 crore over the next three years. This will be towards developing the 21 products where India is dependent on foreign countries for more than half of its requirements,” said Agarwal. The new investment will be over and above the Rs 700 crore capital expenditure that was earlier approved by the company’s board this year. GSFC recently started production of calcium nitrate and is currently the only producer of the chemical in the country. It is one of the 21 products under GSFC’s Aatma Nirbhar initiative. “It is a very promising product and the market size for it in 2019-20 was Rs 225 crore. This product was being imported, especially from China. We aim to fulfil 50% of India’s requirement for calcium nitrate in a short period,” said Agarwal. Earlier on August 31, the company restarted its methanol plant at Vadodara. The factory was shut for six years due to non-viability. It is currently operating at 90% capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/centre-urges-psus-pvt-cos-to-adopt-gsfcs-atmanirbhar-model/articleshow/78453848.cms||Maulik Pathak
October 3, 2020||Patna||Hurdles sorted, we’ll fight together: MGB||PATNA: After days of uncertainty and a war of words between allies RJD and Congress pushing the alliance to the brink, the sparring Mahagathbandhan partners on Friday claimed to have reached a consensus and resolved to fight the assembly polls together. Sources said RJD and Congress have decided to put an end to verbal jousting and show a united front with even CPI (ML), which had declared its list of 30 seats and had hinted at fighting alone, took a step back to join its Mahagatbandhan partners. “It is confirmed now that we will be fighting together. Most issues have been sorted out and an official announcement will be made soon,” said a Congress leader. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said talks were held in a very positive atmosphere on Friday and most issues have been sorted. “In a day, or two, we will declare everything,” Gagan added. According to sources in the opposition alliance, RJD will get between 136 and 145 seats, depending on how many it is giving to Mukesh Sahni’s VIP. Congress may get around 65 to 68 seats, CPI (ML) to get 18-19 seats while and CPI and CPM together is likely to be given 10 seats. JMM may get two seats and VIP around 8 to 10 seats. “RJD may further reduce its seat, or will ask VIP to allow its candidate to contest on the latter’s symbol,” said a source, adding, “Almost all problems have been sorted, barring few.” CPI (ML) state secretary Kunal said there has been considerable progress in the talks with RJD. “Basic consensus has been reached. We will soon make an announcement together,” Kunal added. However, leaders of none of the alliance partners were willing to come on record to confirm the seat-sharing formula citing ongoing talks. “There are no problems in the alliance, and if there any slight hurdles they will be sorted out,” said state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, adding the alliance is intact. Congress state in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil also echoed the sentiments and asked to wait for official announcements. Friday’s developments seem to have brought back all Mahagatbandhan partners from the brink of collapse. Till Thursday, Congress was talking of fighting on all 243 seats if not given a respectable number. Even Gohil after landing in Patna on Thursday night had reminded RJD how the decision of going it alone in 2009 and 2010 elections made both of them suffer. Gohil reminded how Lalu’s quality of managing the alliance partners in 2014 had brought all the secular partners together. RJD state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari had retorted, “Instead of wasting energy on criticizing Tejashwi Ji, Gohil Ji should use his energy against NDA. He is not aware of the ground reality that 12 crore people of Bihar are on Tejashwi Ji’s boat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hurdles-sorted-well-fight-together-mgb/articleshow/78452309.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||VTU tweaks names of 10 BE courses for students’ benefit||Mysuru: In a big move, which is expected to help thousands of students who graduated from the state-run Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), the university announced that 10 of its BE courses, which are not in demand, as equivalent to their peer courses which are in demand. For example, the university announced that BE in industrial production and engineering, automobile engineering and tool engineering are equivalent to BE in mechanical engineering. Similarly, BE in transportation engineering, construction technology and management and environmental engineering are equivalent to BE in civil engineering. “It is a big move which is expected to help a lot of students,” said authorities from the university. According to VTU vice-chancellor Karisiddappa, if any past graduates facing any issues due to the course name, they can approach the university seeking the equivalent certificate. According to sources, the proposal in this regard is old. “There were complaints that a few graduates not being able to climb the corporate ladder in the mid-career level due to the course name. In the last three years, there was a proposal in this regard,” said an officer from the technical education department. “Many courses have the same syllabus and teaching methodology even though the course names were different. Now these courses are announced as equivalent,” Karisiddappa added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vtu-tweaks-names-of-10-be-courses-for-students-benefit/articleshow/78451394.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 3, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Trouble swallowing pills? Now, drink them!||VADODARA: Here, chew on this good news about medicines. Soon, you won’t need to swallow those chokingly huge pills or vomit out the slimy capsules. Not to speak of making lives easier while handling pills with reluctant or small children, or elderly suffering from diabetes, hypertension or Alzheimer’s. Your daunting medicine routines could well be things of past as M S University researchers have developed oral compositions and processes that make taking medicines easy for patients. Dr Krutika Sawant, dean of Faculty of Pharmacy, said, “We prepared the drugs in very small micron size particles. Later, at least two layers of coating of polymers were applied on these particles. This has been done so that the drug remains protected from the environment as well as when it enters the human body. It also helps in controlled and uniform release of drugs in the body.” The Patent Office of Government of India has granted a patent to this promising invention that can even reduce the frequency of medicines that patients require to take in a day. As PhD guide, Sawant guided research work of Dr Piyush Mundada and Dr Veenu Mundada, on ‘oral compositions and processes for preparing different dosage forms comprising controlled-release multi-unit particulate system’ that has been patented. The researchers have invented two methods – converting the particles in powder form or converting them into oral tablets that can easily dissolve in the mouth. “In simple terms, the drug will be available in the market in powder form. You just need to add some water, shake it and drink the doses of liquid formulation within a week or a month,” she said. In another process, the particles are cushioned and converted into orally disintegrating tablets. “These tablets are prepared in such a way that the particles do not get damaged during compression. When a person puts these tablets in their mouth, it immediately breaks down and dissolves in the mouth,” she said. To make it patient-friendly, the researchers have added colour, flavour, taste marking agents and special additives. The new processes will be especially helpful to those who have to consume medicines twice or thrice a day. “We have designed it for sustained release for 24 hours,” she said. The team has received encouraging results in animal studies when drugs of diabetes and blood pressure were tested on them. “We will now approach pharma firms for commercialisation,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/trouble-swallowing-pills-now-drink-them/articleshow/78452122.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopalis enjoy Bapu’s letters to Hitler, Churchill, Ba in e-exhibition||BHOPAL: On his 151st birthday, as the country pays homage to the man, who played pivotal role in getting India her freedom, a very special treat - an online exhibition on Mahatma Gandhi and his life - was meticulously planned by the directorate of archaeology, archives and museums, Bhopal, on Thursday, the eve of his birth anniversary. In this virtual exhibition, a lot of students of history, political science, archaelogy, social science and several Gandhi admirers, got a chance to get up close with some of the rare photographs depicting his life as a youngster in a large joint family. Another part of the virtual exhibition that got maximum attention was, Mahatma’s letters to Hitler, Kasturba, Winston Churchill etc. that depicted his humility, his inherent compassion for people and made him a larger-than-life icon. “I had no clue that Bapu had ever written to Hitler because those two were starkly different personalities,” said 23-year-old commerce student, Nidhi Agrawal, and added, “It was an eye-opener of a document, where Bapu actually pleaded with the autocrat to reconsider his decision to go to war.” Explaining that youth today relates quite well with Gandhi, deputy director, directorate of archaeology, Dr Gita Subherwal, said, “Youth, in fact, finds Gandhi ji’s ideas quite modern and relevant. Whether it is khadi or his ideas of being accessible to all or even the way he recycled paper and scribbled at the back of an envelope, gels well with the current generation. There are a lot of students who come to us for research work; they are intrigued by this man, who was so ahead of his times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopalis-enjoy-bapus-letters-to-hitler-churchill-ba-in-e-exhibition/articleshow/78452324.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Ganja worth Rs 15L seized in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Q branch police in Thanjavur district seized 170kg of ganja meant to be smuggled to Rameswaram in a midnight operation on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off, police rounded up a three-member gang at Velivayal near Sethubavachathiram. The team found 85 bundles of ganja each weighing 2kg to be smuggled to Rameswaram by a country boat. The market value of the contraband is said to be Rs 15 lakh. The accused were identified as N Kumar, 38 of Keezhathottam, V Krishnamoorthy, 35 from the same area and Kandhan, 50 of Pudhukudi near Kottaipattinam in Pudukottai district. They were all taken to Sethubavachathiram police station for further investigation. On getting the information, narcotics intelligence bureau (NIB) also joined the Q branch police team for investigation. The preliminary enquiry revealed that the ganja was brought here from Madurai through Kumar and the trio had planned to smuggle it to Rameswaram. A senior officer from NIB said that the gang planned to take the sea route to avoid getting caught by the police on road. It was the second incident of ganja seizure in a span of two days. On Tuesday, the Vellanur police in Pudukottai district had seized 176 kg of ganja from a car and arrested a history-sheeter Arockiadass, 49 near Vellanur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ganja-worth-rs-15l-seized-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78453852.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Dharwad district to test apartment dwellers to curb spread||HUBBALLI: The district administration will now test all apartment dwellers in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad for Covid-19 in a bid to curb the spread of the pandemic. As on October 1, the district reported a total 17,627 cases and 241 fatalities. The administration is now planning to ramp up testing with the aim of detecting asymptomatic carriers. Officials say these carriers could be superspreaders which is why the administration has decided to conduct tests especially in residential apartments. Authorities are already speaking to members of apartment associations and explaining to them the need for such tests. On Thursday, Hubballi urban tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal met with eight residential apartment associations at the Mini Vidhana Soudha. “We explained to them the situation and the necessity for tests,” Madyal said. “Residents who attended agreed and they will soon give us dates to conduct tests. We have more than 90 apartments in the city and nine teams are ready to administer the tests.” He added: “We are sure they will extend full cooperation. If a person tests positive, the administration will either provide treatment at home or shift the patient to a Covid Care Centre or to a hospital if symptoms are severe.” District deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said they will conduct rapid antigen (RAT) or RT-PCR tests depending on symptoms and severity. “Tests are voluntary,” Patil said. “People who suspect they have an infection can visit these locations and can give swab samples. They need not go to KIMS.” He said the administration has many plans to curb the spread of the virus one of which is to get the police to fine people not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dharwad-district-to-test-apartment-dwellers-to-curb-spread/articleshow/78451221.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 3, 2020||Kolhapur||GMCH provides escort to women medicos after failed kidnap bid||Aurangabad: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) administration here has deployed security personnel to escort women medicos from hostel to wards, following an attempt to kidnap one of them.Two unidentified suspects allegedly tried to kidnap a 25-year old woman medico early on Thursday morning while she was walking towards the super-specialty ward from her hostel. They, however, fled soon after she raised an alarm.Hospital superintendent Suresh Harbade said, “Night rounds have also been increased and streetlights repaired for the safety of women medicos. Police have been requested to ensure presence and patrolling on the GMCH premises.”The medico, in her statement to the Begumpura police, said that two young men tried to drag her into the bushes while threatening with a sharp edged weapon. It was only after she started crying for help, the duo got panicked and escaped from the scene.The incident left the resident doctors shocked. Senior police authorities and the GMCH administration officials held marathon meetings to scale up security on at the hospital premises and address the issues of street lights and clearing of bushes.The security audit has also found that the boundary walls of the GMCH are broken from different sides, giving easy access and exit to any person without any check.Despite repeated attempts, Begumpura police station Sachin Sanap could not be reached for comment. Some resident doctors have even blamed police for failing to keep a check on anti-social elements in the area surrounding the GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/gmch-provides-escort-to-women-medicos-after-failed-kidnap-bid/articleshow/78451217.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Grama sabha meets cancelled for fear of resolutions: DMK||Trichy: While the district administration cited the Covid-19 spread as the reason for cancellation of grama sabha meetings scheduled for Gandhi Jayanthi, DMK principal secretary K N Nehru on Friday attributed it to fears over resolutions being passed against the farm bills. Trichy collector S Sivarasu had announced late on Thursday that grama sabha meetings in 404 panchayats in the district had been cancelled due to Covid-19. Addressing people at Alundhur in Manikandam union, Mullikarumbur in Andhanallur union and Appathurai in Lalgudi union, Nehru said the government was apprehensive that the village panchayats will passing resolutions against the farm bills. He alleged that The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, will be detrimental to the interests of the farming community. “The Acts will pave the way for the agricultural sector to come under the control of corporate companies. Agriculture and farmers will be badly hit,” he said. Acting on the direction of party president M K Stalin, DMK functionaries planned to hold meetings in panchayats led by the presidents. Nehru told TOI that over 500 village panchayat presidents in the central region met people but did not conduct the grama sabha meeting. “Since the government ordered not to hold the meeting, it was not organised by us anywhere and resolutions were not passed,” he said. Nehru also said that the police booked them for conducting the meeting during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/grama-sabha-meets-cancelled-for-fear-of-resolutions-dmk/articleshow/78453870.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Aided schools await non-salary grants||Nagpur: Even as aided schools plead for Covid-19 sanitization funds from the government, their fixed non-salary grants (NSG) for last financial year haven’t landed in their bank accounts yet. Since aided schools can’t charge fee, NSG helps them meet expenses like utility bills, maintenance etc. NSG is paid as a lump sum amount to schools after the financial year ends. Nago Ganar, MLC from teachers constituency said, “Schools in Maharashtra have not received even a single penny for financial year 2019-20.” Madhusudhan Mude, principal of Major Hemant Jakate High School and Junior College, said that it may end up being a long wait. “We all know that the government does not have money. They are struggling with their finances and NSG is a low priority item. I don’t think it’s going to come any time soon,” said Mude. Ashok Gavhankar, principal of Raosaheb Thawre High School and Junior College, said that this is a big problem for aided schools. “The NSG is insufficient, but at least some small expenses can be met through it. We have not got anything since April. We did not press for it for the first couple of months because Covid-19 had just started to take hold and then the surge in cases in Mumbai and Pune happened. But now it’s almost Diwali and schools have not received anything,” said Gavhankar. Being a Marathi medium school, students of Thawre school come from families that are not of sound financial background, which rules out chances of seeking voluntary contribution either. Every school receives a separate amount as it is tagged to that particular institution’s salary bill. MLC Ganar said, “Schools get 4% of their total salary amount. But the mischief government has done is that while teachers currently get Seventh Pay commission level salary, the NSG is calculated at Fifth Pay commission level. We are fighting over this and hopefully one day schools will get their rightful amount.” He added that currently the NSG received by any school cannot even pay for electricity bill. “Any other expense is met through forcible collections from teachers and sometimes even students,” said Ganar. TOI received no response to queries sent to the education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aided-schools-await-non-salary-grants/articleshow/78453905.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shiv Sena's youth wing leader stabbed 47 times, ‘old rivalry’ behind murder||PUNE: Deepak Maratkar (36), deputy chief of Shiv Sena’s youth wing in the city, was brutally stabbed to death by six men near his house in Gavli Aali in Budhwar Peth just after midnight on Thursday. He had 47 stab wounds over his body, face and back, the police said. Maratkar was the son of former Shiv Sena corporator Vijay Maratkar, who died of Covid-19 on July 21. The Faraskhana police on Friday evening arrested three people, including a woman, on the charge of murdering Maratkar over a festering “old rivalry” the woman had with his father on elections and property matters. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar identified the arrested as Ashwini Kamble, the main suspect, Mahendra Saraf, with whom the victim had a dispute, and Niranjan Mahankale, all residents of Budhwar Peth. Nominated by a prominent political party, Kamble had contested the 2017 civic elections against the senior Maratkar. Both had lost the polls, the police said. City Sena chief Sanjay More said Maratkar’s family and the woman (Kamble) have a dispute going back to 1998. “I had accompanied Deepak to the Faraskhana police station recently for a mediation talk with the woman. Both agreed to settle matters. Yet, Deepak was murdered brutally,” More said. The murder shocked residents of the old city area, besides creating a stir in political circles. On Friday afternoon, a delegation of leaders from different parties met deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Swapna Gore demanding action against the culprits under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act. Police said Maratkar and his relative were walking in Gavli Aali after dinner around Thursday midnight. They sat on a bench along the lane to look at some photos on Maratkar’s smartphone. “Around 12.15am, two men arrived on a motorcycle and tried to assault Maratkar. He dodged their blows and tried to flee. Four more men arrived from the opposite end of the lane, assaulted Maratkar and fled,” a Faraskhana police officer said. Local residents took him to a nearby private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. After the senior Maratkar’s death, Kamble had filed a complaint with the Pune Municipal Corporation against the son over an encroachment. “Maratkar retaliated by stopping her earnings from rent of some rooms she had in Budhwar Peth,” assistant commissioner of police Milind Patil said. Kamble and Maratkar had filed complaint applications against each other with the Faraskhana police. Investigations also revealed that Maratkar had fought with one of the arrested suspects who lives in the same lane. “Kamble and this person hatched a plot to eliminate Maratkar,” the officer said. Maratkar is survived by his wife, two daughters, mother and brother, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sena-youth-wing-leader-stabbed-47-times-old-rivalry-behind-murder/articleshow/78453892.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Gearing up for masked Puja festivities||LUCKNOW: A day after UP government issued Unlock-5 guidelines and permitted Durga Puja celebrations with some restrictions, prominent puja organizers in the city on Friday started making arrangements accordingly. Earlier, there was a complete restriction on pandals and gathering. Major Durga Puja committees said that instead of performing a one-day ‘ghat’ or kalash, as decided earlier, the committees will perform the customary ‘pratima puja’ (idol worship). Though, instead of worshipping 12-15ft high idols, the idols this year will not be more than 5-6ft in height. To avoid overcrowding and ensuring social distancing, barricading will be put up on pandal premises and devotees will be advised to bring their own flowers for ‘pushpanjali’ ritual. No one will be allowed to enter the pandal without a mask. “We are glad that the chief minister has come in support of the puja committees and allowed us to host the festival. Since earlier it was decided that there will be no celebration due to the pandemic, we couldn’t follow our 106-year-old tradition of ‘pratima’ making on our premises. But, now we have managed to give an order for a 6-ft tall idol of Ma Durga and are also trying to book ‘dhakis’ for the celebration,” said Arun Kumar Banerjee, president, Bengali Club and Youngmen’s Association. Apart from avoiding larger-than-life themed pandals this year, the puja committees will also not be hosting the ritual of feasting or general ‘bhog’, neither will allow any offerings. “The puja will be performed traditionally without any cultural events. We have a short time to prepare, but we will make sure that devotees don’t miss the festive aura while ensuring safety protocols,” said Manoj Bhadra, president of Bondhu Mahal. The 78-year-old Durga Puja by Latouche Road Puja Sangsad Society will allow only 10-20 members to enter at a time after thermal scanning. Ramakrishna Math has also started preparation. The Trans-Gomti Durga Puja and Dussehra Committee has decided to distribute donation money among poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gearing-up-for-masked-puja-festivities/articleshow/78454891.cms||Aditi Singh
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Unlisted farmers steal power, cause losses’||Gandhinagar: The PSE committee of the Gujarat assembly has observed huge theft of electricity by non-listed users of agriculture power, resulting in huge losses to the state exchequer. The committee has directed the state energy & petrochemicals department and the state government to address the issue in a scientific manner to prevent losses every year. After a detailed scrutiny of observations made by the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) because of unauthorized electricity consumption, the PSE, in its report submitted before the assembly, has asked the state government to ensure that all agriculture power users have meters installed at the earliest. The PSE in its report, has noted, “During the scrutiny period of state-run power distribution companies during 2009-10 to 2014-15, it was found that agriculture power consumption by non-registered farmers was very high compared to farmers having agriculture meters. When non-registered farmers used 5,822 million units more than registered users, the loss to the exchequer was Rs 1,778 crore. Similarly, when non-registered users used 7,569 more MUs as compared to registered users, the resultant loss was Rs 2,911 crore for providing subsidised power to the agriculture sector.” The report further said, “As the government charges only one third of the actual power for agriculture, use by non-metered consumers is causing huge financial losses to the state exchequer. Although Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) has directed in 2004 that this malpractice should be controlled, and all agriculture power consumers should have metered connection, the situation has still not improved.”Commenting on the response of the department, the report said that the state energy department contended that since farming electricity connections are in far-flung areas, it is difficult to monitor power theft. “This is a social-political issue, so limited success has been achieved so far,’’ the PSE committee noted. In its final recommendations, the PSE panel said, “the department needs to implement GERC guidelines for including all such agriculture power users who are using it without meters. All must have meters to prevent the loss to the state exchequer,” the committee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unlisted-farmers-steal-power-cause-losses/articleshow/78453951.cms||Kapil Dave
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||Cong defensive over Baraiya’s viral video||Bhopal: A month before the assembly bypolls, state Congress became defensive on Friday after a controversial video of party candidate from Bhander constituency Phool Singh Baraiya went viral on the social media. In the video Baraiya is seen giving a speech at a public meeting in front of the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar saying the Dalits and Muslims constitute 85% of population and they should drive out 15% upper castes. While BJP said Congress candidate Baraiya was spewing hatred, the Congress said it was an old video with which the party has nothing to do. “Time is running out,” he said addressing the meeting. “If we become weak, then they will amend the Constitution and make this a Hindu rashtra. And if we become strong, then we will get rid of these people,” Baraiya said. Baraiya joined the Congress last year from BSP and was given a ticket to contest for the third Rajya Sabha seat against BJP’s Sumer Singh Solanki which he lost. He has now been fielded as Congress candidate from the Bhander SC constituency which Baraiya won in 1998 as BSP candidate. “They are 15 crore and we are 85 crore. On one, six of us will climb. So they should stop the politics of castes and start talking of equality,” he said. With this video, the Congress had its back to the wall. The party initially claimed that it is an old video of Baraiyya, before he joined Congress. But the video also showed former minister and Congress MLA Lakhan Singh sitting on the dais. Speaking to TOI, state Congress spokesman Durgesh Sharma argued, “Phool Singh Baraiyya has always been fighting against Dalit oppression by people who are under the protection of BJP.” Meanwhile, Baraiya said, “They (BJP) tamper EVMs to win elections and execute all sorts of fraud. And they have edited a video, made a fake to win elections.” BJP countered Baraiya’s claim and said it the video is fake, then why not register an FIR?, asked BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-defensive-over-baraiyas-viral-video/articleshow/78452355.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Unable to make a living, migrants begin returning to cities||Nagpur: After the massive exodus that followed the lockdown, large groups, if not hordes, of migrant workers are again being spotted on the roads. This time, they are in buses scurrying back towards cities like Ahmedabad, Surat, Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore and Hyderabad in the south. Coming from remote villages in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal, they alight at Nagpur which is again serving as a hub for onward journey to their respective destinations. The phenomenon, which began over a month ago, went largely unnoticed as they were not as visible as when walking on the highways earlier. As TOI caught up with them, they said there was no choice but to return and once again take up the jobs paying Rs12,000 to Rs15,000 a month. It was not possible to earn that much in the villages. In May when workers were rushing home, many had said they may not return to the cities. “Yes, there is a risk of getting infected, but it was difficult to survive back in the villages too,” said 20-year-old Anwarul Shaikh from West Bengal near Ganeshpeth ST bus stand. Shaikh and six others were going to Pune where they worked in a stone crusher unit. Their employer had arranged their travel home during lockdown. One of them said he was sent by air. Now the employer had sponsored their journey back. Sunil Kumar and others who had just alighted at Kamptee Road had paid Rs2500 for a bus ticket from Allahabad to Pune. “There was a little scope for earning at our native place,” he said. Next to him, Ganpat from Dindori in Madhya Pradesh waited for the team leader. He was at his native place during the lockdown and had now set out after being promised work a Pune. “Had the UP government fulfilled its promise that every returning worker would be taken care of, why would anyone head for the cities again,” said one of them. Across the road, workers from Kaimur district in Bihar haggled with the rickshaw drivers for the fare to take them till the ST stand. “In the last six months we survived on free rations provided by the government. In between, we got jobs as farm hands earning Rs200 to 250 day. There was no permanent employment. We have to move out if needs of the family had to be met,” said Avdhesh Kumar. His group had reached their village before lockdown and was stranded. Now it was heading to Mukutban in Yavatmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unable-to-make-a-living-migrants-begin-returning-to-cities/articleshow/78453968.cms||Shishir Arya
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||New laws will benefit farmers, says Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said the Centre will ensure that minimum support price (MSP) is paid for crops and the new farm laws passed by the parliament will not affect the support price. Speaking at a round table conference on farm laws, the minister, who also represents Secunderabad in the Lok Sabha, said that the legislations were made to provide freedom to the farmer to sell his produce wherever it is beneficial for him. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants the country to develop on all fronts, hence these laws were passed. Unfortunately, they are being opposed without even proper study,” he said. The minister clarified that they are ready for debate and discussion with any of the farmers’ organisation. Former state BJP president and national OBC cell chairman K Laxman said the laws were formulated after consulting several experts. Lok Satta founder Jayaprakahs Narayan said that farm laws are necessary but they will not create any wonders or magic for the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-laws-will-benefit-farmers-says-kishan/articleshow/78453964.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Four held in Maharashtra with over 100 kg marijuana||AURANGABAD: The crime branch on Thursday arrested four suspects and seized a vehicle in which over 100 kilograms of high quality marijuana was being carried. The accused have been identified as Vishal Tamchikar (48), Shersingh Indrekar (36) and two women accomplices. Crime branch inspector Anil Gaikwad said the suspects have a history of trading in these banned substances. “We have registered a case under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and efforts are on to find out the source of this huge quantity of drug.” The officer said that following a specific input the car coming from Chowka Ghat was intercepted near Mayur Park of Harsul area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-with-over-100-kg-marijuana/articleshow/78451235.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata International Film Festival physical edition on track, seats may have to be booked online||KOLKATA: The possibility of hosting the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) in its physical format seems to get brighter, especially after the Centre’s Unlock 5.0 plans, which has allowed cinemas to reopen from October 15 with 50% occupancy. With International Film Festival of India (IFFI) being postponed, KIFF will be the only government-run film festival in India that will have a physical edition. Chairperson of 25th KIFF Raj Chakrabarty said, “Now, it is certain that we will be able to host the festival with an on-ground event. This is being possible because right from the beginning, the entire team has worked on a positive note.” However, film lovers will not have to risk their health by standing in serpentine queues at KIFF venues. “ There will be a system, under which people with guest and delegate cards will have to book their seats online in advance. Only those with pre-booked seats will be allowed entry,” Chakrabarty added. As it will not be possible to fly down international delegates amid the pandemic, Chakrabarty said, “We are trying our best to ensure the virtual presence of all the delegates.” A good number of international films from Italy, Korea, Canada, Poland and Australia have applied for the competitive section. Among them is the South Korean film, ‘The Woman Who Ran’, which follows a woman, who has three separate encounters with friends while her husband is on a business trip. Directed by Hong Sang-soo—often dubbed the “Korean Woody Allen”—this film was selected to compete for Golden Bear at the 70th Berlin International Film Festival. ‘Thou Shalt Not Hate’ from Italy—by a first-time director—is about the son of a Holocaust survivor. Pascal Plante’s Canadian film, ‘Nadia, Butterfly’, which was earlier named as an official selection of the 2020 Cannes Film Festival but could not be screened, is also in competition. François Ozon’s French movie, ‘Summer of 85’ deals with two teenaged boys who fall for each other with tragic results in a drama about infatuation and death. Iranian film, ‘Namo’ is an interesting entry. It traces the paranoia unleashed among neighbours of an ordinary Iranian town by the daily presence of two strangers in a parked car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kiff-physical-edition-on-track-seats-may-have-to-be-booked-online/articleshow/78454105.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Hathras horror: Hundreds protest at Jantar Mantar||NEW DELHI: Holding placards and shouting slogans, hundreds gathered at Jantar Mantar on Friday in protest against rising crimes against women and, specifically, the gangrape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras, UP. The protest began around 5pm and continued till 7.30pm. Addressing the crowd, estimated by police at around 300, from atop an SUV, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad declared that the agitation would continue “until UP CM Yogi Adityanath resigns and justice is served”. Blaming the CM for what he described as “murder of democracy” in that state, Azad said he would visit Hathras soon. The Dalit rights leader requested the Supreme Court to take note of the Hathras horror, and said, “There is goonda raj in UP right now, and we have to protest if we are to protect our sisters.” He added, “The Hathras victim’s family is being threatened and her family members have even been beaten up. Does this happen in a democracy?” Azad also appealed to sanitation workers across the country to boycott work “so that the government knows who is actually spreading dirt in society”. He said, “Our strength is in our body and we will fight this dictatorial government.” Among most protesters critical of the UP government was CPI member Kanhaiya Kumar, former JNU student leader. “While we are facing the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a bigger pandemic, that of patriarchal and casteist thought,” he said. “The government said 'beti bachao', but save them from who, the government and the party and its supporters?” On his part, senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan reported, “The victim’s village has been cordoned off by police, who are neither allowing members of the political opposition or the media to enter. The family members of the victim are also facing threats.” Quoting Allahabad High Court Justice AN Mulla’s observations in a 1961 case, Bhushan alleged, “UP Police is the largest organised criminal gang in the country.” Elaborating on the theme of democratic abuse, Yogendra Yadav, founder of Swaraj Abhiyan, said, “The Hathras incident proves the complete breakdown of anything called rule of law. It is just not that a rape happened, which is bad enough, not just that she was killed, which is worse, but there is political patronage for the accused. Right from the beginning, the UP administration tried to ensure the news didn’t get out, the family of the victim was denied decent minimal cremation that even criminals are entitled to.” CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury reiterated Yadav’s opinion that the current UP government had “no reason to exist”, and insisted justice had to be served. Among the protesters was an eight-year-old girl from Shahdara who had accompanied her father to Jantar Mantar. She had a poster which read, “I am Nirbhaya, I am (Hathras). I am the story of rape”. She told TOI, “I am only a child, but I understand what is happening in the country. Action must be taken against the accused. And it was unfair of police to have burnt the victim’s body.” Apart from student organisations, actor Swara Bhaskar and politician Jignesh Mevani also reached the protest site. Several women also extended their support by using their lipstick to write ‘shame’ and similar messages on a board demanding justice for the victim. Madhurima Kundu, a PhD scholar, was angry at being disallowed to protest at India Gate when the government permitted rallies for Bihar elections. She said the protest was not only about Hathras, but “against many such incidents and how women are treated in the country”. The fear of Covid, pervasive over the city, seemed missing at Jantar Mantar. Most people in the crowd were wearing face masks, but there were many who weren’t or had pulled them off. Police said the protesters had violated the ban on assembly of more than five people under Section 144 CrPC and other laws prevailing due to Covid. A case under Section 188 of IPC, Section 3 of Epidemic Act and Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act has been registered against the protesters at Parliament Street police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hathras-horror-hundreds-protest-at-jantar-mantar/articleshow/78453962.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||CAU names 3 guest players for state cricket team||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) has announced the names of three guest cricketers who will represent the senior state team in the upcoming domestic cricket season. After consulting with coach Wasim Jaffer and other stakeholders, the association has finalised Iqbal Abdulla, Samad Fallah, and Jay Bista in order to inject experience into the young Uttarakhand side. Fallah used to represent Maharashtra while Bista and Abdulla played for the Mumbai team in domestic cricket. Meanwhile, the association has decided to remove guest cricketers — which included former India Under-19 World Cup winning captain Unmukt Chand — after witnessing the poor performance of the Uttarakhand team in the previous domestic tournaments, especially the prestigious Ranji Trophy where the state was relegated back to the Plate Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-names-3-guest-players-for-state-cricket-team/articleshow/78451232.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||CM flags of country’s first mobile Covid test lab||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday flagged off what is being dubbed as the country’s first mobile Covid-19 testing lab in Haridwar. Officials say that the lab – which has the capacity to test 200 samples per day — is equipped to conduct both antigen and RT-PCR testing. Dr SK Jha, chief medical officer of Haridwar, said that the mobile van will be beneficial for Covid-19 testing of people in villages, border areas, and interior regions. “We will try to expand the testing capacity of the mobile van in the days to come,” said Dr Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-flags-of-countrys-first-mobile-covid-test-lab/articleshow/78451248.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Grammy winner bats for Gandhian way||LUCKNOW: Mahtama Gandhi believed that every individual is empowered to make a change. We should proceed towards our goal with these lines in mind to immortalise his beliefs, said Grammy-winning composer Ricky Kej on Friday. Kej, who is also a professor at Bengaluru’s National Institute of Advanced Studies, talked about the ‘Gandhian way of self-sustainable living’ during a programme organised by CSIR-Indian Institute of Toxicology Research on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary in the city. Kej said that an individual should move ahead in life with self-belief. Another guest at the programme Prof Vibhuti Patel from Advanced Centre for Women’s Studies, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) delivered a talk on ‘Mahatma Gandhi and Empowerment of Women’.  “If strength means moral power, then a woman is immeasurably a man’s superior. Bapu’s profound belief was that a woman is an incarnation of Ahimsa (non-violence),” she said .  IITR director Prof Alok Dhawan said, “Women empowerment and gender equality were very dear to Gandhiji. The onus to ensure gender equality is as much an individual’s responsibility as of the government’s.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/grammy-winner-bats-for-gandhian-way/articleshow/78454893.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Youths held for cutting birthday cake with sword||Trichy: Trichy city police have arrested four youths including two minors after a video of them cutting a birthday cake with a sword went viral on social media, on Thursday. The Woraiyur police arrested K Thanis Ahamed, 27, S Mohammed Azharuddin, 23, and two 17-year-old boys – all hailing from Palayam Bazaar in the city -on charges of negligent act likely to spread infectious disease under IPC and forwarding the video on social media under Information Technology (IT) Act. The police sources said that the four decided to celebrate Thanis Ahamed’s birthday at his house in Pakkupettai in Woraiyur on Wednesday midnight. They cut the cake with a sword like a knife. The entire incident was recorded on a mobile phone and shared on WhatsApp. As the video came to the notice of the police, SSI Vasu of Woraiyur police station lodged a complaint. The police arrested all the four and released them on bail. Police sources said that one of them was a school student while the others were employed. There have been earlier incidents of youths celebrating birthdays by cutting cake with swords in Srirangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youths-held-for-cutting-birthday-cake-with-sword/articleshow/78453961.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||Covid +ve Harak Singh Rawat complains of breathing issues, shifted to hosp||Dehradun: Uttarakhand cabinet minister Harak Singh Rawat, who had tested positive for coronavirus a few days ago, was shifted to a hospital on Friday after he complained of respiratory issues. “Rawat had tested Covid-19 positive on September 22. He has been under home isolation for the last 11 days. On Friday, he was brought to the Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). Doctors are monitoring his condition and he is stable as of now,” said Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal of GDMCH. On Friday, Uttarakhand recorded 311 fresh cases of Covid-19. With this, the case tally reached 49,559 in the state. Among the positive cases found on the day, 132 infections were reported from Haridwar, 67 from Dehradun, 47 from Tehri Garhwal, 33 from Uttarkashi, and 14 from Almora. “This was the first day in the last three months when Udham Singh Nagar didn’t report a single Covid-19 case. Champawat and Pithoragarh also didn’t report any new infection. The other five hill districts reported a total of 18 cases,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The official added that 11 new fatalities pushed the Covid-19 toll to 636 in the Himalayan state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-ve-harak-singh-rawat-complains-of-breathing-issues-shifted-to-hosp/articleshow/78451255.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Farmers will fight against new laws’||Warangal: AICC secretary Srinivasan Krishnan called upon farmers to fight against the new farm bills. Launching a campaign, he started collection of signatures from farmers in DCC bhavan of Hanamkonda. “Farmers are aware of the cheating ways and fight against the bills,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-will-fight-against-new-laws/articleshow/78454016.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Majlis for Wajid Ali Shah’s great grandson at ancestral Imambara||LUCKNOW: The great grandson of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah and Begum Hazrat Mahal, Kaukab Quder Mirza, lost his life to Covid-19 in Kolkata early in September at the age of 87 years. To remember the man and for tranquillity of his soul, a majlis (mourning sermon) was held at the city’s Imambara Sibtainabad on Friday evening. The Imambara also houses the tomb of King Amjad Ali Shah—the father of Wajid Ali Shah—and it was for the first time in the last three generations of the King that a majlis for any of his descendants was held at the place. Organised by the Committee Waqf Sibtainabad Imambara, the majlis recited by Maulana Ali Raza Zaidi was also live streamed and the deceased’s family in Kolkata were audience to it, along with others around the world. “We are grateful that a much deserved and befitting tribute to not only my father Kaukab Quder but to all the ancestors of Awadh’s royal family was paid on Friday,” said his daughter Manzilat Fatima. “My father, who retired as professor from Aligarh Muslim University, was also the senior-most trustee of Imambara Sibtainabad Trust,” she added. “All safety guidelines for the present pandemic situation were strictly adhered to and not many people were allowed to be present at the venue physically. He was a man of high intellect and virtue and a tribute at his ancestor’s tomb was the least we could do,” said mutawwali of the waqf Mohammad Haider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/majlis-for-wajid-ali-shahs-great-grandson-at-ancestral-imambara/articleshow/78454898.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Rare Karvi flower blooms at Gautala sanctuary, lights up wildlife week||AURANGABAD: The Karvi flowers that are endemic to Western Ghats and bloom once in seven years have been spotted at Gautala Autramghat wildlife sanctuary, located about 65km from here. Experts were surprised to find Karvi (Strobilanthes callosus) in the relatively dry region of Marathwada. Botanical expert Milind Giridhari, who spotted the purplish-blue wild flowers of Karvi during his recent study tour at the sanctuary, said there is no record of the plant in Marathwada in the last 50 years. “Karvi flowers were spotted in the region in the early 1950s and thereafter, there is no record of such sighting. The unique blooming pattern of Karvi might have made the shrub elusive for the region,” he said. Elaborating on the characteristics of Karvi, Giridhari said shrub has very interesting life cycle. “The plant flowers only once and then dies off soon after seeding. This sequence of flowering and seeding is called masting, which is a natural way for the plant to reduce losses from invasion and ingestion and at the same time, maximise the chances of regeneration,” he said. The Karvi plant has many uses as well as its leaves and the stems are used by locals for thatched roofs, whereas crushed leaves and the juice is believed to have medicinal value in curing stomach ailments. Besides Karvi, Gautala Autramghat sanctuary also houses some rare plants such as Kandil Pushpa (Ceropegia hirsuta), Kaushi (Firmiana colorata) and Kakad (Garuga pinnata). When contacted, S S Dhole, range forest officer attached with Gautala Autramghat sanctuary, said the excess rainfall during the current monsoon could be the reason for thriving of Karvi in the sanctuary. “The sanctuary gets an average 600 mm rainfall during monsoon, but has received around 850 mm rainfall during the current rainy season so far. While Karvi flowers have spotted blossoming at the sanctuary after almost six decades, we are creating a proper documentation of it with the help of experts,” he said. Incidentally, the Wildlife Week this year, is being observed currently till October 7 on the theme of ‘Let’s know, the lesser known: The fauna, flora and the practices’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rare-karvi-flower-blooms-at-gautala-sanctuary-lights-up-wildlife-week/articleshow/78451260.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||2 booked for swindling Rs 59L land acquisition fund||Madurai: The district crime branch (DCB) police on Thursday registered a case against two people including a woman for misappropriation of Rs 58.65lakh government money from the office of the special tahsildar of land acquisition division. Sources said M Shanthi, a resident of K Pudur, was working as a computer operator at the office of the special tahsildar at Melur. She was in charge of depositing money in the bank accounts of land owners from whom land was acquired for the Melur-Karaikudi road project. A few months ago, Shanthi deposited Rs 22,42,139 in her bank account and prepared forged documents to show the money had been deposited in the accounts of beneficiaries. Similarly, she had deposited Rs 10,50,991 in the account of her brother Sankar Kumar, who is a resident of Bethaniyapuram in Madurai. In all, the woman misappropriated Rs 58,65,934 of government money. When Prabakaran, who is the special tahsildar for land acquisition division of Melur-Karaikudi road project, found out about the misappropriation of the huge sum, he lodged a complaint with the police. Madurai DCB police registered a case against Shanthi and Sankar Kumar and are investigating further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-booked-for-swindling-rs-59l-land-acquisition-fund/articleshow/78453972.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Karur MP held for staging protest||Trichy: Karur MP S Jothimani along with 13 others was arrested by Karur police on Thursday for staging protest condemning the arrest of former president of Congress party Rahul Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh. Rahul Gandhi was allegedly manhandled and arrested by Uttar Pradesh police when he tried to enter Hathras district where a 19-year-old dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men. The girl subsequently died in the hospital. Jothimani along with the Congress district president Chinnasami carried out a protest near Manohara statue on Karur-Coimbatore road and even burned an effigy of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adithyanath. Following this, Karur town police arrested her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-mp-held-for-staging-protest/articleshow/78453975.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bhopal||People will decide what is tamasha: kamal Nath on CM’s IIFA remark||BHOPAL: Reacting to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s claim that he does not believe in IIFA Awards “tamasha” (spectacle), state Congress president Kamal Nath said, “It is the people of the state who will decide what is tamasha and what isn’t, who is Shivraj Singh Chouhan to decide it?” The senior Congress leader said that it was chief minister Chouhan created spectacles for 15 years and yet he is calling IIFA Award a “tamasha”. “The Shivraj Singh Chouhan in whose tenure was identified with the mafia and adulterators will think such functions are a spectacle,” Kamal Nath said. “Shivraj Singh Chouhan speaks so much lies that even a lie would be embarrassed. Sometimes he claims my government allocated funds for IIFA whereas my government did not allocate any such fund for the awards function,” the former chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/people-will-decide-what-is-tamasha-nath-on-cms-iifa-remark/articleshow/78452369.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||‘Freedom fighter’s kin’s struggle for pension pathetic’||Madurai: Terming the undue delay in sanctioning freedom fighters dependent pension to the 75-year-old widow of a freedom fighter as pathetic, Madras high court on Thursday observed that the authorities should act swiftly to avoid delay in extending the benefit to freedom fighters and their dependants. The court was hearing the petition filed by M Meenatchi alias Meenachiammal Muppidathi, whose husband Muppidathi was a freedom fighter and had received pension from the Centre’s Swatantrata Sainik Samman pension scheme since 2010. After Muppidathi died in 2013, she submitted an application seeking dependent pension but it was yet to be considered. Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that in the present case, no other requirement was necessary, except to verify whether the petitioner is the widow and dependent of the freedom fighter, who was already receiving the pension till his demise in 2013. Such a long delay could have been avoided by the authorities, but fortunately for the petitioner, she is still surviving to see the light of the day in getting a dependent pension for the service rendered by her late husband to the nation during the freedom struggle. Hence the judge directed the secretary of Union ministry of home affairs (freedom fighters division) to consider the petitioner’s application and pass appropriate orders sanctioning freedom fighter’s dependent pension with arrears from March 20, 2013. The judge directed that the authorities shall continue to pay the dependent pension to the petitioner till her lifetime, and that the authorities must complete the exercise in six weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/freedom-fighters-kins-struggle-for-pension-pathetic/articleshow/78453980.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 3, 2020||Ahmedabad||Price decline fails to woo buyers towards gold, imports down 75% in Sep||AHMEDABAD: Despite a sharp decline in the price of gold, the demand for the yellow metal continued to remain low-key in September. Import of gold declined by a whopping 75% in just a month, down from 1.9 metric tonne (MT) in August to 0.47 MT in September, according to data by Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex (AACC). Analysts suggest that instead of fresh purchases, there was sales of gold by investors over profit booking as soon as the prices began declining.  “As soon as the prices began to decline, investors who had invested in gold earlier at a lower price sold off their gold for profit booking. As the festive season begins, and if prices are promising, they may once again put in fresh investments in gold. Meanwhile, with more people selling gold, stockists and jewellers were replete with stocks and due to Adhik maas and Shraddh period – which are typically inauspicious for gold purchases, fresh orders remained absent,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). With the decline, gold imports stood at a four-month low in Gujarat. Previously, imports stooped to this level in May at 0.20 MT. At the same time, the Shraddh period fell in September, which is considered to be inauspicious for gold buying and thus, deterred purchase of jewellery as well as bullion. “Gold demand has taken a major hit in September due to the Shraddh period. Jewellery demand was as such low-key this year, given the high price of gold and severe liquidity constraints faced by people. Moreover, even though gold prices declined in September, the equity markets delivered better returns against gold. As a result, investors shifted towards investing in stock markets and mutual funds,” said Jigar Soni, vice president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). Gold import showed an even sharper decline year-on-year, declining by 81.8% against 2.59 MT gold imported in September 2019. Gold price stood at Rs 52,350 per 10 gram on Thursday. After touching a peak of Rs 58,000 in August, gold prices have witnessed a steep fall in September. Losing sheen Month August September % Decline Gold Imports* 1.9 0.47 75 Source: Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex *Imports in MT||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/price-decline-fails-to-woo-buyers-towards-gold-imports-down-75-in-sep/articleshow/78453985.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 3, 2020||Rajkot||Water released from Ojat River ravages groundnut farms||Rajkot: Standing groundnut crop in hundreds of acres of land across 11 villages of Keshod taluka in Junagadh was damaged after water from dam on Ojat River was released on Thursday night. Earlier, the water from the same dam used to flow into the Arabian Sea via Madhavpur Ghed. However, after a 300-feet breach occurred in the embankment of the river three months ago, the course of the river had changed, and the water started flowing towards the villages, The waters flooded farms in several villages. Confluence of three rivers — Madhuvanti, Uben and Sabri — with the Ojat River is believed to have caused increase water level in the dam forcing the authorities to release it. “The problem is caused by the shallowness of the river. Though the government gives us compensation for the crop loss, we have been demanding that the river be deepened, encroachment be removed from its banks and construction of embankments be made,” said Khimanand Nandania, sarpanch of Bamanasar . “Porbandar MP Ramesh Dhaduk has raised this issue in the Parliament. For the past three years, we have been making representations before the district collector, the area MP and the local MLA,” said Thakarsinh Kumbhani, sarpanch of Balagam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/water-released-from-ojat-river-ravages-groundnut-farms/articleshow/78451281.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn begins work for Swachh survey 2021||Trichy: Having retained the cleanest city of Tamil Nadu tag in Swachh Survekshan 2020, an annual pan-India cleanliness survey, Trichy Corporation has launched the groundwork to improve its score in the ensuing 2021 survey. Although Swachh Survekshan 2021 will be conducted for a total of 6,000 marks like in 2020, ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has revamped the overall weightage. In the 2021 rankings, service level progress (documentation of activities) category will be allotted 2,400 marks while certification and citizen’s voice will be allocated 1,800 marks each. Direct observation category that existed in 2020 Swachh survey is amalgamated to documentation and citizen’s voice categories. A total of 485 urban local bodies will take part in the survey. The cities will be divided into two categories- those with 1-10 lakh population and those with more than 10 lakh population. Trichy Corporation falling under 1-10 lakh population category had conducted a review meeting recently. “Three littering prone spots in Kattur and Krishnapuram were decorated with flowers to influence people to keep their city clean. As locals were involved, we hope for a positive change,” E Parasuraman, sanitary inspector, Ariyamangalam zone said. Segregation, collection and recycling of waste and remediation of dump yards are given top priority in the scoring parameters. Status of bulk waste generators like hotels and their mechanisms to recycle waste will also be analysed in the survey. Status of stormwater drains, sewage network and public toilets are also to be assessed. While the focus will be on faecal sludge treatment plants (FSTP), Trichy lacking such an infrastructure is cited as a disadvantage. “We have to focus on the certification category that comprises open defecation-free status parameters. We have started conducting meetings to improve our Swachh rankings,” S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy Corporation said. Lessons learnt in Swachh 2020 will be assessed, the commissioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-begins-work-for-swachh-survey-2021/articleshow/78453981.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||Give us one more year to install NGT-mandated tech, ask Covid-hit brick kiln owners||Roorkee: The brick manufacturing industry near Roorkee, which makes up more than 60% of the brick production facility in Uttarakhand, is reeling under the mandatory order to install high draught technology in each brick kiln. The order was issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in January, 2019. So far, only 33 brick manufacturers out of the 150 in the district have equipped their respective units with new technology out. Facing financial losses due to Covid-19 outbreak, brick manufacturers urge authorities to give them at least one more year to install the new kiln technology. High draught technology, in which a heavy-duty fan is installed at the base of the chimney of brick kiln and all raw bricks meant for baking are arranged in zig zag pattern, not only reduces the fuel consumption by over 25% but also saves the time required for brick baking, causing less harm to the environment. It is worth mentioning that though the NGT had asked the state governments to get their brick kiln transformed with the new technology by March 2019, the Uttarakhand government gave kiln owners time till September 30, 2020, for the same. “Our season of brick manufacturing starts in October. If we close our kiln units for upgradation now, we would suffer heavy losses. The brick industry is already under depression due to Covid-19. We will upgrade our kilns by the next session. We are just asking for a year’s time,” said Naresh Tyagi, president of Brickfield Owners’ Association of Haridwar district. The upgradation of kiln costs anywhere between Rs 20-lakh-to-Rs 30 lakh and it takes around three months for the work to complete. Meanwhile, Namami Bansal, joint magistrate, Roorkee, has said, “We have asked the government to take appropriate action on their demand to extend the time limit for upgradation. Till then, only the upgraded brick fields would be allowed to operate after September 30.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/give-us-one-more-year-to-install-ngt-mandated-tech-ask-covid-hit-brick-kiln-owners/articleshow/78451282.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 3, 2020||Madurai||DMK-organized sabhas in south TN slam farm bills||Madurai: DMK MLAs in the southern districts conducted gram sabhas in the villages of their constituencies, defying the government’s decision to cancel them citing pandemic as the reason. The gram sabha held in Kovilankulam panchayat, presided by its president Jeyanthi Muthuraman, passed a resolution demanding the withdrawal of the farm bills passed by the central government which is alleged to be against the welfare of the farmers. DMK southern district secretary M Manimaran also participated. Police personnel interrupted the meeting and said that they did not have permission to conduct it, and the members of the DMK protested. Similarly, in Madurai West panchayat union, DMK MLA P Moorthy participated in the gram sabha held in Kodimangalam village, and panchayat president Alagu Lakshmi presided the meeting. Speaking to reporters Moorthy said that the central government is doing everything to destroy agriculture and calling itself the friend of the farmers. This panchayat also passed a resolution against the farm bills. A similar resolution was passed in the meeting held in the Nilayoor panchayat, in the presence of panchayat president Pasumpon and vice president Banumathy. Thiruparankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan also participated. In the gram sabha held in Pillayarnatham panchayat of Athoor union in Dindigul district, DMK deputy general secretary, I Periyasamy said that the Tamil Nadu government and the Centre is determined to destroy agriculture in the country through the farm bills. Union chairperson Maheswari Murugesan, panchayat president Ulaganathan among others participated and a resolution was passed demanding to scrap the farm bills. In the meeting held at Muhavoor village near Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district, participants demanded to know why the Rajapalaya MLA S Thangapandian had not kept his poll promise and constructed a compound wall for the Sastha temple in the foothills of the Western Ghats. Tenkasi MP Danush M Kumar also participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-organized-sabhas-in-south-tn-slam-farm-bills/articleshow/78454029.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||Tourism slump hits cycle rickshaw owners hard||Madurai: Time was when cycle rickshaws used to criss-cross Madurai with people, many of them tourists, taking them to the city’s famed tourist spots. Besides offering a cheaper mode of transport to the travellers, the rickshaw owners were also brand ambassadors of tourism. With faster modes of motorised transport taking over, these cycle rickshaws of yore have dwindled in numbers from a few thousands to less than 100 now. Despite the series of unlocks initiated, the livelihood of these cycle rickshaw drivers is at stake as they earn their bread and butter only when foreign tourists fly in to Madurai. Take the case of P Deivendiran, 52of , Poothagudi village near Kulamangalam, who has been a rickshaw driver since 1989. It not only helped him feed his family of seven but also earned him recognition among tourist guides from other countries as well. “I studied only till class VI, but now I can fluently speak in English and understand basic sentences in French and Italian,” says he proudly. Deivendiran gets calls from his foreign guides or local tourist operators asking for rickshaws which he organises along with his fellow drivers and reaches the hotel in the morning. The lowest pay they get is Rs 300 per head and a rickshaw can accommodate not more than two tourists. “At times we can carry only one as they are well built. So I modified my rickshaw to accommodate hefty people. Once, I carried a tourist who weighed nearly 150 kgs,” he said. The tour of the city is about 10 kms starting from their hotel and ending at the start point four hours later. Thirumalai Naicker Palace is the first stop, followed by the banana and vegetable market on East Marat Steet, Vaigai river, Marakadai, Gandhi Museum, brass wear production at Sellur besides weaving units. Another rickshaw driver, Muthiran, 62, said they get two to three such trips a day and even get a heavy tipping. Some tourists don’t mind paying Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 more than the basic fare the tour operator pays the drivers. Making anywhere between Rs 500 to Rs 2,500 a day, when they had tourists from abroad, they now struggle to make Rs 100 a day doing jobs they are not used to. Most of them are in their fifties and sixties and feel they cannot learn a new skill now. Hoping for tourists to return, they lamented that they would be left with no choice but to quit pedalling if flights don’t connect tourists from other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tourism-slump-hits-cycle-rickshaw-owners-hard/articleshow/78454019.cms||M K Ananth
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Big Bazaar Street gets 1 more containment zone within a week||Trichy: Big Bazaar Street in Trichy has got yet another containment zone within a week, this time at Periya Chetti Street. As fresh cases surface in the locality on a daily basis, the Trichy Corporation officials blamed the lack of social responsibility among locals in fighting the pandemic. The corporation came to know of six positive cases in Chinna Setti Street few days back and established a containment zone there. A fresh containment zone was established on Periya Chetti Street on Friday, which is just a street away. Health officials said that a family of three, who recently returned from Chennai, developed symptoms and tested positive for the infection. Corporation officials acknowledging the lethargic attitude of locals in Big Bazaar Street in adhering to the Covid-19 safety norms said that they will not hesitate to install more containment zones if three or more positive cases surface in the vicinity. “Since lockdown is not possible anymore, containing the vulnerable locality is the only solution we have,” a civic body official said. The corporation has sought the city police to intensify the patrolling in Big Bazaar Street locality to penalize the offenders not wearing facemasks and not maintaining social distancing at outlets. As police personnel are also entitled to enforce the Covid-19 precautionary measures, the civic body batted for the city police to join them in penalization drive as two-wheeler riders are refusing to halt on being intercepted by the corporation workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/big-bazaar-st-gets-1-more-containment-zone-within-a-week/articleshow/78453997.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Trichy||Surge in stray dog population during Covid adds to woes of Trichy residents||Trichy: The absence of animal birth control (ABC) for stray dogs in Trichy for over a year now is causing inconvenience to the residents returning to normal life post the Covid-19 lockdown. Trichy corporation has been receiving several complaints from the residents about the surge in stray dog menace almost from all parts of the city as there has been a rise in population of the stray canines post the pandemic. After deviations were found in the standard operating procedure (SOP) for sterilizing the stray dogs in the corporation’s ABC centre at Konakkarai, the sterilization drive has remained suspended since August 2019. Meanwhile, as the civic body was engaged in Covid-19 prevention activities for the past six months, the population of stray dogs surged rapidly. The canines have turned violent towards the residents in the absence of adequate feed due to lockdown, according to complaints.  “Two-wheeler riders are the most to suffer as the animals violently chase us. The canines are even climbing the compound walls,” T Ravikumar, a resident of Palakkarai said. It is estimated that each of the 65 wards has at least 500 stray canines per ward. Since there is no animal welfare board of India (AWBI) recognized trust in Trichy, the civic body said that finding a suitable stakeholder to take up birth control drive was difficult. Fund crunch was cited as another major reason for keeping the sterilization drive suspended. “Efforts were initiated to resume the sterilization drive. District administration has assured to help us,” a civic body official added. Meanwhile, city-based animal welfare activist G Ramakrishnan said that society for the prevention of cruelty to animals (SPCA) for Trichy is in the final phase of commissioning. “SPCA involves multiple government departments including animal husbandry. In two months, we will take the responsibility in ethical neutering of stray dogs,” Ramakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/surge-in-stray-dog-population-during-covid-adds-to-woes-of-trichy-residents/articleshow/78454013.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||On Friday, city had 1,348 vacant beds for Covid care||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Covid hospital at Sadar started functioning on Thursday but has not got a single patient in the last two days. Just a few weeks ago it was difficult to get a bed. On Friday, there were 1,348 available in government and private hospitals. Experts say this is because the number of private Covid hospitals have gone up and the positive cases (symptomatic patients) have decreased. As per data released by the civic body on Friday, 1,133 beds with oxygen and 215 in ICU were available. 518 of these are in government hospitals (478 beds with oxygen supply, 40 in ICU) and 830 in private hospitals (655-175). NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said that currently there are 69 hospitals giving Covid service. Totally there are 3,793 beds with 2,637 providing oxygen and 1,156 in ICU. In government hospitals, the total beds are 1,480 (1,161-319) and in private hospitals 2,313 (1,476-837). This means 35.54% of total beds are vacant as on Friday. With the number of positive patients rising in July end, there was shortage of bed in IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS. To augment this, the NMC allowed private hospitals to start service from August first week. Only five started in first week of August. The cases increased manifold in the last two weeks of August. There was a spike in cases in the first two weeks of September. Few had reportedly died on not getting beds. Some managed by taking oxygen supply to their homes. On August 31, active cases were 13,076 and on September 10 it was 15,257 in the district. The number of tests started to decline and so did cases from the third week of September. There were 13,035 active cases on September 30. NMC roped in more private hospitals from the second week of September. Mayor Sandip Joshi had directed all 637 private hospitals in city to reserve beds for Covid patients. By September 23, the number of beds in government and private hospitals increased to 3,436. A few private hospitals started in rural areas as per directives of the district administration. With reduction in number of tests, positive cases and active cases started to decline from third week of September. As on Friday, there were 12,217 active cases of which 8,767 in city and 3,450 in rural. Around 80-85% of total active patients are symptomatic and require admission in hospitals as per experts. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI that the NMC with the help of Railways has started the 47-bed Covid hospital at Sadar. NMC’s other Covid hospital at Imambada with 32 beds was supposed to start on September 23 with the help of SAI Mandir Trust. Sources told TOI that the hospital is delayed as NMC is yet to facilitate oxygen cylinders. Joshi said that the problem was “resolved on Friday and hospital has started functioning”. Of the total capacity of 110 beds, NMC’s Covid hospital at LAD square was having only 55 patients. The NMC is running Covid hospital at Pachpaoli with only 25 of total 110 beds that too specially for pregnant women. Now, the NMC is likely to delay opening of Covid hospital with 100 beds at KT Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-friday-city-had-1348-vacant-beds-for-covid-care/articleshow/78454039.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Farm laws: Cong holds protests in all T dists||Hyderabad: The Congress on Friday organised protests in all 33 districts of Telangana against the three farms laws passed recently by the BJP government at the Centre. The party also charged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah of “mortgaging the interests of farmers to corporates”. Addressing a protest rally, AICC secretary in-charge Manickam Tagore and TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that lives of farmers have been affected adversely since BJP came to power at the Centre and TRS in Telangana. “The new farm laws have rendered MSP irrelevant. There is nothing binding the corporates to procure agriculture produce at MSP. The central government should immediately withdraw the laws and address the concerns of farmers,” Uttam said. The party also launched a signature campaign and aims to collect more than two lakh signature of farmers. The signatures would be submitted to President Ram Nath Kovind by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on November 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farm-laws-cong-holds-protests-in-all-t-dists/articleshow/78454069.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Make Hathras DM & SP co-accused, says Akhilesh||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party on Friday staged a silent protest against the murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras and the ruling BJP’s attempt to scuttle the investigation. In Lucknow, police lathicharged and dragged party workers on road before arresting them. Party chief Akhilesh Yadav condemned the police action on senior party leaders. He also lodged a strong protest against conduct of the police especially in dealing with women protesters. While senior leaders, including Ram Govind Chaudhary, who is also Leader of the Opposition in the UP Assembly and SP state president Naresh Uttam were taken into preventive custody, MLC Anand Bhadauria was dragged towards a bus and party’s national spokesperson Anurag Bhadauria was injured in the cane-charge. MLCs Udaiveer Singh and Sunil Sajan, who were leading the silent protest at the GPO crossing in Hazratganj, were also taken into custody. Taking to twitter, Akhilesh said on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri, a peaceful silent protest was crushed with violence by police. He said that the government must lodge an FIR against the DM and the SP. The two have to be held accountable for forcibly cremating the victim’s body. Senior SP leaders said burning the body of the victim amounts to destruction of evidence and hence the DM and SP should be made co-accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-hathras-dm-sp-co-accused-says-akhilesh/articleshow/78454914.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
October 3, 2020||Trichy||SPCA may also focus on stray cattle menace in district||Trichy: The society for the prevention of cruelty to animals (SPCA) in Trichy, apart from taking responsibility of resuming the sterilization drive of stray dogs in the city, is likely to solve the stray cattle menace and other animal-related issues in the district. The society, if provided with adequate land to manage, can impound the cattle straying on arterial roads and penalize the owners. Since the absence of vehicles on roads during the lockdown had kept the stray cattle menace low, the return of vehicles and people to near normalcy has exposed the threats posed by stray cattle on roads. As a solution, SPCA, in its final phase of commissioning, said that they will request district administration to allot land for impounding and maintaining the stray cattle. “To save the feed cost, the animals were let to feed on the garbage mounds by their owners,” G Ramakrishnan, honourary animal welfare officer, animal welfare board of India (AWBI) said. With the Trichy Corporation conducting a survey to estimate the cattle population here, animal welfare activists said that the owner of the cattle straying on roads can be tracked and asked to pay a penalty. Until then, the animals can be accommodated in a fenced and sheltered facility to be provided by the district administration. “We are in the process of creating a bank account for SPCA, registration formalities are almost over. We can expect SPCA to conduct activities by this year-end,” Ramakrishnan added. The society comprising officials from the corporation, animal husbandry, forest, fire service and police department will also take up the animal rescue measures. SPCA is likely to function from the Palakkarai veterinary clinic initially. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spca-may-also-focus-on-stray-cattle-menace-in-district/articleshow/78454024.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||Dasara elephants accorded traditional welcome by district admin||Mysuru: With just two weeks remaining for the Dasara celebrations, the Dasara jumbos led by tusker Abhimanyu arrived the Mysuru Palace, which will be their abode till the end of the celebrations, on Friday. The elephants were accorded a traditional welcome at Jayamarthanda Gate of Mysuru Palace by district minister ST Somashekar. The Dasara elephants, Vikrama, Gopi, Vijaya and Cauvery led by 54-year-old Abhimanyu, who will carry the golden howdah, had arrived in the city on Thursday from Veeranahosahalli in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve and were housed at Aranya Bhavan. While, the elephants walked along the main thoroughfares from Aranya Bhavan to Mysuru Palace previous years, they were ferried on trucks to Palace premises this year. District minister ST Somashekar along with mayor Tasneem welcomed the elephants at Jayamarthanda Gate at 12.35 pm. The elephants were given traditional arathi with prayers. The police band played the traditional music and a guard of honour was accorded by City Armed Reserve (CAR) police personnels. Chamundeshwari Temple chief priest N Shashishekar Dixit and priest Prahlad Rao performed the rituals. Later the elephants, through a procession with poonakumbha and nadaswara rituals, were brought near ‘Ane Bagilu’ of Mysuru Palace where flowers were showered on them. Minister Somashekar performed puja to Sri Chamundeshwari Gombe Tottilu and later distributed several items to mahouts and kavadis for their stay at the palace premises. Speaking on the occasion, minister ST Somashekar said that district administration will take all measures to restrict people during the Dasara inauguration atop Chamundi Hills and during Vijayadashami at Mysuru Palace. “District administration had invited only around 70 people during the welcoming the elephants at Mysuru Palace, but more than 1,000 people had arrived to witness the traditional event. The authorities could not control the control. So for the upcoming events, the authorities will take up strict measures to control the people,” he said. ‘Cannot question CM on Sharat’s transfer’ Reacting to the untimely transfer of DC B Sharat and the IAS officer approaching the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), minister Somashekar said as the decision to transfer B Sharat and bring in Rohini Sindhuri Dasari as the Mysuru DC was taken by CM BS Yediyurappa, he cannot question the decision. “I cannot question CM’s decision. I cannot oppose the government’s decision. As Sharat has approached CAT, we will request him to withdraw his case,” he said. Minister Somashekar said MLA SA Ramadas will announce the cultural programmes in two days. “We are yet to take a decision on who will inaugurate the Dasara festivities atop Chamund Hills. Government has provided Rs 10 crore for Dasara celebrations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dasara-elephants-accorded-traditional-welcome-by-district-admin/articleshow/78451634.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Protect women or quit: AAP to CM||LUCKNOW: Aam Aadmi Party members staged protests in various parts of the state against the Hathras incident during which AAP MP Sanjay Singh’s wife Anita was detained by the police in Prayagraj. Other members who were protesting in Lucknow were also detained, while the Lucknow district president was placed under house arrest. Protests took place at all tehsil headquarters where members sat on a day-long fast in front of statues of Mahatma Gandhi. The party demanded if chief minister YogiAdityanath could not guarantee security to women, he should tender his resignation. Several members, including party MP and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh’s wife were detained at various places. Lucknow district president Vaibhav Maheshwari was put under house arrest in Lucknow, while state president Sabhajeet Singh was put under house arrest in Faizabad. In Lucknow, protests were held in various parts of the district, including Sadar Tehsil, Bakshi ka Talab, Sarojininagar and Malihabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/protect-women-or-quit-aap-to-cm/articleshow/78454919.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||Service centre for farmers inaugurated||Madurai: A farmers’ service centre, which is envisaged to be a bridge between the farmers and the officials of the various agriculture-related departments was inaugurated in Kottampatti block in Madurai district by the local farmers on Friday. Lt Col S Sathiamoorthy, a retired army officer and co-founder of the centre said that he is organizing the centre in coordination with the farmers of the Periyar Canal Extension and Farmers Livelihood organization and youth of the region. It was formerly known as the Namazhvar Farmers Service Centre. “Ours is an agricultural region, which has been affected badly for the past 10 years, due to lack of rainfall. Farmers could have been benefited through various government schemes like 100% subsidy for drip irrigation for small farmers had they been aware of it,” he said. Many farmers who attended the event said that the centre would be immensely helpful as many schemes need an online presence and it will help them. When the farmers know about the schemes they can approach the officials to avail the funds and subsidies, said an advisor of the organisation K Hakkim, an RTI activist. Sathiamoorthy said that even through RTI when the details are sought as a group, it would add more value and help farmers to grow together as a team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/service-centre-for-farmers-inaugurated/articleshow/78454063.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||Tribal people rejoice as village in Dindigul gets electrified||Madurai: For the inhabitants of Siruvattukadu, a tribal village of Oddanchathiram in Dindigul district, it was a dream come true to see their streets being lit by electricity for the first time on Thursday night. However, it also flies in the face of the government’s claims of the state having achieved 100% electrification of houses some years ago. Minister for forests and environment Dindigul C Srinivasan inaugurated the scheme to provide electricity to the tribal hamlets situated in the reserve forest area of the district. He said the AIADMK government was committed to improving the living conditions of Adidravidar and tribal people. Sirivattukadu comes under Vadakadu panchayat in Oddanchathriam union. It was during a people’s contact programme that the then Dindigul district collector, Dr T G Vinay, found that people of the village, with a population of 220 comprising 60 hamlets, were living in very backward conditions without basic amenities. They belonged to the Palliyar community. As it was a reserve forest area, taking electricity cables through was difficult, not to mention that it was also very expensive. The people did not even have water supply through an overhead tank due to lack of electricity. Thereafter, TNEB was asked to survey the region and prepare a feasibility report. An estimate of Rs 1.17 crore was prepared and forwarded to the government. Work to lay underground cables to carry the electricity to four kilometres began on March 2, 2019 and was completed recently. Another 150 families living in the neighbouring villages of Chettikadu, Thalayathukadu, Puliankajam and Maatupattikadu will also benefit through the scheme. Tangedco is to provide individual connections to houses in the hamlet soon. Villagers say around 50 school children would benefit from the electricity. Raman, one of the villagers, said his dream was to own a cellphone. With electricity coming to his house, it would become true this Diwali. Lakshman, his 61-year-old twin brother, says that as children they lived in darkness and used to go for gathering forest produce in the mornings. They went to bed by sunset as there were times when they could not afford lamps. Now they use candles and fires to light up their homes, but after seeing the streetlights burning, they felt the moon had descended on their village. Kudiyan of Chettikadu says they are still to come to terms with the fact that their village is also going to shine in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tribal-people-rejoice-as-village-in-dindigul-gets-electrified/articleshow/78454071.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||This monsoon was a good season: Experts||Mysuru: The South-West monsoon has started withdrawing from Karnataka. In Karnataka between June 1 and September 30, except four districts of Malnad/ coastal region, all other districts recorded excess rainfall compared to the normal rainfall. As rainfall was widespread across the state, most of the taluks received good rainfall bringing a big relief to all stakeholders. Experts called this year's monsoon season "very good". According to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) data, only four districts i.e. Shivamogga (-9%), and Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu districts ( -6%) recorded deficit rainfall. According to the data, only 17 taluks received deficit rainfall. Chitradurga district registered +79% excess rainfall compared to the normal rainfall. In 2019, Karnataka recorded 23 per cent excess rain (1,032mm against a normal of 841mm). This was after years of deficient or less-than-normal rain. Rainfall distribution was even across regions, especially in the catchment areas, which led to reservoirs/dams filling to the brim. As per the KSNDMC data, the state received +39% excess rainfall in this period. Normal rainfall for the state in the south west monsoon period is 369mm. However this time, the state received 514mm rainfall. Of the 30 districts across the state, Bagalkot recorded 74 per cent above-normal rain (615mm) followed by Kalaburagi 64 per cent (966mm), Chitradurga 81 per cent (502mm) and Kolar 78 per cent (702mm). Thanks to abundant showers, a bumper kharif harvest is expected now. Monsoon was up to mark This year the monsoon lived up to the forecast. The dams filled up 2 to 3 times. Rainfall was spread across the state instead of excess rainfall only in a few places. All this helped farmers take up farming works on time. Good rainfall resulted in record sowing also. It is one such season which we can call very good. Srinivasa Reddy, KSDMA, Consultant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/this-monsoon-was-a-good-season-experts/articleshow/78452341.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Fall in active Covid cases slows down||Chennai: Tamil Nadu recorded 5,595 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths on Friday, which pushed the case tally to 6,08,885 and total toll to 9,653. There are 46,294 active cases in the state. Districts in the Chennai region and in the west continue to remain in the red. On Friday, all districts in the state added fresh cases, and among the top five were Chennai, Chengalpet, Tiruvallur, Coimbatore and Salem. Chennai (1,278 ) recorded the maximum number of fresh cases followed by Coimbatore (495) Epidemiologists and senior health officials point out districts in the north and west are keeping the average number of fresh cases static in the state. “Though the recovery rates are high, we are plateauing at around 5,500 cases. All policies and measures amid unlock will be aggressive on pushing down the curve,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “We don’t have a vaccine or a drug yet. Unless people wear masks, ensure social distancing and follow SOPs, it may be tough to bring down the infection rate,” he said. While cases in the southern belt have come down drastically and those in the central zone are seeing a marginal decrease, cases in the west and north remain high. The overall case fatality rate dropped to 1.5% but the fall of active cases rate has slowed down. On Friday, though all districts recorded cases, 14 districts recorded zero deaths. Chennai’s neighbouring districts Chengalpet (396), Tiruvallur (255), and Kancheepuram (157) together reported 808 cases. Together, the region had 20 deaths, including 14 from Chennai. The other seven northern districts reported 721 cases and 10 deaths. Together, the 11 districts in the north – Chennai included – reported 2,807 cases and 30 deaths. Western districts reported most cases and deaths after the northern district. Together, the eight western districts logged 1,567 cases and 20 deaths. Salem reported eight deaths, and Coimbatore logged six. The 10 southern districts together recorded 531 cases and six deaths. All districts in the south had recorded cases in two digits. Kanyakumari topped the table with 90 cases, while Madurai and Theni had 85 each. Among the districts Virudhunagar (30), Sivaganga (26) and Ramanathapuram (15) had the lowest number of additions. The central districts added 688 cases – a majority in Thanjavur (226) followed by Tiruvarur (149), Pudukottai (93) and Trichy (91). The central zone recorded 11 deaths. Active cases in the zone were 5,393 compared to 4,752 in the South.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fall-in-active-covid-cases-slows-down/articleshow/78452604.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Unwinding a far cry for overworked teachers as long leaves being discouraged by schools||Nagpur: In many schools, teachers are being discouraged to avail of leaves even though both workload and stress levels have shot up. Apart from their weekly Sunday off, teachers in private schools are struggling to get their three-four day leaves approved. TOI spoke to some teachers who were facing these issues, but they preferred to remain anonymous fearing backlash from school management. A schoolteacher had sought just a two-day casual leave this month but was turned down after being given flimsy reasons. “I was told that it won’t be possible because of the workload that everyone has to now share. A couple of teachers have not resumed work this year, a few temporary ones have not been called back which has put pressure on the permanent ones like us. Since May, the preparation for online classes, training and then adapting to the new technology has taken quite a toll on us,” said the teacher. Another strategy of discouraging leaves implemented by some schools is to cut salary. At one such school all paid leaves are now off the table. So even if leaves are to be availed, salary will be cut. In times of reduced pay and job insecurity, teachers have got the message ‘loud and clear’ that leave is not to be availed. One teacher was looking forward to unwinding at a resort in the long weekend, but her principal questioned about the timing. “I was given a lecture on how this is not the right time to venture out as cases are rising. But she completely ignored that more than 20 teachers are called to school everyday to do administrative work. Nobody here adheres to Covid-19 distancing norms but just to deny leave, they give any reason,” she said. Another teacher said that the work for teachers does not end once the online classes get over. “We have staff meetings online, while some are present on premises on a rotation basis. Classwork is prepared and shared with students. Meeting is also done with other subject teachers of our class to check progress and issues faced. It’s like we are at school 24/7,” the teacher said. TOI spoke to one such principal who denied the ‘leave discouragement’ policy. “Problem is that quantum of workload has increased due to the new set-up and we need all hands on deck. Regardless, Diwali vacations are starting soon, thereafter Christmas vacations will be there,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unwinding-a-far-cry-for-overworked-teachers-as-long-leaves-being-discouraged-by-schools/articleshow/78454114.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||Homage paid to ‘Rampur Tiraha’ martyrs||Dehradun: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday paid tributes to the statehood agitators who were killed in police firing at the Rampur Tiraha in Muzaffarnagar on the intervening night of October 1 and October 2, 1994. The CM said that the incident is a black spot in Uttarakhand’s struggle for a separate state. “It is because of the sacrifices made by these statehood agitators that Uttarakhand was able to be formed as a separate Himalayan state. The state government is committed to develop Uttarakhand as per the dreams that the statehood agitators had for the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/homage-paid-to-rampur-tiraha-martyrs/articleshow/78451296.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Party cadre taken into custody||Hyderabad: Earlier on Thursday, scores of Congress members were taken into police custody when they took out a candle march condemning the high-handed behavior of Uttar Pradesh state police against party leader Rahul Gandhi. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/party-cadre-taken-into-custody/articleshow/78454100.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||HC slams gender bias in list of Marudhu Brothers’ descendants||Madurai: Though men and women from this part of the country had participated equally in the freedom struggle, there was hostile discrimination by a committee in preparing the list of descendants of valiant freedom fighters Marudhu Pandiyar Brothers, Madras high court has said. Justice R Suresh Kumar made the observation while hearing the petition by three sisters - V Kanaga, C Maragatham and K Rasu alias Rajeswari — who sought to quash the rejection order passed by the Ramanathapuram district collector, and grant them descendants political pension. The judge said that in order to honour the bravery and courage of Marudhu Pandiyar Brothers for the nation’s freedom during the 18th century, the state government had constructed a memorial in Sivaganga district and is celebrating guru puja every year. The three-member committee constituted by the government had prepared a list of 202 descendants to provide them freedom fighter’s descendants political pension of Rs 150 a month, and passed a GO in this regard in 1982. The judge observed that the history of freedom struggle shows Sivaganga Samasthanam was recaptured by the brave Queen ‘Veeramangai’ Velu Nachiyar, with the help of Marudhu Pandiyar Brothers by fighting the British East India Company army. Hence, as far as bravery was concerned, both men and women had made immense contribution, whenever a call had come to save the soil and the motherland, observed the judge. However, the committee decided to include and exclude some of the female descendants in the list without proper reasons. Earlier, two women descendants, Kalyani and Kasthuri Kannan, had moved HC seeking descendant pension. The court in 2009 directed the government to award them pension saying that it is not the monetary criteria which had driven them to court, but status and honour, which they would enjoy based on such recognition. The petitioners in the present case are cousins of the two descendants who were awarded pension pursuant to the 2009 direction. Though the names of their four blood brothers were included in the list of 202 descendants, the petitioners’ names were not included. Inclusion of the men and exclusion of women for recognizing them as descendants is not only unlawful, unjustifiable and illogical but also amounts to great injustice. Hence, setting aside the rejection order passed by the collector, the court remitted the matter back to the authorities. The judge directed the secretary of public (political pension-2) department to pass a GO in line with the earlier GO passed for two women descendants which recognized them as descendants of Marudhu Pandiyar Brothers, and political pension be sanctioned to them till their lifetime. The judge directed to complete the exercise within eight weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-slams-gender-bias-in-list-of-marudhu-brothers-descendants/articleshow/78454097.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 3, 2020||Pune||Pune-based Thermax Ltd offers VRS||Pune: Pune-based energy and environment company Thermax Limited said in an exchange filing that it has unveiled a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) for eligible employees. “In view of Thermax reorganising its manufacturing operations and considering the current economic scenario, the company has announced VRS for the benefit of our workmen at our Chinchwad plant,” the company said in a statement. The company said in its filing that its board of directors have approved VRS for all eligible employees who have completed 10 years of service with the company or age more than 40 years. “An update on the financial impact will be communicated to the Exchange,” the filing read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-based-thermax-ltd-offers-vrs/articleshow/78454115.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras girl could have been saved if shifted to Delhi hosp on time: SWC||Lucknow: State Women Commission chairperson (SWC) Vimla Batham in an exclusive chat with TOI said, the Hathras girl could have been saved if she was admitted to Delhi’s Safdarjang Hospital on time. The commission slapped a notice on the state director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthy and sought an explanation on why the victim’s body was cremated at 2:30am on Wednesday and why her family was locked up in their house and stopped from attending the last rites. Batham said, the commission had swiftly dispatched a member to the Aligarh hospital to check on the girl’s well-being. “The victim was in a pathetic state and was unable to talk,” she said. “Doctors at Safdarjang Hospital confided she was very critical when brought to Delhi. The delay in shifting her to Delhi proved costly. We have all reports pertaining to her medical treatment,” she said. Batham also said those accused of such heinous crime must be publicly punished to set a precedent. To a query if the girl suffered rape, Batham said, the girl was unable to speak and it’s the job of forensic experts to conclude. Being the most populous state cannot be an excuse to fail on the law and order, she said. While demanding security cover for the Hathras girl’s family, she also demanded action against the police officer who gave instructions to the force to hurriedly cremate the body in the dead of night and lock up the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-girl-could-have-been-saved-if-shifted-to-delhi-hosp-on-time-swc/articleshow/78454925.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||Set educational qualification ceiling for NMR workers: HC to govt||Madurai: Taking into account alleged irregularities in selecting the list of nominal muster roll (NMR) employees in the public works department (PWD) to grant employment continuously, the Madras high court issued a series of directions to the state government including the maximum educational qualification of those seeking to be engaged as NMR employees in the future, on Thursday. “This kind of irregular entry into government jobs even at the level of NMR employees is with a long term plan to grab a government job, as the government has been regularizing NMR employees who have worked continuously for more than 10 years,” observed the judge. The court was hearing a petition filed by 20 people seeking direction to continue as NMR employees till permanent absorption and also sought probe into irregularities where several people who produced bogus certificates were considered for regularization. The judge said that if the government decides to engage any new NMR employees, such engagement shall be strictly made only from candidates through employment exchanges and direct engagement shall not be made by PWD officials. The judge directed the government to issue GOs prescribing age, educational qualifications and physical fitness for the purpose of engagement of NMR employees in future. The judge said that the GO may also prescribe the maximum educational qualifications up to higher secondary and those with professional degrees and other equal undergraduate and postgraduate degrees shall be avoided. Justice R Suresh Kumar said that the allegation of the petitioners that few of the candidates in the list are relatives of PWD officials and in a specific case where daughter of a PWD executive engineer who is an engineering graduate was also found in the list. The judge observed that the nature of the job of NMR employees are normally basic services such as sweeper, gardener, watchman and helper. “If these kind of NMR work are entrusted to highly qualified persons with the engineering or any other equivalent degree, that would create a vacuum in a larger section of people, who are having minimum qualification like Class XII, X or even less, in getting a job for their livelihood.” “Though there is no express provision to prohibit engaging a highly qualified person as an NMR employee, such kind of engagement cannot be encouraged by the government being the model employer, because the job is made for the less qualified persons,” he added. Granting relief to only three out of the 20 petitioners who have certificates issued by the PWD executive engineers, the judge said that the authorities shall consider their candidacy for continuous engagement as NMR workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/set-edu-qualification-ceiling-for-nmr-workers-hc-to-govt/articleshow/78454104.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 3, 2020||India||India rebuts UN’s criticism of EIA||NEW DELHI: India has pushed back strongly at the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights over criticism of its proposed green norms, saying the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification does not violate its international green commitments but rather seeks to remove “redundancies” and bring “defaulters to the environmental regime” to book. In its point-wise response to a communication of special rapporteur of the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, India said the proposed changes will promote environmental cause and sustainable development as envisaged by international treaties. The special rapporteur had in its communication to India's external affairs ministry on August 31 expressed concerns of the Human Rights Council over alleged dilution of the existing EIA law in India and sought clarification on several points which are currently being opposed by environmentalists. The special rapporteur had raised concerns over several issues, ranging from exemptions to several large industries from public consultations, provisions of allowing post-facto clearance of projects that had commenced without obtaining required green clearance, reduction of public consultation period from 30 days to 20 days and non-publication of information on projects ‘involving strategic consideration’ to whether the proposed changes would correspond with India’s obligation under international law. Responding to each of those concerns, India in its communication through office memorandum (OM) of the ministry of environment and forests said, “No exemptions have been given to large industries and projects from public consultations. In fact in the draft EIA notification 2020, the number of activities, exempted from public hearing, has been reduced from 9 (in existing law) to 7 (in proposed law).” It said the exemptions have been proposed only in case of certain categories of projects under micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) and for projects adopting clean technology. On the issue of non-sharing of information on projects of strategic consideration, the ministry said such provision was there for defence and strategic projects in the existing law and it has not been changed. “The said projects shall continue to be appraised and shall require EIA,” clarified the ministry. On post-facto approval issues, it said, “The Draft EIA 2020 does not provide for ex post-facto clearance to violation cases. The environmental clearance, if issued, to the project shall only be prospective and shall be effective from the date of its issuance.” Justifying its questions to India over such provisions in the proposed green law, the UN representative had asked whether these points would impact environment and thus ultimately interfere with the “full enjoyment of all relevant rights”, including rights to life, health, food, water, sanitation and a “safe, clean, healthy and sustainable environment”. India in its communication has responded to all these points, arguing necessity of changes for environmental protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-rebuts-uns-criticism-of-eia/articleshow/78455666.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Could have emailed, Raj Bhavan not a place for political drama, says guv||Hyderabad: Saying that the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) could have given its representation on farm laws to her on mail, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said Raj Bhavan cannot be a place for political drama. Interacting with reporters in a web-conference on the occasion of Raj Bhavan converting to a digital administration completely, the governor said she had asked Congress leaders to give their representation in email. “I have made it a norm during the pandemic to take representations from people as well as any political party through digital means. I cannot change the norm for one particular party or individual. If they insist on representing physically, I cannot help it. But, Raj Bhavan cannot be a political drama place,” she said. She said that she was supporting farm laws as she saw some merit in the legislations. “I am proud that Telanagna has emerged as the ‘rice bowl of India’ now because of water availability and rainfall. I appreciate good things,” she said. The governor said Telangana is in a much better position to tackle Covid-19 than before. She said that she is not afraid of Covid- 19. “The situation is not as alarming as like in AP and Tamil Nadu..”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/could-have-emailed-raj-bhavan-not-a-place-for-political-drama-says-guv/articleshow/78454141.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC says proper medical facility a fundamental right||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) has said that “proper medical facility is one of the fundamental rights of every citizen” while adding that these “appropriate medical facilities have to be provided by the state”. The division bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe noted in the case that was heard last week (its written order was made available this week) that there has been an “outcry from the public highlighting lack of medical facilities, especially in the hills.” “Since a large portion of the state is situated in the hilly areas, the people living there should necessarily be accorded with at least minimum medical facilities,” the court said. The observation from the court came while it was hearing a seven-year-old public interest litigation (PIL) seeking the court’s intervention to implement various health schemes of the Centre. The HC, however, has now broadened the scope of the PIL and said that the petition would cover the entire issue of medical infrastructure in the state. “…we are of the view that the scope of this petition should cover the entire issue of medical facilities in Uttarakhand,” the court order read. The court also acknowledged the difficulties faced by the government in providing health services to the people saying that they have to strike a balance between environment and health infrastructure. Meanwhile, the state government has now been directed to furnish details of the availability of medical facilities and health infrastructure in the state. The court has also asked the petitioner to file questionnaires which will be put before the government to seek their answers about the availability of health infrastructure and medical facilities in the state. Uttarakhand has been a dismal performer on several health indices released in the past few years. As reported by TOI in June 2019, the state was relegated to the 17th spot among 21 big states in Niti Aayog’s health index. The same report had noted that 70% of the state’s primary health centres (PHCs) had no medical officers (worst among all big states) while 68% of the district hospitals did not have specialists (second-worst). It also took the government treasury over 109 days to transfer the funds under the National Health Mission to the implementing agency. Uttarakhand was also the only state where neonatal mortality rate (number of deaths per thousand deliveries within 28 days of birth) registered an increase. The state government, however, had then argued that the figures used in the index were old and that they have improved significantly on all the indicators. The state’s human development report of 2018 had also revealed that over 28% of total deliveries in the rural areas of Uttarakhand happened at home and in districts like Chamoli, the figure was as high as 52%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-says-proper-medical-facility-a-fundamental-right/articleshow/78451302.cms||Prashant Jha
October 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Biological parents surrender 58 children in DK since 2017||Mangaluru: In recent years, there is growing awareness among biological parents who for physical, emotional and social factors beyond their control, wish to surrender their child. Earlier, parents of children mostly born outside marriage, would often consider abandoning the child near hospitals or in garbage bins. Since 2017, Dakshina Kannada has recorded the surrender of 58 children, (41-girls and 17 -boys). “People are coming forward to surrender their child before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), and officials attribute a change in the trend to an increase in awareness even at the grassroots. There have been instances of even private hospitals directing parents not willing or able to look after their child to the CWC,” district child protection officer Gertrude Veigas told TOI. Among such cases, 17 children were surrendered in 2017-18 and 18 each in 2018-19 and 2019- 2020. This year, so far, five children were surrendered, of which four are girls. On being asked if the preference for sons over daughters could be one of the reasons for more number of girls being surrendered, Gertrude said that when biological parents decide to surrender their children, it is often due to other reasons, rather than the child’s gender. “The increased awareness created is the main reason for parents even thinking of surrendering a child, rather than abandoning them. From January to August, field-level officials have participated in 228 meetings and spread awareness on this subject in Mangaluru, Bantwal, Puttur, Belthangady and Sullia,” she said. A couple who surrendered a child that was born before marriage, within a gap of two months, came forward to seek the child’s custody after marriage, Gertrude said. She said that there are cases where parents have returned, wanting to reclaim the child. There is a 60-day gap for biological parents to reconsider their decision after surrendering the child. In a case reported last year, while a minor mother decided to surrender her child, the grandparents came forward to adopt the child, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/biological-parents-surrender-58-children-in-dk-since-2017/articleshow/78451774.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Under-construction hospitality units want extension in completion deadline||JAIPUR: Construction of tourism projects has also suffered due to the pandemic. While the deadline for completion has been extended for many sectors like real estate and other infrastructure projects, the same has not been done for the tourism sector. The industry said their cash flows have reduced substantially from the running businesses, labour has not fully returned to the sites and the import of machinery has also been hit. “After approval by tourism department, a large number of tourism units have been in the implementation phase. Some have started construction and other are in the process as they are waiting for various other approvals including building plan. Due to the present scenario, many would not be completed in the prescribed time,” said Surendra Singh Shahpura, an entrepreneur and representative of various tourism bodies in the state. Shortage of funds has become a major issue now. Tourism units are capital intensive as large amounts of funds are required. Shahpura said in the present scenario it is very difficult to arrange for funds as arranging working capital for the existing business has become very difficult. Similarly, most of the labourers have gone back to their native places after the pandemic broke out. Shahpura said these workers would take a long time of eight to 10 months to come back to work at the sites. “Thus shortage of labour would hinder the speed of the work,” he added. Difficulties in importing equipment, plant and machinery is another potential hurdle. “For the tourism units, lot of the equipment, plant and machinery, building material, furniture and fixtures are imported from various countries such as China. Due to the present scenario, even the movement of goods is greatly disturbed and there are lot of delays in imports and transportation of items to the construction site,” Shahpura added. He said keeping in view the tenure for the completion of the construction of all tourism units like hotels, resorts, motels, etc should be extended by three additional years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/under-construction-hospitality-units-want-extension-in-completion-deadline/articleshow/78454124.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-like strategy to identify cases of dengue, malaria in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: As fever surveillance has helped in early detection and isolation of Covid-19 cases, the health department is now using the same strategy to identify dengue and malaria cases in the city. With a growing number of cases of these vector-borne diseases in the city over the last two months, 500 health workers are conducting a fever survey in the city to prevent an outbreak. The health department teams go door to door to identify people with symptoms of viral fever, and get them tested at their nearest primary health centre. So far 9,32,153 houses inspected for larvicide, and 3,044 notices served in a month. The health department has also mapped some of the dengue hotspots in the city, and areas such as Sector 46, Sector 51, Sector 15, DLF 1, Sushant Lok 1, Rajendra Park, Sector 4, Sector 56, DLF 4 and Sector 48 have been marked. Apart from conducting fever surveys, the department will also geo-tag all positive cases to create a database of emerging hotspots. This will then be compared with past surveys to understand if there are intersections and outbreaks in the city. “This is a continuous process. We are conducting a survey in order to identify the suspected cases and to treat them at the earliest. Our teams are checking areas where historical cases were found and also identifying water-holding containers which can act as breeding grounds for disease-carrying mosquitoes. There is no clustering of fever cases and no death reported due to dengue,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Yadav added that the drive is being conducted by examining blood slides of fever cases in health institutions and on the field by health workers. All health workers, health inspectors, breeding checkers, MCG staff (sanitation workers) are inspecting containers, especially water coolers and overhead tanks, whih are sites for larvae breeding, and treating them with anti-larval drugs. Gambusia fish that eats mosquito larvae have been released in 117 water bodies, said Yadav, adding that 49 (45 hand operated and 4 vehicles mounted) fogging machines have also been deployed in the district. A control room for fogging at MCG 1800-1801-817 has also been set up, the CMO informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-like-strategy-to-identify-cases-of-dengue-malaria-in-gurgaon/articleshow/78454932.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 3, 2020||Madurai||969 applications for RTE seats in Madurai rejected||Madurai: The random selection process for filling the 25% seats reserved under the Right to Education Act (RTE) in private schools in Madurai was held in 368 schools on Thursday by way of picking of lots. As many as 5,953 applications were received for the 5,753 seats reserved under RTE in 443 private schools. Of these, only 4,984 applications were eligible while others were rejected. Out of the 443 schools, random selection was done to fill seats in 368 schools since the number of applications were more than the number of seats allotted, on Thursday. The selection process was carried out by district education officials in the presence of parents and children. Officials said that the process was smooth and there were no complaints. Under RTE, 25% of seats in private schools are reserved for students from underprivileged families earning income less than Rs 2 lakh per annum. As per guidelines, students are eligible to apply for private schools within 1km radius of their home. Parents can select up to five schools based on their choice of preference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/969-applications-for-rte-seats-in-madurai-rejected/articleshow/78454121.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University final year exams from Oct 8||Nagpur: A day after its employees deferred their strike, the Nagpur University on Friday announced fresh dates of its final year examinations much to the relief of over 75,000 students.The papers are now rescheduled from October 8, according to Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable.Earlier, they were slated from October 1 to 18. NU was forced to defer it following a strike by its non-teaching staffers who were demanding implementation of seventh pay commission and also seeking regular promotions.“The decision was taken after a meeting with top university officials. The revised timetable has been uploaded on the university website. A timetable of 40 papers out of total 190 have been posted. Others would be announced in a couple of days,” Sable told TOI.This time there’s little change in the schedule of papers. NU has decided to conduct exams of important courses like engineering, architecture, science, commerce and arts from October 8. “We’ve also taken into account some state and national level competitive exams. On those days, we haven’t scheduled any exam, like on October 11 when the MPSC exam is scheduled,” said Sable.As per rules, one week is must before declaration of revised timetable. “We’ve taken last Thursday into account to count a week and set papers from coming Thursday. Already, the exam is delayed and hence we don’t want students to keep waiting endlessly. A demand came to start papers from October 5. However, some members raised objections that many students may not come to know about the revised schedule and may miss the exams,” said Sable.Some NU officials however fear that exams may be affected again if employees restart their strike from October 18 if the government failed to come up with a resolution or promulgate an ordinance to fulfil their demands.Hall tickets from NU websiteFollowing complaints, NU has decided to make hall tickets available on its website. “The examinees need to click on the link — rtmnuresults.org/student.aspx. They need to click on the examination name and enter their mobile number. On entering the one-time password, they can download the hall tickets,”said officials.* Hall tickets link — rtmnuresults.org/student.aspx* Exam related queries — 8788224285/8830868894(Monday to Saturday 9am to 6pm)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-university-final-year-exams-from-oct-8/articleshow/78454120.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 3, 2020||Puducherry||Jipmer gets 49 more MBBS seats this year||PUDUCHERRY: Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) has increased the number of MBBS seats from 200 to 249 from the academic year 2020-2021 following approval from the competent authorities. The number of seats in the institute’s Puducherry campus was increased from 150 to 187 and Karaikal campus from 50 to 62. Forty-eight of 187 seats in Puducherry campus and 16 of the 62 seats in Karaikal campus have been reserved for students from the UT. Admission into the MBBS programme will be based on Neet 2020 score. Jipmer conducted entrance examinations separately until last academic year. For more information, visit https://www.mcc.nic.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/jipmer-gets-49-more-mbbs-seats-this-yr/articleshow/78452486.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||Three-year-old girl kidnapped in Nanjangud||MYSURU: The three-year-old daughter of a destitute woman was kidnapped in Nanjangud on Thursday afternoon. It is said that two youths approached the girl’s mother Parvathi and asked if she would give them her daughter Kavita for money. Parvathi refused the offer and an hour later Kavitha was missing. Police suspect the kidnap is similar to the incident that took place in Nanjangud three years ago. Parvathi, a mother of three children, ekes out a living begging on the streets of Nanjangud. She lives on footpaths and temple precincts in the night. The woman doesn’t have a home, police said. An officer said that three years ago Parvathi’s son was kidnapped during the early hours by youths, but police had traces him. The boy is now in a government rehab home in Mysuru. The kidnapers who were jailed are now out on bail. The girl going missing barely an hour after the youths asked Parvathi to sell her to them has made police to suspect the girl has been kidnapped. Nanjangud town police said they will question the accused in the previous kidnap case to get clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/three-year-old-girl-kidnapped-in-nanjangud/articleshow/78452259.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Kota team collects over 200 units of plasma||KOTA: The plasma donation drive kicked off by Team Jivandata amid spread of Corona pandemic on July 20 this year clocked 214 plasma donations on Thursday. A family of five headed by Bijender Vaishnav, 47, also donated plasma on Thursday. Contrary to the alarming spread of pandemic in the city, that has so far witnessed over 8,000 positive cases, finding an eligible plasma donor had always been a tough challenge, the volunteers of team Jivandata, that successfully collected around 1,400 units of blood in Kota during the four-month long lockdown, made it possible with their passion for service to humanity. The drive was initiated by city’s renowned doctor Saket Goyal, Goyal said the total number people who have donated plasma after 28 days of having tested negative for Covid-19 crossed 20 on Tuesday. Finding an eligible donor has been very tough as the donor sometimes declines under pressure and apprehensions by family members on plasma donation, said Gupta. Advocate Mahendra Kumar Verma, an active member of Team Jivandata, said middle-aged people hesitate for plasma donation while youngsters of around 19 to 25 years and aged around 55-59 years have shown greater enthusiasm and willingness for plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-team-collects-over-200-units-of-plasma/articleshow/78454110.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Click & win chance for wildlife shutterbugs||LUCKNOW: If you are a wildlife photography enthusiast, here’s your chance to fame. In an open contest, the forest department has invited wildlife photographs from the public. The selected ones would receive an award and find space in a book on collection of photographs on wildlife and forest to be printed by the state government. The eco-tourism photography competition is the first of its kind to be organised by the UP forest corporation. It will be a statewide contest. The corporation has already started accepting entries online. The last date of submission is October 15. There is no entry fee. The entries have been invited under three broad categories: forest rest houses of UP; flora of UP, and fauna of UP. Eco-tourism general manager Eva Sharma said the objective is to create awareness about forests and wildlife and encourage people to connect with it. The rules for the contest have been uploaded on the websites of the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/click-win-chance-for-wildlife-shutterbugs/articleshow/78454935.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Madurai||MKU looks at ways to make online exams foolproof||Madurai: A system which can likely prevent cheating in online exams was presented at the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Friday. The system was devised by assistant professor A Meschach Ponraj from the department of computer science. He said cheating was something discouraged by Mahatma Gandhi. Students are ‘bound by an electronic chain’ using his system and can help prevent cheating in online exams effectively. “With this electronic chain - holding mobile phone and smart and secure card (SSC) in each hand - students would have to give the answers. Microphone and camera will pick up any movement or sound if a person tries to cheat. The card will also record biometric fingerprint of students so as to prevent impersonation,” said Ponraj. The assistant professor said that the system would ensure conducting exam in a fool proof manner and also avoid using of paper answer booklets. A trial run of the system was carried by holding an online quiz competition and any flaws were also corrected. The university is also holding training programmes for school and college faculty in teaching using Google Classrooms. During Friday’s event, ‘Reflections on Gandhi’ authored by S Venkatachalam was released by vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan, with the first copy being handed over to Madurai Medical College (MMC) dean Dr J Sangumani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-looks-at-ways-to-make-online-exams-foolproof/articleshow/78454126.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Special trains to Pune & Mumbai during festivals||NAGPUR: With the Railway Board & CEO, VK Yadav, planning to introduce 200 more trains between October 15 and November 30 during the festive season, Nagpur Central Railway has proposed to run special trains to Mumbai and Pune to cater to the passenger rush. According to railway sources, the list of express trains that have been proposed to operate includes Gondia-CSMT Vidarbha, Nagpur-CSMT Sevagram, Nagpur-Pune, Bilaspur-Pune, & Pune Garib Rath, Mumbai Duronto, Gondia-Kolhapur Maharashtra and Nagpur-Madgaon. The earlier proposed Duronto Express has been dropped. These passenger trains are among 34 proposed to be run from October 10 and 15. Central Railway officials were shy of making any statement. “It is for sure that some trains will start as after Unlock 5 the Maharashtra government has given a go-ahead to restart train operations within the state but how many of these trains will actually run depend on the flow of passengers. The train to Pune and Mumbai is expected next week,” said officials who did want to be quoted. Presently, though there are passing trains in every direction, there is no train to Pune and direct train to Mumbai from Nagpur. Passengers are dependent on tri-weekly Howrah-Mumbai Express. For Pune, passengers are dependent on MSRTC buses. Private bus operators too are reluctant to start full-fledged operations owing to restriction of 50% capacity due to Covid-19. Indian Railways had suspended all regular passenger, mail and express trains indefinitely from March 25 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. After Unlock 4, the Indian Railways geared up to boost passenger traffic across the country. Of the existing 230 trains it operated since June, 80 more trains were added to the fleet in September followed by 20 clone trains. Sources said, “On an average, there is 60% occupancy in these trains and Railway Board wants the trains should be started considering demand with local administration and the status of Covid-19. The Central Railway zonal headquarters after discussions will take a final call.” South East Central Railway (SECR) CPRO Saket Ranjan said, “We are working out on which trains to be started. We will compare the footfall last year and accordingly decide how many trains can be introduced during the holiday season.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/spl-trains-to-pune-mumbai-during-festivals/articleshow/78454131.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Breathless? Walk in for O2 at Pachpaoli||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is all set to start the first-of-its-kind walk-in oxygen bed facility in the city. The paucity of this has been the biggest drawback of Covid treatment.The aim of the facility is to provide timely support to patients without the necessity of getting any tests done. The first such facility is all set to come up near NMC’s Covid testing centre at Pachpaoli women’s hospital.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that this will be the first such facility in the city. “Initially, we are setting-up 60-70 oxygenated beds. Anyone facing sudden difficulty in breathing or need of oxygen can come here. They will not be asked for any reports or tests to be done. The focus will on stabilizing the patient first,” he said.Once the patient gets stabilized, relevant tests will be done to check for the virus and accordingly shifted to a nearby Covid care centre. “I have sanctioned this work from my funds and it should commence in the coming 15 days. Based on the response this facility gets, we will set-up similar units in different areas,” added Radhakrishnan.Additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma informed that the hospital has 100 beds, out of which 25 will be used for deliveries and 75 for the walk-in centre. “We are also in process of recruiting staff for the centre,” he said.In another positive development, NMC’s efforts to vet hefty private hospital bills of Covid-19 patients have started showing good results. As reported by TOI earlier, the civic body had appointed around 88 officials at different private hospitals to audit the bills of patients.As per Radhakrishnan, the audit team has checked around 1,019 bills till date and have found variations in 203 bills. “The total variations are valued at Rs32 lakh, out of which around Rs5-6 lakh have been refunded to the patients. For the remaining bills, we have given an opportunity to the hospitals to justify the amount. If they don’t follow the prescribed rates, we will pass an order against them,” he added.The commissioner further informed that every bill is being scrutinized by the audit team. “The number of complaints regarding inflated bills has gone down. Now hospitals have also realized that they can’t include additional charges for bio-medical waste, oxygen etc in the bills,” he said.If a patient or his kin are still not satisfied by the amount after auditing, they can contact senior NMC officials. “A team has been appointed to supervise the pre-auditing team to ensure that they are not hand-in-glove with the hospitals. We will also keep shuffling the teams in every 15-20 days,” added Radhakrishnan. TOI had also reported that the civic body had conducted walk-in interviews to appoint staff for treating Covid-19 patients. As per the commissioner, over 300 medicos showed willingness for the interviews out of which 88 have already joined at different hospitals. Orders for more recruitments are also being issued. “Those recruited are staff nurses, ward boys and Ayush doctors,” said Radhakrishnan. How NMC is Combating Covid1. First ever walk-in oxygen bed facilityAnyone facing difficulty in breathing can directly walk in and get admittedNo tests reports will be askedFocus will be to immediately stabilize the patient and then send him for testsAround 60-70 beds are being set-up at the Panchpaoli centre 2. Auditing hefty hospital billsThe pre-audit team appointed by NMC at different hospitals has audited around 1,019 bills till nowVariations found in over 200 bills, valued at Rs32 lakhOut of this, Rs5-6 lakh already refunded to patientsNMC in talks with hospitals for rest of the bills, will take action if hospitals do not refund3. New recruitmentsAround 88 staff nurses, ward boys and Ayush doctors recruited through walk-in interviewsPlaced at different hospitalsMore recruitments in process||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/breathless-walk-in-for-o2-at-pachpaoli/articleshow/78454147.cms||Manka Behl
October 3, 2020||Madurai||Two men murdered in Madurai||MADURAI: Two persons were murdered by unknown assailants in Madurai district in separate incidents in two villages near Melur on Friday. Nagarajan,55, from E Malampatti village was found murdered by assailants who smashed his head with a stone. In another incident, Prabhu, 21, from Muthirulandipatti village was found murdered. Madurai district SP Sujit Kumar arrived at the scene of the murders for investigation. A forensic team, including fingerprint experts and police sniffer dogs were also brought to the scene of the crime to investigate and search for clues. Investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-men-murdered-in-madurai/articleshow/78454129.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan crosses 22,000-mark; Jaipur now has over 8,000 active cases||JAIPUR: The state crossed 22,000 mark on Friday as 2,211 Covid-19 cases were recorded. It was another single-day record of highest cases which took the total count to 1,39,696. Also, 16 people lost their lives taking the death tally to 1,516. Jaipur continued to remain the worst-hit district registering 414 cases. The district also has the highest active cases at 8,083. Majority of the hospitals, both private and government, are full with Covid patients. "Patients with no symptoms and mild symptoms are undergoing treatment at their homes and those requiring oxygen support and ICUs are getting admitted to hospitals," said a senior officer of the health department. Earlier in the day, Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal, SMS Medical College, visited RUHS to take stock of the situation and also to see the overall arrangements. Areas in the city which saw spike in cases include Mansarover (92), Sanganer (69), Malviya Nagar (54), Jagatpura (30) and Jhotwara(23). Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 326 cases were reported, Alwar (198), Bikaner (183), Udaipur (108), Bhilwara (108) and in and Ajmer (95) cases were recorded. "Elaborate arrangements have been made in these districts which definitely require enhancement in health infrastructure. We are also in touch with private hospitals which have also been asked to dedicate 30% of their total beds for Covid treatment," said an officer. Of the 16 deaths on Saturday, two were reported in Tonk while one death each was reported from Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Dholpur, Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Karauli, Kota, Nagaur and Pali, Of the 1,39,696 cases, 1.16 lakh patients have been discharged from various hospitals across the state. Meanwhile, the state health minister launched a campaign ‘wear mask and make others to wear mask’ on the birth anniversary Mahatma Gandhi. He said over one crore masks would be distributed across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-crosses-22k-mark-jaipur-now-has-over-8000-active-cases/articleshow/78454143.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Proposed emergency landing strip on NH-68 gets green signal||JAISALMER: The committee formed by environment, forest and climate change ministry — three years after the forest department objected to the proposed emergency landing strip near Sheo area of Barmer on Jaisalmer-Barmer NH-68 — has ordered to give Rs 26,00,560 to forest department to plant new plants in place of removing 1,419 trees at the scheduled place, after which the matter was resolved. Now emergency landing facility can be made here. The move comes under the plan to give way to emergency landing facility at the national highways in border areas of the country looking to the future needs of Indian Air Force and NDRF, to strengthen the security arrangements looking to the present situation in the country, and to run the rescue operations in conditions of any natural/manmade calamities. According to NHAI official sources, Neembla and Aagoria area on NH-68 were found suitable for emergency landing of fighter planes and for NDRF at the time of disaster, for which NHAI identified land from 109.740km to 113.445km on this highway. The forest department objected to it as there were trees on the land reserved by the forest department due to which the matter of making the air strip was lying pending for the last three years. The matter was pending with Union environment and forest ministry. In this regard, the forest ministry had asked a report from the deputy conservator of forest of Barmer, which was put before the committee made by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. The committee’s regional empowered committee in its 45th meeting raised this issue. Sources said that the emergency landing facility will be developed for fighter jets on NH-68 connecting Barmer-Jaisalmer near the international border with Pakistan. The Union ministry of environment and forest and climate change has issued a forest clearance for the project, which has been pending for almost three years. Sources said that the meeting of the empowered committed was held under the chairmanship of additional DG at Lucknow in which approval was given to remove 1,419 trees on the 13.2 hectare area of the forest department between 109.740km milestone and 113.445km milestone and NHAI was ordered to give Rs 26,00,560 to the forest department as compensation. The highway will be widened near Agoria and Nimbala villages in Barmer district for landing facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/proposed-emergency-landing-strip-on-nh-68-gets-green-signal/articleshow/78454128.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||NRI dalits join hands online to protest Hathras tragedy||NAGPUR: Non-resident Indian (NRI) dalits have joined hands online to protest the Hathras tragedy and other incidents of rape of Dalit women in Uttar Pradesh (UP). Around 35 organizations issued a joint statement on Friday. The declaration states that the NRI Ambedkarites are “seething with rage, pain and sadness at the brutal caste hate crime against a 19-year-old girl from the scheduled caste community”. “We offer our condolences to the family of our sister from Hathras. She lost her life on September 29 after she succumbed to the injuries because of the hate crime where she was raped, her tongue was slashed, spinal cord broken and she was left to die by some men from the Thakur community. In an alleged attempt to destroy the evidence, her body was forcefully cremated by the UP police, which literally caused her second death. This happened against the wishes of the family who were begging in front of the authorities to see their daughter one last time,” it stated. Saying that there are reports of other heinous rape crimes again on Dalit girls in Balrampur and other places, the organizations have demanded “immediate prosecution of the criminals under the SC/ST Atrocities Act”. “As per the National Crime Records Bureau statistics, the crimes against Dalits rose by 746% from 2006 to 2016. The caste motivated rapes and murders of Dalit women form major proportion of such crimes against Dalits. The cases pending investigations were up 99% and the police were half as likely to help,” the statement reads. The organizations wanted the government to take initiatives along with the community leaders to eradicate caste, restore law and order in UP and country and “create a safer space for women, and provide equal opportunities to all its citizens along with additional safeguards for the Scheduled Castes and Tribes”. Mahesh Wasnick, the coordinator of these protests, told TOI from USA that members have protested at several places in USA and Europe. “We are going to submit a memorandum to United Nations and New York. We are also organizing virtual protests. All Ambedkarite, Bahujan and Muslim and many local organizations are supporting us. It is not for the cause of any community but humanity itself,” he said. The National Valmiki Sabha NRI (UK) will stage a demonstration outside Indian High Commission in London on Saturday to seek the resignation of Yogi Adityanath and suspension of district collector of Hathras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nri-dalits-join-hands-online-to-protest-hathras-tragedy/articleshow/78461145.cms||Ashish Roy
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||Wrestler plans 21,000-km trip from Rishikesh to London on bus||DEHRADUN: Wrestler Labhanshu Sharma, a resident of Rishikesh, has planned a 75-day itinerary with 20 people, who will travel across 20 countries all the way from Rishikesh to London — in a manner reminiscent of intercontinental bus services of the 1960s and 70s. Named ‘Incredible Bus Ride’, the journey will start in June 2021 and cover a distance of 21,000 km. It was originally scheduled to start in December this year but was deferred due to the Covid pandemic. The journey will kick off from North East India and enter Myanmar in the first leg. It will then pass through Thailand, Laos and China before entering Russia and finally, Europe. It will culminate in London. “It is probably going to be the longest bus journey in the world, traversing Central Asia, Middle East and Europe,” said Sharma. “I have planned this trip to London to spread Indian culture abroad,” added the wrestler, who recently completed a road trip on a four-wheeler from India to London along with his brother. Sharma won gold medals in Asian international Games and several other national-level bouts. He is also an activist and says that he has been on several ‘peace trips’, covering 32 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rishikesh-wrestler-plans-21000-km-trip-from-rishikesh-to-london-on-a-bus/articleshow/78451320.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||With digital key, e-office up and running||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan was given a digital key on Friday to covert her office activities into digital means. The first report in the e-office was sent to President Ram Nath Kovind on the monthly activities of Raj Bhavan. “The e-office will not only help me to have a better and easy communication with the government, but also with people,” said the governor. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-digital-key-e-office-up-and-running/articleshow/78454198.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry: Cop, others assault hosp staff, booked||PUDUCHERRY: A police inspector and several others were booked on charges of assaulting doctors and nurses at Indira Gandhi government general hospital and postgraduate institute in Puducherry accusing them of medical negligence in treating the inspector’s octogenarian father who died. Police said Mettupalayam police inspector P Shanmugasundaram’s father Pakkirisamy, 80, was admitted to the hospital in a serious condition and was categorized under ‘dangerously ill list’. He died despite treatment. When he was declared dead, a gang of people led by the inspector assaulted a nursing officer among others. While the accused were booked under sections of the IPC, the Epidemic Diseases Act was not invoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/cop-others-assault-hosp-staff-booked/articleshow/78452550.cms||Bosco Dominique
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Zinc, vitamin C combo selling like hot cakes||JAIPUR: The doctors are prescribing a combination of zinc and vitamin C not only to Covid-19 patients but also to people suffering from seasonal diseases. Such is the craze that people are also taking this combination on their own over the counter at medical stores. Doctors said that it works as a catalyst in increasing the immunity. Speaker C P Joshi, ministers Shanti Dhariwal, Govind Singh Dotasra, Raghu Sharma and others launch a campaign against coronavirus at Albert Hall.Since the outbreak of Covid-19, doctors were already prescribing zinc and vitamin C to the Covid-19 patients along with antibiotics and anti-viral medicines. As seasonal diseases started, doctors are advising patients to use zinc and vitamin C. Not only that many people having no symptoms are also taking the combination on their own. “Yes, it has become part of the overall prescription for Covid-19 and other people with seasonal diseases, including malaria, dengue, influenza and others. It works as immunity booster and its consumption under medical prescription is surely beneficial,” said doctor Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital. Not only that such is the hype that people are directly purchasing the vitamin C and zinc combination over the counters. “Actually vitamin D along with vitamin C and zinc are showing good results in some patients. Also, there is no harm in taking it for diseases like cold, fever or some other viral infection other than Covid-19 too,” said Gaurav Singh, a physician at a private hospital. Prakash Keswani, senior professor (medicine), maintained that many people are taking vitamin C and zinc combination on their own too over the counters. “This is already an immunity booster and there is no harm if people are taking it,” he said. Meanwhile, the chemists across the city too are saying that a good number of people are coming to buy this combination. “It’s a chewable tables and various pharmaceutical companies are already been manufacturing them. We are getting customers who are asking for 1,000 tables per week for their whole family,” said Subash Soni, a wholesale dealer of medicines at Film colony, New Gate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/zinc-vitamin-c-combo-selling-like-hot-cakes/articleshow/78454171.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Radio Tower at Udupi park crackles back to life||Udupi: The familiar crackle of radio over the public address system is back at Bhujanga Park at Ajjarakadu here. A seeming ubiquitous feature for the park regulars, the radio tower standing majestically on a rock formation beamed out information as they went about their work — either walking or just chatting up with friends on the stone benches there. The radio tower, built in 1938, had gone silent for more than two years now. DC G Jagadeesha, who had noticed its stoic silence during the last year’s Gandhi Jayanti celebrations, took it on himself to get it restored. The restoration work ensured the basic structure and characteristics of the tower remained intact. Park users can now listen to radio from 5.30pm to 8pm, with the vast rock formations and stone benches dotting the park serving them as seats. The radio tower has a new PA system and a radio set. The PA system volume has been set in a manner that the sound of the radio programme resonates within the park and does not disturb those in the surrounding residential areas. The restoration work has also given life to an alarm that will ring three times a day — at 8am, 12.30pm and 8pm. The last alarm is also an indicator for those present at the park to leave the premises. At a stone’s-throw distance from the iconic tower is the bust of Mahatma Gandhi, which is the centre of district-level Gandhi Jayanti celebrations. During his visit to Udupi, the mahatma had rested at Rashtrapita Mahatma Gandhiji Mantap. The Ajjarakadu Park serves as the lung space for hundreds of people in this temple town. MLA K Raghupathi Bhat told TOI that the park in general and the radio tower in particular has a nostalgic value to the residents of Udupi. “It was a place where people flocked to listen to radio in days when radio was deemed a luxury household item,” he said. Restoration of the radio tower is the first step towards the all-round development of Bhujanga Park for which Rs 2 crore has been set aside. An outdoor gym will also be built,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/radio-tower-at-udupi-park-crackles-back-to-life/articleshow/78452200.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||Swimming pools, cinema halls to open from Oct 15; DMs to decide on opening of schools||Dehradun: Close on the heels of directives from the Centre, the Uttarakhand government late on Thursday evening announced its SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) for the 'Unlock 5' phase. While a nod has been given to the opening of swimming pools and cinema halls from October 15 onwards, a ceiling of 200 people has also been put on the maximum guest limit in marriage events. Earlier, the permissible limit was 100 people. The state has also granted permission to schools, colleges, education institutes and coaching centres to operate from October 15. However, the district magistrates have been asked to submit a report, on the basis of which the government would decide on opening educational institutes in a graded manner. The SOP issued by chief secretary Om Prakash to state and police officers reads, “The decision in respect to reopening of schools after October 15, 2020, in a graded manner shall be taken by the department of education. The decision shall be taken in consultation with the respective schools/ institution managements.” Permission from parents will also be a key factor in decision making. It has also been stated that in the present situation, attendance cannot be enforced and the education department will prepare its own SOP regarding health and safety precautions for the reopening of schools and institutes. Swimming pools being used for training of sportspersons will be permitted to open with effect from October 15. The SOPs for this have been issued by the ministry of youth affairs and sports and they shall be strictly adhered to. Business exhibitions, too, have been permitted in the state. Similarly, cinemas halls, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will be permitted to open with up to 50% of their seating capacity in areas outside the containment zones. Parks would be opened for walks and jogs with an upper limit of 10 people. In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the place’s capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 persons. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will remain mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/swimming-pools-cinema-halls-to-open-from-oct-15-dms-to-decide-on-opening-of-schools/articleshow/78451345.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||No dual fees to be charged from industries under zila panchayats||LUCKNOW: Industrial areas under zila panchayats in UP will no longer have to pay additional fees to the development authority. Only zila panchayats will collect the fees and will be duty bound to provide municipal facilities to industrial areas. “Earlier, these industrial areas were paying to the development authority and zila panchayat, even though the latter was not doing any work for them. Now, only the zila panchayat will be collecting fees which will be deposited in a separate fund. Out of this, 60% will be used for development and maintenance of the industrial area while the remaining 40% will be used for development of the area outside the industrial zone,” said Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development). Zila panchayats have been collecting Rs 6 crore each year from industrial areas, which will now be spent on the development of industrial areas. The system will be similar to the one already implemented for 35 industrial estates under urban local bodies where UP state industrial development authority (UPSIDA) does not take any maintenance charge but the urban local body collects tax and provides all municipal facilities. The order comes after chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to sort out the matter when representatives of industrial associations raised it in a high-level empowered committee meeting of ‘Invest UP’ on September 21. The directions were issued by additional chief secretary (panchayati raj). The order also mandates the formation of committees which will be responsible for the spending of 60% of the collected funds in the industrial areas. These committees will be headed by respective divisional commissioners and consist of the district magistrate, regional manager of UPSIDA and additional chief officer of the zila panchayat as its members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-dual-fees-to-be-charged-from-industries-under-zila-panchayats/articleshow/78454959.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP artisans get a platform at Ghaziabad export bazaar||LUCKNOW: An export bazaar started in Ghaziabad on Friday. The event was inaugurated by MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh digitally. It will run for three months and has been organised by the export promotion bureau under the MSME department, export promotion council and a private limited company based out of Ghaziabad. More than 70 industrialists have taken part in this exhibition. Singh said Covid-19 pandemic had impacted artisans and industrialists alike and an event like this would help them reach out to a market. “These industrialists should also be linked with the global exhibition which will begin from October 15. I also appeal to organisers and participants to follow all Covid guidelines like social distancing and wearing masks,” Singh said. The exhibition is being held in an area of 40,000 sq feet. Exhibitors have been allocated stalls for free while their food, stay and publicity for the exhibition is also free. The exhibition includes Lucknow’s chikankari work, Moradabad’s metal artware, Firozabad’s glassware, leather from Unnao and Kanpur, sports goods from Meerut and apparel from Gautam Budh Nagar,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-artisans-get-a-platform-at-ghaziabad-export-bazaar/articleshow/78454971.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||S Kol crowd-surge concern prompts cops to tweak plans||KOLKATA: The past few years have shown how the Chetla-Gariahat corridor has emerged as the busiest in the city and the most challenging during Durga Puja. Now, even amid the pandemic, cops have decided to modify their plan from last year. Besides Gariahat, the city will get an additional control post-cum-watch tower at the Rashbehari Avenue crossing, making it the nerve centre of Pujas. This will be in addition to the reserve control rooms in Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Behala.  Maximum cops outside Lalbazar will be in this area. Most senior officers will also be deputed here because unlike the past four years, when barricading helped the flow of traffic, police are yet to decide on the traffic pattern and will need to be ready for any surprise. “This year, Deshapriya Park and Tridhara Pujas are going for traditional pandals. Others in Hindustan Park and Singhi Park, too, have reduced budgets. In comparison, all pandals around Rashbehari and Chetla, including Badamtala Ashar Sangha, 66 Palli, Chetla Agrani and even Suruchi, have all decided to stick to themes. This would mean the pressure on roads around Chetla will be higher. Most importantly, barricading at the crossing may pose a major challenge to adhere to physical distancing norms,” said a south division officer. Cops cited the ground situation last year to explain their predicament. Last year, on Shasthi evening, cops followed a formula that allowed 10 minutes for vehicle movement and 2 minutes for pedestrian crossover. The crowd was channelized using barricades to prevent any spillover on arterial roads. However, in doing so, the pedestrian traffic had surged exponentially at these crossings. Even if we open all pedestrian channels all at once, completely stopping vehicles, some crowding can’t be avoided,” stated an officer. This is why the police initially opposed the drive-in concept at the three pandals — Badamtala Ashar Sangha, 66 Pally and Kalighat Nepal Bhattacharjee Street. “We have been told that they will allow only a limited number of cars inside the complex. But entering the narrow roads after 4pm could be problematic. We shall again discuss the issue with the organizers,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kol-crowd-surge-concern-prompts-cops-to-tweak-plans/articleshow/78452551.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Friday sets tone for weekend Puja shopping||KOLKATA: Friday was a perfect warm-up for the weekend-shopping binge at malls and shopping districts across the city. From traders in malls and markets to hawkers on the streets — everyone was busy attending to shoppers. The three major shopping districts — Gariahat, New Market and Hatibagan — were also bustling with shoppers on Friday. By evening, the surge in crowd had Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police worried. The rising numbers led to some quick-fix solutions. Some apparel shops discouraged customers from using the trial rooms after 6pm. Some shops also sent SMS to old clients, urging them to visit the market early when it’s empty. Shops, nowadays, have begun opening at 9am. Several customers walked in early to avoid the peak-hour rush,” said Monirul Islam, a shopowner near Treasure Island in New Market. At malls, though numbers were higher, it never threatened to become an unmanageable crowd as entry is still controlled. At South City, the city’s largest mall, the footfall was close to 30,000. “This weekend, the footfall may touch 1 lakh as people will shop for Puja in earnest,” said a mall official. The footfall wasn’t as high at Quest mall as its customers haven’t yet begun their festive shopping yet. “We expect it to begin next weekend,” said a store official at the mall. While the SOP that malls had adopted before opening appear to have worked with no infection being reported yet, hawkers and traders on Friday appealed to KMC for periodic sanitization in high-footfall zones. “If KMC gives us particular time slots for such drives, we shall vacate the zones. We don’t mind losing that business for the sake of safety,” said Badal Ghosh of Gariahat’s traders’ body. Hawkers and traders, who have an uncanny ability to sense the mood and buying pattern of shoppers very early in the season, have changed their stocks. With suburban trains yet to operate, they’ve changed the mix of value-for-money, mid-range and branded products to cater to the clientele. If suburban trains start operating, business will surge by at least 60%, said Gopal Basak of Gariahat-Ballygunge Hawkers and Traders Samannay Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/friday-sets-tone-for-weekend-puja-shopping/articleshow/78452532.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Demand for domestic flights picks up, but tourism boom unlikely this festive season||KOLKATA: Hopes of revival in the travel and tourism industry during Durga Puja holidays is fizzling out with travel agents, tour operators and hotels registering hardly any bookings. Against a revenue of Rs 500 crore that the travel and hospitality industry has been clocking during every Puja for the past several years, even Rs 50 crore appears far-fetched this year. Though domestic travel has picked up and flights are recording good loads, they mostly comprise essential business tavel or short trips to meet family members. As Durga Puja draws near, demand on flights to Kolkata will increase as many from the city who are currently settled in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and other cities fly in to spend the festival here. Usually with a month to go for Puja, several thousand Kolkatans complete their holiday bookings, either on the domestic front or on international shores. But this year, there is yet any sign of holidays being planned. “The Puja business is yet to take off this year. Though people desperately want a break, there is palpable fear about treading anywhere that is unknown. No one is willing to take a chance. Air travel with family is out for the time being. Some are willing to drive down to destinations in their own vehicle. Those bookings to Digha, Mandarmani and other nearby places will happen closer to the Puja. But a majority of people who would have otherwise gone on a holiday have decided to give it a miss,” said Hotel & Restaurant Association of Eastern India president Sudesh Poddar. Usually, flights to South-East Asia are choc-a-bloc during the Puja holidays with fares going through the roof. But this year, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong and other destinations are yet to open up to tourists. With UK and UAE the only countries open for tourism, travel agents had expected business from there. But there are no signs yet of families planning a holiday at London, Edinburgh, Dubai or Abu Dhabi. “With Europe experiencing a second wave of infection, the situation is very fluid at the moment. We are hearing the UK is putting in place night-time restrictions. There is so much uncertainty that we are not pushing for holidays right now. The situation may turn for the worse any moment, leading to shutdowns and flight cancellations. We’ve almost given up hope of any revival this Puja,” said Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. The sudden announcement by Lufthansa on Wednesday that it was cancelling all flights between India and Germany forced Kolkatan Deepsikha Gunain to cough up three times the amount to make a last-minute booking for Rs 96,000 on Air France to travel to Amsterdam. She was originally scheduled to travel on the Lufthansa flight from Delhi to Munich and then onward to Amsterdam. That ticket had cost Rs 38,000. “Spain is again enforcing lockdowns. France is putting in place night-time restrictions. The situation isn’t conducive for travel anywhere. Even though UK is offering tourist visa, the requirement to stay in home quarantine for 14 days is discouraging tourists,” said travel agent Jaydeep Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/demand-for-domestic-flights-picks-up-but-tourism-boom-unlikely-this-festive-season/articleshow/78452558.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||CM KCR lauds guv’s husband||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao visited Raj Bhavan on Friday and congratulated governor Tamilisai Soundararajan’s husband and nephrologist P Soundararajan, who was recently selected for Dronacharya award in nephrology. The CM felicitated Dr Soundararajan with a shawl and a bouquet and conveyed his wishes. The CM said Telangana is proud of the achievements of Soundararajan and appreciated his career spanning over 35 years. Dr Soundararajan was one of the pioneers in the transplant of kidney collected from a brain dead snakebite victim. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-kcr-lauds-guvs-husband/articleshow/78454232.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Dehradun||Two armed robbers who shot at local jeweller arrested||DEHRADUN: Police have arrested two accused involved in a robbery case after scanning footage of 500 CCTV cameras installed along a 130-km-long stretch between Dehradun and Muzaffarnagar. A team of city police on Thursday night arrested two robbers who, on September 22 night, had fired gunshots at a local jeweller, injuring him, before decamping with a bag filled with jewellery and cash in Patel Nagar police station area. The accused, identified as Rahul Sharma, 32, and Nadeem, 26, both residents of Bulandshahr, have been nabbed by seperate police teams from Delhi and Bulandshahr respectively. Two of their accomplices, identified as Naeem and Faizal, are still at large. According to Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Dehradun, Arun Mohan Joshi, Nadeem is a history-sheeter and there are more than a dozen criminal cases lodged against him in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. DIG Joshi said, “It was quite a difficult case as the robbers tried their best to not leave any evidence. They did not not use mobile phones, came on stolen bikes with fake number plates, wore helmets everywhere so that they are not identified by any CCTV.” After the crime, DIG Dehradun formed four special teams to nab the culprits. While checking the back date CCTV footage, police found four suspicious persons wearing helmets in two bikes doing rounds near the jewellery shop. ““Police teams checked over 500 CCTV cameras installed on the route between Dehradun and Muzaffarnagar to get a lead on the criminals,” said Arun Mohan Joshi. A careful scanning of CCTV cameras revealed that the robbers entered Dehradun from Sahaspur area. However, they were not seen in any other CCTV cameras installed on that stretch, proving that they took the forest route. While checking footage of other CCTV cameras, police spotted them in a camera installed at Hathnikund barrage. “We got an important lead after a CCTV camera near a police station building in Jalalabad village caught the four robbers without helmets sitting at a motor mechanic shop. On the basis of the footage, police prepared a list of about 350-400 people who visited the particular place on the same day,” said Joshi. After intense investigation, police managed to zero down on the accused in the case. During questioning, mastermind Rahul Sharma told the police that he was out on parole from Delhi jail in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. The accused added that he had met his accomplice Nadeem in Bulandshahr jail, where they both were lodged earlier. Meanwhile, police headquarters have announced a cash reward of Rs 20,000 for the police team which cracked the case. DIG Joshi also announced a cash reward of Rs 2,500 for the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-armed-robbers-who-shot-at-local-jeweller-arrested/articleshow/78451347.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP completes reforms of new PDS system||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh on Friday became the sixth state in the country to complete the reform process for the implementation of ‘one nation, one ration card system’ under the public distribution system. “The state has become eligible for raising up to Rs 4,851 crore through open market borrowings. This will help the state in mobilizing additional financial resources required to fight Covid-19 pandemic,” a government spokesman said. The department of food and public distribution said other states which have carried out these reforms include Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Goa, Karnataka and Tripura. Under the ‘one nation, one ration card system’, ration is made available to beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act and other welfare schemes at any fair price shop in the country. The scheme also helps in better targeting of beneficiaries and elimination of duplicate or bogus cards. The department of food and public distribution explained that to ensure seamless inter-state portability of ration cards, Aadhar seeding of all ration cards, biometric authentication of beneficiaries through automation of all fair price shops with installation of electronic point of sale devices were essential. The department is the nodal ministry for assessment of reform claims by states to recommend release of additional borrowing limit of up to 0.2% of GSDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-completes-reforms-of-new-pds-system/articleshow/78454981.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Business||Drug cos with Covid drugs, vaccines see huge increase in wealth||Mumbai: Covid-19 may have led to loss in lives and livelihood but interestingly it has also created massive wealth and valuations for those developing and providing solutions for the treatment of the dreaded virus. A total of 27 pharma companies who witnessed a 33% growth in valuation in August, are actively involved in either developing or manufacturing vaccines or drugs to combat Covid-19, data from IIFL Wealth Hurun India Top Covid-19 Pharma Entrepreneurs List suggests. While eight companies are developing or manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines, 22 are either developing or manufacturing drugs to treat the viral infection. The companies are drawn from the 77 featured in the mother list, IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2020, which compiles those with a networth of Rs 1,000 crore each as of August 2020. This mirrors the global trend of drug companies including Moderna, Pfizer, Novavax and Johnson & Johnson, clocking huge gains in their stocks and valuations, as their vaccine candidates enter an advanced stage of development.With a wealth of Rs 94,300 crore, Serum Institute’s promoter Cyrus Poonawalla tops the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Top Covid-19 Pharma entrepreneurs list. He ranked sixth in the overall list of super-rich individuals. Pune-based Serum has tie ups with global manufacturers AstraZeneca and Novavax for potential Covid-19 vaccines which are undergoing clinical trials. The Gates Foundation is pumping in at-risk funding of $300 million to its partnership with Gavi and Serum Institute for potential Covid-19 vaccines. The largest increase of 89% is in the wealth of Hyderabad-based Divi Laboratories’ promoter Murali Divi and family, to Rs 49,200 crore. The Covid-19 super-rich entrepreneurs reported a 33% wealth increase of Rs 1,42,500 crore as against last year. Of this, 26 are first-generation entrepreneurs, with an average age of 66. ``The list, which is a sub list of the super-rich group, is not so much of the wealth created by these entrepreneurs. It is more about the valuable enterprise these entrepreneurs have created and how they are impacting the Covid race. Some companies like Cadila and Dr Reddy’s are involved in both drugs and vaccine for the virus”, Anas Rahman Junaid MD & chief researcher, Hurun Report India told TOI. With a networth of Rs 1,400 crore, promoter of FDC Ltd Mohan Anand Chandavarkar --part of the Covid-19 pharma entrepreneurs list, made a debut in the main list. The company had launched two variants of anti-viral drug, Favipiravir, a potential Covid-19 treatment, in August. The second-largest increase of 71% is in Biocon’s chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw’s wealth of Rs 31,600 crore, who ranks fifth on the main list. Biocon launched a biologic therapy, itolizumab for Covid-19, while it’s subsidiary, Syngene, has tied up with US firm, Gilead Sciences to manufacture and sell Covid-19 potential drug, Remdesivir.With a wealth of Rs 84,000 crore Sun Pharma promoter Dilip Shanghvi ranks second in this list. Backed by a 22% increase in the share price of Sun Pharma, Shanghvi’s wealth increased by 17% or Rs 12,000 crore, the data says. Sun Pharma is running Phase II clinical trials on AQCH, a phytopharmaceutical drug, as potential treatment for Covid-19, and already launched Favipiravir tablets.Favipiravir is the most manufactured drug, produced by 10 companies, including Glenmark, Cipla, Hetero, Dr Reddy’s and Lupin-- all which have seen huge valuations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/drug-cos-with-covid-drugs-vaccines-see-huge-increase-in-wealth/articleshow/78451359.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||After friend’s death, Hyderabad businessman steps up for sick in need of ride||HYDERABAD: A resident of Ameerpet has become an unlikely ‘carrier’ of Covid patients from home to doctor. After his friend’s death three months ago, Mahender Reddy decided he would help friends, family and even strangers. “I have taken about 50 Covid positive people or those showing symptoms on my bike to the doctor. This is the least I can do to help at a time when people are struggling emotionally and financially,” he said. While the passing away of his close friend to the virus was the first blow Reddy faced, a positive test report for his wife and family members spurred him to action. “I went to a doctor in Banjara Hills to get my wife treated. It was he who gave us confidence that we could overcome the virus. I decided then I would get as many people as I could for the treatment they deserve,” Reddy said. What followed was multiple trips by Reddy, a hostel owner, to the doctor’s office. “I try to make them as comfortable as I can. I do believe that 99 per cent of the virus’ affect is because it plays on a person’s mind. The physical impact is only one per cent.” When a doctor in his village, D Repaka, who was treating Covid patients tested positive, Reddy came to the rescue. He called the doctor to the city and picked him from Balanagar. Dr Saidulu said, “There is so much taboo associated with the virus. So, imagine how taken aback I was when Reddy came to pick me and on a two-wheeler of all things. Saidulu said, for the elderly, “I took back preventive medicines prescribed under homeopathy.” About 100 people from village tested positive for the virus, once the doctor was treated. Reddy and Saidulu helped get them treated, ensuring medicines were taken from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-friends-death-bizman-steps-up-for-sick-in-need-of-ride/articleshow/78454228.cms||Uttara Varma
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||2 bizmen held for abetting suicide of Mahoba trader||LUCKNOW: Nearly three weeks after Mahoba trader Indrakant Tripathi succumbed to gunshot injury, police on Friday arrested businessmen Suresh Soni and Brahma Dutt on charges of abetment to suicide. On the complaint of crusher dealer’s brother, Ravi Kant Tripathi, police had lodged a case of attempt to murder on September 11 against suspended IPS officer Manilal Patidar, inspector Devendra Shukla and businessmen Suresh Soni and Brahma Dutt. The arrests came after the three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT), headed by IG (Varanasi range) Vijay Meena found that the crusher dealer was not murderded and had allegedly committed suicide. Talking to TOI, superintendent of police, Mahoba, Arun Srivastava said after the SIT report, the case of attempt to murder was changed to abetment to suicide. “We have arrested Suresh Soni and Brahma Dutt who were named by the businessman’s brother in the FIR. Names of other cops have also surfaced. Corruption charges against them are being scrutinised and action will be taken soon,” he added. Inspector general of police, Chitrakoot Dham range, K Satyanarayan said, “The name of a police constable, Arun Kumar Yadav, has come to the fore. Yadav reportedly used to run vehicles for transportation of mining minerals. We have seized 10 such vehicles and two teams have been sent to Mathura and Etawah to nab him.” Eight other teams were formed by Mahoba police on Friday evening to search for missing IPS officer Manilal Patidar and suspended inspector Devendra Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-bizmen-held-for-abetting-suicide-of-mahoba-trader/articleshow/78454983.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Bleeding crores: Andhra top of chart for costliest scams||Vijayawada: While Andhra Pradesh stands seventh in terms of economic offences compared to other states, it tops the chart when it comes to having the costliest scams in the country as per the Crime in India-2019 report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). For instance, property loss in 302 of the 3,675 cases of forgery, cheating and fraud is between Rs 50 crore and Rs 100 crore. Bigger states like Maharashtra, in comparison, have only four cases under the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore ballpark figure. Even in terms of cases pertaining to criminal breach of trust, AP saw losses ranging between Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore. In 30 cases, property loss was in the range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore. Apart from that, in 37% of the cases property loss was below Rs 1 lakh while 39% cases saw property loss between Rs 1 lakh to Rs 10 lakh. Overall, AP saw 332 cases where the scam amount lay in the tens of crores. In comparison, Maharashtra which stands second in terms of costliest scams, despite a much bigger population and economy, has 97% fewer cases than Andhra Pradesh. It may be noted that the state did not witness a single scam in the Rs 50 crore to Rs 100 crore range in 2018. However, one case of cheating was reported wherein the property loss was over Rs 100 crore. Since 2016, the state has witnessed a rising trend in white-collar offences. In the latest NCRB report shows the biggest jump of 26% in 2019. Andhra Pradesh accounts for 5.3% of the country’s economic offences with a crime rate of 16.8% under the category. Close to 88% of economic offences in the state pertain to cheating, forgery and fraud while 10% of them fall under criminal breach of trust. It is pertinent to note that criminal breach of trust charge can overlap with that of cheating or forgery in several instances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bleeding-crores-andhra-top-of-chart-for-costliest-scams/articleshow/78454242.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 2,000 Covid cases, 10 fatalities||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday reported 2,009 new Covid-19 positive cases and 10 deaths, even as Hyderabad city and its adjoining areas continued to report high numbers. The total coronavirus caseload rose to 1,95, 609 and the death has gone up to 1145 with the fresh deaths.  The local Telugu Desam Party headquarters, NTR Bhavan was sealed for sanitisation after three people tested positive. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continues to report high number of cases at 293 followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (173), Ranga Reddy (171). Karimnagar (114), Nalgonda ( 109), and Khammam (104).  As a result, the health department asked denizens to continue the regular precautions of social distancing and wearing masks. On the other hand, Narayanpet continues to have least number of cases at 8, followed by Adilabad (19) and Jayashankar Bhupalpally (23). The number of active cases came down to 28,620 from more than 30,000 a little over a week ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-2000-cases-10-fatalities/articleshow/78454238.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Minor sister, boyfriend held for girl’s murder||VARANASI: After the recovery of the body of a 11-year-old girl from the railway track near Dhaura crossing on Friday morning, Mirzapur police took the victim’s 15-year-old sister and her lover in their custody for the minor’s murder. SP, Mirzapur, Ajay Kumar Singh said the police worked out the case within nine hours of the incident and claimed that the couple murdered the girl as she was alleged creating hurdles in their relationship. “On Thursday afternoon, the two sisters left home by telling their parents that they were going out to get their bicycle repaired. However, when they did not return till late evening, their father lodged a case of kidnapping at Padri police station. The SP said that cops managed to find the elder sister but couldn’t locate the younger one. “After the girl’s body was recovered from the railway track, cops questioned her elder sister who confessed that she, with the help of her boyfriend, strangulated the girl and dumped her body on railway track,” he said, adding that the boy has also been nabbed. The girl informed cops that after leaving home, they left the bicycle in Natwa Ka Dera area and left for Mirzapur with her boyfriend on a motorcycle. They enjoyed the outing and food at a restaurant, bought clothes from a shop before leaving for their village. Police said when the trio reached Dhaura railway crossing, the girl fell asleep. Taking advantage of the situation, they strangulated her and dumped the body on railway tracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/minor-sister-boyfriend-held-for-girls-murder/articleshow/78454984.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Chennai||Housing sector rises from Covid-sparked lull, sales up||Chennai: Sale of housing units in the city’s real estate market is bouncing back to pre-Covid times, a report by a property consultant said. According to a report by Anarock property consultants, Chennai saw an approximate number of 1,600 (apartment) units sold between July and September, 73% of 2,190 units sold in Q1 (January-March) of this year. Similarly, the Chennai real estate market added about 1,560 units in Q3 (July to September) while around 3,680 units were launched between January and March. The new launches in Q3 were 42% of the pre-pandemic figures. The report also stated that Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Pune and Gurugram witnessed high demand for plots and that the demand in the city was for housing plots within Rs 50 lakh. Construction sector sources also echoed that the city’s realty scene has been seeing a spurt in inquiries and sale in the past two months. Former president of the Chennai chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai), W S Habib said the market is on a rebound to pre-Covid levels thanks to pent-up demand due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Habib, who is a city-based developer, said his company had sales match 65% of that in January and February this year. “We are positive that the sector will touch pre-Covid sale levels by November,” he said. Discounts on property costs and add-ons such as modular kitchen to sell unsold inventory are attracting homebuyers, he added. The housing plot vertical is experiencing traction largely for ones between 800sqft and 1,200sqft. The report stated that Bengaluru and Chennai are also generating interest over smaller plots of average size 550sqft to 750sqft. Builders Association of India state treasurer S Ramaprabhu said people are buying housing plots as an investment option. “We are witnessing more housing plots being sold than apartments because those with funds are investing in plots since their prices would appreciate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/housing-sector-rises-from-covid-sparked-lull-sales-up/articleshow/78452619.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Vijayawada||Uncertain future awaits AMCs as Centre brings in farming reforms||Amaravati: The fate of Agriculture Market Committees is hanging in balance after the Centre brought in new legislations. The market committees are likely to lose massive revenues as they will be losing control over the sale of agriculture produces in the state. The traders, who have been illegally moving the stocks to outside the state in the name of farmers to evade taxes, are expected to get a free hand. Although YSRC backed the Bill in Parliament during the recently concluded session, officials are wondering how to save market committees and their revenues. Major market committees have been surviving by levying one percent cess on transactions held within the market committee jurisdiction. Interestingly, traders, who pick up the stock from farmers, would pay the cess and not pose any burden on cultivators. According to official sources, market committees were making a revenue of around Rs 550-Rs 600 crore annually in the form of market cess. The removal of regulatory control of market committees on the sale of agriculture produces is likely to put an end to the collection of cess resulting in loss of revenue. In fact, many market committees were providing interest-free loans to farmers under Rythu Bandhu scheme from the revenues available in the respective treasuries of the committees. The market committees were also using the funds for construction of link roads in the villages, godowns for storage of agriculture produces. For instance, Guntur Agriculture Market Committee, considered to be biggest in the country, is pocketing anywhere around Rs 100 crore every year by facilitating chilli transactions. “It is not clear what will be the fate of this market committee if the commission agents system is completely removed,” said a market committee official. Curiously, there is heavy competition among ruling party leaders to grab posts of chairpersons of market committees keeping in view of its revenues. Such competition will also come to an end once the committees are wound up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/uncertain-future-awaits-amcs-as-centre-brings-in-farming-reforms/articleshow/78451403.cms||Samdani MN
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No mask? Cannot vote in GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: A Covid-19 test certificate may not be required but wearing a mask will be mandatory for the electorate to cast their vote in the ensuing GHMC elections. The onus will be on the voters to wear a mask and not depend on the State Election Commission (SEC) for its supplies. Though the SEC will keep masks at polling booths, there will be only a few of them and for emergency only. The police personnel and officials on election duty at polling booths are likely to be given face-shields. The PPE kits would be given to officials deputed for counting of votes, if required. Also thermal scanners may not be installed at the polling booths. There are 75 lakh voters in the city and the numbers are likely to reach 80 lakh before the GHMC goes to polls. “It will be a huge task to conduct Covid-19 test for all the voters or to insist on them to come with certificates. As a large number of coronavirus positive patients are being found to be asymptomatic, use of thermal scanners to denote temperature may not be significant, feel the officials of Health department and SEC,” said a source privy to the meeting held to discuss the precautions to be taken for civic body elections. State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi said there was consensus on three main precautions that should be insisted -- compulsory wearing of mask, sanitizing hands and maintaining physical distance at the polling booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-mask-cannot-vote-in-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78454249.cms||Roushan Ali
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Second highest trafficking cases||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 245 cases of human trafficking, according to NCRB 2019 data, standing second in the country, only behind Maharashtra that reported 282 cases. Overall, 399 people, including 18 minor girls, were trafficked in AP in 2019. Of them, 398 were women. AP accounts for 10.8% of India’s human trafficking offences while Maharashtra accounts for 12.5%. As many as 825 persons were arrested in AP on charges of trafficking in 2019 and 512 persons were chargesheeted. But, only 136 people were convicted. Police and representatives of women’s organizations said that some gangs have been luring young girls into the flesh trade. The female human traffickers, who are often times victims themselves, tempt innocent girls with the promise of good city life, luxury and a few other sops to trap them. - Nalla Ram||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/second-highest-trafficking-cases/articleshow/78454278.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||BJP to sweep UP bypolls, says party vice-president||LUCKNOW: BJP will make a clean sweep in bypolls on all eight seats in the state mainly due to its clean image and achievements, said party’s state vice-president and MLA Pankaj Singh. People would also vote for the BJP as this is the only party which is committed to end the mafia raj in the state, he added. Pankaj, MLA from Noida, was in Lucknow to meet senior party leaders and to review preparedness for the upcoming bypolls. “The impeccable image of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath coupled with his achievements and his campaign against criminals have in fact left the Opposition issueless. This would ensure victory of the BJP at the hustings in November,” Pankaj claimed. When pointed out that the performance of the ruling party in the last two byelections was not satisfactory, Pankaj, who is the son of defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh, observed that “the situation is different now.” “The Yogi government has now achieved many milestones and his battle against Covid is at decisive stage,” he added. With the support of the Yogi government and with his own resources, Pankaj said he has ensured in his constituency that all government run primary school should have proper drinking water facility and clean toilets. Besides, the schools have been provided smart boards and are getting uninterrupted power supply, he said adding that smart classrooms have also been set up in at least 200 primary and upper primary schools in his constituency. Now, Gautam Budh Nagar authorities are replicating this model of upgradation of primary schools in the entire state, Pankaj added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-to-sweep-up-bypolls-says-party-vice-president/articleshow/78454988.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Brace for social media blitz in run-up to GHMC elections||HYDERABAD: Thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic and the Election Commission’s insistence on adhering to social distancing norms, a social media blitz is unfolding in the run-up to the GHMC polls. The scale of social media political warfare is such that each candidate will have more than 15 YouTube channels, 20 Facebook pages and at least 20 WhatsApp groups at his disposal. Not just this, 30,000 phone numbers from each ward will be engaged to enable the candidates talk to the voters directly. “It is going to be an all-out social media storm in this election,” a campaign manager said. Ashok Kumar Patnaik, who runs Group I AM digital platform, said they use local monuments, shrines or key locations to create an FB page to build the profile of the candidate. “For example, if the contestant is from Golkonda, a page dedicated to the historic fort will be created and requests sent to all the people in that division,” he said. While the ruling TRS has taken the lead in fine-tuning its social media strategy, Telangana Congress social media unit chief Deepak John said they have a 12,000-strong social media volunteer force. When asked if expenditure incurred on social media platforms also comes under the Election Commission purview, state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi replied in affirmative. “Yes, they do come under EC purview,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brace-for-social-media-blitz-in-run-up-to-civic-elections/articleshow/78454262.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 3, 2020||Mysuru||Do not lend a political dimension to Rohini’s appointment, says Somashekar||Mysuru: Against a backdrop of a spiralling controversy over the abrupt decision of the state government appointing Rohini Sindhuri Dasari as the Mysuru deputy commissioner, a member from opposing party on Friday appealed to those protesting former DC B Sharat’s transfer not to lend a political dimension to the issue. Meanwhile, Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar on Friday said that there was no cause for confusion apropos Rohini’s appointment. “The chief minister has issued an order appointing her as the Mysuru DC and I am duty-bound to comply with the decision,” Somshekar said. The minister expressed disappointment with an issue being made out of officials’ origins. “It is not proper to discriminate against officials based on which region they are from. Rohini is an efficient bureaucrat who has gained sufficient experience, having worked in various departments. But some are trying to garner political mileage by turning this into a Kannadiga v/s non-Kannadiga issue,” Somashekar rued. On the other hand, Congress member and MLC Raghu Achar pointed out that, for any official to be appointed to the post of a DC, one ought to meet a set of criteria. “And I believe the government has taken a wise decision in this respect. I believe there are political reasons behind a Mysuru MLA holding a press conference to level allegations against the new DC,” said Achar, a day after senior JD(S) member and former minister SR Mahesh held a press conference levelling allegations of corruption against Rohini. MCC’s expansion on anvil Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar, who participated in the Gandhi Jayanti celebrations, said that the government was mulling over a proposal to upgrade the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to a Bruhat Mahanagara Palike along the lines of Bengaluru by incorporating villages under the purview of eight gram panchayats under the urban local body’s ambit. On the choice of the BJP’s candidate for the Raja Rajeshwari Nagar bypoll, Somashekar said, “Generally, two names are suggested by the local unit, and thus usually includes the candidate who lost the election the first time around. The decision, however, will be taken by the high-power committee.” ‘Aarthika Spandana’ Cooperation minister ST Somashekar on Friday launched ‘Aarthika Spandana’, an initiative the objective of which is to provide financial assistance to farmers, traders and others involved in businesses who suffered losses during the lockdown. Under the new scheme, those in the eight revenue districts across Mysuru who sustained losses will be provided loans. A sum of Rs 8,600 crore has been earmarked for distribution in Mysuru, he said, adding that Rs 39,000 crore was being disbursed in loans by the department across Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/do-not-lend-a-political-dimension-to-rohinis-appointment-says-somashekar/articleshow/78450257.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 3, 2020||Goa||Police nab UP native with ganja||Poinguinim: Ashish Sanjay Sharma, 26, a resident of Ourem-Canacona and native of Uttar Pradesh, was on Friday caught red-handed with 60g of ganja worth approximately Rs 12,000. Canacona police nabbed Sharma during a raid near a chapel in Ourem-Palolem. Police said that the accused was an engineering student and was also working in Goa for a Chennai-based software company. He has been in Goa since March 1 and stayed back due to the lockdown, and was working online as per his company’s directions, police said. A case has been registered under Section 20(b) (ii) (A) of the NDPS Act. Sharma was later released on bail. PI Tukaram Chawan is the investigation officer on the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-nab-up-native-with-ganja/articleshow/78454291.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||UP government to guarantee job for one member in every family||LUCKNOW: To counter concern over escalating unemployment, the Yogi Adityanath government is all set to declare that it would provide job to at least one member of every family in semi-urban and urban areas. It would be done on MNREGS pattern under which 100 days work and wages are ensured for every family in rural areas. The state would also have a new Employment Commission. Giving this information to TOI here on Friday, an official spokesman of the state government confirmed that “a proposal for the promulgation of a special Act to set up an employment commission, replacing the existing Migration Commission, has been sent to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.” He added that “as the MNREGS guarantees job in rural areas, the new law will ensure jobs to at least one person in every family in urban and semi-urban areas.” The new employment commission, which will have a full-fledged constitutional status, will replace the Migration Commission. The proposed commission will be headed by an officer of the rank of chief secretary who will also act as its commissioner. Strategists in the Yogi government perceive it as a game changer in the final phase of the Yogi government’s first term. A proposal to this effect has already been sent to the CM for his approval and then it would be forwarded to the state cabinet. Like other states UP, too, has been grappling with the problem of unemployment in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent economic stagnation. Though the state government has adopted a slew of measures, including constitution of a Migration Commission and launch of a special MSME app which brings employers and job seekers on one platform, to provide jobs to the needy, still much is to be done in this regard. On its part, the state government claimed to have provided work to 90 lakh migrant labourers under the MNREGA. The proposed employment commission with a constitutional status will go a long way in solving the unemployment problem as it would ensure jobs to the needy both in the public and private sectors. It would also impart skill development training to the interested persons. The Yogi government feels that providing job to at least one member in every family would be a befitting reply to the Opposition which has been targetting it for not being able to offer sufficient employment opportunities to the youth. It may be noted that the MNREGS had played a key role in the return of the UPA in 2009 general elections as it had provided work to million of rural labourers. Besides, the Yogi government is also not satisfied with the existing Migration Commission which lacks powers and does not have any constitutional backing. Once the proposal of the employment commission is approved, the migration commission, which was set up at the peak of the migrants crisis, would be winded up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-to-guarantee-job-for-one-member-in-every-family/articleshow/78455017.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 3, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sex racket triggers political row||JAIPUR: An alleged sex racket, in which local former officer-bearers of the BJP and the Congress are named as accused, is snowballing into a political controversy in the desert state. While former BJP district president of Sawai Madhopur women’s wing Smita Verma is under arrest along with four others, Pooja Choudhary, who is the former district president of the women’s wing of Seva Dal, is absconding. Both are accused of running a sex racket by a minor girl who filed a complaint against them on September 22.While state BJP immediately removed Verma from her post and distanced itself from her, the Congress is refusing to admit that she is associated with the party. “We don’t know who Poonam Choudhary is,” said state Congress president Govid Singh Dotasra. State Congress Seva Dal president Hemsingh Shekhawat also stated that Choudhary was never associated with the party. Congress’ inaction has prompted the BJP leaders to lash out at the ruling party. BJP MP Col Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore on Friday took to Twitter and wrote, “Congrees Govt in Rajasthan can see only BJP links when systemic exploitation and abuse of women as sex objects happens in Sawai madhopur under their noses! (sic)” He further wrote “We not only want the guilty punished, but want to know the names of all people involved in this sex racket irrespective of their ‘claimed affiliations’.” Sawai Madhopur police, who have arrested five, including Verma, claimed that Choudhary was the one who enticed the minor girl by falsely promising her that she would help her ‘succeed’ in life. According to the complainant, Verma forced her to have physical relation with people in exchange for money. Om Prakash Solanki, circle officer, women cell, Sawai Madhopur, said, “The girl along with her parents lodged a complaint with us 10 days back following which we initiated the investigation and found that the alleged assault happened between October 2019 and May 2020.” Three persons are accused of raping the minor girl who is below 17 years of age though cops refused to divulge more details. “One of Verma’s accomplices, Poonam, who is apparently associated with the local Congress unit, befriended the girl when she was returning from school and took her to meet the BJP leader. Following this, Verma allegedly sent the girl to meet men who allegedly raped her. Verma apparently also took money from these men. The electrician who was arrested worked in Verma’s house and she owed him some payment but instead of giving money she sent the girl to him,” added Solanki. On August 4, Verma had attempted to send the girl to Jaipur as well and also took money from her, including her father’s savings. The girl alleged that after the first time that she was sexually assaulted, the accused took video recording of the same and continued to blackmail her with it. Cops claimed that more arrests are likely in the case. Elaborating further on the investigation, Solanki said, “We are looking into all possible aspects and also verifying if Verma exploited other girls as well though nothing has come to light so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sex-racket-triggers-political-row/articleshow/78454271.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi cops unravel link between smuggling and vehicle theft||Ranchi: Criminals remain on the prowl on the Ring Road and other lonely paths around Ranchi to loot vehicles to transporting illegal substances, including opium, stolen wood and liquor. Recently, Ranchi Police nabbed nine persons in raids carried out at different parts of Ranchi and Khunti districts. The accused were involved in looting two Bolero pickup vans under Namkum and Kanke police station areas. Upon interrogation, they revealed that the stolen vehicles were to be used to carry raw opium and illegal wood to different places. On September 19, police arrested two persons and recovered a Honda city car which was looted from senior officials of Medica hospital under the Kanke police station area. The accused arrested in the case informed that they aimed to transport liquor illegally to Gaya in Bihar where there is ban on liquor consumption. The accused informed that when the car met with an accident, they had planned to loot another vehicle to meet their requirement. “We had to only take the liquor and dump it at a spot neat Gaya. The further transport and sales of the products were to be done by another person,” said one of the accused. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said, “During interrogation, the criminals revealed that the stolen vehicles are generally modified at a local garage to change its look and sold to miscreants involved in illegal activities. They said the use of stolen vehicles has several advantages, as they can simply abandon and flee when there is a chance of being caught.” Alam said that with opium cultivation quite common in Ranchi and Khunti districts, stolen vehicles are in much demand. He said stolen vehicles are also being sold in the neighbouring districts for transportation of other forest produce like kendu leaves. DSP Neeraj Kumar said miscreants lookout for lonely places to blocks the path and loot vehicles at gunpoint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-cops-unravel-link-between-smuggling-and-vehicle-theft/articleshow/78452666.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Jamshedpur puja organisers demand change in norms||Jamshedpur: Unhappy with the guidelines set by the state government, Durga Puja organising committees of Jamshedpur sought for amendments to them on Friday. Around, 350 puja committees organise the puja in the Steel city. Office bearers of Jharkhand Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti objected to the capping of the height of the idols to four feet and prohibition on playing dhak and distribution of bhog. North Zone Durga Puja Committee (NZDPC) functionary Anjan Sarkar said the committee will take up the matter with the central puja committee to seek changes in the guidelines. “How will we efficiently carry out the pushpanjali without microphones and speakers? If devotees cannot come to the pandals, they should at least be able to hear the prayers from a distance,” Sarkar said. A detailed meeting will be convened on Sunday for the step ahead, said Sarkar. Milani Club Durga Puja Committee’s joint general secretary Krishnendu Chatterjee said the notification lacks clarity. “Performing puja by covering the pandal from all four corners to ensure the goddess is not visible to the devotees from outside is not appropriate,” Krishnendu said. He said, “If sound systems are not allowed, how will we make announcements for the devotees to comply with the Covid norms.” Jamshedpur Durga Puja Committee functionary Debashish Nag said the state government should revise the guidelines to make it reasonable for puja organisers. A functionary of the South Zone Durga Puja Committee requesting anonymity said, “The guidelines of the state government have been formed in haste without applying mind.” “Asking puja committees to organise a puja without dhaks, distribution of bhog and speakers is as good as not organising the puja,” the functionary further said. Ghasi Club Durga Puja Committee functionary Vimal Ray, said, “The pandemic has robbed the sheen of the puja celebrations this year hence, the government should be more sympathetic towards the committees and allow them organize the rituals in a hassle free manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jamshedpur-puja-organisers-demand-change-in-norms/articleshow/78452553.cms||B Sridhar
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Cong protests farm laws, Hathras rape||Ranchi: State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the Jharkhand Congress unit president, protested the Centre’s farm laws for two hours here along with several party leaders on Friday and flouted the Covid-19 protocols. Top district administration officials were mostly unreachable for comments on what actions are planned against the political leaders who are organising congregations, which are viewed as super-spreader events by health experts. Friday’s protest near the Mahatma Gandhi statue at Morhabadi ground from 11 am to 1 pm was not the first time that Congress leaders hit the streets and staged demonstrations. Earlier party ministers, legislators, functionaries and workers had also flouted the rules framed by its own government to check the viral infection in the state. During the protest led by Oraon, the Congress men were seen with face masks on their chins and without maintaining social distancing. Oraon did not respond when contacted but state spokesperson Alok Dubey said a permission was sought from the Ranchi administration. While sub-divisional officer Sameera S refused to comment on the issue, officials in the administration said, “The political party had sought permission on September 30, but it was denied by the SDO.” Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan was not reachable for comments but officers in the district collectorate said they are undecided about the future course of action to be taken on such violations. Health minister Banna Gupta also led a large contingent of Congress workers through the streets of Jamshedpur to condemn the Uttar Pradesh government over the Hathras gang-rape incident on Friday. There was no social distancing in the protest march either. Talking to TOI in the evening, Gupta said: “Because of the magnanimity of the crime, we had to take to the streets to lodge our protests. I had personally asked everyone to maintain social distancing. If the norms were flouted, I will take a look at it.” As per the guidelines issued by the state department of home, jail and disaster management department, religious, cultural and political congregations in the state are prohibited until further orders. Violators of the guidelines will be booked under sections 51-60 of the Disaster Management Act of 2005 and Section 188 of the IPC, which mandates a jail term up to one year and other penalties or both. Before the Rajya Sabha election on June 19, Congress’s Jamtara MLA Irfan Ansari had hosted a feast at his government bungalow in Dhurwa, which was attended by chief minister Hemant Soren, other cabinet ministers and more than 100 party functionaries. On July 27, state rural affairs minister Alamgir Alam had staged a sit-in outside the Raj Bhavan to protest the new National Education Policy. On September 28, AICC’s Jharkhand-in-charge RPN Singh had organised a sit-in at the same spot to condemn the passage of farm laws. Singh later tested positive after returning to Delhi. On Thursday night, Singh tweeted asking all those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested. The party’s senior functionaries said plans are afoot to hold a farmers’ convention on October 10 on the city outskirts. “There are plans to bring 500 farmers from all over Jharkhand for that programme,” a senior functionary said. On the risks of mass congregations, a public health expert and associate professor of preventive and social medicine at Rims said, “Congregations of any kind, be it political, religious or social, can prove fatal during the pandemic as we cannot identify infected people by their appearance. This is the reason behind the government’s decision of limiting the number of people even at marriages and last rites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-protests-farm-laws-hathras-rape/articleshow/78452603.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Police launch survey to gauge their performance||Jamshedpur: In order to improve the law and order machinery in the Kolhan division, police launched a survey to obtain people’s opinion. Under this initiative, fair opinion will be derived from the people living across six police stations of Jamshedpur and Adityapur. A total of 75 business management students of Arka Jain University and Netaji Subhash Institute of Business Management (NSIBM) have volunteered to conduct survey in Kadma, Mango, Sidhgora, Pursudih in Jamshedpur and Adityapur and Gamharia in Seraikela-Kharsawan. “On the directions of DGP M V Rao, a survey has been initiated,” said DIGP, Kolhan range, Rajiv Ranjan Singh. In each of the police station areas, 10 groups, each consisting two volunteers, will visit door-to-door with a questionnaire consisting 20 questions on Saturday and Sunday in the next four weeks. A total of 5,000 households will be covered by the survey team in October. “If a policeman is a surveyor then there’s a doubt people would give frank opinion on the performance of the police. Therefore, we decided to take help from management students,” said SSP M Tamil Vanan. The questionnaire would be a mix of queries like: Do you think the local station police has been efficient in controlling the crime in the area? How is the overall behaviour of the police personnel at the police station? How much time do cops take to arrive at crime scenes after receiving a call? Do you feel safe with police patrolling in the area? Do you think cops at higher posts are more sympathetic and cooperative than the ones at the lower rungs? Do police have sufficient resources to run the machinery efficiently? “In the first round, limited police stations will be covered as a pilot project while the remaining police stations will be covered in the second round after Durga Puja,” Vanan said. The survey report will be submitted to the state headquarters, keeping the findings of the survey secret. Incidentally, in the past four weeks, the crime graph has witnessed a jump in the industrial town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-launch-survey-to-gauge-their-performance/articleshow/78453286.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||736 fresh infections, 8 Covid deaths in state||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Friday reported more recoveries than the number of fresh Covid infections, which came down to less than 1,000 cases for the first time in the last one-and-half months. While the number of recovered cases stood at 967, the state reported 736 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative caseload to 85,400. The state also reported eight deaths after which the toll stood at 729. Among the eight deaths, Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported three each followed by one each in Dhanbad and Palamu. The steep decline in the number of positive cases also brought down the positivity ratio to around 2% with only 736 out of the 28,100 samples testing positive. However, Ranchi continued to report a spike in the number of fresh infections with 306 cases followed by East Singhbhum with 67 cases. Ranchi is the lone district in the state to report a three-digit figure on Friday. Of the total 85,400 cases, 11,243 are active and 73,248 have recovered. Meanwhile, state education minister Jagarnath Mahato remained critical on Friday. “Mahato is suffering from severe Covid pneumonia and currently on non-invasive ventilation support,” Medica hospital director Dr Vijay Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/736-fresh-infections-8-covid-deaths-in-state/articleshow/78453125.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City takes to streets to seek justice for gang-rape victim||JAMSHEDPUR: State health minister Banna Gupta on Friday led a massive protest rally across several areas here demanding justice for the 19-year-old Dalit girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh who was allegedly gang-raped by upper caste men in her village early in September and died at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on September 29. Accompanied by Congress head (East Singhbhum) Vijay Khan and scores of party workers, Banna demanded stringent action against the accused. “The law and order in UP is at its ebb and the government there seems to be in a deep slumber. Instead of protecting women, police in the Yogi Adityanath government are shielding the accused because they belong to a dominant caste. It is unfortunate that BJP is protecting some upper castes for vote-bank politics and thereby, ignoring the rape and murder of an innocent girl,” Banna said. He demanded an answer from the Uttar Pradesh police on why the girl’s body was cremated in the dead of the night without even taking her family members into confidence. “What was the urgency in carrying out her last rites?” he said. He said Yogi has “no moral right to continue in office after this incident”. Vijay Khan questioned the Centre and the UP government on why Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra were not allowed to go to Hathras to meet the victim’s family on Thursday. He said, “The duo was detained and heckled by the police, which is undemocratic. Even the media persons were not allowed to go to the girl’s village.” The grand old party’s Jamshedpur unit even wrote an open letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, demanding protection for the girl’s family members who are reportedly being threatened by UP government officials . In the letter, the party said the UP government is trying to project that “the girl died of injuries to cover up the crime”. Other political parties like Aam Aadmi Party and NCP also took out similar rallies to protest against the gang-rape. Similarly, several social outfits took out a candlelight march across the city on Friday to demand justice for the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-takes-to-streets-to-seek-justice-for-gang-rape-victim/articleshow/78453262.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||JSERC dismisses discom’s plea, keeps tariffs unchanged, abolishes meter rent||Ranchi: Keeping aside the demands of the state-owned Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL) for a steep hike in power tariff to keep itself afloat, the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) on Friday said there would be no hike for the 2020-2021 financial year given the Covid-19 pandemic and announced a slew of consumer-centric measures. In its petition, JBVNL had sought a minimum of 20% hike for both domestic and commercial consumers. However, JSERC member (engineering) R N Singh said, “There will be no loss to JBVNL because of the zero tariff hike but will ensure a speedy economic recovery. We have fully considered the needs and demands of the discom and the complaints from consumers. The new tariff order will be effective October 1, 2020.” Addressing a virtual press meet here, Singh further said, “We are also putting an end to the prevailing inspection raj carried out by discom officials. Since the consumers are paying based on their power consumption, load inspection is deemed irrelevant and unnecessary.” Moreover, JSERC said consumers need not pay meter rent and the delayed bill payment surcharge, currently levied at 1.50% per month, has been reduced to 1%. All consumers volunteering to switch to pre-paid meters on their premises will be entitled to a rebate of 3% on their bills. To promote online payments, the commission announced 1% rebate on all digital payments and further 1% rebate for all payments (both cash and online) before the due dates. JSERC also announced linking of fixed charges for both low tension (LT) and high tension (HT) cable consumers to the duration of supply. “Recovery of fixed charges by JBVNL will now be based on the average hours of supply. Fixed charges would be recoverable by JBVNL, in full, for an average of 21 hours of power supply for LT consumers and 23 hours for HT industrial consumers. In case of short supply, the fixed charge would be reduced accordingly. The proposed mechanism for LT (includes all domestic consumers) will be applicable from January 1, 2021 and the next billing cycle for HT consumers,” the commission said. Notably, JBVNL bills, for all categories of consumers, consist of two components — a monthly fixed charge and the amount based on the number of units used. Currently, rural domestic consumers are paying Rs 5.75 per unit along with a fixed charge of Rs 20 per month while their urban counterparts pay Rs 6.25 per unit and Rs 75 fixed charge per month. LT industrial consumers will continue to pay Rs 5.75 per KVAh with a fixed charge of Rs 100 per KVA. The current rate of Rs 5.50 per KVAh with a fixed charge of Rs 350 per KVA for HT consumers will also remain unchanged. Reduction in billing amounts are also announced for rural and urban commercial consumers drawing more than 5KW. For those eligible rural commercial units, the tariff has been brought down to Rs 5.75 per KW from the current Rs 6.00, while for urban consumers, the rate has been reduced to Rs.6.00 per KW from the current Rs 6.25 per KW. However, fixed charges commercial establishments have been hiked. For rural units, it is increased to Rs 50 per month from Rs 40 and for urban establishments, the charge has been hiked to Rs 100 per KW per month from the present Rs 150. The commission came down heavily on JBVNL for failing to make up the estimated net revenue gap of Rs 196.06 crore at the existing tariff. JSERC is also withholding liquidation of the revenue shortfall because the discom failed to comply with its directives, especially those related to safety of personnel and for violating provisions of JSERC (Compensation to Victims of Electrical Accidents) Regulations, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jserc-dismisses-discoms-plea-keeps-tariffs-unchanged-abolishes-meter-rent/articleshow/78452617.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Health dept nod for drug to shield Covid warriors||Ranchi: The state health department on Friday issued guidelines for the prophylaxis of frontline warriors and others who come in contact with Covid patients by administering the Ivermectine drug to them in order to eliminate the chances of them being infected. The department also issued guidelines on the usage of Ivermectine and Doxycylin tablets for treating the virus patients. The guidelines were issued after the state’s clinical management committee of Covid-19, along with some technical experts from Rajendra Insitute of Medical Sciences, approved the use of Ivermectine and Doxycyclin tablets after examining their side-effects and their role in the prevention, protection and treatment of Covid-19. According to the guidelines, those who may have come in contact with an infected person, should be administered a dosage in the ratio of 12 micrograms per kilogram of their respective body weight. The maximum limit of the dosage must not exceed 12 milligram and it should be taken two hours after dinner. Similarly, the healthcare workers are asked to take a maximum of 12 milligram of Ivermectine on first, seventh and 30th day after they are suspected to have contracted infection. After completion of the first dosage, they will repeat the dosage in the following month. In case of asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms, a maximum of 12 milligram of Ivermectine, along with Doxycyclin tablets, for a maximum period of five days has been recommended. All the Covid-19 treatment centres in Jharkhand, along with the Rims director, principals of medical colleges and the civil surgeon, have been cautioned against using the tablets on children below 12 years of age and on pregnant women. Experts as well as doctors welcomed the government’s decision to conduct prophylaxis on the frontline warriors but cautioned people against the rampant use of these medications. The medical director and head of critical care at Bhagwan Mahaveer Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Dr Vijay Mishra, said, “Using Ivermectin and Doxycyclin for treating the Covid patients is based on evidence from clinical experts and recommendations of several scientific forums. But we cannot be sure about its effectiveness as these drugs have been recommended for the treatment of Covid-19 without conducting randomized clinical trials. But as clinical evidence suggests, the drug can be helpful in fighting the virus and we will use it since we do not have time to conduct randomized trial amid the pandemic.” Asked about the side-effects, he said, “Ivermectine is an anti-parasitic and deworming drug and its rampant use can cause side effects like dizziness and vomiting, among others. It is for that exact reason why these drugs aren’t advised to kids below 12 years of age and to pregnant women.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/health-dept-nod-for-drug-to-shield-covid-warriors/articleshow/78453164.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 3, 2020||India||BJP’s Sanjay Paswan leads race to head SC commission||NEW DELHI: BJP member Sanjay Paswan is leading the pack to be the chairman of the National Commission for Schedule Castes, a post coveted by many in the ruling camp. Sources said the Dalit leader from Bihar is being considered seriously to lead the panel, which has not been constituted since the term of the earlier set of office bearers expired four months ago. Paswan was a minister in the Vajpayee government and has also held the post of chairman of the BJP’s SC cell. Presently, he is an MLC in Bihar. There appears to be a sudden urgency in the Union government to reconstitute the commission with a chairman, vice chairman and four members in the wake of the Hathras rape-murder which has brought the vacancy of the constitutional panel in public eye. As reported by TOI, besides NCSC, the national commission for scheduled tribes and the national safai karamchari commission are also vacant pending reconstitution for over six months. The three commissions are national watchdogs for key marginalised communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-sanjay-paswan-leads-race-to-head-sc-commission/articleshow/78455682.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||In Covid times, kids with cerebral palsy getting at-home rehabilitation||Nagpur: Patients with chronic neurological conditions such as cerebral palsy (CP) may be at a higher risk of a serious infection if they get Covid-19. These patients have to take extra precautions to minimize the risk of infection. In addition to the general preventive measures like hand hygiene and Covid distancing, they have to avoid crowds, travels and stay at home as much as possible. Due to this, they are not getting access to rehab services like physiotherapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, psychological counselling, behaviour management, special education, orthotics and assistive aids and devices. On the eve of National Cerebral Palsy Day which is being celebrated on October 3 and World Cerebral palsy Day on October 6, TOI spoke to doctors and rehab trainers who are working for these kids. In Covid-19 period, rehabilitation teams are reaching out to needy children and families as they are not able to reach the rehabilitation centres. “Our rehabilitation team has realized the importance of parents’ training in giving effective home therapy to children so that they do not lose benefits achieved by therapeutic interventions. The pandemic has been a real eye opener for all of us,” said paediatric orthopaedic surgeon Dr Viraj Shingade, president of Nagai Narayanji Memorial Foundation (NNMF). The NGO is working with a mission of rehabilitating children with CP for the last 15 years and more than 3,000 such children in central India are still getting rehab services. Especially, the underprivileged children from rural parts of central India are getting free rehabilitation training. “We have tried telephonic consultation and online training but it’s not easy to hold speech therapy or physiotherapy on electronic platforms. Wherever possible, we are reaching out to them through video clips, webcam counselling and online consultation. Eventually, it’s all up to their caregivers and family,” said Dr Shingade. According to a national survey on ‘Challenges, Barriers and recommendations for Rehab work in Covid-19 Pandemic’ conducted together by 10 reputed institutes in the country during April-May, closed or skeletal services, lack of public transport and taxies, and fear factor about getting coronavirus from hospitals are the main barriers in the rehabilitation of these kids. The same survey has stated that 45% of the CP kids don’t have disability certificates, 94% of them live with family and 63% have no access to medical/EMS. In such a situation, the NGO from Nagpur is serving thousands of needy CP children in central India through every possible platform. “NNMF is supported by many philanthropists and well wishers from society. However, the magnitude of CP is large in society and there is still a long way to go before each and every child is reached. If society comes forward and help these children remove the barriers, we can see many children scale new heights,” Dr Shingade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-covid-times-kids-with-cerebral-palsy-getting-at-home-rehabilitation/articleshow/78452881.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Joshi to review NMC’s fin status on Monday||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi has convened a meeting on October 5 to review the financial status of Nagpur Municipal Corporation. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke has already sought Rs500 crore assistance from the state government to meet NMC’s committed expenditure. This expenditure is around Rs 115 crore per month whereas its revenue from its own sources is only about Rs15 crore. NMC is able to meet the expenditure only with the help of GST grant of Rs 100 crore per month from the state government. With limited own revenue sources, NMC could not take up any new development work or issue work order of planned works. Zalke said NMC’s main source of revenue is property tax from which it has generated a meagre revenue of Rs 78 crore in the last six months. The current year’s property tax target set by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe was Rs 289 crore, whereas outstanding tax along with arrears is over Rs 600 crore. NMC, led by BJP for the last three terms, has never seriously tried to recover the outstanding property tax, sources said. Though NMC’s financial condition is critical, mayor Joshi wanted the civic body to resume stalled cement road works. October 5 meeting will also review cement road works along with construction of public toilets at zone levels. Sources said the NMC could not complete Phase-I of cement roads project taken up in 2009 that were supposed to be completed in 2013. The contractor Unity Infrastructure has left midway. Even the stretches under Phase-II to are incomplete. Of the 48.804 km road under Phase-II NMC is yet to start construction on 10.220 km of over 12 different roads. Under Phase-III, laying of 39 roads has been proposed. Of these, 10 works have been finished while work of remaining stretches has not started. Mundhe had stopped these works citing poor finaces of the civic body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/joshi-to-review-nmcs-fin-status-on-monday/articleshow/78452896.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Process to vacate shops under stn flyover starts||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finally begun the process of vacating shops beneath the railway station flyover, which is to be demolished to pave way for a six-lane road. The civic body issued notices to the shop owners in this regard. A senior estate department official said the notices have been served to the shopkeepers under Section 81 B2 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act. As many 66 shopkeepers have violated the lease conditions, said the official. The NMC’s estate department has issued a show cause notice to them for breach of conditions of agreement, the senior official added. There are 165 shops below the flyover. The shopkeepers have two unions. The first union has owners of 72 shops, which existed before the flyover was constructed. They were allotted the shops by NMC at a cost of Rs8 lakh each. These shops are located in front of the railway station entrance. The other union has 93 shopkeepers having their establishments away from the entrance. They got the shops by paying Rs10.20 lakh each. The official admitted that procedure followed by the NMC to get the shops vacated earlier was not proper. “Hence, now the notices were served under relevant sections of the MMC Act. As per the agreement with the shop owners, who are leaseholders, they have to follow certain terms and conditions laid down by the NMC. During an inspection of the shops, civic officials found 66 shopkeepers had breached the conditions,” he said. Sources said most of these shopkeepers have opposed handing over the shops and four shopkeepers have approached the high court in this regard. “The notices have been issued to 90 shopkeepers for land required for public works,” he explained. MahaMetro, which will develop the stretch under Jaistambh Square traffic improvement scheme, has also received central government grant for the project. The NMC move is expected to accelerate the pace of the project. Seventy temporary shops for relocating Station Road flyover shop owners are ready since February, said another senior official and added that rest of the shopkeepers have demanded money instead of shops. MahaMetro director (project) Mahesh Kumar said Metro would start demolishing the flyover as soon as all the shopkeepers under the flyover are relocated. The civic official said the NMC will have to get the shops vacated and then only MahaMetro can start the work. As per initial plan, the MahaMetro will first construct a four-lane road. For the six-lane road, it will require defence land and when the land becomes available, another two lanes will be added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/process-to-vacate-shops-under-stn-flyover-starts/articleshow/78452965.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Union: NMC testing 7k sanitary workers only to increase count||Nagpur: Amid decline in number of Covid-19 tests in the city, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started testing around 7,000 sanitary workers, irrespective of symptoms. Maharashtra Pradesh Safai Kamgar Mahasangh has alleged the civic body did not test sanitary workers when it was required and has now made it mandatory to increase number of tests.The NMC on September 28 issued a circular to all 10 zone offices to test all sanitary workers through Rapid Antigen or RT-PCR. Accordingly, testing has started in a phased manner from September 30. Sanitary workers are daily being sent in groups to either 53 testing centres of NMC or special camps organized in residential areas for high-risk contacts and those with comorbidities.Activist Narayan Ahuja told TOI, “Sanitary workers had line up at special camp organized at Pandey Layout for high-risk contacts and comorbid patients. The workers had no symptoms and were in queue after sweeping roads. They said their August salary will not be given if they don’t get tested,” he said.According to Ahuja, motive behind holding special camps is defeated. “Not all high-risk contacts and comorbids are turning up at these camps. Number of tests has increased due to sanitary workers. This will reduce test positivity rate (TPR) of the city which NMC wants as majority of sanitary workers have no symptoms and likely to come negative,” he said.Average 3,096 tests per day were done in 30 days of August, which increased to 6,811 in the first week of September and 10,261 in the second week. The number dropped to 6,598 per day in the third week and further slipped to 4,354 in the fourth week.If tests go down, city’s TPR rises, which is a negative indicator. Also, TPR should reduce to flatten the curve.With tests going down, the number of positive cases too started reducing. Average 740 positive cases per day were detected in 30 days of August which increased to 1,303 in September first week and 1,307 in second week. Cases dropped to 1,231 per day in third week and 943 per day in fourth week.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi then started special camps in residential areas and engaged 12 mobile swab collection centres for reaching out to high-risk contacts of positive patients, symptomatic people and those with comorbidities. Testing centre at Morris College was shifted to Dattatray Nagar in South Nagpur and new one was opened at Ajni railway station, increasing their number to 53.Average tests per day increased to 5,050 in two days of October. Average of positive cases was 670 per day.President of Maharashtra Pradesh Safai Kamgar Mahasangh Kishor Samundre too said motive behind testing of 7,000 sanitary workers was to increase number of tests, which had been down since last couple of weeks. “Four sanitary workers died of Covid-19 and few more came positive in the last week of August. I had written five letters to NMC requesting for testing sanitary workers. I had also pleaded to provide beds or dedicated hospital for sanitary workers testing positive, but to no avail. Many tested positive even in first two weeks of September. Now, NMC testing these poor people to increase number of tests,” he alleged.Refuting the allegations, Joshi said, “We noticed that sanitary workers who died had done tests at a very late stage. Therefore, we asked sanitary workers to go for testing as all work on public roads and in residential areas. We can give them timely treatment as NMC has own hospitals and many beds are vacant in Covid care centres. The test is not compulsory,” he said.--------------------------------MLA, corporator stand near sample collection pointEast Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde, corporator Samita Chakole and BJP leaders were seen standing close to a suspected Covid patient while NMC staffer was collecting swab sample. As per norms, no one other than patient and health staff should stand or sit in the area where swab samples are collected.The NMC is sending 12 mobile swab collection centres to residential areas. Corporators and community leaders are invited to encourage people to give samples. Accordingly, one such camp was organized near the office of Chakole, also chairperson of NMC Nehru Nagar Zone, on Friday.In the picture sent by NMC, it is clear that Chakole and BJP leaders from the area are taking picture while looking at the patient. Khope is looking at the staffer taking samples wearing a PPE kit.Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “There is no doubt the MLA risked himself by standing close to the sample collection centre.”Also, the NMC staffer collected swab sample by opening the door of the mini bus. Minor modifications have been done in mini buses. Swab samples are collected by staffers through four openings in the rear windscreen, thus preventing them from coming in direct contact with the patient. In such cases, staffer need not wear PPE kit as it makes uncomfortable for them due to temperature in bus.Radhakrishnan said, “In this case, staffer is seen wearing PPE kit, so there should be no issue if it is convenient for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/union-nmc-testing-7k-sanitary-workers-only-to-increase-count/articleshow/78452995.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||OBC body to protest on Oct 8||Nagpur: Rashtriya OBC Mahasangh led by Baban Taywade has decided to stage demonstrations on October 8 in front of district collector office, tehsil office and residences of MPs and MLAs to press for their demands. The main demand is that OBCs should get reservation in percentage to their population. The decision was taken during a meeting of the Mahasangh held on Friday. Addressing the meeting, Taywade said that OBCs were not opposed to reservation for the Marathas but the community should not be given OBC status to provide them reservation. Supreme Court (SC) has recently stayed reservation for Marathas. Taywade further said that even if central government does not conduct a census for OBCs, the state government should do so in Maharashtra. Laws should be amended to provide 19% reservation to OBCs in the districts where their share is less than this. The other demands of the Mahasangh are separate hostels for OBC students, a fund of Rs 1,000 crore for Mahajyoti, a fund of Rs 1,000 crore for OBC Financial Development Corporation, housing schemes, pension for farmers and farm labourers, filling up backlog of one lakh posts in state government and providing reservation to OBCs in promotions. The Mahasangh thanked OBC minister Vijay Wadettiwar for taking a stand in favour of the community. Mahasangh general secretary Sachin Rajurkar, former member of OBC Commission Jawahar Charde, convener Ashok Jiwtode, Pradip Wadaphale and others also addressed the gathering. Shyam Lede, president of OBC Rajya Karmachari Sangathana, was felicitated at the hands of Taywade during the function. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/obc-body-to-protest-on-oct-8/articleshow/78453008.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||3 trying to sell 100 pangolin scales nabbed||Nagpur: Acting on a tip of from Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB), Melghat wildlife crime cell on Friday arrested three persons for allegedly trafficking 100 pangolin scales from Malkapur. Pangolins are listed under Schedule-I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and have the highest level of protection like tigers. The mammals are on the verge of extinction due to large-scale poaching for their scales, which are reportedly used in traditional Chinese medicines. DFO Manoj Kumar Khairnar said, “Acting on a tip-off, a forest guard was sent as a decoy. After negotiations for two days, the deal was struck for Rs20 lakh. The accused called Wankhede at Malkapur. We followed him in plain clothes in a private vehicle. As the transaction was about to take place, we surrounded the accused.” “There was some commotion as after seeing they were cornered, the accused tried to flee but local police helped us. The accused have been handed over to Buldhana forest officials, who will produce them in court on Saturday,” said Khairnar. The accused have been identified as Kartik Hodge, Gaurav Wankhede, both Malkapur, and Zetarsingh Babar Burha from Madhya Pradesh. ACF Ranjit Gaikwad, crime cell’s Akash Sarda, Mukesh Jawarkar, Roshan Thavkar, Jeeven Dahikar, and honorary wildlife warden Sawan Deshmukh played key role in nabbing the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-trying-to-sell-100-pangolin-scales-nabbed/articleshow/78453023.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Only half the restaurants & bars may reopen on Monday with 33% capacity||MUMBAI: Nearly half the restaurants and bars in Mumbai are expected to start operating at 33% capacity from Monday. The rest may gradually raise their shutters over the next couple of weeks. All outlets will be allowed to increase their intake from 33% to 50% from November 1 only if they follow the SOPs (see graphic) scrupulously. That's the decision taken by the civic authorities in Mumbai, and if restaurant owners are chafing at it, they are certainly not showing it. Times ViewIt is incumbent on the hospitality sector and its clientele to observe social distancing norms. The unlocking of the ‘eating out economy’ requires all its participants to play by the rules. However, any violation will lead to a rollback and that would primarily hurt the restaurant owners and their staff. Therefore, it is in their best interests to ensure that their customer is not allowed to flout the SOP.Townships in the metropolitan region outside BMC limits and other parts of the state have allowed eateries to start at 50% capacity right from this month. But BMC chief Iqbal Chahal has, as a matter of abundant caution, preferred to permit only 33% of tables to be occupied, even though the industry associations had pointed out that it would not make economic sense to run them at less than half their capacity. Many establishments, especially the fine dine outlets, will follow a system of reservations to avoid crowding. Walk-in places will be expected to enforce social distancing norms between groups while they wait in queues. The government allowed hotels and restaurants to resume dine-in services at 50% capacity from October 5 as per fresh guidelines issued under its Mission Begin Again plan. A draft SOP was circulated to hoteliers for their feedback; the final version will be issued by Saturday, said a senior official. In the new normal, you are unlikely to find raw food such as salad, lime and onion slices on your table; salt and pepper, chutney and pickles will also be kept away. And bottled water and disposable napkins will be the norm. "We have called almost our entire staff back to work, and some of them are even flying due to non-availability of trains. But initially we will face shortage of staff. Many of our old staff have got jobs outside as hotels in other states started three months ago," said AHAR president Shivanand Shetty. HRAWI spokesperson Pradip Shetty said only 20-30% of the high-end outlets will start initially. The big hotels too would allow outside guests in their bars and restaurants Monday onwards, he added. One point of concern for government officials is whether bar owners will be able to ensure that patrons follow all the protocols even after a few drinks. "It will be hard to monitor whether the 50% norm is being followed. This is the time for everyone to take responsibility," said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-only-half-the-restaurants-bars-may-reopen-on-monday-with-33-capacity/articleshow/78455722.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Now, mitigation measures in forest areas other than wildlife corridors||Nagpur: In a major move, road development agencies will also have to take mitigation measures in forest areas which are not corridors or close to protected areas (PAs), tiger reserves or wildlife focus areas. This is for the first time the state forest department has issued such directives. “While expanding roads such grey areas are deprived of any mitigation structures although there is wildlife presence. Now, even these areas will benefit with mitigation structures of at least four metres (13 feet) width and three metres (9.8 feet) height. The interval between such underpasses shall not be more than 2km,” said N Rambabu, PCCF (Head of Forest Force), Maharashtra. “All the deputy conservators have been directed that whenever road development proposals are submitted they should ensure the site inspection report for such areas has a wildlife mitigation plan. There were no specific directions till now,” said Rambabu. According to official sources, permission for over 58 roads where the forest is involved is pending with the forest department. These roads are being constructed by the PWD. The above directives will not be applicable to roads in wildlife focus areas and corridors connecting one protected area to another and several roads around Tadoba where four-laning or road expansion is cutting tiger corridors. Welcoming the forest department’s intentions, Milind Pariwakam, member of IUCN Connectivity Conservation Specialist Group, said, “The order needs to be interpreted and executed with caution. Species with a wide distribution such as jackals, jungle cats, foxes, mongoose, hares, reptiles and amphibians die on roads every day. User agencies have been known to not declare an area as the corridor in Form A.” “Especially in lesser-known forest areas, territorial divisions lack clarity on the importance of a particular area and its corridor value. Individuals should not use this order to dilute the national-level guidelines. In the past, roads in many established corridors such as Talegaon and Bazargaon patches in Bor-Melghat corridor, Bramhapuri, and Navegaon-Nagzira corridor, were expanded without any mitigation, thus increasing threats to wildlife connectivity due to the ignorance of forest officials,” said Pariwakam. Experts said adequate care has to be taken while interpreting this order as corridors are not only for tigers but also equally important for other wildlife species. “Dimensions of mitigation cannot be a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach. They are site and specific to species. What works in Vidarbha may not work in the Sahyadris,” they said. They questioned whether this order will be convenient for the DFOs and development agencies “who will tend to say that the specific forest area is not a wildlife corridor”. “Without clarity on the status of the area, this order has the potential to be misused for diluting mitigation measures in an era of rapid development. Is this order designed to facilitate road development while providing cover for the forest department?” they said. As per MoEF & CC’s national-level guidelines, to maintain connectivity across identified species corridors, if the width of the corridor through a forest is 1-2km or less, then one underpass of 750-metre should be provided by dividing it into 300-metre each. If the width is 3km or more, then 300 metre underpass is needed within every km stretch. Other than maintaining connectivity for larger mammals, for amphibians or reptiles small pipe culverts or bridges should be provided in every 100-metre stretch. “If existing guidelines are any way applicable to all forest areas, what is the need for another set of guidelines?” said experts. However, Rambabu said, “Take for example Katol-Narkhed road. It may not be a corridor but wildlife presence is there. The directives will be applicable to such areas.” Experts argued, “Areas that are not corridors but wildlife focus areas will have reptiles, amphibians and small mammals. The frequency of one underpass per 2km will be meagre. When corridors are not identified and defined, the user agency and the forest department will be confused if this order is applicable or not. Further, what is the need to give leeway to user agencies in the form of technical considerations? They will always use technical issues as an excuse.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-mitigation-measures-in-forest-areas-other-than-wildlife-corridors/articleshow/78453070.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 3, 2020||Nagpur||Congress factions protest in Chanda over farm bills||Chandrapur: Congress factions in the city staged separate agitations on Friday against the central government’s amendments in farmers and labour laws. Party leaders came down heavily against the Narendra Modi-led government and termed the amendments as black laws.Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar and Chadrapur MP Balu Dhanorkar led the protests of their group at Gandhi Chowk. Wadettiwar feared that the new laws will boost back marketing and escalate the cases of farmers’ suicide. They called upon the people to join hands repeal the law.Dhanorkar flayed the central government for its unfair practices in Rajya Sabha to pass the farmers bill. He said a signature campaign will be launched soon to oppose the government’s move.The Naresh Puglia faction under the banner of Vidarbha Kisan Majdoor Congress, along with frontal organization like Youth Congress, NSUI and INTUC also staged protests under the leadership of Rahul Puglia near Mahatma Gandhi’s statue.Puglia claimed that over 250 farmers’ organizations have launched agitation against the government. He said the amendments will destroy 62 crore farmers and farmworkers in the country. He also flayed the changes made in the labour laws and slammed the government for making only capitalist-friendly provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/congress-factions-protest-in-chanda-over-farm-bills/articleshow/78453115.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||34% of road crash victims had no income, finds study||NEW DELHI: The hospitalisation samples of road crash victims from 54 hospitals across 20 cities show that 34% of them had no income and another 28% had monthly earnings between Rs 10,000 and Rs 20,000. This data collected during a study to work out the socio-economic cost of road accidents for the road transport ministry has revealed how it’s the poor who are the worst impacted in road crashes. The data show that barely 3% of the crash victims had monthly earnings of more than Rs 50,000. It was also found that nearly 59% of the accident victims who were hospitalised were twowheeler riders and another 15.5% were pedestrians. Pedestrians, two-wheeler riders and cyclists are categorised as the most vulnerable road users (VRUs) across the globe considering that they hardly have any protection in case of a crash and hence there is a high chance of these road users getting killed in such incidents. Sources said about 6,600 samples were collected from 31 government and 21 private hospitals. Nearly 10.7% of the accident victims admitted in hospitals were car, SUV and taxi occupants. The study conducted by a consortium of TRIPP of IIT (Delhi) and DIMTS also collected 6,400 FIRs spanning over two years from police stations across 14 cities. It found that in 7% cases, the crashes were fatal and in 66% cases the victims were left with grievous injuries. The analysis of the FIRs also brought to light that nearly 40% victims were twowheeler riders and about 39% victims were pedestrians. The share of car, SUV and taxi occupants was around 8.8%. The age-wise distribution of data showed that about 67% of the victims were in the age bracket of 18 to 45 years, which is the most productive age group. The report submitted to the ministry, which is yet to be made public, has concluded that since more than threefourth of the road crash victims are the two-wheeler riders and pedestrians, there is an urgent need to address the vulnerability of these road users by taking measures with regard to improving enforcement, infrastructure and healthcare services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/34-of-road-crash-victims-had-no-income-finds-study/articleshow/78455724.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Customs man found lifeless on track near Bhandup station||MUMBAI: A customs superintendent was found dead on the railway tracks in Bhandup on Thursday. Balkrishna Kadwadkar (52), had been knocked down by a train, which left him with a serious skull fracture. The GRP in Kurla recorded an accidental death. Kadwadkar lived with his family at LBS Road in Bhandup. His body was found on the up through line near Bhandup station. The police said they were trying to look for witnesses. Once they establish which train hit Kadwadkar, the police will call the motorman for a statement. "Kadwadkar was pronounced dead before admission when taken to a hospital. His son said in his statement that Kadwadkar used to appear stressed. He did not elaborate on what could be the cause for the stress. We have not found any note on Kadwadkar either," a police officer said. An autopsy was conducted and the body handed over to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-customs-man-found-lifeless-on-track-near-bhandup-station/articleshow/78455746.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||Amid LAC faceoff, US military aircraft refuels at Port Blair||NEW DELHI: In a development that comes amidst India’s ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh, long-range maritime patrol aircraft of the US seem to have begun refuelling from the strategically-located Andaman & Nicobar island archipelago. An American P-8 Poseidon aircraft, armed with radars as well as missiles and rockets to take on enemy submarines and warships, landed at Port Blair for a few hours on September 25 for logistics and refuelling support, said sources on Friday. While India and US have been providing refuelling and operational turnaround facilities to each other’s warships under the reciprocal military logistics pact inked in 2016, this is the first time that an American military aircraft has landed at the A&N archipelago. The event is significant as India and US have also cooperated in exercises in the Indian Ocean region near the Andamans — a crucial maritime supply line for China. Under the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA), Indian warships and aircraft get similar access to US bases in Djibouti, Diego Garcia, Guam and Subic Bay. In a strong strategic signal to China in July, Indian warships had conducted a “cooperative exercise” with the US carrier strike group in the southern Bay of Bengal. The Indian Navy has also inducted eight of the Boeing-manufactured P-8I (‘I’ stands for India) aircraft under a $2.1 billion deal inked in January 2009, while the next four will be delivered from this December onwards under another $1.1 billion contract signed in July 2016. Moreover, India in July also formally kicked off another acquisition process for six more P-8I aircraft from the US for around $1.8 billion, while a plan is also underway for fast-track procurement of six Predator-B armed drones, as was first reported by TOI. India has been deploying its P-8I planes for surveillance missions over the Indian Ocean as well as keeping tabs on the People’s Liberation Army along the frontier in eastern Ladakh. Indian warships and submarines, of course, are also on the prowl on the eastern seaboard due to the heightened tensions with China since early-May. The inking of another military pact with the US called the COMCASA (Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement) in September 2018 has also paved the way for greater access to advanced military technologies with encrypted and secure communications and data links from the country. The six new P-8I aircraft, for instance, will have COMCASA-protected equipment, which are much more advanced and secure than the commercially available ones. The US has already bagged lucrative Indian defence deals worth over $21 billion just since 2007. Watch Amid LAC faceoff, US military aircraft refuels at strategically located Port Blair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-lac-faceoff-us-military-aircraft-refuels-at-port-blair/articleshow/78455745.cms||Rajat Pandit
October 3, 2020||Mumbai||BMC, TIFR to look at second type of Covid-19 antibody||MUMBAI: While the two sero surveys conducted in the city's three civic wards studied one type of antibody against the Covid-19-causing virus, researchers from BMC-run hospitals and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) now plan to study the same samples for another type of antibody. An antibody is a protein produced by the body's immune system upon detecting a foreign or harmful substance such as a virus, bacteria, fungi or parasites. The arrival of SARS-CoV-2 virus, which caused the Covid-19 pandemic, has unleashed a spate of research on antibodies- mainly for the development of vaccines against the virus. The BMC-TIFR team looked at the nucleocapsid antibody as part of the surveys and now will also look at the longer-lasting RBD antibody. The results of the sero surveys and the study will then be amalgamated to understand the "immune response" against the Covid-19 pandemic, said Dr Jayanthi Shastri, who heads the BMC-run Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory at Kasturba Hospital, Chinchpokli. More than 10 months into the global pandemic, scientists are only now able to generate and share information on the various antibodies. "Various antibodies develop and decay at different stages. The sero surveys we did in Mumbai looked at the nucleocapsid antibody as it develops first," said Dr Shastri. This antibody has a half-life of 70 days before it starts decaying. Dr Ullas Kolthur, the other prinicipal investigator from TIFR, said they will use some of the samples from the first and second sero surveys to look for the RBD antibody. RBD or the receptor-binding domain antibody is a protein that recognizes a cell surface receptor (a mutated strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus, which is associated with severity, has a spike glycoprotein that binds easily with the body's ACE2 receptor). "RBD is a protein that binds itself to the receptors on the cell surface," said Dr Kolthur. The two sero surveys were conducted in M-West (Chembur), F-North ( Sion and Wadala) and R-North (Dahisar) in July and August. While the first survey showed that 57% of those tested from slum pockets and 16% from non-slum areas had developed the nucleocapsid antibody against Covid-19, the corresponding numbers in the second survey were 45% and 18%. BMC's additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani had told TOI on Thursday the second survey had registered a drop in the levels of antibodies in the community in sync with a fall in the infection rate. While the slums saw a higher spread in May-June (as reflected in the first survey), the Covid-19 curve dipped in August when samples were collected for the second survey. "As fewer infected people were around, there was a drop in antibody levels found too," he had told TOI on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-tifr-to-look-at-second-type-of-covid-19-antibody/articleshow/78455763.cms||Malathy Iyer
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s farm-trade reforms yet to take off||BENGALURU: Five months ago, the Karnataka government announced large-scale reforms to help farmers cut out middlemen and directly sell their produce outside designated mandis. But so far, the measures have not changed the market dynamics. No big traders or corporate retailers, who are expected to offer better rates to farmers than the prices at Agricultural Marketing Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), have created procurement centres where the open trade can take place. In the first two months after changes to the APMC Act were introduced, it was thought that the coronavirus pandemic was keeping major retailers away. But now, there are concerns about whether the reforms will work effectively without support on the ground. Experts say the state government must establish a new supply chain, so farmers know where and how they can send their produce. Without such a system, they may be forced to frequent mandis again. “To date, no trader or company has come forward to set up a procurement centre or buy directly from farmers. The new law is ridden with loopholes,” said Rameshchandra Lahoti, an APMC trader and former president of the Bangalore Wholesale Food Grains and Pulses Merchants’ Association. The new law allows any person or entity with a personal account number (PAN) allotted by the income tax department to buy produce directly from farmers. But no government division has been designated to monitor and facilitate the trade, unlike at APMCs that are governed by the cooperation department and elected committee of the particular agricultural yard. In the new system, traders don’t require any special licence or permission. If a trader fails to pay up or resorts to cheating, farmers will have to file a complaint with the district assistant commissioner. If there are quality issues with the produce, traders apparently have no recourse. “This is the main loophole. Farmers and buyers are unprotected as dispute redressal is not properly defined. This is why buyers, particularly small traders, are reluctant to enter the trade,” said foodgrains merchant Amarnath C Patil, who is also the president of the Hyderabad-Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries. But officials in the department of agricultural market said that trade under the new law had begun. There is no hard data as the government is not monitoring this free market, they added. “Organised players such as big retail firms may take time to enter the market, but that does not mean that individual traders are also not buying from farmers directly. Informal reports say the trade is on,” said Karee Gowda, director, department of agricultural marketing. According to Kiran Kumar Vissa, national co-convenor of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), retail giants and other corporate players are ready to enter the market and are waiting for the right opportunity. “They don’t want to start the business amid protests over the new law. You will see them once the dust over the controversy settles,” Vissa said. Kavitha Kurugnati, convenor of ASHA-Kisan Swaraj Network, said about 64 per cent of farm produce was already being sold outside regulated markets before the ordinance was introduced. Kurugnati cited data from the National Sample Survey Office. “The concern is about deregulation of the trade and lack of protection for farmers. How will the government ensure better prices when the trade is not regulated?” Kurugnati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-farm-trade-reforms-yet-to-take-off/articleshow/78455619.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
October 3, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Expect rain, thunder, gusty winds today||MUMBAI: The city and neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad can expect thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds at isolated places on Saturday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD issued a yellow alert for the districts. The IMD has forecast that Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar are very likely to see winds of 30-40kmph on Saturday. The warning continues to remain in place for Sunday in Thane and Raigad. A green alert-rain/thunder showers-is issued for Sunday in Mumbai and Palghar. "Owing to the easterly winds, there is a possibility of thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and moderate to intense spells of rainfall over parts of Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra over the next two or three days," said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. As the monsoon has begun its withdrawal from Rajasthan, the IMD has forecast that the monsoon would withdraw over the city and state between October 9 and 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-expect-rain-thunder-gusty-winds-today/articleshow/78455771.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Expect rain, thunder, gusty winds today||MUMBAI: The city and neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad can expect thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds at isolated places on Saturday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD issued a yellow alert for the districts. The IMD has forecast that Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar are very likely to see winds of 30-40kmph on Saturday. The warning continues to remain in place for Sunday in Thane and Raigad. A green alert-rain/thunder showers-is issued for Sunday in Mumbai and Palghar. "Owing to the easterly winds, there is a possibility of thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and moderate to intense spells of rainfall over parts of Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra over the next two or three days," said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. As the monsoon has begun its withdrawal from Rajasthan, the IMD has forecast that the monsoon would withdraw over the city and state between October 9 and 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-expect-rain-thunder-gusty-winds-today/articleshow/78455786.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||In U-turn, CT Ravi indicates he wants to hold two posts||BENGALURU: CT Ravi, who recently said he would quit as the state tourism minister as he had landed a national BJP role, indicated on Friday that he was keen on serving both positions. Last month, Ravi was appointed as a BJP national general secretary. The party has a policy of one-person, one-post, and in this context, Ravi said he was prepared to resign as a minister in the BS Yediyurappa government. “There is an unwritten rule in BJP that one person should hold one post at a time and those aged above 75 should not hold public offices. But some party members have been exempted from this rule,” Ravi said, in what appeared to be a reference to Yediyurappa, who is 77. But Ravi clarified he was ready to resign if that was the party’s wish. Three days ago, he had announced that he would resign as a minister in the first week of October, raising hopes of cabinet aspirants who have been waiting for months. Ravi also said that serving the party was more important than being a minister. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said Ravi should give up the ministerial berth. “Because of the rule of one man, one post, Ravi will resign. He knows the party’s rules better than anyone,” Kateel said. Currently, six slots are open in Yediyurappa’s cabinet. There are more than two dozen hopefuls. Ravi’s exit could create space for a Vokkaliga MLA from Malnad region. Yediyurappa has said he will visit Delhi to discuss cabinet expansion once the party top brass gives him an appointment. BJP insiders claim the exercise won’t happen anytime soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-u-turn-ct-ravi-indicates-he-wants-to-hold-two-posts/articleshow/78455640.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||10 years after tribunal’s order, UKP III still grounded||BENGALURU: Nearly a decade after a tribunal finalised Karnataka’s share of Krishna River water, farmers in Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Raichur Yadgir, Gadag and Koppal have not received a drop of it through planned irrigation schemes. Anger is growing over what farmers claim is a lack of government will to secure the supply and implement stage three of Upper Krishna Project (UKP). The Krishna water disputes tribunal II had allocated 177 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) to Karnataka, of which the government intends to use 130 tmcft to irrigate 5.3 lakh hectares of farmland in the six districts. The plans are stuck because the tribunal’s final award has not been notified in the central gazette. Without completion of this mandatory requirement, the state cannot use the water. The central government says its hands are tied as Karnataka itself has challenged the tribunal’s decision in the Supreme Court, seeking a bigger share. Telangana has also moved a petition. The water award can be notified once the court disposes of the petitions. Growers in the Krishna basin region are critical of the central and state governments, saying they are not showing urgency to resolve the row. Some stakeholders say the state should urge the Centre to adopt the approach it used in the dispute over sharing of Mahadayi River water. Recently, the Centre issued a gazette notification to enable the implementation of the Mahadayi tribunal’s verdict even though Karnataka, Maharashtra and Goa’s petitions are pending before the apex court. The notification’s continuation is subject to the court’s verdict. “Why is the same yardstick not being applied in the case of Krishna water?” SR Patil, the opposition leader in the legislative council, asked during the monsoon session. A section of farmers believes the state government is deliberately delaying the project as it doesn’t have adequate funds for UKP stage 3. To store additional Krishna water allocated by the tribunal II, the government will have to raise the height of Almatti Dam from 519 metres to 524 metres. But this will affect 22 villages and parts of Bagalkot town. Over 1.3 lakh acres of agricultural land will go under water. The government will need huge funds to rehabilitate residents and provide compensation for land loss. According to a conservative estimate, the project needs Rs 70,000 crore. “Given its current financial health, the government is in no position to spend such a huge amount. If the gazette notification is issued now, the government will come under pressure from farmers to take up the project immediately. This is the reason it is not showing interest to get the tribunal order notified,” said Mahadevappa, a leader of farmers in Vijayapura. Prakash Antaragonda, president of the Upper Krishna Raithar Kshemabhivruddi Sangha, said the government should demonstrate it is serious by setting aside Rs 20,000 crore to Rs 25,000 crore. “This should not be difficult for a state with a budget outlay of more than Rs 2 lakh crore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-years-after-tribunals-order-ukp-iii-still-grounded/articleshow/78455639.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Delhi||Delhi weather turns tricky: Nights getting nippy, days are still hot||NEW DELHI: Have you been feeling a chill in the air while waking up early in the morning or when heading to bed at night? Minimum temperatures in the capital have been consistently below normal and dropping steadily over the past few days, and could fall below the 20-degree mark by October 4, the met department has forecast. After the monsoon’s retreat and with the cooler, northwesterly winds now blowing from the mountains, met officials said a chill was being felt at night and in the morning. This occurs when the minimum temperature reaches 20 degrees Celsius or lower. By contrast, day temperatures have been two to three notches above normal as the sun beats down over the region that has been largely cloudless for many days now. Clear skies leading to cooler nightsExperts said the drop in night temperatures could also impact the city’s air quality, which would inch closer towards the poor category in the coming days. Delhi recorded a minimum of 21.9 degrees Celsius on October 1, one degree below normal. On Friday, the minimum was 20.6 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said temperatures could drop to around 19 degrees or lower by October 4 because of the northwesterly winds. “After the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon, we have had clear skies during the day. This doesn’t trap the heat. Nights have, therefore, become cooler with the wind direction changing to northwesterly. As western disturbances bring rain and snow further up north, especially in the mountains, the wind blowing towards Delhi will become even cooler,” said Srivastava. In contrast, the minimum temperature on September 26 was 24.3 degrees Celsius and 23.2 degrees the next day. IMD officially declared that withdrawal of monsoon from Delhi on September 30, five days after the “normal” date. Forecast for Saturday shows minimum temperature hovering around 20° C and around 19° Celsius between Sunday and Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-weather-turns-tricky-nights-getting-nippy-days-are-still-hot/articleshow/78455773.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||IAS officer’s mother opposes Congress plan to field wife in bypoll||Bengaluru: Congress faced some embarrassment on Friday after late IAS officer DK Ravi’s mother objected to the party’s reported proposal to field his wife, H Kusuma, in the RR Nagar bypoll. “Kusuma has no right to seek votes in my late son’s name. She didn’t support my family after Ravi passed away,” the mother, Gowramma, alleged. Ravi, who was from the Vokkaliga community, died by suicide in 2016. Congress has been reportedly exploring the option of naming Kusuma as its candidate for RR Nagar, which has a strong Vokkaliga population. On Friday, senior Congress functionaries said nothing had been finalised. Former Magadi MLA HC Balakrishna and party functionary Rajkumar are the other contenders. BJP is also in a dilemma over selecting a candidate for the same assembly segment. While chief minister BS Yediyurappa wants to field former Congress politician N Muniratna, some senior functionaries are backing party loyalist Tulasi Muniraju Gowda. The names have been sent to the party’s chief election committee. MLC Appaji Gowda of JD(S), meanwhile, said it had shortlisted three names for RR Nagar: Bengaluru party president Prakash, RR Nagar unit head Bettaswamy Gowda and Jnanabharathi Krishnamurthy. Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy held a meeting with members of the constituency before shortlisting the names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ias-officers-mother-opposes-congress-plan-to-field-wife-in-bypoll/articleshow/78455662.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bypolls a popularity test of DK Shivakumar, HD Kumaraswamy||BENGALURU: Though the upcoming byelections to assembly constituencies Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar will not change much of the state’s political calculations, it’ll be a key test for two prominent Vokkaliga faces — HD Kumaraswamy and DK Shivakumar. More than Congress, the pressure is on Shivakumar, who is facing his first polls after taking over as the state party president. He wants to be the champion of Vokkaligas and drive home the point that he is the successor to former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, and not Gowda's sons. He also wants to prove that under his leadership, the party can take on BJP. As the two seats are dominated by Vokkaliga voters, a victory will be seen as a test of leadership. “It’ll give a clear indication who is the real Vokkaliga leader,’’ said senior party functionaries of both parties. After a poor show in last year’s bypolls and Lok Sabha polls in the state, Congress led by Shivakumar is hoping for a comeback. However, putting up a strong fight will not be easy as he continues to face internal challenges. If the party fails to make a significant impact, it’ll become tricky to rejuvenate before the 2023 assembly elections. For Kumaraswamy, it’s a question of relevance in state politics as his party is traditionally seen to represent the Vokkaliga community. Kumaraswamy, who kickstarted his campaign in Sira, said: “It’s important the party wins in Sira at any cost. I’m sure you won’t let me down this time.’’ Political analysts feel Shivakumar is under more pressure to win the two seats as he needs to re-establish himself after becoming president of the state Congress. “He has to win to keep high the morale of party workers keeping in mind the next assembly elections,” they added. Kumaraswamy has two options: Ensure the victory of his party candidates or make sure the Congress candidates don’t win. Party workers insist victory will ultimately depend on how efficiently the two convert their leadership commitments into votes. It won’t be easy because of the pandemic as they may not get the much-needed support from cadres at the ground level. Past election history is not encouraging. The ruling party has won the majority of bypolls in the past two decades, the recent one being the one last December for the 15 seats, of which BJP won 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bypolls-a-popularity-test-of-dks-and-hdk/articleshow/78455667.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||Hasty cremation, cordon dented govt image: Uma||NEW DELHI: As the Yogi government remained under attack from rivals over the Hathras incident, two BJP members along with NDA partner Ramdas Athawale criticised UP police’s conduct in hastily cremating the Dalit victim and not allowing people to meet her family. Senior party functionary Uma Bharati took to Twitter to tell CM Yogi Adityanath that the dubious actions of police have hurt his image. Noting that the victim of the alleged gang-rape was a Dalit, the former MP CM said: “She (the girl) was cremated hastily and now police have barricaded the family and the village. I am not aware of any rule which forbids people from meeting a family who are under an SIT probe.” She said the incident follows the foundation-laying ceremony for Ram Mandir and said that the CM, who enjoys a clean reputation, should allow politicians and media to meet the victim’s family. Athawale, Union minister and chief of Dalit outfit Republican Party, also raised questions about UP police’s handling of the victim and said he planned to travel to Lucknow to meet Yogi. He said the UP government should ensure speedy trial of the accused. Another Dalit ally, Lok Janshakti Party’s Chirag Paswan, had raised the issue with the CM earlier this week. Junior rural development minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, who belongs to UP, also criticised the police. The saffronrobed OBC leader said the victim’s body should have been handed over to the family. “I am your elder sister and a senior colleague. Please don’t reject my suggestion,” Bharati tweeted, saying that she will meet the family once out of hospital. She tested Covid-positive recently and is admitted at AIIMS, Rishikesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hasty-cremation-cordon-dented-govt-image-uma/articleshow/78455810.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai sees second-highest daily tally, BMC says testing 15,000 now||MUMBAI: Maharashtra continued to add fewer than 20,000 cases for the sixth day in a row, but on Friday, it reported an increase in fatalities. A total of 15,591 new cases were reported, taking the total to 14,16,513 in the state, and with 424 fatalities, the total toll climbed to 37,480. Mumbai stepped up the number of tests -- to almost 15,000 a day --and recorded 2,440 new cases, which is its second-highest single-day tally so far after 2,635 a couple of days earlier. The city’s tally has now climbed to 1.72 lakh. The city recorded 42 deaths, according to the BMC update for Friday, taking its overall toll so far to 9,011. Of the 42 victims on Friday, 37 had comorbidities and 31 were above 60 years of age, the update stated. In the last 24 hours the state conducted 84,752 tests, taking total tests so far to 69.6 lakh. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that more cases are detected when more tests are done. “As we conducted almost 15,000 tests, the high daily case tally is not surprising,” he said. Kakani said that the BMC would distribute 50 smartphones with video call facility in its jumbo centres to allow isolated patients to talk to their relatives. “These smartphones will mostly be available for use from Sunday. We also have placed orders for computer tablets that will help us connect patients and their relatives,” Kakani added. Active cases in Mumbai continue to rise and on Friday, there were 28,602 active cases in Mumbai, third highest after Pune and Thane district. Even on Friday, Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported the highest number of new cases and deaths. A total of 4,937 cases and 161 deaths were reported from the region, taking its total cases to 4.9 lakh, with 16,110 deaths. In the meantime, 386 new cases were reported in Thane city and seven deaths, taking the tally of infected people there to 37,573 and the virus toll to 1,010. The recovery rate in Thane city has remained stable at 87%, with 32,715 patients recovering till date and 3,848 active cases left. In Kalyan-Dombivli, 309 fresh cases and 12 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the tally of patients there to 43,115, with 838 deaths. The city corporation also reported that 296 patients recovered, taking the total number of recovered patients there to 38,418. In Navi Mumbai, 362 cases were reported, taking the total Covid-19 count there to 37,418. Of these, 88% have recovered. The NMMC also reported nine deaths, taking its toll to 763. The PCMC areas reported 260 cases and four deaths, taking its tally to 19,751 and toll to 436. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri, Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh & Umesh K Parida)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-mumbai-sees-second-highest-daily-tally-bmc-says-testing-15000-now/articleshow/78455784.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 3, 2020||Pune||Drones to soon monitor halted vehicles on Mumbai-Pune E-way||MUMBAI: According to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, Uttar Pradesh, with 7,187 deaths, accounted for 13.5% of the total 53,213 fatalities on national highways in 2019. Maharashtra stood second (5,083 deaths), while Tamil Nadu third (3,921), Rajasthan fourth (3,891) and Karnataka fifth (3,826). Maximum fatalities on state highways were reported in UP (6,385), recording 16.1% of the total 39,624 deaths, followed by Maharashtra with 3,804 deaths (9.6%). The highest number of expressway accident deaths was reported in UP (761), 54.8% of the total 1,389, followed by Maharashtra (167) with 12%. Times ViewMaharashtra can do without the dubious No. 2 distinction in terms of deaths on its highways, both national and state. While the state government needs to re-examine black spots and make the licencing process stringent, the focus should equally be on building safer highways with better road engineering and on putting in place an effective enforcement mechanism.According to sources, drones may soon be deployed along the 95km Mumbai-Pune Expressway for vigilance. An official from SaveLIFE Foundation, a non-profit involved with road safety, said: "If a vehicle halts on the expressway, the drones will alert the state highway police to place a 100m barricade behind it for the benefit of other motorists. We are awaiting a few permissions to launch the project." "There is also a need to continuously monitor all the black spots in the state and implement round-the-clock drives against speeding, lane-cutting, drunk driving, riding without helmets/seatbelts and signal jumping. We need to discipline motorists as most mishaps are caused by human error," said senior RTO official Sanjay Sasane. Piyush Tewari, CEO and founder of SaveLIFE Foundation, said: "State governments are yet to fully implement the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act 2019, which was passed to reduce road crash deaths. The latest figures call for introspection by all those who've been resisting or opposing the implementation of the new law." Meanwhile, a short course is being developed at the Mumbai RTOs for road safety, as the NCRB data showed that 34 highway deaths in 2019 were due to 'physical fatigue' and driver error. The course, sources said, will include a video clip that will be shown to commercial drivers, especially those operating heavy vehicles like trucks, tempos and buses. The NCRB report added: "As many as 97 deaths were due to vehicles parking at road shoulders, 139 due to defects in mechanical condition of motor vehicles and 1,489 pedestrians died in state mishaps."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drones-to-soon-monitor-halted-vehicles-on-mumbai-pune-e-way/articleshow/78456119.cms||Somit Sen
October 3, 2020||Mumbai||Drones to soon monitor halted vehicles on Mumbai-Pune E-way||MUMBAI: According to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, Uttar Pradesh, with 7,187 deaths, accounted for 13.5% of the total 53,213 fatalities on national highways in 2019. Maharashtra stood second (5,083 deaths), while Tamil Nadu third (3,921), Rajasthan fourth (3,891) and Karnataka fifth (3,826). Maximum fatalities on state highways were reported in UP (6,385), recording 16.1% of the total 39,624 deaths, followed by Maharashtra with 3,804 deaths (9.6%). The highest number of expressway accident deaths was reported in UP (761), 54.8% of the total 1,389, followed by Maharashtra (167) with 12%. Times ViewMaharashtra can do without the dubious No. 2 distinction in terms of deaths on its highways, both national and state. While the state government needs to re-examine black spots and make the licencing process stringent, the focus should equally be on building safer highways with better road engineering and on putting in place an effective enforcement mechanism.According to sources, drones may soon be deployed along the 95km Mumbai-Pune Expressway for vigilance. An official from SaveLIFE Foundation, a non-profit involved with road safety, said: "If a vehicle halts on the expressway, the drones will alert the state highway police to place a 100m barricade behind it for the benefit of other motorists. We are awaiting a few permissions to launch the project." "There is also a need to continuously monitor all the black spots in the state and implement round-the-clock drives against speeding, lane-cutting, drunk driving, riding without helmets/seatbelts and signal jumping. We need to discipline motorists as most mishaps are caused by human error," said senior RTO official Sanjay Sasane. Piyush Tewari, CEO and founder of SaveLIFE Foundation, said: "State governments are yet to fully implement the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act 2019, which was passed to reduce road crash deaths. The latest figures call for introspection by all those who've been resisting or opposing the implementation of the new law." Meanwhile, a short course is being developed at the Mumbai RTOs for road safety, as the NCRB data showed that 34 highway deaths in 2019 were due to 'physical fatigue' and driver error. The course, sources said, will include a video clip that will be shown to commercial drivers, especially those operating heavy vehicles like trucks, tempos and buses. The NCRB report added: "As many as 97 deaths were due to vehicles parking at road shoulders, 139 due to defects in mechanical condition of motor vehicles and 1,489 pedestrians died in state mishaps."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drones-to-soon-monitor-halted-vehicles-on-mumbai-pune-e-way/articleshow/78455814.cms||Somit Sen
October 3, 2020||India||Hathras gang-rape case: Congress sniffs chance to win back social blocs in UP||NEW DELHI: Seizing on the Hathras Dalit atrocity close on the heels of an aggressive, though limited campaign on controversial farm bills and a public courting of minorities, Congress under Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s lead is making a vigorous attempt at wooing social blocs that formed the party base for decades before the party slipped into irrelevance in UP.  . But Congress’s aggression can also be seen from the angle of Valmiki votes — a Dalit subcaste seen to be agitated with the BJP government that it has been loyal to and which is not comfortable with Dalit party BSP. After undertaking an unsuccessful bid to visit Hathras, Priyanka on Friday visited a Valmiki temple in the Capital to make the point. “A party wins over social blocs by fighting for them. After BJP won a pan-caste support in UP recently, parties can only tap on resentment to win back groups. We are making an aggressive bid too,” a Congress member said. It is too early for a fringe player like Congress in UP to think in terms of revival. But under Priyanka’s leadership, it is making a focused bid for communities that, because of past proximity, do not see it as no-go. What seems to be giving hope to Congress strategists is that BJP’s success in overwhelming the UP society post-2017 has seriously marginalised traditional local players SP and BSP, whose surprising silence last year on several issues has also deepened the impression of a vacuum. As a result, Congress’s decision to hold protests over last six months against the UP government, despite organisational weakness and serious lack of popular appeal, is designed to project itself as the main opposition party. “Once Priyanka stations herself in Lucknow, these activities will only increase. We hope our appeal too would expand,” a member said. Watch Congress seeks to make power play in UP to win back social blocs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-sniffs-chance-to-win-back-social-blocs-in-up/articleshow/78455822.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 3, 2020||India||Netizens rally behind victim’s kin, make it top Twitter trend||NEW DELHI: Support for the Hathras victim’s family intensified on social media on Friday especially after reports of a “protest” by members of Thakur community supporting the accused surfaced on Twitter. The hashtag #DalitLivesMatter was the top trend in India with over 2.5 lakh tweets around 6.30pm. Some politicians, too, supported the trend. Congress’s Srivatsa wrote: “Annihilation of Caste is our Goal. Dr. Ambedkar is our Inspiration. Social Justice is our Pledge. Forces like the BJP & RSS which empower oppressors and seek to perpetuate caste hierarchies must be defeated. Until then, girls like (the victim's name) will not get Justice #DalitLivesMatter." Tribal Army founder, Hansraj Meena, also tweeted in support of the victim. "It's understandable if you can't show up to protests because of health concerns, elderly family members and co-morbidities. But you can do your bit by trending #DalitLivesMatter, donating to DBA fundraisers, organizing and rallying people close to you and amplifying Dalit voices."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/netizens-rally-behind-victims-kin-make-it-top-twitter-trend/articleshow/78455834.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbaikars flouting mask mandate despite the fines||MUMBAI: Failure to use masks continues to be a problem in Mumbai even though many other cities, including Pune, that saw a surge in Covid cases a fortnight back, have cleaned up their act, say state government officials. A look at the BMC fines on failure to use masks shows that Mumbaikars are still reluctant mask-users. Mumbaikars, especially those in central Mumbai, are perhaps the worst offenders as far as failure to use a face mask against the Covid-19 pandemic is concerned. On Thursday, the BMC penalized 1,081 people in all for stepping out without a mask and collected Rs 2.2 lakh in fines. Times ViewThe BMC needs to create an effective enough deterrent by being stringent in its actions against violators of the mask rule. If it is seen to be serious about cracking down on offenders, citizens will fall in line. But it is best if the people of the city take it upon themselves to develop the ‘social vaccine’ of masks and distancing so long as we do not have an actual vaccine that’s in. That is the only way of combating the virus as of now and of being responsible towards ourselves and others.The highest number of violators--114--were from G-South ward that consists of office hubs in Prabhadevi, Worli, Mahalaxmi and Lower Parel. A senior state public health department official said that drives against failure to use masks had yielded results in other parts of the state. "In the past 10 days, people in cities such as Pune, Nashik and Kolhapur have changed their behaviour and started using masks," he said. Mumbai, he said, had failed to check offenders. "There are some marketplaces in Mumbai, especially in the southern areas, where vendors are not using masks," the official said. In a recent interview, BMC commissioner I S Chahal said that during a recent visit to a street in Goregaon, where there are shops selling automobile spares, he found hundreds of people without masks. The BMC levies a fine of Rs 200 on people who fail to wear a mask. Wearing a mask is a must to ensure that Covid doesn't spread from asymptomatic positive patients. The BMC intensified its drive against those not wearing masks on September 13 after reducing the penalty amount from Rs 1,000 to Rs 200. In three weeks it has penalized 13,127 people and collected Rs 27 lakh in fines. "With the city opening up further, there is bound to be a large movement of employees, and it is all the more important to wear masks," said a senior BMC official. The official said the number of people penalized doesn't reveal the extent of the problem. "A lot depends on how proactively the ward- level staff act against offenders," he said. Moreover, BMC's solid waste management (SWM) department, assigned the task of levying fines, is short-staffed and overburdened with regular work. The city is planning to appoint clean-up marshals to help with the process. "It's not easy to levy a fine on someone. People come up with various excuses, including heath reasons like inability to breathe, if caught without a mask. It's a challenge and we have to enlist the help of police to take action," said an official from the civic SWM department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaikars-flouting-mask-mandate-despite-the-fines/articleshow/78455836.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||After guv barb, Bratya calls him ‘symbol of anarchy’||Barrackpore: State tourism minister Bratya Basu on Friday called the governor ‘noirajyapal’ (symbol of anarchy) soon after Jagdeep Dhankhar questioned the role of public servants in Bengal. Dhankhar, Basu and senior state officials were paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary at Gandhi Ghat in Barrackpore. “I won’t tolerate officials in the state administration acting as political workers during elections. I call upon the police and administration to be politically neutral and function as public servants rather than as political workers. These are quintessential to the survival of democracy and rule of law,” Dhankhar said. Basu, instead, wanted the governor to throw light on the role of Hathras district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar, who visited the Dalit victim’s family after the incident and allegedly threatened them. “The governor is talking about political influence on the administration. What sort of influence would you call it when a district magistrate reached out to the Dalit victim’s family in Hathras the other day?” Basu asked. “I would prefer a prefix for our rajyapal — ‘noi’,” he added. The tourism minister then recalled the 2013 Kamduni gang rape case. “Did you see the North 24 Parganas DM paying a visit to the victim’s family during the course of the investigation?” Basu said. He added that BJP knew best how to combine administration and bureaucracy for its needs. Leader of Opposition in the assembly Abdul Mannan, who went to the programme at the governor’s invitation, said: “I was there on the dais. I don’t want to be dragged into a controversy on this day when we all went there to offer tributes to the memory of Mahatma Gandhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-guv-barb-bratya-calls-him-symbol-of-anarchy/articleshow/78454357.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Why Covid takes longer to leave some Kolkata patients||KOLKATA: A substantial number of Covid patients in Kolkata — about one in five, according to a doctor — have been struggling to regain full fitness due to lingering symptoms — or ‘long-haul Covid’ (LHC) — that have been refusing to recede more than a month after the patient contracted the virus. While some have remained positive for three-four weeks, unusually long for Covid patients, others continue to be dogged by low-grade fever, joint pain, persistent cough and a general weakness for over a month after testing negative. Doctors say LHC is a global phenomenon and afflicts a substantial number, possibly due to a ‘disregulation’ of the immune system, which fails to settle down after fighting the virus. Some felt it could even be triggered by a high viral load or an inadequate immune response. A 42-year-old woman, who was treated at home after testing Covid-positive with mild symptoms, continued to have low-grade fever for more than a month. She got a Covid test done, but it was negative. Her doctor said she was likely to be suffering from a ‘smouldering’ immune response to Covid that made the fever persist long after the virus was dead. A 35-year-old executive continued to feel fatigued and groggy after joining work a week after testing negative. His symptoms had been severe and they refused to go away. “My doctor said it could be due to a high viral load. My symptoms have been ebbing very slowly,” said the patient. Once activated, the immune system often fails to regulate its response to the viral attack, leading to persistent symptoms and weakness, said Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. Rahul Jain, Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant, said: “While in extreme cases, a cytokine storm is triggered by the immune response, in others it continues to remain active after the virus has been evicted. It’s like a smouldering piece of coal that keeps flaring up even after being taken off the fire. This results in low fever, joint pain, sleep disorder and fatigue, which are very common during the post-Covid recovery period.” He added that LHC afflicted about one in every five patients in Kolkata. According to a UK study, around 10% suffer from LHC. It can strike either mild or severe Covid patients, pointed out doctors. “While it is more expected in the case of severe patients who are admitted in ICU and take longer to recover, even those with mild symptoms, who got treated at home, have been experiencing it. They continue to feel weak and unsteady two-three weeks after testing positive,” said a physician who has been treating Covid patients. Long-haulers could also be those who have a high viral load and continue to remain positive for inordinately long, according to RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. “I have come across several patients who got tested when the symptoms persisted for a month. Some of them were still positive, which could be due to their high viral load,” he said. An exaggerated immune response was more likely to be the reason, felt Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “Around 60%-70% of LHC cases are triggered by a hyper immune response, which results in damage to healthy tissues. The rest are due to an inadequate immune reaction, which is more common among patients with co-morbidities who have lower immunity,” said Dhar. He added that the common symptom of LHC was persistent low-grade fever. “That is the only real marker, for the other symptoms vary,” he said. Others, like Apollo Gleneagles Hospital consultant Shyamasis Bandopadhyay, differed. “It is triggered by inadequate immune response, which fails to eradicate the virus completely. Long-haulers could also be suffering from secondary infections that prolong the same set of symptoms, again due to a weaker immune response,” said Bandopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/why-covid-takes-longer-to-leave-some-city-patients/articleshow/78455054.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||3 critical after fire partly guts Trinamool’s Sabang office||Midnapore: Six Trinamool Congress members sustained moderate to severe burns in a fire that partially gutted the party’s office in Sabang, West Midnapore, on Friday afternoon. At least 20 bikes, parked in front of the building, were also charred before fire tenders from Kharagpur arrived at the site in Mohar and brought the blaze under control. Among the six injured, party leaders Subal Roy, Prasad Adhikari and Lalmohan Bhuiyan are admitted to Midnapore Medical College and Hospital, and their condition is said to be critical. The incident, which took place around 4pm and soon after BJP leader Bharati Ghosh left Sabang following a party programme in support of the farm laws in neighbouring Burul village, has sparked a blame game. Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha member and district coordinator Manas Bhuiyan squarely blamed the saffron party. “BJP men armed with guns attacked our party office. It happened after BJP leaders made inciting remarks at a gathering in a nearby village,” the MP said. BJP’s Ghatal president Antara Bhattacharya called the allegations baseless. “I fear it (the fire) is an inside job. Someone from Trinamool did it,” she said. The BJP leader also accused Trinamool supporters of accosting and beating up her party workers bound for the Burul meeting. “We had initially sought police permission to hold a meeting at Mohar, but were denied the same. So, we held the programme at Burul. But, Trinamool goons nevertheless blocked and beat up our supporters on their way to the meeting,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-critical-after-fire-partly-guts-trinamools-sabang-office/articleshow/78454448.cms||Sujoy Khanra
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||‘Covid-hug’ BJP leader tests positive||Kolkata: BJP’s newly appointed national secretary Anupam Hazra, who courted controversy a few days back for his “Covid hug” comment aimed at chief minister Mamata Banerjee, was found Covid-19-positive on Friday. He was admitted to a nursing home in south Kolkata. Hazra had not been keeping well for the past few days and went for a Covid test. On Friday, Hazra posted on his FB wall that he was Covid-positive. Later in the evening, he made another post saying, “stable so far”. Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, who wished him a speedy recovery, said: “While he is found Covid-19 positive, I wish him a recovery soon.” “Anupam Hazra’s condition is being assessed. He is stable but we will have a better idea after the necessary investigations are done. He is not in ICU though,” said a BP Poddar Hospital spokesperson. While addressing a rally at Baruipur, Hazra had said that if he was found Covid-19 positive, he would hug CM Mamata Banerjee. The comment drew all-round flak. The refugee cell of Trinamool Congress also filed a complaint at Siliguri police station. While there was no official statement on precautions to be taken, BJP leaders indicated that those who have come in contact with Hazra over the past seven days have been asked to get themselves checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-hug-bjp-leader-tests-positive/articleshow/78454569.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Idol makers stare at losses with govt’s decision to cap height at 4ft||Ranchi: The idol makers of Ranchi are staring at losses worth several lakhs of rupees with the state government’s recent order capping the height of the gods and goddesses to 4ft in this year’s Durga Puja. “We began making idols of Durga since February. During the lockdown, my clay artists continued with the work and built many idols between 9ft and 12ft. But with the delay caused by the state government in issuing the Durga Puja guidelines, the idols which we made all this time will not be sold as puja committees will be purchasing smaller idols after the directives,” Ajoy Pal, an idol maker who runs his workshop in Lalpur, told TOI on Friday. Ram Pal, another idol maker in Tharpakhna, said, “On an average, I get orders for making 40 idols of goddess Durga each year. Since the puja committees were in a dilemma about organizing the festival this year due to the delay issuing the guidelines, many have not ordered and decided to perform ghot puja to keep the rituals going.” This year, Pal has got orders for delivering 20 idols, which is half of the average annual sales. Officials in the state disaster management department said the height was capped to ensure that social distancing is maintained during the immersion. The capping of idols’ height to 4ft will make it difficult for the idol makers to cover their production costs. “On an average, an idol sized between 9-12ft costs between Rs 30,000-50,000. But the 4ft idols are not priced beyond Rs 6,000. On the other hand, we are being forced to purchase raw materials at market rates,” Ajoy said. The clay used for building idols is transported from Kolkata in trucks. “The cost of clay has increased in the last few years and the suppliers are also charging 4% GST on every 50 kg bag of clay. In the lockdown, it became particularly difficult to arrange for transport to bring clay, wood and hay. Now, we can’t even cover our expenses,” Ajoy, who builds idols for Ranchi’s hig- ranking puja committees such as Bharatiya Navyuvak Sangh in Bakri Bazar, OCC Club in Bangla School and others, said. “I do not get the rationale behind limiting the height to four feet. If the pandals are closed for public, then what is the harm in allowing bigger idols? An idol which is sized six feet can be carried by three people,” secretary of a prominent puja committee of the city said on anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/idol-makers-stare-at-losses-with-govts-decision-to-cap-height-at-4ft/articleshow/78452104.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Bizmen hope to earn during festive season||Ranchi: The recently issued guidelines on celebrating Durga Puja in Jharkhand may have restricted the revelry this year but that hasn’t deterred people from thronging the malls to shop for new clothes. Needless to say, the shopkeepers breathed a sigh of relief as the surge in sales follows the nearly six-month-long lockdown lull. Ranchi Central mall manager Ananmoy Das said, “All the major brands are giving discounts in the range of 20-40% on cloths and accessories and we are seeing a surge in sales.” Asked about his expectation from this year’s Puja market, Das said, “We have set a target of achieving 60% of what we did last year, but if we are able to achieve even 45% and above, we will be more than happy.” Upper Bazar, which is a must-visit for Puja shoppers every year, is seeing an increase in footfall and the businessmen are hopeful of earning a good amount of profit if this trend continues. Vinod Modi, the proprietor of Veena Vastralaya which sells mostly ethnic wear, said, “The footfall has surely increased and the branded clothes are in demand as we are giving huge discounts.” He added, “We are hoping of selling 50% of what we did last year because without achieving that target, we cannot hope to survive. And going by the current trends and keeping in mind the upcoming wedding season, we can achieve that target.” Even a shop like Femina in Church Complex, which is not even offering discounts like the rest of the shops, is selling its ethnic wear collection like hot cakes. “We aren’t giving any discounts at the moment but the footfall in our store has increased from what it was just a few months ago and we are happy that business is finally picking up pace. In fact, we may just be a few months away from witnessing pre-pandemic sales,” Femina owner Ishan Dhawan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bizmen-hope-to-earn-during-festive-season/articleshow/78452730.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP rallies support for farm bills in districts||Kolkata: Bengal BJP office-bearers fanned out in districts in support of the three farm bills passed in Parliament on a day the opposition focused on the Hathras gang rape in Uttar Pradesh. The purpose, among other things, was to activate party ranks and mobilise supporters for the Nabanna Abhiyan call by Bengal Yuva Morcha set for October 8. The BJP’s North Kolkata organizational district took out a motorbike rally in support of farm bills, while party MP Arjun Singh led a rally in Asansol. BJP’s Bharati Ghosh participated in a rally at Sabang while party leaders in north Bengal took out a Krishi Suraksha rally in Jalpaiguri’s Mainaguri. BJP chief J P Nadda and his predecessor Amit Shah asked the Bengal unit to throw its weight behind the Yuva Morcha rally. “The farm bills propose to do away with middlemen and allow farmers to go into a direct deal with traders over their produce. The Modi government’s initiative will help shorten the supply chain, with the price benefit going to growers,” said Singh. “Farmers have to pay 8.5% mandi tax in Punjab, and 6.5% in Haryana. In West Bengal, the tax has no limits, which is why farmers do not go to mandis set up by the Mamata Banerjee government. Trinamool workers, with the backing of the state administration, extort growers of potato and paddy,” he added. Singh spoke on the lines of Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, who said the opposition — CPM, Trinamool and Congress — was mobilizing middlemen against farmers to deprive the latter of a higher price for their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-bjp-rallies-support-for-farm-bills-in-districts/articleshow/78454435.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee to hit streets today to protest Hathras incident||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hit the streets against the Hathras gang rape incident with the announcement coming on a day Trinamool Congress MPs were shoved and pushed around when they tried to meet the victim’s family. On Saturday, Banerjee is expected to lead a rally from Birla Planetarium to Gandhi Statue on Mayo Road. TMC MP Pratima Mondal and former MP Mamatabala Thakur lodged a complaint with Chandpa police in Hathras alleging that they were pushed around and misbehaved with when they tried to meet the victim’s family. TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien was pushed to the ground when he asked a sub-divisional magistrate in plainclothes why he was misbehaving with the women MPs. TMC said it will send the complaint copy to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, adding that both complainants — Pratima and Mamatabala — belong to the Scheduled Caste. “We had urged that the two MPs will walk the one-kilometre stretch from where we were stopped to console the grieving family. It was not allowed. The entire world saw how we were manhandled, including Mondal, who is a sitting MP and belongs to the Scheduled Caste. We were aware of Section 144 CrPC and urged that only two women MPs be allowed. This is jungle-raj,” O’Brien said. After Banerjee termed the Hathras incident “barbaric and shameful”, LS MPs Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Sunil Mondal, Pratima and Mamatabala reached Delhi on Thursday. Sunil went into self-quarantine after learning that a close relative has tested Covid positive. Derek, Kakoli, Pratima and Mamatabala left for Hathras in different hired vehicles. An MP said, “Due to security issues, we did not tell anyone of our destination.” A kilometre off the victim’s home, the MPs got off their vehicles and tried to walk when they were stopped by police. TMC alleged in its complaint that SDM Prem Prakash Meena manhandled Pratima. “The allegations are totally false,” Meena said. Pratima, a two-time MP from Joynagar, said: “If police can do this with me, a Lok Sabha MP, I shudder to think what they will do with the voiceless and poor. On Mamata Banerjee’s instructions we had only wanted to meet the family. Is that a crime in UP?” UP minister and former BJP minder for Bengal, Sidharth Nath Singh said, “The entire issue is being politicised and people are simply touring Hathras. Derek is an amazing character of dramatics and has finally found a place in Hathras to exhibit his skills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-to-hit-streets-today-to-protest-hathras-incident/articleshow/78454596.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata pays tribute to Mahatma||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi on his 151st birth anniversary and asked whether people would give away easily the freedom and democracy the great leaders fought for. “Icons like Gandhiji, Netaji, Tagore, Maulana Azad, Ambedkar and others tirelessly fought for freedom & democracy. Are we going to give it away so easily? Bapu’s philosophy has become more relevant now than ever before,” she tweeted. “In remembrance of Gandhiji’s philosophy of Ahimsa, today we also celebrate the International Day of Non-Violence,” she added. The CM said the Bengal government “is setting up a university dedicated to Gandhiji in Purba Medinipur district”. “Let us spread Bapu’s message amongst the younger generations,” she said. Remembering former PM Lal Bahadur Shastri on his birth anniversary, Banerjee said she would stand by farmers till the last breath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-pays-tribute-to-mahatma/articleshow/78454389.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Durga idols shrink in size, but makers shell out more||Jamshedpur: With rising cost of raw materials and reduced orders from puja committees, idol-makers of Jamshedpur are finding it difficult to sustain during the pandemic and fear major losses. According to norms, Durga idols cannot be made taller than six feet this year in order to maintain social distancing. Till Thursday, East Singhbhum district clocked a total of 13,059 cases of which 2,236 are still active, 10,540 have recovered and 283 (highest in the state) have died of the virus. “Every year I get orders from at least 14 puja committees, but this year till now only seven have placed orders. Making a profit is also difficult as the size of idols have been restricted to six feet this year,” said idol-maker Narayan Pal of Sitaramdera. Pal hopes to get a few more orders in the coming days. Pal was echoed by Pradeep Vishwakarma of Sidhgora, who said he has got only four orders. “Though people are ordering smaller idols, our cost of making them has gone up,” Vishwakarma said, adding, “To make a six feet idol I am spending at least Rs 15,000 now, which is Rs 5,000 more than the earlier expenditure.” Explaining his claim, Durga Mahato, an idol-maker at Jugsalai said, “A tractor of local clay this year costs Rs 2,400, which is Rs 400 more than last year. Similarly, a sack of clay from Ganga costs Rs 450, which is Rs 150 more than the earlier price.” “Price of bamboo, thread, straw and other things that are needed to make the idols have also increased substantially,” he said. This year, Durga Puja will mostly be an observance rather than a jamboree like previous years and some idol makers are happy about it. “Many artisans have returned to their native places and we are not sure when will they come back. Thankfully the puja committees are not asking for theme-based idols this year or the staff crunch would have hit us badly,” said Dhananjoy Kumar of Kadma. “The rising costs is also a factor and we would not have been able to make something special at lower costs,” he said. Apart from Covid norms that need to be followed, a major reason to go low key this year is lack of sponsors. “This year, puja committees aren’t expecting big donations from the donors and sponsors and there’s little hopes of encouraging amounts from door-to-door collections. Organisers have thus decided to conduct the puja as a ritual minus the fanfare this year,” said Ram Babu Singh, a functionary of the Jamshedpur Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti (JKDPS). He said out of the 250 puja committees that have the license to organize, nearly 40% have not yet decided whether they would construct a pandal. “The state government is yet to announce guidelines for Durga puja at the pandals therefore several organizing committees are undecided on whether to construct pandals at all,” Singh said. Bhupinder Singh, a functionary of the Sarvajanik Durga Puja Committee, Agrico, said they have placed orders for the idols with a hope that the government will allow puja committees to organise the rituals at the traditional site inside a pandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/durga-idols-shrink-in-size-but-makers-shell-out-more/articleshow/78452858.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Ranchi||Jamshedpur puja organisers demand change in norms||Jamshedpur: Unhappy with the guidelines set by the state government, Durga Puja organising committees of Jamshedpur sought for amendments to them on Friday. Around, 350 puja committees organise the puja in the Steel city. Office bearers of Jharkhand Kendriya Durga Puja Samiti objected to the capping of the height of the idols to four feet and prohibition on playing dhak and distribution of bhog. North Zone Durga Puja Committee (NZDPC) functionary Anjan Sarkar said the committee will take up the matter with the central puja committee to seek changes in the guidelines. “How will we efficiently carry out the pushpanjali without microphones and speakers? If devotees cannot come to the pandals, they should at least be able to hear the prayers from a distance,” Sarkar said. A detailed meeting will be convened on Sunday for the step ahead, said Sarkar. Milani Club Durga Puja Committee’s joint general secretary Krishnendu Chatterjee said the notification lacks clarity. “Performing puja by covering the pandal from all four corners to ensure the goddess is not visible to the devotees from outside is not appropriate,” Krishnendu said. He said, “If sound systems are not allowed, how will we make announcements for the devotees to comply with the Covid norms.” Jamshedpur Durga Puja Committee functionary Debashish Nag said the state government should revise the guidelines to make it reasonable for puja organisers. A functionary of the South Zone Durga Puja Committee requesting anonymity said, “The guidelines of the state government have been formed in haste without applying mind.” “Asking puja committees to organise a puja without dhaks, distribution of bhog and speakers is as good as not organising the puja,” the functionary further said. Ghasi Club Durga Puja Committee functionary Vimal Ray, said, “The pandemic has robbed the sheen of the puja celebrations this year hence, the government should be more sympathetic towards the committees and allow them organize the rituals in a hassle free manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jamshedpur-puja-organisers-demand-change-in-norms/articleshow/78452714.cms||B Sridhar
October 3, 2020||Business||Small tea growers pip big estates in output||Kolkata: Indian tea industry, which has been perennially dependent on the output of mammoth estates across north and south, is currently witnessing a paradigm shift, with small tea growers (STG) brewing more beverage than the bigger ones. Of the total tea production of 159.7mkg in August this year, STGs accounted for 79.9 million kg (mkg) beating the output of big tea planters by a slender margin of 0.1 mkg — a first for the industry. In August 2019, the big growers (BG) were leading with 89.9 mkg tea against the STGs’ kitty of 82.3mkg. However, the total tea production (159.7 mkg) in the country has taken a beating in August owing to the Covid-induced lockdown and subsequent production halt. Last year, the production during the same period had gone up to 172.3 mkg. In May and June, when the lockdown-hit estates could not continue large scale production, STGs have pipped them in output by a sizeable margin. Bijoy Gopal Chakraborty, the president of the STG body Cista, said: “STGs achieved 50% plus production. Now, the lion's share of organized gardens are dependent on STGs for raw materials. This phenomenon shows STGs will be the key player in the Indian tea industry in the coming years.” On Friday, a bonus agreement has been signed in small tea gardens of Jalpaiguri with the presence of all operative trade unions where 16-17.6% have been announced, which would benefit over 50,000 workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/small-tea-growers-pip-big-estates-in-output/articleshow/78455061.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Business||CLW unveils Tejas Exp locos||Kolkata: Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) has now started production of high-speed push-pull locomotives for Tejas Express trainsets. CLW GM Praveen Kumar Mishra flagged off the first set of locomotives on Friday. These locomotives, when working in tandem can run trains at speeds of up to 160 kmph. If attached to the front and rear ends of the Rajdhani Express, the travel time between Howrah and New Delhi can be cut down by nearly 90 minutes. The aerodynamic locomotives are connected to each other and the coaches through wire train bus technology. The locomotive in the front will be manned and pull while the unmanned one at the rear would push, providing additional thrust. With a maximum output of 12,000 Horsepower, this system allows more coaches to be hauled. The locomotive in front is the master loco and the one behind is called the slave. The loco pilot in the front can control both locomotives. “The two locomotives will be at least 600 metres apart with coaches in between. The BL Key (the main key to switch on the locomotives), LSDJ (indication of condition of vacuum circuit breaker and BPFA (indication/acknowledgement of fault) are located in the master locomotive for the loco pilot to understand the conditions inside the slave locomotive without carrying out physical checks,” a senior CLW official said. The locomotives are powerful enough to haul trains up slopes, thereby reducing the use of banker locomotives. The combined power of the two locomotives is also sufficient for lights, fans and air-conditioning inside coaches. There will be no diesel power cars required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/clw-unveils-tejas-exp-locos/articleshow/78455075.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 3, 2020||Business||Tech glitch halts Burnpur IISCO ops||Burnpur: The production at IISCO Steel Plant (ISP) of SAIL in Burnpur has come to a halt from September 18 this year due to a technical snag in blast furnace. This is second time in two years production at the plant came to a halt. According to a spokesperson of ISP, the production has stopped from the night of September 18 due to due technical reasons (Tuyer problem). A K Mistry, CGM (operation), visited the spot on September 29 from SAIL corporate office in New Delhi. “The repair work was done on war-footing. We are expecting that the production will start within 8-10 days. The furnace produces over 6,000 tonne steel per day,” he said. IISCO is one of the country’s oldest steel plants established much before the Independence. Its new plant started operations from 2014. IISCO mainly produces billet and bloom which are mainly used for flyover, bridge and tunnel construction. ISP has procured the latest technology with companies like Posco, SMS Demag of Germany, Siemens VAI of Austria and Danieli Company of Italy. ISP is the only steel plant in India which, though in small quantity, had produced Z bars and piling used for constructing bridges and tunnels. But the modern plant produce it in a larger scale to substitute import of such steel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tech-glitch-halts-burnpur-iisco-ops/articleshow/78455083.cms||Mohammad Asif
October 3, 2020||India||Antigen tests made up 45% of Covid checks in last 2 months||NEW DELHI: Bihar, Telangana, Gujarat, Odisha and Delhi have a significantly higher proportion of rapid antigen testing even as share of RAT in India’s cumulative tests remained at around 45% in the last two months, official data shows. While total tests reached over 7.6 crore, up from around 2 crore on August 2, states like Bihar (85.4%), Telangana (77.4%), Gujarat (75.2%), Odisha (73.4%) and Delhi (68.4%) are among those with a higher share of RAT in the overall mix of tests. Other states like Maharashtra, UP, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka — conducting a considerable number of tests — have a better mix of RT-PCR and RAT along with other tests like TrueNat and CBNAAT. For instance, Maharashtra — which has conducted over 65 lakh Covid-19 tests so far — tested 61.3% of samples through RT-PCR and 37.4% through RAT. Similarly, Andhra Pradesh with more than 57.2 lakh tests have almost equal share of RT-PCR (37.4%) and RAT tests (38.8%). Though UP — which tested highest number of samples at 93.7 lakh — has a higher share of RAT at 55.5% as compared to RT-PCR, with the reverse polymerase tests accounting for 42.1%, the balance is better among states with higher use of RAT. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu which has also tested a significantly higher number of samples at 71.7 lakh, tested a miniscule 0.16% through RAT, whereas almost 99% of samples were through RT-PCR. Most of the states under discussion like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, UP, Odisha and Delhi, are also among the top 10 states reporting 78% of new cases. The other three are Kerala, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh, with RAT share of 37.4%, 37.8% and 48.4%, respectively. The analysis shows states with balanced proportion of RT-PCR and RAT are also reporting higher number of positives and account for a larger share in the country’s total number of cases. For instance, of the 81,484 new cases reported on Thursday, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and UP are the top six contributors. Maharashtra alone accounted for 16,476, whereas Karnataka had second highest positives at 10,070. Of late, the Centre has also expressed concerns about symptomatic people, who test negative in antigen tests, not being retested with RT-PCR and the matter has repeatedly been flagged, including in the meeting that the PM chaired with the seven high-burden states last week. “Antigen tests are easy to do tests and are also cheaper. Introduction of these tests have helped ramp up testing, especially in remote areas but we have been telling states to ensure that all symptomatic negatives must be retested through RT-PCR. Plus, now we have huge capacity of RT-PCR that must be utilised,” an official said. Currently, there are 1,869 laboratories operational under the ICMR network.India has significantly ramped up testing in last three months, mainly driven by introduction of RAT. The tests conducted in July were 1 crore, as compared to 49.9 lakh in June and 29.4 lakh in May. In last two months, the tests have risen further to 2.3 crore in August and around 2.9 crore in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/antigen-tests-made-up-45-of-covid-checks-in-last-2-months/articleshow/78455858.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Indoor infections affecting families||BENGALURU: Covid-19 hospitals across the state are witnessing a new trend - of entire families getting infected with SARS-CoV 2 and in several cases, proving fatal for one or two members. Recently, all 22 members of a mega VVIP family from Bengaluru tested positive, all requiring hospitalisation. The family was treated at a private hospital on Bannerghatta Road and all of them pulled through. The 22 members included a couple of domestic workers of the household too. "Imagine the financial burden on the family, not just the stress, anxiety and loss of health. This proves that the infection is spreading more indoors where social distancing is not being followed," said a senior doctor who treated the family. Doctors observe that "super-spreaders" are mostly inside homes where there is a dropping of guard, resulting in people getting infected. 3-5 of family getting virus has become a pattern: DocDr Raveendra Mehta, chief of pulmonology at Apollo Hospitals, who has seen similar cases of en masse infections in families, said, “The infectivity is highest two days prior to showing of clear symptoms and one day after as per one research. This is the time when other members of the family too get infected. There is usually an introducer within the family and he or she spreads the virus to others.” He said 3-5 members of a family getting infected has become a pattern, and usually, one or two members who step out infect the others who are home-bound. Dr Sudha Menon, director of internal medicine at Fortis Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, recalled one family where eight people were infected. A young man was the carrier and unknowingly, spread the vius to his in-laws’ family too. “At home, nobody bothers to take precautions. The presymptomatic and asymptomatic persons don’t realise that they are infectious. They will be harbouring the virus but not showing enough symptoms and continue to interact with others in the family,” she said. In another case, 16 members of a family visited Aster CMI hospital’s fever clinic recently and got themselves swabbed. All of them tested positive. Unfortunately, one elderly member suffering from comorbidities died of the virus. “There is a misbelief that wearing of masks and physical distancing only applies when somebody goes outside the home. Currently, many families and individuals are to a very large extent compromising on taking precautions. That’s one of the reasons why many families are getting infected in large numbers,” says Dr Sunil Kumar K, consultant for interventional pulmonology, Aster CMI hospital. He said if somebody develops fever, cough and body pain, it is advised that he or she is instantly taken for a Covid test so that the transmission chain can be broken and home isolation followed strictly. However, according to Dr Kavita Patil, director of Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, it is not easy to homeisolate symptomatic persons in most households, given the lack of space. “There are multiple families where 8-10 members have got infected but not everyone would require hospitalisation. In many families we have observed that separate rooms and toilets are just not available for home isolation,”she said. In many cases where several members of a family have got infected, travel history has been a factor, she added. Doctors also mention that surface transmission and spread through fomites, especially mobile screens, utensils, surfaces and door knobs, could be more at home, apart from the spread through aerosols generated through cough and sneezing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-indoor-infections-affecting-families/articleshow/78455874.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Navy Captain drowns after paramotor falls into sea||KARWAR: An Indian Navy Captain on holiday drowned in the sea at Karwar after his paramotor developed a snag and fell in the water from about 100 feet in the air. Madhusudan Reddy, 55, could not be located in time by rescuers, and though he was a good swimmer, being tied to the glider took him down, his family said. Doctors later said he suffered a water shock, leading to drowning. The para pilot, who was with him, also fell in the water and was rescued by life guards and fishermen. Reddy, who hailed from Andhra Pradesh and was posted in Karwar, was joined by his family from Bengaluru on Friday. They headed to the beach in the evening and all of them took turns with the paramotor. Engine developed snag when he was 100 ft high: FamilyPowered paragliding, which is known as paramotoring, involves a rider wearing a back-mounted motor which provides the thrust to take off, using a paraglider. Reddy’s family members said he was the last to take a ride, around 6.30pm. The engine developed a technical snag when Reddy was about 100 feet high, and it dropped into the Arabian Sea, a family member said. Para pilot and owner Vidyadhar Vaidya from Pune also fell with Reddy. What made it hard for Reddy to swim, family members said, was that he was harnessed to the frame with the motor, as all riders are, weighing him down. With some delay, rescuers brought him alive to the shore but the ambulance did not arrive for about half an hour though the district hospital is just half a kilometre away. Police later took him to hospital in their jeep. Reddy died on the way. Town police have filed a case and a probe is under way. Paragliding at the beach was stopped for the past six months due to the pandemic. It was restarted on Friday, when life guards returned to work as well. Sources said paramotoring was started at Karwar beach three years ago and this is the first such accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-navy-captain-drowns-after-paramotor-falls-into-sea/articleshow/78455880.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Three of family found dead after visit to waterfall||AURANGABAD: A couple from a leading trader family in Nanded and their 11-year-old son, who had visited the famous Sahastrakund waterfall in the district, were found dead in canals in Nanded and neighbouring Yavatmal. The couple’s two daughters, who were also with them on the visit, are missing. On September 25, Pravin Gavankar (45), son of a prominent trader in Hadgaon, had gone with wife Ashwini (38), daughters Sejal (20) and Samiksha (14) and son Siddhesh to the waterfall in a hired car. The family walked from there to a distant place. When they did not return, the driver called Gavankar on his cell phone, but got no response. WHIFF OF SUICIDE3 of family found dead after visit to waterfallYavatmal superintendent of police Dilip Patil-Bhujbal said, “It could be a case of suicide, accidental death or even homicide.” The police are checking why the Gavankar family, which is well-known in Hadgaon, did not lodge a complaint about the couple and their children having gone missing. While reports on television channels and websites suggested the deaths to be a case of suicide pact over a property dispute, senior police officers from Nanded and Yavatmal districts told TOI that they haven’t yet come across any evidence to corroborate such theory, Three cases of accidental death, one each at the Darati and Bitargaon police stations in Yavatmal, and the third in Islapur police station in Nanded, were registered on September 28 and 30. The police could connect the dots between the deaths only after finding Gavankar’s decomposed body in Nanded on September 30. They established his identity through the sim card in the cell phone found on him. It was then learnt that the body found at Darati was Ashwini’s and the one at Bitargaon that of Siddhesh. Nanded superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale told TOI, “As there are no eyewitnesses to the incident, we are investigating if it is a case of accidental death or a suicide pact.” Patil-Bhujbal said the footwear of all five members of the family were found at one spot on the banks of the left canal. “The driver told our investigating team that the family wanted to go to Himayatnagar but changed their plan and decided to go to the waterfall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maharashtra-three-of-family-found-dead-after-visit-to-waterfall/articleshow/78455915.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 3, 2020||World||Trump, stricken by Covid-19, flown to military hospital||WASHINGTON: Stricken by Covid-19, a feverish and fatigued President Donald Trump was flown to a military hospital Friday night after being injected with an experimental drug combination in treatment at the White House. In a day of whipsaw events, the president who has spent months downplaying the threat of the virus was forced to cancel all campaign events a month before the election as he fought a virus that has killed more than 205,000 Americans and is hitting others in his orbit as well. Going welI, I think! Thank you to all. LOVE!!!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1601695894000https://t.co/B4H105KVSs— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1601677916000The White House said Trump's expected stay of "a few days'' at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center was precautionary and that he would continue to work from the hospital's presidential suite, which is equipped to allow him to keep up his official duties. Read AlsoTrump's diagnosis rocks final stage of the presidential campaignAn election year already defined by a cascade of national crises descended further into chaos Friday with President Donald Trump declaring that he's tested positive for the coronavirus after consistently playing down the threat. Democratic challenger Joe Biden, who spent 90 minutes on stage withTrump walked out of the White House Friday evening wearing a mask and gave a thumbs-up to reporters but did not speak before boarding Marine One. Members of the aircrew, Secret Service agents and White House staff wore face coverings to protect themselves from the president onboard the helicopter. In a video taped before leaving for Walter Reed, Trump said, "I think I'm doing very well, but we're going to make sure that things work out.'' He remained fully president, all authority intact. Read AlsoHow Mike Pence could temporarily assume control if Trump becomes incapacitatedLike two US presidents before him, Donald Trump could temporarily hand over power to his vice president should he become incapacitated, for example while undergoing a medical procedure as treatment for the coronavirus. Trump said on Friday that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and was going intoJust a month before the presidential election, Trump's revelation that he was positive for the virus came by tweet about 1 a.m. Friday after he had returned from a Thursday afternoon political fundraiser. He had gone ahead to the event, saying nothing to the crowd though knowing he had been exposed to an aide with the disease that has infected millions in America and killed more than a million worldwide. First lady Melania Trump also tested positive, the president said, and several others in the White House have, too, prompting concern that the White House or even Trump himself might have spread the virus further. He said in his video that his wife was doing very well. Read AlsoAfter Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis, Biden says masks not about being a 'tough guy'GRAND RAPIDS: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said on Friday that President Donald Trump's coronavirus diagnosis shows the importance of taking the pandemic seriously, telling Americans that wearing masks is more important than being a "tough guy." The remarks, which came as BidenTrump's diagnosis came during an already turbulent period in Washington and around the world, with the US gripped in a heated presidential election amid the human and economic toll of the virus. Trump's immediate campaign events were all canceled, and his next debate with Democrat Joe Biden, scheduled for Oct. 15, is now in question. Trump has been trying all year and as recently as Wednesday to convince the American public that the worst of the pandemic is past, and he has consistently played down concerns about being personally vulnerable. He has mostly refused to abide by basic public health guidelines, including those issued by his own administration, such as wearing face coverings in public and practicing social distancing. Until he tested positive, he continued to hold campaign rallies that drew thousands of often maskless supporters. "I felt no vulnerability whatsoever,'' he told reporters back in May. With the election coming up in about a month, he is urging states and cities to ``reopen'' and reduce or eliminate shutdown rules despite continuing virus outbreaks. The White House tried to maintain an atmosphere of business-as-usual on Friday. "President Trump remains in good spirts, has mild symptoms, and has been working throughout the day,'' said press secretary Kayleigh McEnany. ``Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the president will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days.'' The president's physician said in a memo that Trump received a dose of an experimental antibody combination by Regeneron that is in clinical trials. Navy Commander Dr. Sean Conley said Trump "remains fatigued but in good spirits`` and that a team of experts was evaluating both the president and first lady in regard to next steps. The first lady, who is 50, has a "mild cough and headache,'' Conley reported, and the remainder of the first family, including the Trumps' son Barron, who lives at the White House, tested negative. Trump is 74 years old and clinically obese, putting him at higher risk of serious complications from a virus that has infected more than 7 million people nationwide. Both Democratic presidential nominee Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris have tested negative, their campaign said. Vice President Mike Pence tested negative for the virus Friday morning and ``remains in good health,'' his spokesman said. Pence was to resume his campaign schedule after his test. Trump's Supreme Court nominee, Judge Amy Coney Barrett, who was with him and many others on Saturday and has been on Capitol Hill meeting with lawmakers, also tested negative, the White House said. It was confirmed that she had a mild case of COVID earlier this year and has now recovered. At least two Republican lawmakers at the Saturday Rose Garden event announcing Barrett's nomination, Utah Sen. Mike Lee and North Carolina Sen. Thom Tillis, announced Friday they had tested positive and were isolating. Very early Friday, after returning from the Thursday afternoon New Jersey fundraiser, Trump stunningly tweeted, "Tonight, (at)FLOTUS and I tested positive for COVID-19. We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately. We will get through this TOGETHER!'' Hours earlier, the White House confirmed that a top aide who had traveled with him during the week had tested positive. White House chief of staff Mark Meadows on Friday confirmed that the White House knew Hope Hicks, the aide, had tested positive before Trump attended the fundraiser. "I can tell you in terms of Hope Hicks, we discovered that right as Marine One was taking off yesterday,'' said Meadows. Several staffers were pulled from the trip, but Trump did not cancel and there was no direct evidence that her illness was connected to his. Many White House and senior administration officials were undergoing tests Friday, but the full scale of the outbreak around the president may not be known for some time as it can take days for an infection to be detectable by a test. Officials with the White House Medical Unit were tracing the president's contacts. Trump's handling of the pandemic has already been a major flashpoint in his race against Biden, who spent much of the summer off the campaign trail and at his home in Delaware citing concern about the virus. Biden has since resumed a more active campaign schedule, but with small, socially distanced crowds. He also regularly wears a mask in public, something Trump mocked him for at Tuesday night's debate. "I don't wear masks like him," Trump said. "Every time you see him, he's got a mask. He could be speaking 200 feet away from me, and he shows up with the biggest mask I've ever seen.'' In a tweet Friday morning, Biden said he and his wife "send our thoughts to President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump for a swift recovery. We will continue to pray for the health and safety of the president and his family." World leaders offered the president and first family their best wishes after their diagnosis, and governments used the case as a reminder for their citizens to wear masks and practice social distancing measures. Multiple White House staffers have previously tested positive for the virus, including Pence's press secretary, Katie Miller, national security adviser Robert O'Brien and one of the president's personal valets. An RNC official confirmed Friday that Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel learned she had tested positive Wednesday afternoon. She has been at her home in Michigan since last Saturday and did not attend the debate. It is unclear where the Trumps or Hicks caught the virus, but in a Fox interview, Trump seemed to suggest it may have been spread by someone in the military or law enforcement in greetings. The White House began instituting a daily testing regimen for the president's senior aides after earlier positive cases close to the president. Anyone in close proximity to the president or vice president is also tested every day, including reporters. Trump is far from the first world leader to test positive for the virus, which previously infected Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who spent a week in the hospital, including three nights in intensive care. Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was hospitalized last month while fighting what he called a ``hellish'' case of Covid-19. Watch Trump, stricken by Covid-19, taken to Walter Reed hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-stricken-by-covid-19-flown-to-military-hospital/articleshow/78455930.cms||---
October 3, 2020||World||Trump, stricken by Covid-19, flown to military hospital||WASHINGTON: Stricken by Covid-19, a feverish and fatigued President Donald Trump was flown to a military hospital Friday night after being injected with an experimental drug combination in treatment at the White House. In a day of whipsaw events, the president who has spent months downplaying the threat of the virus was forced to cancel all campaign events a month before the election as he fought a virus that has killed more than 205,000 Americans and is hitting others in his orbit as well. Going welI, I think! Thank you to all. LOVE!!!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1601695894000https://t.co/B4H105KVSs— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1601677916000The White House said Trump's expected stay of "a few days'' at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center was precautionary and that he would continue to work from the hospital's presidential suite, which is equipped to allow him to keep up his official duties. Read AlsoTrump's diagnosis rocks final stage of the presidential campaignAn election year already defined by a cascade of national crises descended further into chaos Friday with President Donald Trump declaring that he's tested positive for the coronavirus after consistently playing down the threat. Democratic challenger Joe Biden, who spent 90 minutes on stage withTrump walked out of the White House Friday evening wearing a mask and gave a thumbs-up to reporters but did not speak before boarding Marine One. Members of the aircrew, Secret Service agents and White House staff wore face coverings to protect themselves from the president onboard the helicopter. In a video taped before leaving for Walter Reed, Trump said, "I think I'm doing very well, but we're going to make sure that things work out.'' He remained fully president, all authority intact. Read AlsoHow Mike Pence could temporarily assume control if Trump becomes incapacitatedLike two US presidents before him, Donald Trump could temporarily hand over power to his vice president should he become incapacitated, for example while undergoing a medical procedure as treatment for the coronavirus. Trump said on Friday that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and was going intoJust a month before the presidential election, Trump's revelation that he was positive for the virus came by tweet about 1 a.m. Friday after he had returned from a Thursday afternoon political fundraiser. He had gone ahead to the event, saying nothing to the crowd though knowing he had been exposed to an aide with the disease that has infected millions in America and killed more than a million worldwide. First lady Melania Trump also tested positive, the president said, and several others in the White House have, too, prompting concern that the White House or even Trump himself might have spread the virus further. He said in his video that his wife was doing very well. Read AlsoAfter Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis, Biden says masks not about being a 'tough guy'GRAND RAPIDS: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said on Friday that President Donald Trump's coronavirus diagnosis shows the importance of taking the pandemic seriously, telling Americans that wearing masks is more important than being a "tough guy." The remarks, which came as BidenTrump's diagnosis came during an already turbulent period in Washington and around the world, with the US gripped in a heated presidential election amid the human and economic toll of the virus. Trump's immediate campaign events were all canceled, and his next debate with Democrat Joe Biden, scheduled for Oct. 15, is now in question. Trump has been trying all year and as recently as Wednesday to convince the American public that the worst of the pandemic is past, and he has consistently played down concerns about being personally vulnerable. He has mostly refused to abide by basic public health guidelines, including those issued by his own administration, such as wearing face coverings in public and practicing social distancing. Until he tested positive, he continued to hold campaign rallies that drew thousands of often maskless supporters. "I felt no vulnerability whatsoever,'' he told reporters back in May. With the election coming up in about a month, he is urging states and cities to ``reopen'' and reduce or eliminate shutdown rules despite continuing virus outbreaks. The White House tried to maintain an atmosphere of business-as-usual on Friday. "President Trump remains in good spirts, has mild symptoms, and has been working throughout the day,'' said press secretary Kayleigh McEnany. ``Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the president will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days.'' The president's physician said in a memo that Trump received a dose of an experimental antibody combination by Regeneron that is in clinical trials. Navy Commander Dr. Sean Conley said Trump "remains fatigued but in good spirits`` and that a team of experts was evaluating both the president and first lady in regard to next steps. The first lady, who is 50, has a "mild cough and headache,'' Conley reported, and the remainder of the first family, including the Trumps' son Barron, who lives at the White House, tested negative. Trump is 74 years old and clinically obese, putting him at higher risk of serious complications from a virus that has infected more than 7 million people nationwide. Both Democratic presidential nominee Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris have tested negative, their campaign said. Vice President Mike Pence tested negative for the virus Friday morning and ``remains in good health,'' his spokesman said. Pence was to resume his campaign schedule after his test. Trump's Supreme Court nominee, Judge Amy Coney Barrett, who was with him and many others on Saturday and has been on Capitol Hill meeting with lawmakers, also tested negative, the White House said. It was confirmed that she had a mild case of COVID earlier this year and has now recovered. At least two Republican lawmakers at the Saturday Rose Garden event announcing Barrett's nomination, Utah Sen. Mike Lee and North Carolina Sen. Thom Tillis, announced Friday they had tested positive and were isolating. Very early Friday, after returning from the Thursday afternoon New Jersey fundraiser, Trump stunningly tweeted, "Tonight, (at)FLOTUS and I tested positive for COVID-19. We will begin our quarantine and recovery process immediately. We will get through this TOGETHER!'' Hours earlier, the White House confirmed that a top aide who had traveled with him during the week had tested positive. White House chief of staff Mark Meadows on Friday confirmed that the White House knew Hope Hicks, the aide, had tested positive before Trump attended the fundraiser. "I can tell you in terms of Hope Hicks, we discovered that right as Marine One was taking off yesterday,'' said Meadows. Several staffers were pulled from the trip, but Trump did not cancel and there was no direct evidence that her illness was connected to his. Many White House and senior administration officials were undergoing tests Friday, but the full scale of the outbreak around the president may not be known for some time as it can take days for an infection to be detectable by a test. Officials with the White House Medical Unit were tracing the president's contacts. Trump's handling of the pandemic has already been a major flashpoint in his race against Biden, who spent much of the summer off the campaign trail and at his home in Delaware citing concern about the virus. Biden has since resumed a more active campaign schedule, but with small, socially distanced crowds. He also regularly wears a mask in public, something Trump mocked him for at Tuesday night's debate. "I don't wear masks like him," Trump said. "Every time you see him, he's got a mask. He could be speaking 200 feet away from me, and he shows up with the biggest mask I've ever seen.'' In a tweet Friday morning, Biden said he and his wife "send our thoughts to President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump for a swift recovery. We will continue to pray for the health and safety of the president and his family." World leaders offered the president and first family their best wishes after their diagnosis, and governments used the case as a reminder for their citizens to wear masks and practice social distancing measures. Multiple White House staffers have previously tested positive for the virus, including Pence's press secretary, Katie Miller, national security adviser Robert O'Brien and one of the president's personal valets. An RNC official confirmed Friday that Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel learned she had tested positive Wednesday afternoon. She has been at her home in Michigan since last Saturday and did not attend the debate. It is unclear where the Trumps or Hicks caught the virus, but in a Fox interview, Trump seemed to suggest it may have been spread by someone in the military or law enforcement in greetings. The White House began instituting a daily testing regimen for the president's senior aides after earlier positive cases close to the president. Anyone in close proximity to the president or vice president is also tested every day, including reporters. Trump is far from the first world leader to test positive for the virus, which previously infected Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who spent a week in the hospital, including three nights in intensive care. Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was hospitalized last month while fighting what he called a ``hellish'' case of Covid-19. Watch Trump, stricken by Covid-19, taken to Walter Reed hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-stricken-by-covid-19-flown-to-military-hospital/articleshow/78455935.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Cop among nine to lose corona battle in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 consumed the lives of nine patients including a cop on Friday, taking the toll to 718 in the city since the outbreak. Shiv Prasad (58), circle officer of Tulsipur in Balrampur district, who was referred in a critical condition to KGMU on Thursday, died within 24 hours. SP Balrampur Dev Ranjan Verma said that Prasad was first admitted to a Gonda hospital following breathlessness from where he was referred to Lucknow. He said that Prasad was the first cop to have died of Covid-19 in his district. Five more patients died in KGMU, which was the only facility to provide details of deaths. All the deceased were elderly who were admitted in critical state with lungs damaged due to infection and died of complications caused by lung failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cop-among-nine-to-lose-corona-battle/articleshow/78455927.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Court grants nod for narco test on Viren Khanna||BENGALURU: Bengaluru police have obtained the court’s permission to conduct narcoanalysis test on Viren Khanna, an event manager arrested in two drug-peddling cases, including the one with alleged links to Sandalwood. Police approached the court after Khanna allegedly refused to cooperate in their investigation into the drug racket. The other peddling case in which Khanna is an accused was registered by Banaswadi police in November 2018. He was arrested from his Delhi residence in the second week of September. “Khanna has not cooperated with the investigation. He has declined to provide passwords for his electronic gadgets, including mobile. However, police have managed to retrieve some information from his mobile with technical assistance. He’s not revealing much about the drug mafia and parties he had organised. In order to get all the details, we need to conduct a narcoanalysis test,” a police officer said. According to police, CCB officers are in touch with Gandhinagar FSL regarding the issue. “We will take Khanna to Gujarat soon for narcoanalysis. We have asked Gandhinagar FSL for a date,” a police officer said. As per procedure, Khanna’s consent is a must for the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-court-grants-nod-for-narco-test-on-viren-khanna/articleshow/78455942.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Fire at under-construction Bengaluru power plant, 15 hurt||BENGALURU: An accidental fire at an under-construction power plant in Yelahanka in north Bengaluru on Friday left 15 employees injured. Two of them have received serious injuries, but are out of danger. Residents who live in a 300-metre radius called the 370MW gas-based plant belonging to Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) a safety hazard. Police sources said the fire broke out around 3.20am. The control room received a call in 10 minutes, and four fire tenders doused the blaze in an hour. KPCL, however, said it was a "freak fire accident". Investigations and statements from the power plant's technical staff point to gas and lubricant oil leaks at the turbine as the cause of the fire. A senior officer from the KPCL, which is implementing the project, said all workers were getting medical help and called the incident 'minor', adding glitches occur when systems are tested. A fire officer said plant officials were yet to estimate the loss. ‘Accident occurred while testing plant, it caught fire in 10 secs’The accident occurred while we were testing the plant, and it caught fire in 10 seconds. Since it was the first time we were commissioning the plant, curious employees stood near the turbine that caught fire. On other days, they wouldn’t go near the plant,” the KPCL official told TOI, without elaborating on safety systems at the plant or on leaks the preliminary probe has indicated. General Electric and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd (BHEL) which supplied the systems have been intimated, and a root-cause analysis will be done soon, he said, adding corrective steps will be done based on the findings. Police identified the injured employees as HN Srinivas, Krishna Bhat, Manoj, Nitish (engineer), Narasimha Murthy and Harish (all at Aster hospital) and Akul Raghuram, Srinivas, Ashoka and DP Srinivasan, Manjappa, Ashwath Narayan, Ravi KP and Balraj (all at Ramaiah hospital). Residents near the plant and the Yelahanka-Puttenahalli Lake and Bird Conservation Trust have been opposing the plant since it was mooted. Many people told TOI the plant endangers their lives and affects the lake and its ecology. Government officials said the plant is safe and not as polluting as the diesel power plant that’s at the same location. CK Baba, deputy commissioner of police (northeast), said the 15 injured are out of danger. “The injured were rushed to hospital by the time we reached the spot. We doused the flames using four fire tenders,” Kishore ML, district fire officer (Yelahanka) said. Later, Kishore said KPCL had not obtained the no-objection certificate to conduct tests. The KPCL official, however, said: “An NOC from the fire department is not required. We wanted to follow guidelines and approached the fire department regarding it a month ago, and officials told us we didn’t need anything because we had fire protection in place.” He said the blaze was contained within the turbine area and added that the fire protection system was activated instantaneously and carbon dioxide stored in chambers doused the flames in seconds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fire-at-under-construction-bengaluru-power-plant-15-hurt/articleshow/78455965.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Couple takes on dacoits in their house; two arrested||LUCKNOW: Showing exemplary bravery, a couple helped nab two dacoits who had attacked them on intervening night of Thursday and Friday. They handed them over to the police in Krishnanagar. Rakesh and his wife Sanju own a small cosmetic shop and on around 12.30am while they were going to sleep, three dacoits entered after scaling the walls of their house and at gun-point asked them to hand over cash and jewellery to them. “Sanju switched off the lights and threw a folding table at them before running outside to wake the neighbours,” said Rakesh in his statement to the police. “We also locked all the doors. Somehow one criminal managed to escape but two others were nabbed and beaten by neighbours,” he said. SHO Krishnanagar DK Upadhayay said two miscreants named Mukesh and Rafique have been arrested and efforts to nab the third were underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-couple-takes-on-dacoits-in-their-house-two-arrested/articleshow/78455961.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||3 minors held for rape each day in 2019||BENGALURU: In India, at least one minor was arrested for raping a woman or girl every eight hours in 2019, while more than three on average were held for assaulting a woman daily, the latest data on juveniles in conflict with law shows. The data, released by the national crime records bureau (NCRB) shows that a total of 2,750 juveniles were arrested in 2019 on charges of rape, assault on women and attempted rape, cumulatively. Of these, 1,383 and 1,327 were arrested for rape and assault, respectively. Comparatively, the number of arrested on all three charges cumulatively was nearly 15% more in 2018, while those arrested on rape specifically was around 17% less in 2019. A psychologist while stating that an adolescent mind does not worry about consequences, argued for better sex education, among other necessary measures. A state-wise analysis of those arrested for rapes and assault on women show that Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan accounting for most of them — together, they account for 58% of juvenile arrests on charges of assaulting women, and 47% of those apprehended for rape. While Madhya Pradesh tops the chart in both categories, with 295 arrests for rape and 348 on charges of assault, it is followed by Maharashtra (197 and 365). Dr BN Gangadhar, director, Nimhans, told TOI that unlike in crimes like theft, burglary and others, those committing rapes should not be exonerated on grounds of age. “Rape is a wilful act,” he said.  “...And just as arousal is a natural phenomenon — occurring much earlier than the age of 16 or 18 — there is a natural responsibility to bear restraint. Such restraint is deemed natural along with arousal. We must redefine the age at which most people are sexually mature,” he said. Analysis of the trend in the past four years shows that the number of arrests are actually decreasing. Compared to 2,750 arrests in all three categories put together in 2019, it was 3,258 in 2018, and even lesser in 2017 and 2016 ( see graphic). A total of 13,197 minors were held on these charges in the past four years, most of them on charges of rape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-minors-held-for-rape-each-day-in-2019/articleshow/78455979.cms||Chethan Kumar
October 3, 2020||Lucknow||With 520 new patients, Lucknow has bulk share of Uttar Pradesh’s Covid cases||LUCKNOW: After dropping from the spike that witnessed an average over 900 Covid-19 cases per day from September 1-23, the transmission curve has now taken the shape of a plateau with average 560 cases daily in the past eight days. The trend continued on Friday with 520 more Covid-19 infections in 24 hours. This, said experts, can at best be called a “breather”, but cannot be termed as a “relief ” because the infection rate of 500 daily is also high and requires people to strictly follow safety protocols and administration to ramp up contact tracing and samples. Gomtinagar and Indiranagar again witnessed highest number of cases in the city with 46 and 44 cases respectively, followed by Rae Bareli road (32), Jankipuram (27), Madiaon (25), Alambagh and Chinhat (17 each), Chowk (16), Gudumba (15), Hazratganj (14), Aliganj (13) and Aashiana and Mahanagar (12 each). The incidence rate in the past 15 weeks also shows a rise till the third week of September and the rate now is equal to that of mid-August. A comparison also showed that the number of cases recorded in Lucknow on Friday was highest in UP and accounted for 13% (3,946) of all the 75 districts taken together. The city’s caseload has now reached 53,900 since the outbreak. While 46,946 (87%) patients have recovered, 6,236 (11.5%) still have infections. The condition of about 500 is serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-520-new-patients-lucknow-has-bulk-share-of-states-covid-cases/articleshow/78455986.cms||---
October 3, 2020||India||MSP helped just 12% of rice farmers in ’18-19||NEW DELHI: Just about 12% or 97 lakh of India’s over 8 crore paddy farmers benefitted from procurement operations during 2018-19 with large variations across states, reflecting the limited utility of the current minimum support price structure that seems more geared for high-volume states like Punjab and Haryana seen as the country’s granaries. The Centre’s decision to proactively begin procurement of paddy to allay fears of protesting farmers over the fate of minimum support price (MSP) in the wake of newly enacted farm laws may not prove effective beyond a handful of states, going by an analysis of rice procurement data for 2018-19. More than 95% paddy farmers in Punjab and about 70% farmers in Haryana were covered under procurement operations while in other major rice producing states like Uttar Pradesh (3.6%), West Bengal(7.3%) Odisha (20.6%) and Bihar (1.7%) — a very small number benefited from procurement operations. These figures can well explain why the current protests against the farm laws have not engaged farmers in these states compared to counterparts in Punjab and Haryana chiefly as also Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Procurement figures of 2018-19 show that about 89% of total production of Punjab was procured while 85% of Haryana. Other states, where more than half of total rice production was procured included Telangana (62%), Chhattisgarh (57.4%) and Andhra Pradesh (50.7%). Though West Bengal (13.8%) and Uttar Pradesh (13.3%) are largest rice producing states and account for 11.2% and 11.7% of total marketed surplus of rice, their share in procurement was much lower at 4.6% and 7%, respectively. Flagging these variations and lop-sided procurement operations in most states, the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP), the agriculture ministry’s body which calculates MSP, in its 2020-21 price policy for Kharif crops noted how poor access to procurement in UP, West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar and other eastern and north-eastern states forces farmers to resort to distress sale at lower than the MSP. Since, majority of farmers in these less privileged states in terms of procurement are small and marginal, they have poor access to procurement at MSP. “Therefore, concerted efforts should be made to extend the benefits of procurement to small and marginal farmers in general and eastern and NE states in particular,” said the CACP. Though the coverage of paddy procurement has expanded to more states and farmers over the years with India recording 44.4 million tonnes of procurement of rice in 2018-19 (up from 38.2 million tonnes in 2017-18), the entire operation continued to be limited to certain states despite availability of marketed surplus in other states. On the other hand, in case of top two paddy producers, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, less than 20% of total production was procured. Quantitatively, the total quantity of rice procured was the highest in Punjab (11.4 million tonnes) in 2018-19 followed by Andhra Pradesh (4.2 million tonnes), Telangana (4.1 million tonnes) and Haryana (3.8 million tonnes). Punjab has the highest share of marketed surplus (13.1%) as well as procurement (28.4%), much higher than production share (11%)— indicating effective procurement systems in these two states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/msp-helped-just-12-of-rice-farmers-in-18-19/articleshow/78455994.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 3, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents bank on EMIs to pay school fee||HYDERABAD: Caught between a pandemic and payment deadlines, lakhs of parents across India have turned to equated monthly instalments (EMI) to clear school fee dues this year. Data shows that leading companies financing the K-12 sector registered up to 400% growth in 2020 with parents from over 1,000 private schools - international chains and budget institutions - signing up for the EMI option. The average annual fee in India ranges anywhere from Rs 40,000 to Rs 5 lakh. Here's how it works: Depending on the annual fee of a registered school, parents are offered EMI tenures of 10 to 36 months at zero per cent interest. It also comes with a Covid insurance, which covers the education of a child in case the parent succumbs to the virus. In most cases, the cover is extended to accidental deaths and disabilities too. In return, the firms charge a commission - 3% to 5% on an average - from the schools. "During lockdown alone we tied up with over 400 schools across cities," said Rishabh Mehta, founder and CEO of GrayQuest that covers more than three lakh students across 2,500 schools in India. Apart from the middle class, affluent parents too opted for EMIs amid the pandemic because of the convenience, he said. Mumbai-based Financepeer too brought roughly five lakh parents onboard between March and September - about two lakh from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh alone. "Close to 600-700 schools signed up with us during Covid-19. Right now, 80% of our portfolio comprises the K-12 segment," said firm co-founder Sunit Gajbhiye. Scheme source of interim relief for scores of parentsWhile debates over the need for revision in school fee in the private sector continue, parents say the EMI option has given them a breather. “As a salaried professional, even paying ₹77,000 upfront felt like a strain. When the school extended the instalment option, a lot of us opted for it. It was convenient and reduced my burden,” said Ritesh Arya, parent to a second grader studying at an international school in Maharashtra. Ashok Agarwal, national president of the All India School Parents Association, too said that the scheme was a source of “interim relief ” for scores of parents. “At least 150 to 175 parents across our three branches – in Dehra Dun and Mohali – availed the EMI option post the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Wing Commander Sandeep Sharma, head of administration and admissions at Doon International School. He added: “While schools get their fee upfront, EMIs help parents save the money and utilise it somewhere else.” The A-list school chain’s annual fee ranges from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 5.5 lakh. Also, apart from helping parents sail through pay-cuts and job losses, in times like these, such options have longterm benefits, said Jairam Balakrishnan, CEO of Benguluru-based Ryan Education that has multiple schools across India. “It supports aspirations of Indian parents, cutting across economic strata, who want to provide quality education to their children but are faced with the challenge of affordability,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-bank-on-emis-to-pay-school-fee/articleshow/78456020.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
October 3, 2020||World||After Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis, Biden says masks not about being a 'tough guy'||GRAND RAPIDS: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said on Friday that President Donald Trump's coronavirus diagnosis shows the importance of taking the pandemic seriously, telling Americans that wearing masks is more important than being a "tough guy." The remarks, which came as Biden campaigned in the battleground state of Michigan hours after testing negative twice for the coronavirus, served as an implicit criticism of the Republican president. Trump has played down the deadliness of the virus for months, frequently eschews masks and has held huge campaign rallies with little social distancing. Trump's illness put even greater attention on the coronavirus a little more than four weeks before the Nov. 3 election. The president was experiencing mild symptoms and will be off the trail indefinitely while isolating at the White House, administration and campaign officials said. At a union hall in Grand Rapids, Biden said he and his wife, Jill Biden, were praying that Trump and the first lady, Melania Trump, had a swift and full recovery. He delivered the entire speech while wearing a blue medical mask, a departure from prior events where he typically took off his mask before speaking. "This is not a matter of politics," Biden said. "It's a bracing reminder to all of us that we have to take this virus seriously. It's not going away automatically." Biden urged all Americans to follow scientific guidelines, including wearing masks, washing hands frequently and staying 6 feet (1.83 m) apart. Health officials, including the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Robert Redfield, have said masks are a crucial tool for slowing the spread of the virus. "Be patriotic," Biden said. "It's not about being a toughguy. It's about doing your part." During Tuesday's chaotic presidential debate, Trump mocked Biden for wearing a mask at his events, even when he is far away from other people. Trump's diagnosis is likely to reinforce Biden's message about the president's failed response to the disease, which has killed more than 200,000 people in the United States, and undermine Trump's argument that the end of the pandemic is in sight. Polls show voters trust Biden to handle the coronavirus more than Trump. "It's hard to say 'it's under control' when you fall victim to it," said Democratic strategist Chris Kofinis. "If we are talking about the pandemic for the next four weeks, Donald Trump loses." During a virtual grassroots fundraiser with Biden's running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, former President Barack Obama also wished the Trumps a speedy recovery. "Although we're in the midst of a big political fight, and we take that very seriously, we also want to extend our best wishes to the president of the United States and the first lady," Obama said. The Biden campaign is temporarily taking down ads criticizing Trump for his handling of the coronavirus after his diagnosis, according to a person familiar with the matter. Michigan, which Trump narrowly won over Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 but where Biden has led in most state polls, is a vital swing state in the election. Biden leads Trump in national opinion polls, although surveys in the battleground states that will decide the contest show a closer race. A Reuters/Ipsos poll last month showed Biden leading Trump by 5 percentage points among likely voters in Michigan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/after-trumps-covid-19-diagnosis-biden-says-masks-not-about-being-a-tough-guy/articleshow/78456052.cms||---
October 3, 2020||World||After Trump's Covid-19 diagnosis, Biden says masks not about being a 'tough guy'||GRAND RAPIDS: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said on Friday that President Donald Trump's coronavirus diagnosis shows the importance of taking the pandemic seriously, telling Americans that wearing masks is more important than being a "tough guy." The remarks, which came as Biden campaigned in the battleground state of Michigan hours after testing negative twice for the coronavirus, served as an implicit criticism of the Republican president. Trump has played down the deadliness of the virus for months, frequently eschews masks and has held huge campaign rallies with little social distancing. Trump's illness put even greater attention on the coronavirus a little more than four weeks before the Nov. 3 election. The president was experiencing mild symptoms and will be off the trail indefinitely while isolating at the White House, administration and campaign officials said. At a union hall in Grand Rapids, Biden said he and his wife, Jill Biden, were praying that Trump and the first lady, Melania Trump, had a swift and full recovery. He delivered the entire speech while wearing a blue medical mask, a departure from prior events where he typically took off his mask before speaking. "This is not a matter of politics," Biden said. "It's a bracing reminder to all of us that we have to take this virus seriously. It's not going away automatically." Biden urged all Americans to follow scientific guidelines, including wearing masks, washing hands frequently and staying 6 feet (1.83 m) apart. Health officials, including the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Robert Redfield, have said masks are a crucial tool for slowing the spread of the virus. "Be patriotic," Biden said. "It's not about being a toughguy. It's about doing your part." During Tuesday's chaotic presidential debate, Trump mocked Biden for wearing a mask at his events, even when he is far away from other people. Trump's diagnosis is likely to reinforce Biden's message about the president's failed response to the disease, which has killed more than 200,000 people in the United States, and undermine Trump's argument that the end of the pandemic is in sight. Polls show voters trust Biden to handle the coronavirus more than Trump. "It's hard to say 'it's under control' when you fall victim to it," said Democratic strategist Chris Kofinis. "If we are talking about the pandemic for the next four weeks, Donald Trump loses." During a virtual grassroots fundraiser with Biden's running mate, Senator Kamala Harris, former President Barack Obama also wished the Trumps a speedy recovery. "Although we're in the midst of a big political fight, and we take that very seriously, we also want to extend our best wishes to the president of the United States and the first lady," Obama said. The Biden campaign is temporarily taking down ads criticizing Trump for his handling of the coronavirus after his diagnosis, according to a person familiar with the matter. Michigan, which Trump narrowly won over Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016 but where Biden has led in most state polls, is a vital swing state in the election. Biden leads Trump in national opinion polls, although surveys in the battleground states that will decide the contest show a closer race. A Reuters/Ipsos poll last month showed Biden leading Trump by 5 percentage points among likely voters in Michigan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/after-trumps-covid-19-diagnosis-biden-says-masks-not-about-being-a-tough-guy/articleshow/78456046.cms||---
October 3, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana slashes RT-PCR test rates to Rs 1,200||GURUGRAM: Haryana on Friday again reduced the price of RT-PCR tests for coronavirus from Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,200. This is the third such revision. The private labs in the state earlier used to charge more than Rs 4,500 for an RT-PCR test. On June 19, it put a cap asking all private labs not to charge more than Rs 2,400. On September 1, this was reduced to Rs 1,600. “After due consideration and advice of experts, and taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and consent of private laboratories, the state government directs that no private lab should charge any amount more than Rs 1,200 for RT-PCR tests, inclusive of GST/taxes,” said Rajeev Arora, ACS at the health department in Haryana. The order directed that all the laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests must adhere to the guidelines and SOPs and follow protocols laid down by the ICMR and the ministry. Non-adherence may invite penalty under IPC Section 188, it stated. Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav said, “We will send out a notification to all private hospitals in the city to further reduce the charges.” On August 22, the Haryana government also fixed the price of rapid antigen and IgG-based Elisa tests. The cost of antigen tests is capped at Rs 650 and that of Elisa tests at Rs 250.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/state-slashes-rt-pcr-test-rates-to-rs-1200/articleshow/78460843.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb agriculture dept to focus on 8 hotspot dists to check stubble burning||Patiala: In Punjab, eight districts account for around 75% cases of stubble burning over the last two years. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) now plans to curb the menace in these districts, which have been declared hotspots. The agriculture department has provided machinery, including Super SMS, on a priority basis to around 234 such villages and 290 societies in eight districts comprising Sangrur, Patiala, Mansa, Muktsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Taran Tarn and Barnala. More nodal officers have been appointed in these districts to check farm fires and report cases to authorities at the earliest. Across Punjab, over 8,000 nodal officers will keep a tab over stubble burning cases. Nodal officers at the village level have been asked to spread awareness about the harmful effects of stubble burning and mobilise farmers against the practice, particularly with the Covid-19 pandemic raging. At sub-divisional and district level, they are authorised to impose environmental compensation on farmers. State agriculture officials said subsidy for around 16,000 machines, including 2,000 Super SMS, has been approved whereas 7,500 more machines will be provided to farmers on subsidy soon. They said subsidy has been provided to 8,000 individuals and 8,000 groups, including village panchayats, cooperative societies and self help groups on all types of farm-machinery like super seeder machine, happy seeder machine, chopper, super SMS and others. Last year, over 23,000 machines were provided by the department on subsidy and in 2018, subsidy was given on more than 28,000 machines to farmers and SHGs. Punjab witnessed stubble burning in 49.39% of the total paddy area in 2018 and around 37.42% area in 2019. Hotspot districts: In 2018, Barnala district recorded 56.58% stubble burning in the total area under paddy while in 2019, it recorded 37.78%. In Bathinda, stubble burning was reported on 78.22% of the area under paddy in 2018. In 2019, paddy straw burning took place on 48.56% area. Ferozepur witnessed stubble burning on 77.99% area in 2018 and 61.30% area in 2019 whereas Mansa reported farm fires on 75.85% area in 2018 and 37.06% in 2019. Sangrur recorded residue burns in 49.30% of the total paddy area in 2018 and 32.52% in 2019 while Tarn Taran recorded 53.51% residue burn in 2018 and 36.14% in 2019. In Muktsar, paddy stubble burning was reported on 76.19% and 53.20% of the total area under paddy in 2018 and 2019. In Patiala, 40.03% and 32.50% area under paddy cultivation was subjected to farm fires. Area under paddy increased in Barnala, Sangrur, Mansa, Ferozepur, Tarn Taran and Bathinda in 2019 whereas in Patiala and Muktsar districts, area under paddy declined in 2019 in comparison to 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/agri-dept-to-focus-on-8-hotspot-dists-to-check-stubble-burning/articleshow/78454370.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 3, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana slashes RT-PCR test rates to Rs 1,200||GURUGRAM: Haryana on Friday again reduced the price of RT-PCR tests for coronavirus from Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,200. This is the third such revision. The private labs in the state earlier used to charge more than Rs 4,500 for an RT-PCR test. On June 19, it put a cap asking all private labs not to charge more than Rs 2,400. On September 1, this was reduced to Rs 1,600. “After due consideration and advice of experts, and taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and consent of private laboratories, the state government directs that no private lab should charge any amount more than Rs 1,200 for RT-PCR tests, inclusive of GST/taxes,” said Rajeev Arora, ACS at the health department in Haryana. The order directed that all the laboratories conducting Covid-19 tests must adhere to the guidelines and SOPs and follow protocols laid down by the ICMR and the ministry. Non-adherence may invite penalty under IPC Section 188, it stated. Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav said, “We will send out a notification to all private hospitals in the city to further reduce the charges.” On August 22, the Haryana government also fixed the price of rapid antigen and IgG-based Elisa tests. The cost of antigen tests is capped at Rs 650 and that of Elisa tests at Rs 250.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/state-slashes-rt-pcr-test-rates-to-rs-1200/articleshow/78454101.cms||Ipsita Pati
