October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Folks picnic in the outskirts of the city during the pandemic||If you thought that people are still sitting at home waiting for the pandemic to be over, so that they can finally step out and enjoy the outdoors with friends and family, you are probably wrong. Car picnics and intimate picnics seem to be preferred outing options for city folk who have stayed confined in their homes for months. These trips to the outskirts of Bengaluru are favoured at a time when most people are still not very comfortable staying at a resort or homestay due to safety concerns after the viral outbreak. The past few weeks have seen several people taking off in the wee hours of the day to travel to nearby scenic locations, just to unwind and spend some fun time with their loved ones. Quick daylong getaways favoured over staying in a hotel or resortYoung parents Surbhi and Nitin Gupta recently travelled with their kid to Dodda Iyyur Rock Quarry (popularly known as Chota Ladhak) and Manchanabele Dam, keeping safety precautions in mind, of course. “Given that there still so many COVID-19 positive cases being reported every day, we are not comfortable staying at a hotel or homestay as yet. Instead, we decided to explore the scenic locales nearby and make pit stops while on the go,” says Surbhi, adding, “We had a fun picnic with other families, and did a little bit of trekking as well. We carried sanitisers, liquid soaps, masks and napkins, along with our regular first-aid kit while travelling.” Next, they were planning to make a tour of Hesaraghatta Lake. “We wanted our children to be able to play outdoors after the long gap and so, were looking at grasslands and plain terrain, where they can play cricket or other fun sports. The surroundings of Hesaraghatta Lake seem to provide that,” says Nitin. Similarly, IT professional Rishi Raj, who is also an avid photographer, recently made quick trips to a few travel hotspots near the city. “I travel quite often, but due to the lockdown, all my travel plans had come to a standstill. However, once the lockdown was lifted, I went to Devarayanadurga Hills and SRS Hills in Ramanagara with my friends. We had a mini car picnic, and it actually felt good to travel after so many days,” he explains. Travellers prefer to carry their own foodAgain, there are travellers who are still not comfortable stopping by roadside eateries and instead carry home-cooked food while on the go. Student Bharath Jain, who recently went to Ramanagara with friends, says, “We stepped out of the car only to take some pictures. Mostly, we sat inside the car and rolled down the windows to enjoy some fresh air.” However, in some areas, travellers shooed away due to safety concernsTaking a break amid nature is fine, but sometimes, things may turn a little bitter. For instance, model-actress Sukanya Girish was asked to leave the place, while she was sitting inside the car with her friends during a trip on the outskirts of Kanakapura Road. “Of late, I have been making short trips to places like Bidadi and Kanakapura Road. But there have been times when we have stopped for tea and some snacks on the way and cops have asked us to leave. This happened despite the fact that we were sitting inside our car and eating, taking all necessary precautions. Apparently, we were asked to go because people, including the cops, were worried about safety amid the pandemic,” says Sukanya. Picnic hotspots around Bengaluru Devarayanadurga Hills SRS Hills Ramanagara Hesaraghatta Lake Dodda Iyyur Rock Quarry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/folks-picnic-in-the-outskirts-of-the-city-during-the-pandemic/articleshow/78466734.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
October 4, 2020||Goa||Sportradar ready to help GFA join the dots in match-fixing probe||PANAJI: The Goa Football Association (GFA) has been groping in the dark since Sportradar reported six matches in the Goa Professional League for suspicious betting patterns, indicative of match-fixing. The six matches were played between October 16, 2019 and November 19, 2019. But while several matches have been played since then in the league, the GFA has not quite moved ahead with its investigation. There was one shambolic probe that saw the association point an accusing finger at its own partner. If they needed help, Sportradar was only a call away. “Our general approach is that we will always support wherever there is an official approach from the authorities to investigate match-fixing. In general, we are always committed,” Tom Mace, director global operations for Sportradar’s integrity services, told TOI in an exclusive interview. Match-fixing is complex with operators sitting in foreign countries bribing players and influencing results. It needs a sustained approach from the authorities, and it is here that Sportradar’s experience can be of help. After all, they’ve been there and done that. The Football Association of Thailand and Royal Thai Police have in the past used information from the data services company as part of the investigation to ban players and officials. Life ban on players in Nepal was also a result of a year-long investigation coordinated between the Asian Football Confederation (AFC), its partner and Nepal police. “Match-fixing is a global problem. It’s very rare that it happens just within the borders of any one country. The fixers are quite often in a different country, bets are placed in a different country. Global match fixing syndicates are very complex and that’s how we can support our partners,” said Mace. Besides the fraud detecting system (FDS) which monitors odds in the markets over 600 bookmakers, the London-based agency also has intelligence and investigation services which has been put to use to keep match-fixing under check. The intelligence and investigation services has an independent team of approximately 30 professionals. “It's highly unusual that every person on the pitch is involved in the fix. Sometimes it is a smaller number of players from one team. We try and narrow down the main persons of interest and then start to knock out the main suspicions,” said Mace. With over 500 suspicious matches being played every year across the world, it’s not always possible to identify the suspects and punish the culprits. That, however, is no excuse for lack of an investigation. “We have the leading intelligence and investigation services to support our partners to narrow down and understand who are the main suspects. Then it’s all about the federation/government body or law enforcement side in constructing a robust case. “The whole thing about building the actual disciplinary case and investigation is really complex and the data that we provide can help, can point clearly in the right direction. There needs to be a right proactive approach from the relevant federation, government or law enforcing agency,” said Mace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sportradar-ready-to-help-gfa-join-the-dots-in-match-fixing-probe/articleshow/78468807.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 4, 2020||World||Official: Next 48 hours critical for Trump on virus fight||BETHESDA: President Donald Trump went through a ``very concerning'' period Friday and the next 48 hours will be critical in terms of his care as he battles the coronavirus at a military hospital, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said Saturday. The comments came after it was revealed that Trump was administered supplemental oxygen Friday morning at the White House before he was transported to the hospital, although staff insisted he had only mild symptoms. Trump's doctors, for their part, painted a rosy picture of the president's health in a press conference at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. But the briefing by Navy Commander Dr. Sean Conley and other doctors raised more questions than it answered. Conley left murky the issue of whether the president needed supplemental oxygen and declined to discuss exactly when he fell ill. Conley also revealed that Trump began exhibiting ``clinical indications'' of Covid-19 on Thursday afternoon, earlier than previously known. According to a person familiar with Trump's condition, Trump was administered oxygen at the White House on Friday before he was transported to the military hospital. The person was not authorized to speak publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity, Conley, updating the nation on the president's condition from Walter Reed on Saturday afternoon, said Trump had been fever-free for 24 hours. While Conley said the president was not currently on oxygen, he refused to say whether the president had ever been on oxygen, despite repeated questioning. ``Thursday no oxygen. None at this moment. And yesterday with the team, while we were all here, he was not on oxygen,'' Conley said. He said that Trump's symptoms, including a cough and nasal congestion ``are now resolving and improving.'' ``He's in exceptionally good spirits,'' said another doctor, Sean Dooley. Trump is 74 years old and clinically obese, putting him at higher risk of serious complications from a virus that has infected more than 7 million people nationwide and killed more than 200,000 people in the US The administration has consistently been less than transparent about the president's health as the virus spread inside the WhiteHouse. Aides declined to share basic health information about the president, including a full accounting of his symptoms, what tests he's undertaken and the results. The first word that a close aide to Trump had been infected came from the media, not the WhiteHouse. In a memo released late Friday, Conley did report that Trump had been treated at the hospital with remdesivir, an antiviral medication, after taking another experimental drug at the White House. He added that Trump is ``doing very well'' and is ``not requiring any supplemental oxygen.'' Conley declined to say when Trump had last been tested before he was confirmed to have Covid-19 late Thursday. He initially suggested that Trump was 72 hours into the diagnosis, putting the confirmation of the infection to Wednesday. Conley later clarified that Trump was administered an accurate test for the virus on Thursday afternoon, after White House aide Hope Hicks was confirmed to be positive and Trump exhibited unspecified ``clinical indications'' of the virus. The White House said Trump was expected to stay at the hospital for ``a few days'' and he would continue to work from the hospital's presidential suite, which is equipped to allow him to keep up his official duties. In addition to accessibility to tests and equipment, the decision was made, at least in part, with the understanding that moving him to the hospital later, if he took a turn for the worse, could send a worrying signal. On Saturday, Conley said Trump's blood oxygen level is 96%, which is in the normal range. The two experimental drugs he has received, given through an IV, have shown some promise against Covid-19. On Friday, he was given a single dose of a drug Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. is testing to supply antibodies to help his immune system fight the virus. Friday night, he began a five-day course of remdesivir, a Gilead Sciences drug currently used for moderately and severely ill patients. The drugs work in different ways -- the antibodies help the immune system rid the body of virus and remdesivir curbs the virus' ability to multiply. ``We're maximizing all aspects of his care,'' attacking the virus in multiple ways, Conley said. ``I didn't want to hold anything back if there was any possibility it would add value to his care.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/official-next-48-hours-critical-for-trump-on-virus-fight/articleshow/78469188.cms||---
October 4, 2020||World||Official: Next 48 hours critical for Trump on virus fight||BETHESDA: President Donald Trump went through a ``very concerning'' period Friday and the next 48 hours will be critical in terms of his care as he battles the coronavirus at a military hospital, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said Saturday. The comments came after it was revealed that Trump was administered supplemental oxygen Friday morning at the White House before he was transported to the hospital, although staff insisted he had only mild symptoms. Trump's doctors, for their part, painted a rosy picture of the president's health in a press conference at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. But the briefing by Navy Commander Dr. Sean Conley and other doctors raised more questions than it answered. Conley left murky the issue of whether the president needed supplemental oxygen and declined to discuss exactly when he fell ill. Conley also revealed that Trump began exhibiting ``clinical indications'' of Covid-19 on Thursday afternoon, earlier than previously known. According to a person familiar with Trump's condition, Trump was administered oxygen at the White House on Friday before he was transported to the military hospital. The person was not authorized to speak publicly and spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity, Conley, updating the nation on the president's condition from Walter Reed on Saturday afternoon, said Trump had been fever-free for 24 hours. While Conley said the president was not currently on oxygen, he refused to say whether the president had ever been on oxygen, despite repeated questioning. ``Thursday no oxygen. None at this moment. And yesterday with the team, while we were all here, he was not on oxygen,'' Conley said. He said that Trump's symptoms, including a cough and nasal congestion ``are now resolving and improving.'' ``He's in exceptionally good spirits,'' said another doctor, Sean Dooley. Trump is 74 years old and clinically obese, putting him at higher risk of serious complications from a virus that has infected more than 7 million people nationwide and killed more than 200,000 people in the US The administration has consistently been less than transparent about the president's health as the virus spread inside the WhiteHouse. Aides declined to share basic health information about the president, including a full accounting of his symptoms, what tests he's undertaken and the results. The first word that a close aide to Trump had been infected came from the media, not the WhiteHouse. In a memo released late Friday, Conley did report that Trump had been treated at the hospital with remdesivir, an antiviral medication, after taking another experimental drug at the White House. He added that Trump is ``doing very well'' and is ``not requiring any supplemental oxygen.'' Conley declined to say when Trump had last been tested before he was confirmed to have Covid-19 late Thursday. He initially suggested that Trump was 72 hours into the diagnosis, putting the confirmation of the infection to Wednesday. Conley later clarified that Trump was administered an accurate test for the virus on Thursday afternoon, after White House aide Hope Hicks was confirmed to be positive and Trump exhibited unspecified ``clinical indications'' of the virus. The White House said Trump was expected to stay at the hospital for ``a few days'' and he would continue to work from the hospital's presidential suite, which is equipped to allow him to keep up his official duties. In addition to accessibility to tests and equipment, the decision was made, at least in part, with the understanding that moving him to the hospital later, if he took a turn for the worse, could send a worrying signal. On Saturday, Conley said Trump's blood oxygen level is 96%, which is in the normal range. The two experimental drugs he has received, given through an IV, have shown some promise against Covid-19. On Friday, he was given a single dose of a drug Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. is testing to supply antibodies to help his immune system fight the virus. Friday night, he began a five-day course of remdesivir, a Gilead Sciences drug currently used for moderately and severely ill patients. The drugs work in different ways -- the antibodies help the immune system rid the body of virus and remdesivir curbs the virus' ability to multiply. ``We're maximizing all aspects of his care,'' attacking the virus in multiple ways, Conley said. ``I didn't want to hold anything back if there was any possibility it would add value to his care.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/official-next-48-hours-critical-for-trump-on-virus-fight/articleshow/78469148.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||Hathras victim's family wants judicial probe, suspension of DM: Priyanka Gandhi||NEW DELHI: After meeting the Hathras victim's family, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra Saturday listed their demands which included a judicial inquiry through the Supreme Court and suspension of the district magistrate. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi met the family and declared that they will fight for ensuring justice to the Dalit woman who died after being allegedly gang-raped. In a series of tweets, Priyanka Gandhi listed some of the demands and questions of the victim's family. "Questions of Hathras victim's family -- 1. A judicial probe be conducted through the Supreme Court. 2. Hathras DM be suspended and not given a big post. Why our daughter's body was burnt using petrol without our permission. "4. Why we are being repeatedly misled and threatened. 5. For humanity's sake, we brought 'chita se phool', but how do we believe that this dead body is that of our daughter?" Priyanka Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. In Hindu tradition bringing 'chita se phool' generally means collecting remains after cremation. 5. हम इंसानियत के नाते चिता से फूल चुनकर लाए मगर हमें कैसे माने कि यह शव हमारी बेटी का है भी या नहीं? इन प्रश्नों… https://t.co/5b4riWKE6w— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1601741985000It is the right of this family to get answers to these questions and the UP government will have to give answers, the Congress general secretary in-charge UP said. After meeting the victim's family, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, "I met the Hathras victim's family and understood their pain. I assured them that we are standing with them in this difficult time and will provide all help in getting justice for them." मैं हाथरस के पीड़ित परिवार से मिला और उनका दर्द समझा। मैंने उन्हें विश्वास दिलाया कि हम इस मुश्किल वक़्त में उनके… https://t.co/OZGXPtNRGZ— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1601743970000"The UP government will not be able to act in an arbitrary way as the whole country is standing for ensuring justice to the daughter of the country," he said in the tweet in Hindi. While heading to Hathras, high drama unfolded in the national capital. There was heavy police deployment on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border with barricades on Delhi-Noida Direct (DND) flyway and scores of policemen deployed. As swarms of Congress workers and others jostled with each other amid loud honking, slogans and Congress flags fluttering in the air, the Gautam Buddh Nagar Police finally allowed five people, including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, to go to Hathras. Congress workers -- some who described what happened as "brutal repression" -- claimed police used batons to disperse the crowd. A video also did the rounds on social media in which Priyanka Gandhi was seen coming to the rescue of party workers coming in between them and baton-armed police. Several Congress leaders also slammed the UP government for showing “disrespect” to a woman and they tagged a photograph in which a policeman is purportedly seen “grabbing” Priyanka Gandhi's kurta. There were also some posts on social media hitting out at the Congress over a video in which people were purportedly heard laughing in the car as Priyanka Gandhi drove a silver Innova with Rahul Gandhi by her side and some people on the back seat. While several Congress MPs such as Shashi Tharoor, P L Punia, Partap Singh Bajwa, Deepender Hooda, as well as leaders like Jitin Prasada and Sushmita Dev reached the DND flyway, only a few proceeded beyond the border. Earlier in the day, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged that the Yogi Adityanath government was threatening the family of the Hathras victim and asserted that such behaviour was not acceptable to the country. She said the UP government is "morally corrupt". "The victim did not get treatment, her complaint was not registered on time, her body was forcibly cremated, the family is in captivity, they are being suppressed -- now they are being threatened that they will have to undergo a narco test," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "This behaviour is not acceptable to the country. Stop threatening the victim's family," she said. On Thursday, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi along with several party leaders and workers were detained by the police and sent back to Delhi, after they tried to reach Hathras to meet the family of the Dalit woman. In a tweet in Hindi in the morning using the hashtag 'Hathrashorror', Rahul Gandhi said the behaviour of the UP government and police with the woman and her family "is unacceptable to me. No Indian should accept this." He asserted that "no power in the world can stop me from meeting this grieving family in Hathras and share their pain". The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped at a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to the Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. She was cremated in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, had said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". Watch Hathras: Victim's family wants judicial probe, suspension of DM, says Priyanka Gandhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-victims-family-wants-judicial-probe-suspension-of-dm-priyanka-gandhi/articleshow/78469612.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Pune||City eateries gear up to reopen amid the new normal||After a long break of more than six months, the city's restaurants, bars, and cafes will finally open on October 5 for dine-in patrons, of course with limited occupancy and stringent safety measures. These places, which have been closed since March 18 owing to the COVID-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown, will also see a change in operations. From changed seating arrangements to digital menus and more, restaurant owners are doing their best to make the eateries a safe place for their patrons in the new normal. “40 to 50 % restaurants, cafes and bars will be functional from October 5. It's a start and we will see how this goes. There are so many staff members who have been income-less all this while, and opening up places will at least bring some of them back to work for now," says Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurant and Hoteliers Association. The government SOPs have asked restaurants to ensure there is no overcrowding, that their customers pre-book tables and that they have a separate waiting area. Bar counters and tables must be disinfected regularly, and raw food, like salad and cold items, must be avoided More of outdoor-seating to be encouragedApart from following the rule of temperature checks, wearing masks, and sanitisation, outdoor seating will be highly encouraged when restaurants reopen. “Apart from indoor, we have quite a lot of space for outdoor seating where tables will be placed a metre away from one another. Ideally, we will encourage patrons to sit in the outdoor space, but if they prefer indoor, we have the same set up inside as well,” says Praveesh Govindan, managing director, Boteco Restaurants Pvt Ltd, Koregaon Park. Limited menu and immunity-boosting dishesThough the eateries will resume functions, the staff will be limited and that has led to some places limiting their menus to certain dishes only. “We are keeping the complicated and special dishes off the menu right now. We will have a basic menu for now. We are also going to add immunity boosting dishes sometime soon,” says Karan Kriplani, owner of Hippie At Heart, Bhandarkar Road. Special training for staff Now that the face of the staff will be covered, it will be all about smizing and the body language to make your guests feel welcomed. Kunal Jagwani owner of Souk by Café Arabia, Salunke Vihar, has given a special briefing to his staff before re-opening. “We want our customers to feel as safe as they feel going to the mall, hence, a lot of interaction is important to make them understand that restaurants are a safe space for their family. I have briefed my staff to be extra warm and welcoming since masks conceal the face, so they cannot really see you smiling, but your tone and body language will give them a positive feel. So apart from all other safety measure, personal interaction and communication is something that we have worked on in the new normal scenario,” says Kunal Contact-less menu and billing Digital menu and online payments will be followed by all restaurants and bars. “Our dine in guests will now be able to view our menu and order their food through their phone. A QR code will directly open the menu on their phone and give them an add to cart choice to order their meals. Bills will be paid digitally as well, we do not want our guests and staff to come in any physical contact,” says Prerna Kapoor Kalra, Owner, China Grill, Wanoworie. No more happy hours Bars and eateries will be putting a halt on happy hours until situations are in a better place. Though they will be serving alcohol but all the attractive offers will not be there anymore. “These offers attract more crowd and right now we cannot afford that. We have functions with 50 per cent occupancy, so we are just letting the happy hour time shut for now,” says Karan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-eateries-gear-up-to-reopen-amid-the-new-normal/articleshow/78462911.cms||Sushmita Jha
October 4, 2020||India||Yogi seeks CBI probe; teen’s kin refuse to immerse ashes||HATHRAS: In their first comments to the media after being cut off by the UP administration from speaking out for days, the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras said on Saturday that they will not immerse the ashes of the dead teenager as they don’t know if it was hers. Later in the day, facing a mounting demand for accountability, chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a CBI investigation into the alleged gang-rape and death of the girl. “Two senior government officials met the family and then submitted their report to the chief minister. Based on that, CBI has been asked to take over investigation into the case,” chief secretary Rajendra Tewari told TOI. “The aim is to dispel all doubt and misgivings, and ensure justice.” After the announcement, the victim’s brother said the family would be satisfied if the investigation is “monitored by a sitting Supreme Court judge.” The family also said they will not submit to a narco-polygraph test as they are not the ones who are lying. And, in a significant statement, the family said that they had been “imprisoned” by an administration that “forced” them to sign a paper saying they accept the compensation and job offered to them by the state government. “Insaaniyat ke naate wahaan se asthiyaan le aaya... Koi nyay nahin mila (I collected the ashes out of humanity, not because we got justice),” said the victim’s brother. It has been four days since the girl, who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village, was cremated by the police without the presence of the family. The spot is a small cremation space carved out in the middle of bajra fields for the village’s Dalit community. The family won’t immerse the ashes. “We are not sure whose ashes these are,” the brother said. The girl’s mother asked why her face was not shown to the family before cremation: “Everyone who went close was driven away, kicked.” For the past two days, the family said, they have been confined to their house. “We were imprisoned in our own house. We don’t know what happened with the investigation,” the brother said, when asked how meetings with UP officials went. “We won’t be satisfied until we get answers.” But they do know the government has ordered narco and polygraph tests for everyone involved in the case — the cops, the accused and even them. “Why should polygraph tests be conducted on us? Are we the culprits?” asked the victim’s sister-in-law. “We will not undergo these tests. They should conduct truth tests on the accused and the cops who are trying to twist the narrative.” The girl’s father, for instance, had been “forced to sign a paper of compensation and job”, the sister-in-law said. “These two days, cops have questioned every movement of ours. We didn’t even get to step out. It was only today that some of our family members could go out and buy provisions,” the sister-in-law said. The 19-year-old had two brothers and two sisters. When told that the SP had been suspended on Friday, the girl’s brother shot back: “What about the DM?” The district magistrate, Praveen Laxkar, had been seen in a video purportedly threatening the family with a reminder that “media will leave, we’ll be here”. The brother said the family had indeed been warned: “The DM had asked if we would have got any compensation if my sister had died of corona.” In the afternoon, when additional chief secretary Avnish Awasthi and DGP HC Awasthi called on them, that was what the family brought up. The brother said, “We sought replies from them, they didn’t ask us anything. We have registered our complaint about the DM.” Watch Hathras horror: Victim’s kin refuse to immerse ashes even as Yogi seeks CBI probe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/yogi-seeks-cbi-probe-teens-kin-refuse-to-immerse-ashes/articleshow/78470554.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 4, 2020||India||Amid stand-off with China, PM vows to improve border infrastructure||ROHTANG/ NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said his government would continue its focus on speeding up projects of strategic importance and improve the infrastructure in the border region. Modi, who was inaugurating the Atal Tunnel which opens a shorter all-weather route underneath the Rohtang pass linking Manali to Leh, spoke about the neglect of the need to improve border infrastructure in the previous decades to assert that “the situation has now changed and in the last six years, the border infrastructure — be it roads, bridges or tunnels — is being developed with full impetus and great speed”. The PM’s remarks came amid a stand-off with China which many have attributed to Beijing’s anger over the recent upgradation of the border infrastructure to facilitate faster movement of troops and stores. Modi said the Atal Tunnel will facilitate traffic between Manali and Leh even during the winter when snowfall would result in the closure of the route besides slashing the distance by 46 km to bring down travel time by 4-5 hours. “Just like Atal Tunnel, several other projects of strategic importance were neglected for years. Strategically important Daulat Beg Oldie airstrip in Ladakh was lying defunct for over 40-50 years. What was the compulsion, what kind of pressure was there? … I don’t want to delve into those details as plenty has been said and written about it. But reality is that the Daulat Beg Oldie airstrip could become operational due to resolve of the Air Force and political will which was earlier lacking,” Modi said in what looked like a jibe aimed at Congress. The audience included defence minister Rajnath Singh, CDS General Bipin Rawat and Army chief Gen M M Narwane. The operationalisation of Dault Beg Oldie, an airbase at the highest altitude and just a few kilometers from LAC, has been identified as one of the reasons for China’s bellicosity on the border. “Connectivity is directly linked with the development of the country, especially in border areas where connectivity is linked with national security. However, the political willpower and seriousness about such projects was absent for several years,” Modi said, adding that he could cite more than a dozen strategically crucial projects, which had to be consigned to the deep freezer because of the lack of political resolve. Modi went on to list the delay in procuring sophisticated weaponry and equipment—fighter planes, sophisticated rifles, bulletproof vests, ammunition and gear for harsh winter— as well as delay in implementation of ‘One Rank,One Pension’ scheme. Although Modi did not mention names, his remarks in a state, which contributes large number of personnel for the armed forces, were clearly aimed at Congress. He said while the all-weather tunnel which could be boost the local economy by helping develop tourism and horticulture, was conceived by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who had laid the foundation stone for the approach road for this tunnel in 2002, the subsequent regimes chose to put in on the back-burner. “Only 1300 metres had been completed till 2013-2014 after it was inaugurated by Vajpayeeji and at that rate the tunnel could not have become operational before 2040,” he said as he praised Border Roads Organisation for expediting the project. It was a dream project for Atalji. There could not be a bigger satisfaction than watching completion of the project,” Modi recalled. The PM also said completion of project shows his government’s commitment to ensuring ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas” while earlier dispensations used to focus more on areas beneficial from their political point of view. Atal Tunnel, which with a length of 9.02 km is world's longest at such an altitude and conforms to modern sophistications, including means for speedy evacuation in a situation of emergency. After a public rally at Sissu, Modi travelled through the tunnel in an open vehicle. Watch Atal tunnel will give new strength to India's border infrastructure: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-stand-off-with-china-pm-vows-to-improve-border-infrastructure/articleshow/78470755.cms||Akhilesh Singh
October 4, 2020||---||Grand-alliance seals deal, RJD to contest 144 seats, Cong 70; Tejashwi CM-face||PATNA: The RJD-led opposition mahagathbandhan (grand-alliance) will contest 144 of the 243 assembly seats that will go to the three-phase Bihar polls, beginning October 28, Congress will fight in 70 seats and 29 seats have been given to the three Left allies — CPM four, CPI six and CPI (M-L) 19, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said at a press conference on Saturday. At the press meet, the grand-alliance partners, for the first time, unanimously declared that Tejashwi, RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son, would be the CM face. Amid wrangling, hectic parleys and pressure-tactics among alliance partners over the past few weeks, the grand-alliance late Friday night announced that it had thrashed out differences over seat-sharing and would make a formal announcement from a common platform on Saturday. “We (RJD) will give seats to VIP and JMM from our quota and that will be decided within two or three days,” Tejashwi said on Saturday. However, VIP chief Mukesh Sahni, unhappy with the arrangement, walked out of the press conference midway, saying he has been “backstabbed” and is no longer part of the grand-alliance. Addressing the joint press conference attended by senior leaders of all mahagathbandhan partners, Tejashwi said, “I am a theth (pure-bred) Bihari and my DNA is pure. I will fulfill all my promises. People of Bihar need a change and they have made up their mind. I will not say much, if people of Bihar give me a chance, I will work for the betterment of all castes, class and religions.” He reiterated his promise of creating 10 lakh government jobs in the first cabinet meeting if the mahagathbandhan forms the next government. Hitting out at chief minister Nitish Kumar and the NDA government at the Centre, Tejashwi said, “This double-engine government of BJP and JD(U) is in ICU. For the past 15 years, he (Nitish) could not remove poverty and unemployment, or put up a single factory and stop migration. Now the fight is between the double engine and the people of Bihar.” Senior Congressman and the party’s screening committee chairman for Bihar, Avinash Pande, lauded Lalu Prasad for the work he had done for the downtrodden. He also praised Tejashwi for his work as the deputy CM. “RJD is our big brother and I am happy that Tejashwi bhai will lead our alliance. He is a young face and will also lead the state,” he said. Pande lashed out at the NDA government over the “atrocities”, which migrant workers had to face while returning home during the Covid-19 lockdown. He said the 2020 assembly elections would bring in a big change, which would have an impact across the country. CPI (M-L) leader Rameshwar Prasad, CPI’s Ram Naresh Pandey, CPM’s Awadhesh Kumar, RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari, RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha and RJD MLA Tej Pratap Yadav were present at the press conference apart from Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh and state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/grand-alliance-seals-deal-rjd-to-contest-144-seats-cong-70-tejashwi-cm-face/articleshow/78470817.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 4, 2020||India||Chandigarh teen raped, strangled, left to die||Drugged, raped, strangled and left for dead in a jungle in Chhattisgarh’s Balarampur, a 14-year-old survived a night in the forest, unconscious, picked herself up the next day and staggered back home. The girl said she was gang-raped by two men. Police have arrested two suspects and said she was raped by one while the other man “supported” him in the crime. The girl was in a vegetative state and has since recovered, said police. The girl is from a remote village in Balarampur, about 500km from Raipur. The alleged rape took place on September 27, but news of it got out on Friday. “In her statement, the girl said that she had gone to the jungle along with a male friend to collect soil to build a mudhouse when she was intercepted by the 22-year-old who grabbed her and forced her to swallow a pill that made her partially unconscious,” investigating officer Dhurvesh Jaiswal told TOI. Her friend fled, Jaiswal said. The girl was then raped and badly beaten up by the accused. According to police, the duo strangled her and left her in the jungle, believing she was dead. It was a miracle that she wasn’t attacked by a wild animal as she lay unconscious all night. She staggered home 24 hours later, injured, disoriented and traumatised — but determined to seek justice. Her family immediately took her to police. The investigating officer claimed that the girl’s medical test didn’t validate rape, but a rape case under POCSO Act and IPC was registered on September 29 on the basis of her statement recorded before a magistrate. The two arrested were charged with rape, kidnapping, obscene act, criminal intimidation, voluntarily causing hurt, wrongful restraint, assault on a woman and under POCSO Act. Opposition BJP workers staged a demonstration in front of the police station on Friday, alleging that police were trying to suppress the gang rape. Cops, however, said it wasn’t clear yet if it was a gang rape as the 19-year-old was “standing there as guard”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chandigarh-teen-raped-strangled-left-to-die/articleshow/78470825.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||It’s long-distance travel time for pets as pandemic forces a shift||MUMBAI: In the past four months, Air India flew over 2,000 pets domestically, while scores of others, including turtles, hamsters, rabbits, exotic birds and even fishes, travelled by road in air-conditioned vehicles with a pet handler in tow on long-distance trips across states. As the pandemic forced many ‘pet parents’ to move out of metros like Mumbai and Delhi, and temporarily relocate to adapt to joblessness, to save rent or just work from a different home, the business of pet transportation saw a sudden spurt. “We have been flying an average of four pets out of Mumbai daily,” said the spokesperson of Air India, the only airline in the country to transport pets. On certain days, “pet-traffic” peaks like 12 pets booked to fly on its September 14 Mumbai-Kolkata flight. The highest pet traffic is on Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Bengaluru routes, the spokesperson said. Companies that transport pets by roads say the pandemic has raised demand. Shyamax Presswalla of Mumbai-based Bark Traveller said his company has done about 28 domestic relocations in the past six months, including six during the lockdown. Pre-Covid, they hardly did two or three domestic relocations a month. “Usually, people don’t relocate fishes, but with the pandemic many people have temporarily moved residence, and there is a higher demand to transport pets of all kinds,” said Presswalla. Laxmi Agarwal, founder of Pet Taxi, said the demand has more than doubled due to the pandemic. “We now do up to 12-15 relocations a month. The demand peaked in July-August as many states relaxed their quarantine rules and we received queries from Mumbai to transport pets to Bengaluru, Delhi, Kochi, Hyderabad, Goa, Haridwar, etc,” said Agarwal. “When the owner isn’t travelling with the pet, I travel as the pet handler. I’ve travelled 15,000-20,000km in the last 2 months alone,” she said. Transporting pets is not without peril, which is why most ‘pet parents’ avoid long-distance travel unless unavoidable. In early September, an 8-month old clever cat managed to unlock her carrier box, escape the Air India aircraft belly to go exploring around Delhi airport. She was traced four days later. Road travel too has its risks. Presswalla said: “Transporting fish is fraught with risk, the oxygen supply could get disrupted due to sudden vehicle movement.” The pet transportation cost varies widely, depending on the mode. To send a cat from Mumbai to Delhi would cost Rs 50,000-55,000 by road, on Air India it would be Rs 3,000-4,000. Those up the pecking order go for charters. Rahul Muchhal of Accretion Aviation, a charter aggregator, said: “In the past 4 months, we operated 10-12 domestic charter flights for families who flew with pets. It’s a trend brought on by the pandemic as people headed for their holiday homes in Goa, Shimla for longer stay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-long-distance-travel-time-for-pets-as-pandemic-forces-a-shift/articleshow/78470838.cms||Manju V
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||#PandemicTravel is a shot in the arm for local destinations||With international travel plans going awry and people still thinking twice before getting on a flight for domestic destinations, most travel enthusiasts of Kolkata are rediscovering tourist places within the state. From pristine beaches to majestic hills and lush forests – travellers are making the most of Bengal tourism, which provides an array of options to satiate their wanderlust. Celebs beat lockdown blues Though Durga Puja is the peak season for tourism, the pandemic travel trend kicked off right after the announcement of Unlock 1.0. Short weekend trips to drive-down destinations have been a rage, with the beaches of south Bengal, Santiniketan and Purulia being the biggest attractions. For actress Sayantani Guhathakurta, who visited the forests of Jhargram last month, the trip was a perfect escape from the mundane city life. “We spent two days there, roaming around the forest, waterfalls and river. Due to the pandemic, there were hardly any tourists around, so we could enjoy nature like never before,” she said. However, the best part for Sayantani was the authentic Bengali food served at her resort. “The freshness of the ingredients made the dishes so special. After this trip, I realised that there is no point living in fear. Life has to go on and we must adapt to the changes as soon as we possibly can,” she added. For those who have more time on their hands, the hills of north Bengal are the perfect escape. Actress Monami Ghosh, who is an avid traveller, holidayed in Darjeeling last month. “'All the safety guidelines are being followed and I’m loving the view from my hotel,” she had told us from there. Not just celebs, the easing of travel restrictions has also helped several others from Kolkata unwind after facing uncertain times in the lockdown. Soumyadip Paul, who recently holidayed in Puri as well as North Bengal, thinks travelling in the pandemic is the perfect opportunity to enjoy nature at its best. “After my closest friends and relatives, who work in faraway lands, returned home due to the pandemic, we decided to make the most of these unprecedented by spending quality time with each other. We started off by driving down to Puri. Usually, travel destinations are bustling with tourists, so we don’t get to experience the pristine beauty of a place. But this time, it was as if the waves, which earlier roared for thousands everyday, were there just to entertain us exclusively. We realised how we missed the real India,” said the 27-year-old restaurateur, who had an equally refreshing experience during his Darjeeling and Kalimpong trip last month. “Next up is a road trip to Gopalpur,” he added. Nearby destinations have also come to the rescue of those longing for a respite from their hectic work-from-home schedule. Asit Baran Biswas, who travelled to Kalimgpong with a couple of his friends last month, said, “I was desperately looking for a break as I have been working from home for the last five months. I didn’t care much for the destination as long as I could go out somewhere. But travelling to a nearby place seemed safer and more feasible.” Advocate Amit Pal went on a road trip to the forest of Lataguri in north Bengal with his friends and family. “It was a pleasant trip. We booked a hotel and not for once did we feel unsafe,” he told us. Similarly, Amardeep Singh Chandok, an automobile businessman, has decided to travel and lead a normal life. “I recently stayed at a resort in Mandarmani. Corona is here to stay. So, it is best to go on with our usual lives by taking necessary precautions,” he said. By now, those going on road trips have become familiar with the precautions they need to take. While masks and sanitisers have become the mandatory travel essentials, some are also carrying face shields, gloves and PPE kits with them. Radha Kumar, who went to the Dooars with her husband last month, said, “We had a wonderful experience. Initially, we planned a road trip to Varanasi, but then we changed our mind and hit the road instead. We read up about all the safety precautions one must follow on a road trip and followed it as much as we could,” said Radha.Bike trips lure some Goa and Rajasthan top choices for interstate travel According to travel agents, queries started pouring in from the end of June and it’s been going up with Puja approaching. “Out of 100 enquiries, 20 are confirming. It is not a great number, but it’s still a very positive trend,” said Anil Punjabi, the chairman of Travel Agents’ Federation of India. He added that when it comes to inter-state travel, most people are choosing Goa and Rajasthan. Shankar Chakraverty, who owns three properties including a restaurant in Goa, has been settled there since 1991. Though he came back to Kolkata in March, he is leaving soon. “I’m leaving for Goa next week, as tourists have started coming in,” he said. On the other hand, Sandipan Ghosh, general secretary of Eastern Himalaya Travel and Tour Operators (EHTTOA), a Siliguri-based agency, said that the number of travellers is on the rise. “Weekends reservations at the hotels in Dooars are almost booked to capacity now. Queries for other places in north Bengal are increasing as well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemictravel-is-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-local-destinations/articleshow/78468606.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
October 4, 2020||India||Long-weekend effect? India cases drop to 75K||NEW DELHI: For the first time in more than a month, daily Covid-19 cases across the country have dropped below 80,000 on a day that was not a Monday. India recorded just over 75,000 fresh infections on Saturday while the day’s death toll too dropped below 1,000 to 939. The probable reason for the dip was the public holiday on Friday (October 2) that led to lower processing of cases and fatalities. For the same reason, cases dip every Monday, a trend that has held with exception since early May. India recorded 75,186 new cases on Saturday, taking the total caseload past the 6.5-million mark to 65,46,410, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. This was the lowest daily tally (except on Mondays) since 62,042 cases were recorded on August 23. The daily count had last fallen below 80,000 (again, excluding Mondays) on August 29, when 78,903 infections were reported. Saturday’s death toll of 939 was only the third time since September 1 that the count was lower than 1,000. Earlier this week, on Monday, 783 fresh fatalities were reported, the lowest daily toll since August 2. On Saturday, fresh cases fell from the previous day’s count in almost all states. Two notable exceptions were Bengal and Meghalaya, which registered their highest single-day tally of cases at 3,340 and 423, respectively. Maharashtra reported 14,348 fresh infections, around 2,000 lower than Friday’s tally, while cases in Karnataka dropped below the 10,000 mark to 9,886. The state had recorded 10,070 infections on Friday. The number of recoveries in Karnataka exceeded the 5-lakh mark, with 8,989 patients getting discharged. However, Bengaluru continued to record the highest fresh cases among all cities in the country, with the count on Saturday at 3,925. In Kerala, which has seen a major surge in the pandemic in recent days, daily cases dropped to 7,834 from 8,000-plus the previous day. The daily death toll in Maharashtra dipped significantly to 278, after four days of 350-plus deaths. Mumbai continued to report 2000-plus cases, with 2,402 on Saturday. Delhi recorded 2,258 cases and 31 deaths. This was the lowest daily toll in the Capital since September 25, when 24 fatalities were recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/long-weekend-effect-india-cases-drop-to-75k/articleshow/78470868.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Patna||‘Gang-raped’ by four men, 16-year-old girl kills self in Gaya||GAYA: A 16-year-old girl, who was allegedly gang-raped on September 29 at a village under the Konch police station area in Gaya, has committed suicide, police said on Saturday. The girl’s mother had lodged an FIR with Konch police station on October 1, accusing three of her co-villagers and another unidentified person of raping her daughter. Police have so far not arrested the accused. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said a case was lodged under POCSO Act and Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “A special investigation team (SIT) led by additional SP has been constituted to probe the matter. No evidence of gang rape has been found during investigation so far. Swab of the deceased girl was sent for to laboratory for test. Chandan Yadav, one of the three named accused, was found loitering around the girl’s house. The SIT has been asked to take Chandan into custody and interrogate him,” the SSP said. He added: “The case is being investigated from all possible angles as the girl had left her house on her own on the evening of the incident. Police are also conducting scientific investigation with the help of technical cell on the basis of call detail records of the cellphone number owned by the girl. The postmortem report is awaited.” Meanwhile, according to family members of the deceased girl, she had gone to attend a birthday party in a neighbouring house on September 29. When she did not return till late night, family members started searching for her. Next morning, she was found in a house at the village and brought back home. “After reaching home, the girl locked herself in a room and hanged herself from the ceiling with the help of a ‘dupatta’. Family members admitted her at a private nursing home in Gaya town in a critical condition from where the doctor referred her to Patna. She, however, died in Patna on Thursday,” a senior police officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gang-raped-by-four-men-16-year-old-kills-self-in-gaya/articleshow/78468374.cms||Alok Kumar
October 4, 2020||Patna||Rainfall in south and central Bihar till October 7: Met department||PATNA: Patna and several other places in the state received thundershowers on Saturday and weathermen have predicted fairly widespread rainfall in the state on Sunday as well. South-central and southeast Bihar are expected to receive rainfall and thunderstorm till October 7. India Meteorological Department (IMD) also reported thunderstorm at isolated places in Bihar between 8.30am and 2.30pm on Saturday. Patna received 78mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm. As per the daily bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Saturday, heavy rainfall occurred at Jalapur in Saran district. Light to moderate rainfall was recorded at some places in northwest, northeast and south-central parts and one or two places in north-central, southwest and southeast parts of the state in the last 24 hours. Places which received significant rainfall included Jalalpur (70mm), Bhimnagar (40mm) and Katoria, Darbhanga, Simri, Nauhatta (30mm each). Weathermen attributed the rainfall to impact of double weather systems, including a cyclonic circulation over Chhattisgarh and a low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal. According to the bulletin issued by the Patna Meteorological Centre, the low-pressure area was situated over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast along with an associated cyclonic circulation. 25% surplus rainfall in state this monsoon: The four-month monsoon season officially concluded on September 30, but the rain- bearing winds are still to withdraw from Bihar. In fact, Bihar has received 25% surplus rainfall this year. The state received 1272.5mm of rain between June 1 and September 30, against the normal of 1017.2mm. “Most places in Bihar received good rainfall this year and only four districts – Bhabhua (-22%), Sheikhpura (-20%), Saharsa (-20%) and Arwal (-14%) – received deficient rainfall. All other districts received surplus rainfall,” said S K Patel, an official at Patna Meteorological Centre. Districts which received highest surplus rainfall included Araria (45%), Darbhanga (59%), East Champartan (51%), Gopalganj (59%) and Katihar (39%). Patna received 17% surplus rainfall this monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-rainfall-in-south-central-bihar-till-oct-7/articleshow/78468314.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Patna||983 new Covid cases take tally to 1,86,690||PATNA: Less than 1,000 Covid-19 cases were registered in the state after a long interval on Saturday as 983 people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. However, the decrease in cases could also be attributed to drop in number of tests. As per the health department, 86,996 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, much less than the daily average of sample tests in the state. With addition of 983 fresh cases, Covid tally in the state has jumped to 1,86,690. Altogether 1,73,795 people have so far recovered from the virus in the state. Officially, two deaths – one each from Jehanabad and Sheohar – were reported on Saturday, taking the state’s Covid toll to 912. Active cases in the state stand at 11,981. Unofficially, AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths on Saturday and the victims included a 35-year-old man from Giryak in Nalanda district, a 55-year-old man from Masaurhi in Patna district and a 75-year-old man from Mirganj village in Gopalganj district. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 17 Covid patients, including a newborn, were admitted to the hospital on Saturday and eight discharged. The new patients included the ones from different Patna localities like Rajeev Nagar, Buddha Colony, Gardanibagh, Bank Colony and IOC Sipara Road. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital registered one death and the deceased was a 60-year-old man from Jehanabad, who died on Friday. Four Covid-19 positive patients were admitted to the hospital and two discharged on Saturday. Of 983 new cases registered on Saturday, Patna accounted for 207. With this, the district’s tally has increased to 28,590. However, with 26,281 recoveries and 214 deaths, there are 2,095 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Purnia recorded 51 cases on Saturday, Supaul 38, Aurangabad 35, Bhagalpur 35, Madhepura 34, Muzaffarpur 33 and West Champaran 33. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Saturday that state’s recovery rate has touched 93.09%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/983-new-covid-cases-take-tally-to-186690/articleshow/78468360.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 4, 2020||Patna||EC provides postal ballot facility to voters above 80 or with disabilities||PATNA: Mobile app and special facilities are in place to assist voters with disabilities and of old age (above 80 years) in the Bihar assembly election from October 28. The Election Commission (EC) has designed ‘PwD App’ to help people with disabilities (PwD). The PwD and people above 80 years of age can now cast their votes through postal ballots. Those who are Covid positive/suspect and in quarantine (home/institutional) would also cast their votes through postal ballots. The move will help increase the voter turnout. Voting through postal ballots option is already available to armed forces and those assigned poll duties. Additional chief electoral officer Baijnath Singh told this newspaper on Saturday that people above 80 years and PwD have the option to cast their votes through postal ballots or visit the polling booths. “As per the Gazette notification of government of India, the Ministry of Law and Justice has amended the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, allowing senior citizens and person with disabilities to vote by postal ballots,” he said. He added: “The voters of these categories and willing to cast their votes through postal ballots will have to fill form-12D. Once they fill the form, they will not be able to cast vote at a polling station.” Singh said separate teams would visit the houses. “Each team will be provided with adequate security and vehicles. Video recording of the postal ballot will also be done,” he said. PwD voters can also register for postal ballot by entering their EPIC number on PwD App. Voice access and ‘select to speak’ features are available for the visually impaired person. Through the mobile app, the PwD voters can avail services like transfer or relocation of constituency or polling booths or request for a wheelchair. The district electoral officers have been asked to ensure all arrangements and facilities for old people and PwD voters like availability of ramps, wheelchairs and signage among others. As per the data provided by the election office, there are 1.49% voters above 80 years of age and 2.1% in the PwD categories. There are total 7,18,22,450 electors in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-provides-postal-ballot-facility-to-voters-above-80-or-with-disabilities/articleshow/78468504.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 4, 2020||Patna||Crucial LJP meet postponed||PATNA: The much-awaited parliamentary board meeting of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) was postponed on Saturday after party chief Chirag Paswan rushed to a hospital in New Delhi where his father, Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, is undergoing treatment. Party sources said the meeting would now be held on Sunday. The meeting was convened to discuss the next course of action if LJP was not offered a respectable number of seats in the upcoming assembly polls by the NDA partners. The seat-sharing deal in NDA couldn’t be finalised despite several rounds of talks even on Saturday. Meanwhile, hours before the scheduled meeting of the party’s parliamentary board, Chirag shared a picture of him with PM Narendra Modi on his twitter handle, giving enough indications to JD(U) about LJP’s strategy ahead of the assembly polls. Chirag lauded PM Modi for several initiatives to uplift the living standard of common people in the country. “I am proud to work under the leadership of PM Modi as an MP. His able leadership has been acknowledged globally,” he added. Chirag didn’t stop there in heaping praise on the PM. “PM Modi ne puri duniya mein Bharat ka parcham lahraha hai. Hum garv se kahte hain hum Bharatiye hain (PM Modi has changed perception of the world about India. Now we say with pride that we are Indians),” he tweeted. Chirag didn’t forget to mention about his party’s ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ slogan. He tweeted, “We have prepared ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ vision document based on the feedback of around 4 lakh residents of Bihar.” The Jamui MP hoped that the people would bless him to fulfil his dream to restore the lost glory of Bihar and strengthen the hands of PM Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crucial-ljp-meet-postponed/articleshow/78468459.cms||Ramashankar
October 4, 2020||Goa||Vaddem locals petition CM over landslide||Vasco: In a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, residents of Vaddem-Vasco, where a landslide occurred, have blamed the authorities for the tragic incident. On the night of September 21, boulders rolled down from a hillock during incessant rain and a 10ft boulder crashed in to a house and crushed 65-year-old Anita Borkar to death. Two houses in the vicinity were also badly damaged. The residents have also attached photographs of the hill showing how vulnerable their lives and properties have become. They have requested the chief minister to immediately take action. “From 2013, we have been bringing to the notice of the authorities that huge boulders on the hillock are causing danger to the life. Every year during heavy rain, notices are issued to us to vacate the houses, but no measures are being taken to solve the problem,” the residents of Vaddem have stated in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vaddem-locals-petition-cm-over-landslide/articleshow/78469873.cms||Ruvina Khan
October 4, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Congress silent protest on crimes against women on Oct 5||BHOPAL: After the suicide by a gangrape victim in Narsinghpur on Friday, state Congress on Saturday said the party will protest against rise in offences against women and girl child in the state. Congress will hold silent demonstrations in front of the statues of Mahatma Gandhi and BR Ambedkar at all district headquarters in the state on Monday. PCC office issued a statement on Saturday which argued, “On instructions from former chief minister and state Congress president Kamal Nath, the party on October 5 will protest against the increasing crimes against women, the barbaric rape and gangrape incidents.” Former chief minister Kamal Nath said, “On the one hand, BJP gives big slogans of Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao while on the other hand BJP-ruled states are where the girl child is the most insecure. Whether the incident of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh or in Khargone, Satna, Jabalpur and Narsinghpur – today sisters and daughters are unprotected. The law and order situation in the country and the state has broken down. Our sisters and daughters are not secure anywhere – whether in the house, outside or in the day or night.” The senior Congress leader in a statement said that he is ashamed that those persons who while in the opposition used to protest, give speeches and even made innocent girls sit in demonstrations are silent and have disappeared. “No steps are being taken for the protection of women and the girl child,” Kamal Nath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-silent-protest-on-crimes-against-women-on-oct-5/articleshow/78468985.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Body of girl buried at Pirana found in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A week after a rescue operation was begun by the fire department, the body of 12-year-old Neha Vasava, who got buried in a ‘landslide’ of garbage at the Pirana dump site, was found on Saturday afternoon. Police sent the body for a postmortem. According to police, Neha and a seven-year-old boy, Anil Marwari, had gone to the dump site to salvage scrap that they could sell. Inspector M M Laiwala of Danilimda police station said they were trapped when the pile of garbage they were standing on collapsed. “The boy had also fallen in but was rescued by locals soon after the incident. Neha could not be found. The locals then approached Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation officials at the site, who then informed the police and the fire department. “Five cranes were deployed to find Neha but as the days went by there was little hope of finding her alive. Two teams of the fire department were deployed at the site and earthmoving machinery was also used. Finally, at about 2.30pm on Saturday, her body was found,” said Inspector Laliwala of Danilimda police station. Neha’s mother is widow and works as a daily wage labourer. Sources said every year during the monsoon, the massive mounds of garbage at Pirana collapse or have ‘landslides’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/body-of-girl-buried-at-pirana-found/articleshow/78468997.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: N Raghunandan BJP’s likely pick||HYDERABAD: The state BJP unit on Saturday announced that N Raghunandan Rao will be the party’s likely candidate for the Dubbak by poll. After conducting a review meeting, senior leader Jitender Reddy said many leaders want Raghunandan Rao to be the candidate.  “His name will be recommended and national leadership will take stock of the names” he said. Raghunandan Rao who earlier contested and lost the Dubbak polls twice is keen on contesting again. Though he was not announced the official candidate, he has already begun door-to-door campaigning in the constituency. “The rank and file is demanding for his candidature,” Reddy said. Reportedly, though several local leaders are also keen on contesting, Rao is likely to get the ticket. Expressing hope that the BJP will have more popularity this time, Reddy said the party is following booth-wise strategy. BJP even held a meeting with all senior leaders finalsing the strategy for Dubbak by poll. Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, party national vice president DK Aruna also participated in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/n-raghunandan-bjps-likely-pick/articleshow/78468999.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Repeat donors play key role in plasma supply||KOLKATA: Sailesh Badiani, who runs an electronics business, has donated his plasma three times at as many hospitals for the treatment of Covid patients after he himself recovered from the infection in July. The Bhowanipore resident is among the small but growing group of people who are going for repeat plasma donation in the city. With the demand for plasma rising disproportionately to voluntary donations, doctors said these repeat donors are being of great help. “If I have enough antibody and fit enough, I will go for the third donation after two weeks,” said medical technologist Ramesh Adak, who had donated his plasma for the second time last week at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata (MCH). The plasma bank at MCH so far has had 76 plasma donations. Another repeat donor at the bank is Fuad Halim, a doctor by profession, who made his second donation a couple of days ago. “If a donor is fit enough and has adequate reserve of antibody, s/he can go for repeat donation in a gap of 15 days,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, head of immunohaematology and transfusion medicine department at MCH. “If plasma collection is done through whole blood collection, the donor could have gone for donation after a gap of three months provided there is enough serum protein and other parameters are in place,” said transfusion medicine specialist Suvro Datta. Out of the 60 odd donations at AMRI Hospital, Dhakuria, about six have donated twice and a couple of them have done it thrice. Ten others have pledged to come back for repeat donation. “The antibody will anyway wean away gradually. So why not donate it as it could help in the recovery of an infected patient?” wondered Ritam Chakraborty, transfusion medicine specialist at AMRI-Dhakuria. The amount and strength of antibody a recovered patient develops depend on factors like severity of the infection, age, nutritional status of the patient, among others. “If someone like me, who has never donated blood even once, can donate plasma thrice, any recovered patient can do it. Let us try to help out the Covid-infected and the doctors,” appealed Amish Ajmera, an executive with an eye-wear firm. Organization like Project Life Force (PLF) has been helping hospitals by scouting for donors. “There is a request for plasma donor every now and then. The demand is way higher than the number of donors. We hope more recovered patients come forward for donation,” said PLF director Ajay Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/repeat-donors-play-key-role-in-plasma-supply/articleshow/78468891.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Brazen attempt by plastic mafia to grab wetlands unused bheri||KOLKATA: The East Kolkata Wetland Management Authority (EKWMA) has asked police to look into an alleged attempt to convert a fish farm — or bheri — near Bantala into a plastic waste collection centre following a written complaint from an NGO that works among fish-farm workers in the wetlands. According to the complaint that was accompanied by photographs, trees have been axed and overgrowth has been cleared at Kari Ghosh Bheri in Dakshin Dhapa Manpur mouza in the heart of EKW — a Ramsar site — that is internationally recognized for its wise use in fish farming. Residents of villages in Kheyadaha I & II and Tardaha gram panchayats said nearly 60 people on Friday and over 100 on Saturday descended on the bheri that has been lying unused for five years to clear the overgrowth on the land that was being used by some locals to grow vegetables. According to the villagers, the men who had engaged the labourers were those who operated the illegal plastic stockyards along a 2.5-km stretch of Basanti Highway between Pragati Maidan fire station and Chowbagha bus stop. Following an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) this July, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police had launched an eviction drive in August-end to clear the area of illegal encroachments. The business had thereafter shifted 2.7-km down the highway and settled on the embankment next to the stormwater canal. “The plastic mafia operating in the region is now trying to take hold of the unused bheri. Thereafter, it will grab more land," a local said. Following a formal complaint by Sandeepan Biswas, president of the Society for Creative Opportunities & Participatory Eco Systems (Scope) that has been active in EKW for a decade, the EKWMA asked two police stations — Kolkata Leather Complex and Anandapur — to look into the matter. Locals said police did a round of the area on Saturday afternoon but that had not deterred those engaged in cleaning the bheri. Land grab had increased during the lockdown with reports of another bheri being filled up. This bheri, too, is located near the one targeted now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/brazen-attempt-by-plastic-mafia-to-grab-wetlands-unused-bheri/articleshow/78468848.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Lalu Prasad’s imprint palpable in grand-alliance seat shairing||PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad once again proved his acumen in political management and social engineering from behind the bars. This is evident from seat-sharing deal finalised among the alliance partners of the Mahagathbandhan. Though the RJD chief gave a go ahead to the deal to his emissary Bhola Yadav two days back, it was officially announced on Saturday. Sources in RJD said Lalu, who has already given the command of the party to his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, persuaded the Congress’s top leadership to accept Tejashwi as leader of opposition and also as CM face of Mahagathbandhan. In lieu of it, he offered the Congress 70 seats besides the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat where byelection will be held. “There is no doubt about Tejashwi being the CM face of Mahagathbandhan. The alliance partners also accepted him (Tejashwi) as leader of opposition group, which is set to take on the NDA in the assembly polls,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwary said. The development came barely two days after Congress’s Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil raised fingers over Tejashwi’s leadership and described him as “inexperienced” and “misguided”. Gohil had said Lalu’s absence was causing delay in seat-sharing deal. Sources in RJD said Lalu had an inkling of VIP chief Mukesh Sahani’s exit from Mahagathbandhan. “That’s why the number of seats offered to the VIP was not declared at the presser, which was attended by leaders of all alliance partners,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalus-imprint-palpable-in-ga-seat-shairing/articleshow/78473274.cms||Ramashankar
October 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: JD(U) eyes BJP’s traditional seats||PATNA: One of the reasons behind delay in finalization of seat-sharing among the NDA allies is the BJP’s six traditional constituencies in Patna division on which JD(U) has staked its claim. The constituencies are Sasaram, Buxar, Paliganj, Ara, Sandesh and Shahpur. Sources in BJP’s Bhojpur unit said JD(U) also wants Barhara to field one of its MLCs in the assembly election. All these seven seats will be going to polls in the first phase on October 28. Filing of nomination papers in these constituencies will end on October 8. BJP sources said JD(U) has staked its claim on these seats on the plea that these were won by the Grand Alliance (GA) in the 2015 assembly polls and now the Nitish Kumar-led party has “winnable” candidates for these constituencies. JD(U) was part of the GA in 2015 assembly polls along with RJD and Congress. Sasaram is considered a traditional BJP seat as its leader Jawahar Prasad, an RSS activist since his childhood, won from there five times in 1990, 1995, February 2005, October 2005 and 2010. But he lost to Ashok Kumar of RJD in 2015. This year, too, he is sure of getting the BJP symbol. But the Sasaram case took a curious turn after RJD MLA Ashok Kumar quit the party and joined JD(U) a few weeks back. Now, JD(U) wants Sasaram claiming it has the sitting MLA. In Paliganj, BJP’s Usha Vidyarthi won in 2010, but was denied the party symbol in 2015 polls. BJP lost the seat to RJD’s Jai Vardhan Yadav in 2015. Now, Jai Vardhan, the grandson of Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, has joined JD(U), which has staked its claim on the seat. Prof Sukhda Pandey had won the Buxar seat thrice on BJP symbol, but lost to Congress’s Sanjay Kumar Tiwari in 2015. Now, JD(U) has urged BJP to leave the seat for former state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who joined JD(U), sources NDA said. Similarly, JD(U) has staked its claim on Sandesh to facilitate the candidature of former RJD MLA Vijyendra Kumar Singh Yadav, who joined JD(U) two months back and Barhara seat for sitting MLC Ranvijay Kumar Singh, one of the five MLCs who deserted RJD a few months back and joined JD(U). BJP sources said JD(U) has also set its eye on the Brahmin-dominated Shahpur seat if it fails to get Buxar for Gupteshwar. “If BJP doesn’t agree to spare Buxar, then Pandey may be made JD(U) candidate from Shahpur,” they said. BJP’s Bhojpur district president Prem Ranjan Chaturvedi said, “Shahpur, Ara and Barhara are the BJP’s number 1 seats in Bhojpur district. We have informed the BJP’s state leadership that these three seats should not be handed over to allies at any cost.” He told TOI that BJP had led in Shahpur, Ara, Barhara and Tarari assembly segments of Ara Lok Sabha seat by a margin of more than 20,000 votes in 2019. “Tarari was allotted to ally LJP in 2015. We can leave it for any ally, but we are not ready to spare Shahpur, Ara and Barhara,” Chaturvedi said. Jawahar from Sasaram said BJP’s district unit has opposed the JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-eyes-bjps-traditional-seats/articleshow/78473377.cms||Madan Kumar
October 4, 2020||---||Bihar elections: JD(U) eyes BJP’s traditional seats||PATNA: One of the reasons behind delay in finalization of seat-sharing among the NDA allies is the BJP’s six traditional constituencies in Patna division on which JD(U) has staked its claim. The constituencies are Sasaram, Buxar, Paliganj, Ara, Sandesh and Shahpur. Sources in BJP’s Bhojpur unit said JD(U) also wants Barhara to field one of its MLCs in the assembly election. All these seven seats will be going to polls in the first phase on October 28. Filing of nomination papers in these constituencies will end on October 8. BJP sources said JD(U) has staked its claim on these seats on the plea that these were won by the Grand Alliance (GA) in the 2015 assembly polls and now the Nitish Kumar-led party has “winnable” candidates for these constituencies. JD(U) was part of the GA in 2015 assembly polls along with RJD and Congress. Sasaram is considered a traditional BJP seat as its leader Jawahar Prasad, an RSS activist since his childhood, won from there five times in 1990, 1995, February 2005, October 2005 and 2010. But he lost to Ashok Kumar of RJD in 2015. This year, too, he is sure of getting the BJP symbol. But the Sasaram case took a curious turn after RJD MLA Ashok Kumar quit the party and joined JD(U) a few weeks back. Now, JD(U) wants Sasaram claiming it has the sitting MLA. In Paliganj, BJP’s Usha Vidyarthi won in 2010, but was denied the party symbol in 2015 polls. BJP lost the seat to RJD’s Jai Vardhan Yadav in 2015. Now, Jai Vardhan, the grandson of Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, has joined JD(U), which has staked its claim on the seat. Prof Sukhda Pandey had won the Buxar seat thrice on BJP symbol, but lost to Congress’s Sanjay Kumar Tiwari in 2015. Now, JD(U) has urged BJP to leave the seat for former state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey, who joined JD(U), sources NDA said. Similarly, JD(U) has staked its claim on Sandesh to facilitate the candidature of former RJD MLA Vijyendra Kumar Singh Yadav, who joined JD(U) two months back and Barhara seat for sitting MLC Ranvijay Kumar Singh, one of the five MLCs who deserted RJD a few months back and joined JD(U). BJP sources said JD(U) has also set its eye on the Brahmin-dominated Shahpur seat if it fails to get Buxar for Gupteshwar. “If BJP doesn’t agree to spare Buxar, then Pandey may be made JD(U) candidate from Shahpur,” they said. BJP’s Bhojpur district president Prem Ranjan Chaturvedi said, “Shahpur, Ara and Barhara are the BJP’s number 1 seats in Bhojpur district. We have informed the BJP’s state leadership that these three seats should not be handed over to allies at any cost.” He told TOI that BJP had led in Shahpur, Ara, Barhara and Tarari assembly segments of Ara Lok Sabha seat by a margin of more than 20,000 votes in 2019. “Tarari was allotted to ally LJP in 2015. We can leave it for any ally, but we are not ready to spare Shahpur, Ara and Barhara,” Chaturvedi said. Jawahar from Sasaram said BJP’s district unit has opposed the JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/jdu-eyes-bjps-traditional-seats/articleshow/78468491.cms||Madan Kumar
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||Goons thrash three staffers of S’rashtra Covid centre||RAJKOT: Three staffers of Covid care centre of Saurashtra Cancer Hospital were beaten up allegedly by four assailants at Bhomeshwervadi shelter on Friday night. Police said the accused, Yasin Sandh (21), along with his three unidentified aides, allegedly attacked Kailash Damor (20), Narendra Meena (21) and Nepal Meena (18) with bats and iron pipes. However, after committing the crime, Sandh got admitted himself to Rajkot Civil Hospital complaining to the cops at the hospital chowky that he was attacked by Damor, Narendra and Nepal. The hospital chowky informed Pradyuman Nagar police station about the incident. However, before Sandh’s complaint could be registered, Damor, Narendra and Nepal, too, were admitted to the hospital with extreme injuries. Damor who had received serious head injuries, was admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital. Narendra lodged a complaint against Sandh and his three associates and stated that he, Nepal and Damor had come from Dungarpur in Rajasthan to work as attendants and peon at the Covid care centre of Saurashtra Cancer Hospital. The hospital management had put them up at the night shelter at Bhomeshwervadi. According to Pradyuman Nagar police, Sandh has allegedly asked Narendra and his friends not to talk loudly in their room but later along attacked them along with the co-accused. “In his statement, Nepal said that Sandh and the co-accused were angry with them as they could not give them water when they asked for it. During the attack, Damor ran out of the room and received injuries on his head after he fell into a stream,” the official added. On the other hand, Sandh also lodged a cross complaint, in which he alleged that Damor, Narendra and Nepal had attacked him and his friends with bats and a tube light. Meanwhile, the incident triggered a terror among the other staffers of Covid care centre lodged at the shelter. The hospital management shifted the staffers by arranging alternative accommodations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/goons-thrash-three-staffers-of-srashtra-covid-centre/articleshow/78468811.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Pujas take the tech track, plan to use gadgets and apps to follow safety rules||KOLKATA: From a robot dispensing sanitizer to big screens displaying the interior of the pandal — a number of Durga Puja organisers will take help of technology to guard against the novel coronavirus during the festival later this month. A committee in Thakurpukur will deploy a robot to sanitize hands of those visiting the puja. Maria, a robot made by the students of a private university in Kolkata, will implement one of the most important Covid-19 safety guideline at Thakurpukur SB Park. “Social distancing is a very important. We have decided that Maria, the four-foot-high robot, will perform the task of dispensing sanitizer at peak hours so that volunteers and guests don’t have to be in close proximity. The robot will be used in the evening when the footfall increases,” said Sanjoy Majumdar, secretary, Thakurpukur SB Park Puja that will complete its golden jubilee. In Salt Lake’s BJ Block, only the priest and a couple of members of the organizing committee will be allowed to pray inside the pandal. Several big screens will be set up outside so people can see the deity and also offer their prayers without entering the pandal. “The screens will be placed following all social distancing guidelines so that there is no crowding outside either,” said a member of the puja committee. Organizers of Salt Lake’s AK Block puja have tied up with a firm to set up raised platforms with anti-microbial film where the visitors will have to put in their hands to get sanitized. “We will also have volunteers with masks and sanitizer. The pandal has been kept open on three sides and only a limited number of people will be allowed inside at a time,” said committee member Raja Banik. At College Square, the organizers are developing a dedicated app for those who will not venture out of home. “They just need to download our app which will stream everything about our puja — from rituals to cultural programmes,” said Bikash Mazumdar, general secretary of the organizing committee. Bhowanipore 75 Palli, which is in its 56th year, will livestream the festival on social media platforms so people can soak in the spirit without stepping out of their homes. “We will try to make sure people do not miss out on the original feel of our puja, but we will also ensure there is no crowd,” said general secretary Subir Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pujas-take-the-tech-track-plan-to-use-gadgets-apps-to-follow-safety-rules/articleshow/78469029.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Revelry to turn virtual for the differently abled this year||KOLKATA: If the lockdown wasn’t bad enough for the differently abled, the prospect of being holed up at home on the only occasion they get to enjoy the sensory treats when they visit Durga Puja pandals is distressing. Determined not to let the pandemic rob them of their precious moments, they are rehearsing to put up a virtual show where they will engage with each other just like they do at the pandals during Durga Puja every year. Monoranjan Mondal of Tollygunge and Sujit Karmakar of Kasba — both visually impaired — will visit different pandals to speak to theme artists and Puja committee members to learn how they will appear when they are ready. The duo will then describe the pujas in their own way to the other differently abled people to give them a virtual feel of what’s happening around the city. “Usually, one of those accompanying us who isn’t visually or speech impaired describes the pandal to us and we then imagine it in our own way. But this time, there is a unique opportunity to learn about the themes from the artists themselves, visualize them in my way and then describe it to others,” said Mondal. He and Karmakar will talk about the various Pujas on Facebook Live on pre-arranged hours during the festival. They aren’t the only one who will have something to tell though. Others are shortlisting songs to sing, poems to recite and short stories to tell. Still others who have a knack for music will play an instrument. Dipti Jana, whose son Sayantan was born with cerebral palsy, says he is looking forward to the programme. “Sayantan is aware of the current situation and knows he won’t be able to venture out. Being able to see everyone online and hear about the pandals will give him joy,” she said. Debajyoti Roy of NIP, an NGO that works for the differently abled, said an itinerary was being drawn like it is done each year. Only this time, instead of field trips to pandals, it will be a virtual show. “We had to do something because they desperately wanted a break. The lockdown has left them depressed,” explained Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revelry-to-turn-virtual-for-the-differently-abled-this-year/articleshow/78469003.cms||---
October 4, 2020||---||Assembly elections: RJD ‘stoops to conquer’ in the battle for Bihar||PATNA: RJD’s script went a bit awry at the last moment on Saturday after it bowed to Congress’s demand for 70 seats in a bid to conquer the electoral battle in Bihar against the formidable combination of JD(U)-BJP led by CM Nitish Kumar. The way Vikasshseel Insaan Party (VIP) felt cheated and its president Mukesh Sahni walked out of the Mahagathbandhan at the press conference called to announce the seat-sharing deal must be music to the ears of Nitish and BJP. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is now the CM face of Mahagathbandhan, was playing well on the front foot by offering the youth of the state a fresh start by removing his parents from the party posters. It was a move to blunt the NDA attack on him in the name of his father Lalu, who is serving a jail sentence in the fodder scam cases. But, as political observers feel, Tejashwi succumbed to the pressure from Congress, which also had no option but to remain in the Mahagathbandhan given its shrunk base in Bihar. It’s a fact that no other party in the Mahagathbandhan has as solid a vote base as RJD, which still has substantial influence among the Yadav and Muslim electorate. Tejashwi roped in the Left parties, including the CPI(ML), because they still have pockets of influence in Bihar and can win some of their seats with RJD support as well as get their votes transferred to the allies. Now that RJD has kept 144 seats in its kitty and awarded 29 seats to Left and 70 assembly seats as well as the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency to Congress to contest, its first target will be to emerge as the single-largest party on November 10, the day election results are to be announced. That may turn out to be a smart strategy and to the advantage of RJD as neither JD(U) nor BJP will field over 140 candidates even if LJP walks out of the NDA and contests on its own. But, NDA leaders will paint Tejashwi as anti-Dalit and opposed to any other emerging youth leader as VIP chief Sahni and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi have already accused him of. Sahni, after sharing the dais with the Mahagathbandhan partners and walking out of the alliance on Saturday, accused Tejashwi of stabbing him in the back. “It was Tejashwi who told me to contest the assembly election so that I could be made deputy chief minister. Earlier, he promised me 25 seats. Today, when I met him, he said the number of seats may be reduced as Congress was adamant on 70 seats. RJD should have announced like other parties whatever seats VIP has to contest. But neither Tejashwi announced the VIP seats nor my name as the deputy CM. It was pre-planned and I cannot be in politics with people like him,” Sahni told a TV channel. RJD spokesman Shakti Singh Yadav, however, accused Sahni of playing into the hands of opponents and said the ruckus created by VIP in the press conference was stage-managed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/rjd-stoops-to-conquer-in-the-battle-for-bihar/articleshow/78469327.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
October 4, 2020||Patna||Tough contest likely between GA, NDA on J’bad & Arwal seats||GAYA: The ruling NDA and the Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance (GA) are likely to engage in a close contest on five seats of Jehanabad and neighbouring Arwal districts in south Bihar. The five assembly segments of the two districts — Jehanabad, Ghosi, Makhdumpur, Arwal and Kurtha — will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. “The BJP will contest from Jehanabad town and Makhdumpur this time,” the party’s Jehanabad district president Suresh Sharma said. The HAM (S) is also staking its claim for the Makhdumpur seat. Party spokesperson Rajesh Pandey said, “In 2015, the HAM (S) had lost Makhdumpur and Ghosi. Krishna Nandan Verma of the JD (U) had defeated Rahul Kumar, son of veteran politician Jagdish Sharma, who represented Ghosi for eight terms.” Meanwhile, the RJD also intends to contest on all the three seats in Jehanabad district. “There is a strong demand of party workers to contest on all the three seats in the district,” said RJD Jehanabad unit principal general secretary Paramhans Roy. As per the seat-sharing arrangement in the Mahagathbandhan in the 2015 assembly elections, the Congress did not contest any of the five seats in Jehanabad and Arwal. “However, this time party workers want to put up their candidates from Ghosi in Jehanabad and Kurtha in Arwal,” Congress Magadh zone spokesman Vijay Kumar Mithu said. Arwal district BJP president Ajay Paswan said party workers are keen to contest from Arwal seat. “I have informed the state leadership, who have to take a final decision, about the workers’ feelings,” he added. The JD (U) is also keen to contest from its incumbent seats Ghosi and Kurtha, Jehanabad district president Chandeshwar Bind said. “The state leadership has been apprised of the demands of grassroots workers,” he said. In the 2015 assembly elections, it was a clean sweep for the GA in Jehanabad and Arwal districts, as the NDA had failed to open its account. Then, the RJD and the JD (U) were partners of the GA. While the RJD had won two out of the three seats in Jehanabad, it was one each for both the partners in Arwal. Even former chief minister and HAM (S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi had to face defeat from Subedar Das of the RJD in Makhdumpur (reserve). HAM (S) was then a partner of the NDA. This time, however, the JD (U) and the RJD are likely to face each other on at least two out of the five seats in the two districts of south Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tough-contest-likely-between-ga-nda-on-jbad-arwal-seats/articleshow/78468437.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Patna||BSP state chief joins RJD||PATNA: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) state president Bharat Bind joined RJD on Saturday. This is considered as another blow to RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, who had recently formed an alliance with BSP after quitting the Mahagathbandhan and failing to strike a deal with BJP ahead of state assembly election. Bind took the RJD membership from leader of the opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Sources said Kushwaha had formed an alliance with BSP and Janwadi Party (Socialist) on September 29 after his talks with BJP leaders in Delhi failed as he wanted to contest from Valmiki Nagar parliamentary seat in the byelection as an NDA candidate. However, Kushwaha had received a jolt the next day when the then RLSP national secretary general Madhaw Anand resigned from the party. Before Madhaw, RLSP state president Bhudeo Choudhary also joined RJD. RLSP national spokesperson-cum-national secretary general Fazal Imam Mallick said these resignations will not affect their party’s strength in Bihar election. “This happens before elections. In fact, many RJD MLAs have left their party, so they have more problems.” He further said talks were going on with smaller parties and very soon they will announce a seat-sharing formula and give a name to their alliance. However, he added that RLSP will be in a bigger role, but other parties will also be given respectable number of seats. “We are the third front, which is much needed in Bihar. People have seen both Nitish Kumar and Lalu-Rabri rule,” said Mallick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bsp-state-chief-joins-rjd/articleshow/78468569.cms||---
October 4, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Lalu Prasad’s imprint palpable in grand-alliance seat shairing||PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad once again proved his acumen in political management and social engineering from behind the bars. This is evident from seat-sharing deal finalised among the alliance partners of the Mahagathbandhan. Though the RJD chief gave a go ahead to the deal to his emissary Bhola Yadav two days back, it was officially announced on Saturday. Sources in RJD said Lalu, who has already given the command of the party to his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, persuaded the Congress’s top leadership to accept Tejashwi as leader of opposition and also as CM face of Mahagathbandhan. In lieu of it, he offered the Congress 70 seats besides the Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat where byelection will be held. “There is no doubt about Tejashwi being the CM face of Mahagathbandhan. The alliance partners also accepted him (Tejashwi) as leader of opposition group, which is set to take on the NDA in the assembly polls,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwary said. The development came barely two days after Congress’s Bihar incharge Shaktisinh Gohil raised fingers over Tejashwi’s leadership and described him as “inexperienced” and “misguided”. Gohil had said Lalu’s absence was causing delay in seat-sharing deal. Sources in RJD said Lalu had an inkling of VIP chief Mukesh Sahani’s exit from Mahagathbandhan. “That’s why the number of seats offered to the VIP was not declared at the presser, which was attended by leaders of all alliance partners,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/lalus-imprint-palpable-in-ga-seat-shairing/articleshow/78468520.cms||Ramashankar
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||150 wild animals rescued in 6 months from Gir villages||RAJKOT: In the first six months of the current financial year, as many as 150 wild animals have been rescued from 27 villages adjoining Gir Sanctuary near Junagadh. These fringe villages fall in the eco-sensitive zones owing to their proximity to the world famous Asiatic lion sanctuary. Interestingly, this was the total number of animals that had been captured in the entire last financial year. Forest department blames the pandemic-induced lockdown and also the excessive rainfall for the animals roaming near the human habitations this time. According to forest officials, of the 150 rescued animals, 50 were crocodiles, 30 lions and 20 leopards while the remaining comprised pythons and other animal species. Deputy conservator of forest, Junagadh division, Sunil Berwal said, “It’s not always that the rescued animals are subjects of man-animal conflict alone. Sometimes even weak animals are reported moving in adjoining areas for their own safety.” Berwal explained that sans human activity during the lockdown, animal movements too were destruction free. Foresters also claim that villagers too don’t complain about animal movement till any conflict arises or suffer unprovoked aggression. Forest officials too try and mitigate man-animal conflicts with prompt response to any complaints. Altogether 247 animals have been rescued so far in Gir west division of the forest comprising parts of Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Amreli districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/150-wild-animals-rescued-in-6-months-from-gir-villages/articleshow/78468955.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 4, 2020||Vadodara||Two held for raping woman multiple times in Mahisagar||VADODARA: Two men were arrested by the Santrampur police in Mahisagar district for allegedly raping a woman in the town. The duo had allegedly lured the woman promising her money and then threatened her to commit the offence. According to an offence registered by the 35-year-old woman, one of the accused Anit Pathan had met her at a mobile shop in Santrampur when she had gone to the shop. Khan allegedly called her up on the phone later and became friendly with her. Pathan allegedly offered money to the survivor and asked her to come to Santramur from her village. The woman claims that Pathan and his friend Imran Multani were present at Pathan’s residence in Santrampur and allegedly raped her. Pathan later started threatening the woman claiming that he had recorded a video of the earlier act and would make it viral. Pathan and Multani allegedly called the woman repeatedly to Santrampur and raped her. On Friday too, the woman was called by the duo that raped her in the night. They also threatened to kill her if she mentioned about the incident to anyone else. The woman was not willing to tolerate any more and informed the police regarding her ordeal. The police registered an offence and arrested the two accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-raping-woman-multiple-times-in-mahisagar/articleshow/78467986.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections 2020: BJP & JD(U) likely to announce seats today||PATNA: The BJP and JD(U) seniors designated to hold seat-sharing talks in Bihar NDA had a marathon four-hour meeting here on Saturday. They discussed things to give last-minute touches ahead of the BJP’s parliamentary board meeting in Delhi on Sunday for candidate selection, sources said. They said BJP and JD(U) would first announce the names of seats in their share and, only thereafter, their respective candidates from Sunday evening. “All the problems hinging on seat sharing between the two parties have been sorted out. That is why, the marathon meeting was held on Saturday,” a source said. While BJP national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and the party’s state election incharge Devendra Fadnavis were holed up in their guesthouse at Rupaspur, JD(U) seniors Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Lalan Singh and R C P Singh (MPs) called on them for a detailed discussion. Sources said the Bhupender-Fadnavis duo would now move to Delhi to present before the parliamentary board the seats shared by the two parties. “Only after that, the BJP parliamentary board would begin to choose the candidates for the respective seats for announcement either on Sunday or on Monday,” they said. Earlier, Bhupender and Fadnavis arrived from Delhi in a chartered plane. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal joined them in the discussion. The talks with JD(U) were to be held in a new situation as LJP chief Chirag Paswan is likely to quit the Bihar NDA. For JD(U), it opened a new situation to demand more seats, so that its final share could become more than that of BJP, as the latter, in any case, would have parted with a part of its share with LJP. It, in turn, would have left BJP with precipitate number of seats that would have been less than that of the JD(U), as Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi has been pragmatic and less demanding before CM Nitish Kumar. For the sake of BJP’s discomfiture, it would have implied abandoning the 50:50 formula in seat-sharing talks, a formula on which BJP has been insistent with JD(U), sources said. Further, JD(U) wanted BJP to understand its situation arising from the need to give seats to the five RJD MLAs who had recently joined its bandwagon and through it the NDA’s cart, sources also said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-jdu-likely-to-announce-seats-today/articleshow/78474827.cms||Abhay Singh
October 4, 2020||---||Bihar polls: 106 experts engaged in Congress war rooms||PATNA: The IT cell of Bihar Congress has intensified its digital electioneering to give a tough competition to the NDA in the state assembly election. It is helping the legislators address the concerns of different constituencies in terms of ensuring supply of essential commodities and services. Congress has set up its digital war rooms at Patliputra Colony with 80 social media experts, content developers and political analysts and at Rupaspur managed by 26 people in a bid to reach maximum number of voters. At district level, small IT cell offices have been set up with more than 3,000 volunteers. There are 64 people in the IT cell research team to conduct survey at block levels and address local issues. Sources said their main objective is to reach out to every individual and add 20 lakh people as its digital members through mobile application -- ‘Congress Party Membership’. State president of Congress social media department-cum-state general secretary Sanjiv Singh told this newspaper on Saturday that media experts were disseminating the party’s manifesto and local issues on Twitter handle, Facebook page, YouTube channel, Instagram, WhatsApp and mobile applications. “The party has launched three mobile applications since July. Over 6 lakh people have joined through ‘Congress Party Membership’ app and 77 lakh manually. The target is to connect with 20 lakh people through this app. We share the information about party works on our official app ‘Bihar Congress’. Recently, we launched a new app named ‘Congress Social Media Warrior’, to invite complaints about the local problems,” Sanjiv said. “Around 10,000 WhatsApp groups have been created at each block and panchayat to connect with local people. For instance, we have supplied essential items in flood-affected areas in Muzaffarpur and testing kit for Covid-19 in Bettiah through these WhatsApp groups,” he added. Sanjiv said the main issue that locals are raising is unemployment in Bihar. “After unemployment, people are complaining about the deteriorating law and order situation, followed by poor medical infrastructure, education and industries. These are the findings of our IT cell team. We will take up these issues on priority basis if voted to power,” he said. The party workers have also created 38 Twitter handle accounts and Facebook pages for each district in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/106-experts-engaged-in-cong-war-rooms/articleshow/78468450.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lakhisarai man held for raping niece||PATNA: Police on Saturday arrested a 26-year-old man on charges of raping his six-year-old niece inside his cellphone shop under the Piri Bazaar police station area in Lakhisarai district. The accused was identified as Manoj Yadav. SHO of Piri Bazaar police station Prajesh Kumar Dubey said the incident occurred on September 30, but the girl’s family members brought it to the notice of police on Friday. “The girl’s statement was recorded on Saturday and an FIR lodged with Women’s police station in the district,” the SHO added. He said the girl’s parents had sent her to Yadav’s shop to get a sim card recharged when the incident occurred. “As the kid returned home, her parents noticed vaginal bleeding. The girl, however, told her parents that she fell down while playing. Yadav had threatened her not to reveal anything to her parents and others,” the SHO added. Dubey said as the bleeding did not stop, the girl’s parents took her to a doctor in Lakhisarai, who referred her to a hospital in Munger. “The medical examination at the hospital revealed that the girl was raped,” he said. SHO of Women’s police station Rita Kumari said the accused dragged the girl to his shop and raped her. “The girl is undergoing treatment at sadar hospital in Lakhisarai. Her condition is stable,” she added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lakhisarai-man-held-for-raping-niece/articleshow/78468338.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||102-year-old survives 2-hour hip surgery in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Doctors in a private hospital in Kolkata conducted a complex hip-joint surgery on a 102-year-old patient. Preeti Gupta had a remarkable recovery and doctors were able to discharge her two days after the operation. The centenarian, a resident of Gariahat, had fallen at home a few days ago and sustained femoral neck fractures on the right side of her hip. Her family was worried she would contract Covid if taken to a hospital. But they changed their mind seeing her in pain. They took her to a few hospitals where doctors gave different opinions, which confused them. Gupta was eventually taken to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria on September 29 and was admitted under consultant orthopaedic surgeon Ritwik Ganguly. Considering her age, doctors explained to the family the pros and cons of surgery and traction. Even though the family was apprehensive, Gupta was affirmative. “The surgery was complex because of her age and existing health conditions,” said Ganguly. The orthopaedic surgeon called in specialists from cardiology, anaesthesia and internal medicine given that Gupta has several age-related issues, including cardiac issues, hypertension and diabetes. The team of specialists gave a nod after assessing her condition and the surgeon fixed the fracture by a nailing system in a two-hour surgery. “She has remarkable mental strength. We are amazed that she readily agreed to the surgery. There was no complication post-surgery and she was able to sit up the next day,” said Ganguly. “I am happy with the way Ganguly treated me,” said Gupta before her discharge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/102-yr-old-survives-2-hour-hip-surgery/articleshow/78469070.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Push for state butterfly; public poll to select 1 of 5||KOLKATA: After a state bird — white-breasted kingfisher — and a state animal — fishing cat — Bengal is set to get its state butterfly. On the lines of the selection of a national butterfly, which is being shortlisted through a public poll from a list of seven, the process to select the state contenders has also started. City-based NGO Nature Mates-Nature Club, which has conceptualized the idea, has formed a 40-member group with experts, including members from NGOs like NEWS, HEAL, HNAF and others, to finalize a list of five contenders, before the state butterfly is picked through a public poll. “We have asked all members to come forward with choices based on how rare or common the species are and their conservation importance. We have started getting some names and once we reach a consensus, the list of contenders will be finalized before we throw open the public polling. Once the state butterfly is selected, we will hand over the results to the forest department for the formalities to officially declare it the state butterfly,” said Arjan Basu Roy of Nature Mates. Butterflies found in the mountains to those found near seas and have conservation importance are being considered as primary contenders. “It shouldn’t be so rare that people find it very difficult to sight it or fail to relate to it. But it shouldn’t be too common either. We are asking members to give names of butterflies that are widespread — one that can be seen from Darjeeling to Jangalmahal and Digha,” added Basu Roy, who was among the experts who selected the seven contenders for the national list. While the list of five contenders will be ready soon, experts want to wait for the outcome of the national butterfly polling. “Almost 50% of butterfly species in India are found in Bengal. We don’t want our national butterfly to become the state butterfly. So, we might wait for the national outcome before the polling here,” he said. While ZSI has listed 384 butterfly species in Bengal, Basu Roy said, “I have personal records of more than 550 species in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/push-for-state-butterfly-public-poll-to-select-1-of-5/articleshow/78468996.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
October 4, 2020||Patna||Assembly elections: RJD ‘stoops to conquer’ in the battle for Bihar||PATNA: RJD’s script went a bit awry at the last moment on Saturday after it bowed to Congress’s demand for 70 seats in a bid to conquer the electoral battle in Bihar against the formidable combination of JD(U)-BJP led by CM Nitish Kumar. The way Vikasshseel Insaan Party (VIP) felt cheated and its president Mukesh Sahni walked out of the Mahagathbandhan at the press conference called to announce the seat-sharing deal must be music to the ears of Nitish and BJP. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is now the CM face of Mahagathbandhan, was playing well on the front foot by offering the youth of the state a fresh start by removing his parents from the party posters. It was a move to blunt the NDA attack on him in the name of his father Lalu, who is serving a jail sentence in the fodder scam cases. But, as political observers feel, Tejashwi succumbed to the pressure from Congress, which also had no option but to remain in the Mahagathbandhan given its shrunk base in Bihar. It’s a fact that no other party in the Mahagathbandhan has as solid a vote base as RJD, which still has substantial influence among the Yadav and Muslim electorate. Tejashwi roped in the Left parties, including the CPI(ML), because they still have pockets of influence in Bihar and can win some of their seats with RJD support as well as get their votes transferred to the allies. Now that RJD has kept 144 seats in its kitty and awarded 29 seats to Left and 70 assembly seats as well as the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha constituency to Congress to contest, its first target will be to emerge as the single-largest party on November 10, the day election results are to be announced. That may turn out to be a smart strategy and to the advantage of RJD as neither JD(U) nor BJP will field over 140 candidates even if LJP walks out of the NDA and contests on its own. But, NDA leaders will paint Tejashwi as anti-Dalit and opposed to any other emerging youth leader as VIP chief Sahni and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi have already accused him of. Sahni, after sharing the dais with the Mahagathbandhan partners and walking out of the alliance on Saturday, accused Tejashwi of stabbing him in the back. “It was Tejashwi who told me to contest the assembly election so that I could be made deputy chief minister. Earlier, he promised me 25 seats. Today, when I met him, he said the number of seats may be reduced as Congress was adamant on 70 seats. RJD should have announced like other parties whatever seats VIP has to contest. But neither Tejashwi announced the VIP seats nor my name as the deputy CM. It was pre-planned and I cannot be in politics with people like him,” Sahni told a TV channel. RJD spokesman Shakti Singh Yadav, however, accused Sahni of playing into the hands of opponents and said the ruckus created by VIP in the press conference was stage-managed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-stoops-to-conquer-in-the-battle-for-bihar/articleshow/78472616.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Salt lake bids adieu to iron-laced water||KOLKATA: The much awaited Rs 117 crore water supply scheme set up by the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) to supply sweet, filtered and iron-free water to several wards of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation was inaugurated on Saturday. From Sunday morning, Bidhannagar will receive 4 million gallons of water per day from the New Town water treatment plant apart from the existing 6 MGD of water from Tallah. “Initially 4 MGD of filtered water will be supplied, followed by another 4 MGD. Once the total scheme is completed, the township will get 32 MGD filtered water per day from the New Town plant,” said state urban development minister and KMDA chairman Firhad Hakim. At present, 20 MGD of water is supplied from the New Town plant to New Town, Bidhannagar and South Dum Dum, and another 20 MGD-capacity tank will be functional very soon. The treatment plant,once fully operational, will have a storage capacity of 100 MGD. Although it will benefit all 41 wards of Bidhannagar in a phased manner, the scheme will initially help about 2.5 lakh residents of wards 22, 25, 26 in Rajarhat and wards 29 to 34, and 37, in Salt Lake. Two underground reservoirs — with storage capacities of three and four million gallons respectively — have been set up near tanks 5 and 13 in Salt Lake. Besides, four overhead tanks — with capacity of 4.4 million gallons, 3.9 million gallons, 2.1 million gallons and 1.5 million gallons — have been set up. A 56-inch diameter pipeline laid under Kestopur canal will bring in the water from the New Town plant. At present, water from the Hooghly is brought in to the New Town plant through an 11km pipeline parallel to Kestopur canal that starts from the Hooghly intake jetty and crosses Cossipore, Bagbazar, Kolkata Station Road and Ultadanga crossing. Bidhannagar civic area used to receive around 7 million gallons of filtered water per day from Tallah. The rest of the required water was pulled up from underground reserves. Civic officials said there will be no need to pull up underground water any more. Officials said the water supply scheme had been ready to start functioning from March, but was delayed due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-bids-adieu-to-iron-laced-water/articleshow/78468958.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 4, 2020||---||RJD backstabbed me: VIP chief Mukesh Sahni||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan seat-sharing announcement on Saturday took a dramatic turn as Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni walked out of the press conference saying he had been ‘backstabbed’. Sahni also announced severing his ties with the Mahagathbandhan. This happened after leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, announced the number of seats given to other alliance partners. “VIP and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha will get seats from our (RJD) quota and we will declare it in a day or two,” Tejashwi said. Just after Tejashwi finished his speech, VIP workers started murmuring and demanded that the mike be handed over to Sahni. Later, they started slogan shouting. Sahni first asked his workers to keep quiet. However, the moment he got the mike, Sahni burst out saying, “I am a son of Mallah and belong to extremely backward caste. Today I have been backstabbed. I am breaking my ties with Mahagathbandhan.” Later, Sahni said he was promised the post of deputy CM and 25 assembly seats. RJD MLA Bhola Yadav, however, said Sahni had demanded 12 and not 25 tickets for his associates. “He had requested for a respectable post for himself, but never talked about deputy CM’s post. Our party was ready to accommodate his 12 people on our symbol and he was also ready for that. But the scene he created during press conference shows he was working as someone else’s agent. He has lost all his credibility and no one can trust him,” said Bhola, a close aide of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Earlier in the day, Sahni had spent more than four hours with Tejashwi at former CM Rabri Devi’s bungalow. When asked about Sahni’s claims, RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said, “For such a long duration he was with us. He even nodded when Tejashwi made an announcement. In fact, he even raised his hands for the photoshoot. I am shocked,” said Jha, adding, “I will advise him not to carry on with such unsolicited behaviour. Mahagathbandhan has not been tainted, rather he has lost credibility and trust which is very important in public life.” Jha said Sahni acted under pressure or on the direction from the ruling parties. “They (NDA) cannot flicker their own Chirag. Hence, they are trying to burn other’s houses,” added Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/rjd-backstabbed-me-sahni/articleshow/78468545.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 4, 2020||Patna||RJD backstabbed me: VIP chief Mukesh Sahni||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan seat-sharing announcement on Saturday took a dramatic turn as Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahni walked out of the press conference saying he had been ‘backstabbed’. Sahni also announced severing his ties with the Mahagathbandhan. This happened after leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, announced the number of seats given to other alliance partners. “VIP and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha will get seats from our (RJD) quota and we will declare it in a day or two,” Tejashwi said. Just after Tejashwi finished his speech, VIP workers started murmuring and demanded that the mike be handed over to Sahni. Later, they started slogan shouting. Sahni first asked his workers to keep quiet. However, the moment he got the mike, Sahni burst out saying, “I am a son of Mallah and belong to extremely backward caste. Today I have been backstabbed. I am breaking my ties with Mahagathbandhan.” Later, Sahni said he was promised the post of deputy CM and 25 assembly seats. RJD MLA Bhola Yadav, however, said Sahni had demanded 12 and not 25 tickets for his associates. “He had requested for a respectable post for himself, but never talked about deputy CM’s post. Our party was ready to accommodate his 12 people on our symbol and he was also ready for that. But the scene he created during press conference shows he was working as someone else’s agent. He has lost all his credibility and no one can trust him,” said Bhola, a close aide of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Earlier in the day, Sahni had spent more than four hours with Tejashwi at former CM Rabri Devi’s bungalow. When asked about Sahni’s claims, RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said, “For such a long duration he was with us. He even nodded when Tejashwi made an announcement. In fact, he even raised his hands for the photoshoot. I am shocked,” said Jha, adding, “I will advise him not to carry on with such unsolicited behaviour. Mahagathbandhan has not been tainted, rather he has lost credibility and trust which is very important in public life.” Jha said Sahni acted under pressure or on the direction from the ruling parties. “They (NDA) cannot flicker their own Chirag. Hence, they are trying to burn other’s houses,” added Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-backstabbed-me-sahni/articleshow/78472762.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||Truck driver wields sword at toll booth employee||RAJKOT: A truck driver was booked on Friday evening for threatening an employee of Bharudi tool booth near Gondal with a sword. Though the incident took place on September 30 following argument over paying toll tax between the staffer and the driver, the complaint in this regard was registered at Gondal taluka police station on Friday evening. The video of the incident has goen viral on the social media. It shows the toll both employee and truck driver arguing over some matter. Later the driver drives past the booth and stops to take out a sword and points it towards the toll booth employee identified as Ramkaransingh Senghal. Police said that they were trying to identify the truck driver from the registration number of the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/truck-driver-wields-sword-at-toll-booth-employee/articleshow/78468862.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections news: Party youth wings tap social media||PATNA: Political parties in the state have activated their student units and youth wings for the upcoming assembly election to take their messages to the youth, especially using social media platforms to connect with the first-time voters. There are around 7 lakh voters are in the 18- 19 age group out of the total electorate of nearly 7.2 crore voters in the state. Chatra JD(U)'s state vice-president Shadab Alam said, “Through social media platforms, we are telling the young electors about the work been done under CM Nitish Kumar’s Saat Nischay Yojana, which included student credit card, startups and new educational institutions that have come up." He added, "We conduct discussion and talks on Twitter and Facebook and also on mobile applications. Once the party announces the candidates, the youth wing would also do campaigning for the members.” Akash Yadav, state president of Chatra RJD said over the past few weeks, the youth leaders have interacted with youngsters through social media platforms about what changes they want to see in Bihar. “The first-time voters, especially in colleges and universities, want employment, infrastructural development in all sectors and growth of industries. We are working to highlight these issues and are assuring them that their demands would be met if RJD comes to power,” Yadav said. He added, “Currently, I’m focusing on Hasanpur Vidhan Sabha, which has become a hot-seat in Bihar. We are telling people about what our party has done for the people of Hasanpur in the past five years, like building roads, education institutions and improving the health facilities.” The Bihar Pradesh Youth Congress members have started online campaigns by raising the unemployment issue as their main poll plank. State president Gunjan Patel told this newspaper that several neutral organizations of teachers, students and those who protested throughout the years against the present government are connecting with the party on social media platforms and are extending their support. “Around 5 lakh government jobs are lying vacant, including 3 lakh teachers, 50,000 police personnel and remaining in the health sector. The party manifesto would include this issue of unemployment and promise to fill these vacancies if the party comes to power. We are highlighting this issue on WhatApp groups that we created at university and college levels, twitter account, Facebook and Instagram page,” Patel said. Pashupatinath Upmanyu, organizing secretary (Patna) of ABVP said, “We are going to launch an online campaign against none of the above (NOTA), and hold discussions with youngsters through online platforms, to know what change they are expecting in education, employment and health sectors. The campaign would start after a state-level meeting on October 3 and 4, with the national organizing secretary Ashish Chauhan.” The CPI-affiliated students' organisation AISF would highlight the failures of the NDA- government in Bihar through social networking sites. “Youths in Bihar are moving out of the state in search of jobs and for higher education. No work has been done by the government in any sector. This is the motto of our online campaigns. We are trying to reach as many young voters as possible,” said state president of AISF, Sushil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/party-youth-wings-tap-social-media/articleshow/78475087.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 4, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections news: Party youth wings tap social media||PATNA: Political parties in the state have activated their student units and youth wings for the upcoming assembly election to take their messages to the youth, especially using social media platforms to connect with the first-time voters. There are around 7 lakh voters are in the 18- 19 age group out of the total electorate of nearly 7.2 crore voters in the state. Chatra JD(U)'s state vice-president Shadab Alam said, “Through social media platforms, we are telling the young electors about the work been done under CM Nitish Kumar’s Saat Nischay Yojana, which included student credit card, startups and new educational institutions that have come up." He added, "We conduct discussion and talks on Twitter and Facebook and also on mobile applications. Once the party announces the candidates, the youth wing would also do campaigning for the members.” Akash Yadav, state president of Chatra RJD said over the past few weeks, the youth leaders have interacted with youngsters through social media platforms about what changes they want to see in Bihar. “The first-time voters, especially in colleges and universities, want employment, infrastructural development in all sectors and growth of industries. We are working to highlight these issues and are assuring them that their demands would be met if RJD comes to power,” Yadav said. He added, “Currently, I’m focusing on Hasanpur Vidhan Sabha, which has become a hot-seat in Bihar. We are telling people about what our party has done for the people of Hasanpur in the past five years, like building roads, education institutions and improving the health facilities.” The Bihar Pradesh Youth Congress members have started online campaigns by raising the unemployment issue as their main poll plank. State president Gunjan Patel told this newspaper that several neutral organizations of teachers, students and those who protested throughout the years against the present government are connecting with the party on social media platforms and are extending their support. “Around 5 lakh government jobs are lying vacant, including 3 lakh teachers, 50,000 police personnel and remaining in the health sector. The party manifesto would include this issue of unemployment and promise to fill these vacancies if the party comes to power. We are highlighting this issue on WhatApp groups that we created at university and college levels, twitter account, Facebook and Instagram page,” Patel said. Pashupatinath Upmanyu, organizing secretary (Patna) of ABVP said, “We are going to launch an online campaign against none of the above (NOTA), and hold discussions with youngsters through online platforms, to know what change they are expecting in education, employment and health sectors. The campaign would start after a state-level meeting on October 3 and 4, with the national organizing secretary Ashish Chauhan.” The CPI-affiliated students' organisation AISF would highlight the failures of the NDA- government in Bihar through social networking sites. “Youths in Bihar are moving out of the state in search of jobs and for higher education. No work has been done by the government in any sector. This is the motto of our online campaigns. We are trying to reach as many young voters as possible,” said state president of AISF, Sushil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/party-youth-wings-tap-social-media/articleshow/78468293.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 180% jump in cybercrime cases: NCRB report||PATNA: The state recorded 1,050 cybercrime cases last year as per the ‘Crime in India-2019’ report released recently by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). In 2018, only 374 cybercrime cases were registered in the state. If the figures of 2019 and 2018 are compared, cybercrime cases in the state recorded a massive jump of 180% last year. ADG (economic offences unit) J S Gangwar said increase in reporting of cases on National Cybercrime Reporting Portal led to the rise in figures. “The portal became available for people of one-and-a-half-year back. Earlier, only ATM-related frauds were being reported on the portal. The portal now accepts all kinds of cybercrime complaints with focus on women and children,” he said, adding efforts were being made to create awareness in the state against cybercrime. Gangwar said another reason for increase in cybercrime cases was exponential expansion of digital transactions. As per the report, committing fraud was the biggest motive behind all the cybercrimes reported in the state last year. In 844 cases, the motive was committing fraud, extortion (109 cases), taking personal revenge (27 cases), developing own business (46 cases) and sexual exploitation (six cases). Bihar ranked ninth among all states and UTs in the country when it came to motive of fraud behind committing cybercrime and fourth in terms of extortion motive. Overall, Bihar ranked tenth among all states and UTs in number of cybercrime cases reported last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-180-jump-in-cybercrime-cases/articleshow/78468384.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 4, 2020||---||Bihar elections 2020: BJP & JD(U) likely to announce seats today||PATNA: The BJP and JD(U) seniors designated to hold seat-sharing talks in Bihar NDA had a marathon four-hour meeting here on Saturday. They discussed things to give last-minute touches ahead of the BJP’s parliamentary board meeting in Delhi on Sunday for candidate selection, sources said. They said BJP and JD(U) would first announce the names of seats in their share and, only thereafter, their respective candidates from Sunday evening. “All the problems hinging on seat sharing between the two parties have been sorted out. That is why, the marathon meeting was held on Saturday,” a source said. While BJP national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and the party’s state election incharge Devendra Fadnavis were holed up in their guesthouse at Rupaspur, JD(U) seniors Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Lalan Singh and R C P Singh (MPs) called on them for a detailed discussion. Sources said the Bhupender-Fadnavis duo would now move to Delhi to present before the parliamentary board the seats shared by the two parties. “Only after that, the BJP parliamentary board would begin to choose the candidates for the respective seats for announcement either on Sunday or on Monday,” they said. Earlier, Bhupender and Fadnavis arrived from Delhi in a chartered plane. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal joined them in the discussion. The talks with JD(U) were to be held in a new situation as LJP chief Chirag Paswan is likely to quit the Bihar NDA. For JD(U), it opened a new situation to demand more seats, so that its final share could become more than that of BJP, as the latter, in any case, would have parted with a part of its share with LJP. It, in turn, would have left BJP with precipitate number of seats that would have been less than that of the JD(U), as Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) leader Jitan Ram Manjhi has been pragmatic and less demanding before CM Nitish Kumar. For the sake of BJP’s discomfiture, it would have implied abandoning the 50:50 formula in seat-sharing talks, a formula on which BJP has been insistent with JD(U), sources said. Further, JD(U) wanted BJP to understand its situation arising from the need to give seats to the five RJD MLAs who had recently joined its bandwagon and through it the NDA’s cart, sources also said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bjp-jdu-likely-to-announce-seats-today/articleshow/78468479.cms||Abhay Singh
October 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: 106 experts engaged in Congress war rooms||PATNA: The IT cell of Bihar Congress has intensified its digital electioneering to give a tough competition to the NDA in the state assembly election. It is helping the legislators address the concerns of different constituencies in terms of ensuring supply of essential commodities and services. Congress has set up its digital war rooms at Patliputra Colony with 80 social media experts, content developers and political analysts and at Rupaspur managed by 26 people in a bid to reach maximum number of voters. At district level, small IT cell offices have been set up with more than 3,000 volunteers. There are 64 people in the IT cell research team to conduct survey at block levels and address local issues. Sources said their main objective is to reach out to every individual and add 20 lakh people as its digital members through mobile application -- ‘Congress Party Membership’. State president of Congress social media department-cum-state general secretary Sanjiv Singh told this newspaper on Saturday that media experts were disseminating the party’s manifesto and local issues on Twitter handle, Facebook page, YouTube channel, Instagram, WhatsApp and mobile applications. “The party has launched three mobile applications since July. Over 6 lakh people have joined through ‘Congress Party Membership’ app and 77 lakh manually. The target is to connect with 20 lakh people through this app. We share the information about party works on our official app ‘Bihar Congress’. Recently, we launched a new app named ‘Congress Social Media Warrior’, to invite complaints about the local problems,” Sanjiv said. “Around 10,000 WhatsApp groups have been created at each block and panchayat to connect with local people. For instance, we have supplied essential items in flood-affected areas in Muzaffarpur and testing kit for Covid-19 in Bettiah through these WhatsApp groups,” he added. Sanjiv said the main issue that locals are raising is unemployment in Bihar. “After unemployment, people are complaining about the deteriorating law and order situation, followed by poor medical infrastructure, education and industries. These are the findings of our IT cell team. We will take up these issues on priority basis if voted to power,” he said. The party workers have also created 38 Twitter handle accounts and Facebook pages for each district in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/106-experts-engaged-in-cong-war-rooms/articleshow/78474874.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 4, 2020||Patna||EC picks banker as state’s first transgender presiding officer||PATNA: For the first time in Bihar, a 32-year-old transgender-woman Monika Das will be acting as the presiding officer of a polling station in the second phase. A banker by profession she would preside over a polling booth in one of the constituencies in Patna in the second phase, which would go to polls on November 3. Das will receive training for handling polling booths and tackling challenges arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. She would undergo the training session to be conducted by Election Commission officials at Gardanibagh in Patna on October 8. Elated over her new responsibility, Monika told this newspaper on Saturday that it is a big honour not only for her but also for the entire transgender community. She received the letter from EC on Friday. “I see this opportunity as a significant victory of our community, and it would leave a positive impact on the overall public perception towards the transgender community. Many transgender people still do not like to come out in the open due to the fear of rejection by society. This recognition would boost their morale as well,” said Monika, who was once known as Gopal Kumar. The trans-woman, currently working as an officer with Canara Bank's Kankerbagh branch, said, all presiding officers will be assigned polling booths after the training. “As a presiding officer, it would be my duty to ensure the smooth functioning of EVMs. I would also have to comply with all instructions from the district electoral officer and ensure the integrity and secrecy of the ballot,” she added. Monika, a gold medalist with a masters degree in law from Patna University, also won a beauty contest for transgenders. In 2015, she became the first trans-woman banker after overcoming life-long hurdles faced by her due to her gender identity. She did her schooling from Navodaya Vidyalaya. Reshma Prasad, a member of the National Council for Transgender Persons, New Delhi, said, “For the first time in the nation’s history a transgender has been selected as a presiding officer. Earlier, Riya Sarkar was selected as polling officer in Kolkata in 2016. It is a proud moment for us that EC has selected and honoured a person from our community. It is a challenging job, and Monika would do it with devotion and hard work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-picks-banker-as-states-first-transgender-presiding-officer/articleshow/78468276.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 4, 2020||Patna||Congress & CPI-ML stake claims on Rafiganj seat||AURANGABAD: Both the NDA and Grand Alliance (GA) will have find it difficult to select candidates for the six seats in Aurangabad district going to polls in the first phase of the assembly election on October 28. In 2015, BJP had won the Goh seat while JD(U) had won from Nabinagar and Rafiganj. RJD had won Obra and Congress Aurangabad Sadar and Kutumba (reserve) seats. Congress district president Arvind Singh said there is no confusion in GA over selection of candidates. “Congress will contest from its two seats,” he said. Congress workers also want to contest from Rafiganj. But political observers feel it would be difficult until Congress leaves its one sitting seat in the district. “It is difficult for RJD to give three seats to Congress in the district,” RJD state secretary Subodh Kumar Singh said. It is not easy for RJD as well. Sources said CPI (ML) is staking claim on Obra seat. CPI(ML)’s functionary Rajaram Singh had won this seat in 1995 and 2000 elections. CPI(ML)’s district secretary Munarik Ram said party workers are keen to contest from Obra seat. On the other hand, CPI has also demanded Rafiganj and Goh seats. Senior CPI functionary Irfan Ahmad Fatmi said: “The CPI claims on Goh and Rafiganj are quite natural and based on ground reality.” But RJD state secretary Subodh Kumar Singh said his party has already offered respectable number of seats to CPI in other districts. “As of now, RJD is likely to contest from Nabinagar, Obra, Goh and Rafiganj. But a final decision will be taken by the top leadership. The list of candidates will be finalized soon,” he said. In the ruling NDA, apart from Nabinagar and Rafiganj, JD (U) workers are demanding Obra and Kutumba seats as well. In 2015, Kutumba was with HAM (S) and the party led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi is in NDA, again. According to BJP district spokesperson Ujjwal Kumar Singh, party workers are keen to contest from Goh and Aurangabad. “Party workers are also demanding Obra, Kutumba seats but the final decision will be of senior leadership,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-cpi-ml-stake-claims-on-rafiganj-seat/articleshow/78468445.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Those detained under ‘draconian’ PASA can approach HC directly||AHMEDABAD: While the state government is expanding the scope of the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) by bringing more offences under its ambit, the Gujarat high court has thrown open its doors for PASA detainees to directly challenge detention orders. The HC has also referred to the chief justice the issue of pleas challenging PASA orders, which are treated as civil matters, to be considered as habeas corpus petitions. The CJ will have a re-look of the high court rules for treating the issue as protection of fundamental rights. Treating them as habeas corpus petitions would mean the government will have to show that detention under PASA is not illegal. Those detained under the Gujarat Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) may not have to wait for a sitting of the PASA Advisory Board to review detention orders. They can file petitions directly in the HC, which should not ask a person detained without legal assistance to wait for the alternative remedy or till his appeal before the PASA Board is heard. A bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala ordered so after holding that the Constitution as well as international covenants recognize and cherish individual liberty as the “most valuable and cherished right” and the state government cannot be allowed to circumscribe a detainee’s rights to challenge PASA orders. Holding that the right to personal liberty is not only to be protected but also respected by the State, the high court observed that it is not sufficient justification on part of the government to use rhetorical phrases like “dangerous persons” or “prejudicial to maintenance of public order” to invoke “the draconian powers of preventive detention”. The HC also observed that the government should not take the curbing of the fundamental right to liberty in a casual manner. The high court ruled so while hearing an appeal filed by a resident of Kutch district, Haidarsha Pir, who was booked under PASA after two FIRs. His petition challenging the PASA order was rejected by a single judge earlier on the grounds that he had an alternative remedy to approach the PASA Advisory Board. The HC said a PASA detainee does not even have a right to legal assistance upon his detention, the way the same person enjoys the right to defend himself through a legal practitioner upon arrest. This position has brought the division bench to the more serious issue of how to treat pleas challenging PASA orders. The judges discussed how in 1995, the HC rules placed pleas against detention orders in the category of civil litigation and decided that they should be heard by a single judge. Now, for the first time, the division bench has opined that the HC rule treating PASA matters as civil cases “needs to be re-looked”. The judges suggested that “preventive detention matters should be treated as habeas corpus petitions and a habeas corpus petition, questioning the legality and validity of an order of preventive detention, should be heard by a division bench of this court and not a single judge”. The division bench has ordered the HC registry to prepare an appropriate submission and place it before the chief justice or the administrative side of the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/those-detained-under-draconian-pasa-can-approach-hc-directly/articleshow/78468969.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||CM against welfare of farmers: BJP Telangana chief||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Saturday alleged that chief minister KCR is not interested in the welfare of the farmers and is opposing the farm bills only for political reasons. Addressing the media he said that Union government is bringing these laws to benefit the farmers. Sanjay said that KCR should study these bills and get an intelligence report on what farmers are thinking about them. The Lok Sabha MP from Karimnagar said that the BJP is coming up with a booth level action plan to educate people about the benefits of these farm bills. “Round table meetings will be held at district, mandal and village levels. Political parties that are opposing these bills are cheating the farmers. These bills are quite beneficial for the farmers. After these bills become laws, farmers can get a good price for their produce. They need not go anywhere, the buyers will come for them,” Sanjay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-against-welfare-of-farmers/articleshow/78468990.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 held with liquor bottles in Vastrapur||AHMEDABAD: Vastrapur police on Saturday late night held two persons, Jawansinh Rajput, 27, of Chandlodia and Rajkumar Kumavat, 21, of Thaltej with 23 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 10,465. They were held from near Geetanjali Party Plot Crossroads in Bodakdev. Police sources said a patrol team followed up on a tip-off about a person standing with his bike which had two bags full of liquor bottles. “We kept a watch on the man. Within sometime, another man, Rajkumar Kumavat, came there. As Rajput handed over the bag of liquor bottles to him, we surrounded and caught them,” said a Vastrapur police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-held-with-liquor-bottles-in-vastrapur/articleshow/78469006.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||TSA Narayanan is EME Colonel Commandant||HYDERABAD: Lt Gen TSA Narayanan, commandant of Military College of EME, Secunderabad has been elected 69th Colonel Commandant of Corps of EME. Commissioned into the Corps of EME on December 24, 1982 from Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, he held varied regimental, command, instructional and staff appointments during his 37 years in the army, . As commandant of MCEME, he has reviewed the training philosophy paying way for establishing new norms for conduct of online training, especially during the Covid19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/narayanan-is-eme-colonel-commandant/articleshow/78469005.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers block toll collection, allow vehicles to pass||KATHUNANGAL (AMRITSAR): Agitating farmers on Saturday staged a dharna and parked their tractors at Kathunangal toll plaza and did not allow the staff to collect toll from the passing vehicles. They also disconnected the electronic toll collecting system FASTag. However, the farmers did not disrupt the movement of vehicles, as they were allowed to pass from dedicated lanes on each side of the highway. “We are doing so to attract the attention of the central government and don’t want the common public to face any inconvenience,” said an agitating farmer Kulbir Singh. The dharna was laid on the call given by a conglomeration of 31 farmer organisations demanding to scrap the three agriculture laws, which they claim would play havoc with the farming sector and the farmers. On the occasion, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) also announced to not let any member of Parliament or MLA or other politicians, irrespective of their party affiliations, enter villages if they support the three farm acts. Meanwhile, at Devidaspura near Amritsar, farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee burnt effigies of the governor of Punjab and the President of India to show their resentment against the new agriculture laws. Addressing the gathering, state general secretary of the committee Sarwan Singh Pandher regretted that it is unfortunate that the Centre has not paid heed to their demands so far. Meanwhile, in an attempt to draw benefit of farmers’ anger against the central government, the United States (US)-based Sikh for Justice (SFJ) has attempted to lure the farmers with an award of USD 10,000 for hoisting Khalistan flag at Shambhu toll plaza at Punjab-Haryana border during the rally scheduled for October 4. General counsel of SFJ Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, declared a designated terrorist by India, told TOI on Saturday that SFJ has given the call for raising Khalistan flag at the Shambhu border. He said during the rally, Referendum 2020 ambassadors would be registering votes and added that from October 1 to 8, SFJ would collect applications and data from the farmers of Punjab and Haryana to distribute 1 million USD among those who are defaulting in agricultural loan repayments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-block-toll-collection-allow-vehicles-to-pass/articleshow/78469881.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 4, 2020||Chandigarh||MSP is here to stay; political hooliganism in name of dissent: Hardeep Puri||CHANDIGARH: Accusing the opposition parties of spreading ‘misinformation, disinformation and outright lies’ about the Farm Laws, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday claimed that the Agri Acts will liberate the farmers and even the Congress manifesto for 2019 had promised similar steps. Addressing a press conference, Punjab asked, “Why is it that 33 of the 107 MPs from other parties were absent when the Farm Bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha on September 20? Read the statements of Manmohan Singh and Montek Singh Ahluwalia. They had said in the past that these things should be implemented. The agriculture outlay used to be Rs 12,000 crore under UPA, which was raised to Rs 1,34,000 crore. Direct transfers to farmers went up to Rs 92,000 crore so far,” he said. Stating that no farmer will ever set his tractor on fire, the minister said Congress is indulging in political hooliganism. “The Congress manifesto for Punjab assembly polls in 2017 and then Lok Sabha elections in 2019 had talked about similar measures for the farm sector. But we all saw what happened in Parliament that day. That was not dissent or parliamentary democracy.” SAD was defending the Farm Bills till September 6 On BJP’s former ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Puri said, “I usually don’t criticise our allies. But if you see the (former) minister’s statement till September 6, it was being said the opposition parties are not right in criticising the Farm Bills. They claimed that they (SAD) raised the issue... I don’t know because Som Parkash and I also sit in the same council of ministers. There was definitely no talk about agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar giving a written assurance about the MSP,” he said. “SAD has been our ally and we did not part ways, they quit,” said Puri, reacting to statements by Punjab BJP leaders expressing happiness at the fact that BJP can now go solo in the state. Asked if he would term the end of SAD-BJP alliance ‘good riddance’, Puri said that may be the personal feelings of some leaders, but there had been no official statements to this effect. Earlier, Som Parkash had said SAD had to make a U-Turn after assessing the ground situation in the state. “Even Parkash Singh Badal had supported the Farm Bill,” said Som Parkash. Modi govt committed to giving MSP “Lies are being spread that farmers’ land will be usurped by big corporate houses under the new regime. But the Act says, ‘sale, lease or mortgage of farmers’ land is totally prohibited and farmers’ land is also protected against any recovery’,” said Puri. “Modi government is committed to giving the MSP to farmers. The Farm Acts are a win-win for everyone. Look at the condition of milk producers before Amul was established and where Turkey stood in food processing when Rajiv Gandhi visited there in the 80s,” he said. “Even the commission agents (arhtiyas) will end up benefiting from the new system,” he said. ‘Ready to Speak to Farmers’ Replying to a question why the BJP was not reaching out to farmers, Puri said that is why he was speaking to the media so that the right message goes to them. "If you want, we are ready to hold a meeting (with farmers) but it should be on the subject. We are ready to speak to anyone, but not the way the tractor was burnt. We have no inhibition in speaking to the farmers’ union. Tomarji, his representatives or the state leaders are ready to discuss the issue,” he added. Ashwani Sharma, Punjab president, said a committee had already been constituted to speak to 31 farmers’ unions in the state. ‘BJP workers being threatened’ Puri said BJP workers were being threatened and party leader Hans Raj Hans could not join them due to this. Party MP Som Parkash added that at many places Youth Congress workers were trying to threaten BJP workers and the state government should ensure that such a thing should not happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/msp-is-here-to-stay-political-hooliganism-in-name-of-dissent-hardeep-puri/articleshow/78469879.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Allahabad||‘All Prayagraj schools to remain closed till Oct 31’||Prayagraj: All schools across the district will remain closed till October 31 in view of the ongoing pandemic. This was decided by the district administration following a meeting, held at the Sangam auditorium on Friday evening chaired by district magistrate, Bhanu Chandra Goswami. It was agreed to keep all the schools closed till the end of this month. Schools will also not open for the children from classes IX to XII, as was decided earlier by the administration. In a meeting held on the Unlock-5 guidelines, the principals said that the parents are not ready to send their children to school. “We had a discussion on the issue of opening the schools and sought feedback from the parents. Out of 324 parents, only seven parents gave their consent to send their children to schools,” said Father Thomas Kumar, principal St. Joseph’s College. Similar feedbacks were given by all the principals and school management which attended the meeting. Around 70-80 principals including district inspector of schools (DIOS) RN Vishwakarma and Basic Siksha Adhikari (BSA) Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha were present in the meeting. “It was clear that parents do not want to take any risk regarding their kids and as per the instructions of the central government, schools will have to remain closed till October 15 and after that Dussehra vacations would commence, thus the consensus was reached that schools should remain closed till end of this month,” said ADM City, AK Kanojia. It has been decided that at the end of this month, another meeting will be held with the principals to decide whether the schools will be opened in November, after which a decision would be made. Recently, TOI had reported that parents of around 80% students enrolled in 1,079 UP Board secondary schools in Prayagraj district are not ready to send their kids back to school to get guidance from teachers amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The fact had come to light after UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla directed district inspectors of schools (DIOS) to seek written permission from parents about their willingness to send their children back to schools amid the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/all-prayagraj-schools-to-remain-closed-till-oct-31/articleshow/78467844.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Now, ‘best before’ date must on all containers of loose sweets||Panaji: The Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has directed all sweet shop owners to compulsorily display the ‘best before’ date on containers and trays holding loose sweets and non-packaged goods from this month onwards. The directive, dated September 25, to the commissioners of food safety of all states and Union Territories, states that the condition has been issued in public interest to ensure food safety. It states that the food business operator concerned may also display the date of manufacturing but adds that this is voluntary and non-binding. “The food business operator shall decide and display the ‘best before’ date of sweets depending upon the nature of the product and the local conditions,” the FDA has stated in a press statement. Food business operators have been asked to refer to the indicative list of shelf life of various types of sweets given in the guidance note on safety of traditional milk products on the FSSAI website. “All food business operators dealing in sweets should comply with above directions and the commissioners of food safety of all State/UTS shall ensure compliance to these directions,” the FSSAI directive states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-best-before-date-must-on-all-containers-of-loose-sweets/articleshow/78469880.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University may hold external students’ exams online||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University (GU) is weighing the option of conducting online exam for external students who are in their intermediate semesters. This was discussed at the varsity’s academic and syndicate meet on Saturday. “While everyone agreed to assess the academic performance of students by laying 50% weightage on assignments, for the remaining half whether to conduct online exam or assess by performance in the previous semester is something that has to be finalized,” said a GU official. “A final decision on this is expected to be announced soon. Further, it was decided at the meet to terminate the chemistry professor involved in a sexual harassment case after taking a proper legal opinion,” the official said. The GU has already conducted exams for the final year students. But it is still to decide about the external students who are in their first or second year of undergraduate courses. The varsity has conducted offline round of exams for regular students in arts, commerce and science, and law students in two phases, one of which began from September 3 and the other from September 12. The varsity has, following the University Grants Commission’s guidelines, exempted regular students who are in their intermediate semesters from taking college exams. They have been assessed based on their internal marks and previous semester performances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-may-hold-external-students-exams-online/articleshow/78469014.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Chandigarh||BKU asks JJP to withdraw support from BJP in Haryana||KURUKSHETRA: In protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana, on Saturday, gave a call to gherao (besiege) houses of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Singh Chautala and state power, jail and housing minister Ranjit Singh Chautala on October 6. They demanded their resignations and withdrawal of their support from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Haryana. BKU Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni, on Saturday, released a video urging farmers to unite in Sirsa on October 6 to lay siege to the houses of the Chautalas. In the video, Charuni said, “Everyone should gather at Dussehra Ground, Sirsa at 10am on October 6 to gherao the houses of deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and minister Ranjit Chautala to demand their resignations. We appeal to all independent and JJP (Jannayak Janata Party) MLAs to withdraw their support from the government as the country is going to be auctioned. Farmers, labourers and traders of all sections are on the verge of end.” He added, “On the one hand, India’s GDP (gross domestic product) has declined to about -24% and on the other hand, per hour income of Ambani has been running into about Rs 90 crore for the past several months. The government wants to sell everything in the nation to Ambani and it is a very serious matter. Lawmakers should leave politics and join the farmers. If they do not join us, then we are going to besiege houses of Dushyant and Ranjit Chautala in Sirsa on October 6. Later, independent and JJP MLAs will also be confronted,” said Charuni. BKU Haryana has urged farmers in Haryana to show black flags to MPs of their respective constituencies in protest against the three agriculture laws. Leaders are facing farmers’ wrath. BJP’s Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini and former minister Karan Dev Kamboj were shown black flags at Uncha Chandana village in Radaur segment of Yamunanagar district on Thursday and BJP’s Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal was shown black flags at Odhan village in her constituency on Friday. Banners barring the entry of BJP-JJP leaders in villages of Ambala district were put up recently. Charuni said, “As the MPs did not raise a voice in favour of farmers in Parliament, we decided to welcome them with black flags in Haryana. We will listen to them but will continue to raise our demands too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bku-asks-jjp-to-withdraw-support-from-bjp-in-haryana/articleshow/78469891.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Amritsar||Harish Rawat exhorts party leaders, workers to gear up for 2022||AMRITSAR: A day ahead of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s Punjab visit, newly-appointed in charge of Punjab Congress affairs Harish Rawat exhorted the state’s party leaders and workers to buckle up for the 2022 assembly elections. His announcement came a day after BJP’s newly-appointed national general secretary Tarun Chugh announced that the party would contest all the 117 assembly seats in the next elections. Stating that Punjab Congress has fulfilled many poll promises, especially farm debt waiver, Rawat assured to fulfil even the rest but with a rider that the central government should release the state’s due share of GST. “It’s the central government that has done injustice to Punjab by not releasing the GST money. We are doing well in fighting the coronavirus pandemic, but the Centre is not helping Punjab. It has been discriminating in release of central funds to the opposition governments,” he claimed. Reiterating that former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu is an asset for the party, Rawat said the party has high hopes from him and would utilise his skills, intelligence and abilities wherever required. Asked about the differences between Sidhu and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Rawat, while declining to go into details, said such things happen in a family and it would be resolved within the family. When asked whether the party has any plans for Sidhu to bring him back into active politics by giving him any position, Rawat indicated his return but refused to divulge the plans for him. At the same time, hailing Amarinder’s political acumen, Rawat said politicians like him become national leaders. Rawat on Saturday, accompanied by cabinet minister O P Soni, held a meeting with Bishop of Amritsar Pardeep Kumar Samantaroy and discussed various programmes initiated by the Church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/rawat-exhorts-party-leaders-workers-to-gear-up-for-2022/articleshow/78469896.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University to start more than a dozen new courses||AHMEDABAD: A slew of new initiatives were announced at the Gujarat University syndicate and senate meeting on Saturday. These include webinars on maternity care with the support of the women’s development council and the establishment of a Swami Vivekanand chair with support from the University Grants Commission and the rolling out of more than a dozen new courses. At the online syndicate and senate meeting, chaired by GU vice-chancellor Himanshu Pandya, it was decided to set up a committee at the university level for implementing the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The Gujarat government last month formed a taskforce for implementing NEP 2020 in higher and technical education. Various sub-committees have been formed to finalize courses and programmes, co-ordinate with other varsities and improve the quality of education. It was also decided to felicitate faculty and staff members for their research, patents and publications, said a source in GU. More than a dozen new courses have been announced. Various initiatives were also announced, including a School of Wildlife Biology and Conservation, a School of Imaging Science and Technology, a School of Design, Gujarat University Skill Foundation, MBAs in Public Policy Management, Business Intelligence and Analytics, Homeland Security and Disaster Management, among others, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-start-more-than-a-dozen-new-courses/articleshow/78469021.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Poll fever: LRS fee in Telangana may be reduced again||HYDERABAD: The state government is likely to reduce the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) fee. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao assured ministers and his party’s legislators that he will positively consider their request to slash down the LRS fee although it was already reduced last month on their request. The CM disclosed this during a meeting with the party leaders preparing for the polls. Elections for the Dubbak assembly constiituency, Nizamabad local authorities MLC, for which Kalvakuntla Kavitha is contesting, the two Graduate MLC constituencies and local bodies are scheduled to be held in the next few months. TRS leaders told KCR that many feel that the LRS penal amount is high even after the government reduced it through a GO on September 18. Though a couple of TRS members wanted a special two-day assembly session to discuss new revenue Act and LRS benefits, the CM did not show any interest. The chief minister said surveys have predicted TRS victory in the upcoming elections. According to him, his party will win Dubbak with a thumping majority and bag over 100 seats in the GHMC elections. However, he cautioned the party members not to be complacent about the two Graduate MLC polls. Take the Graduate MLC elections as an opportunity to silence the critics that the government employees, youth and unemployed are against the ruling TRS. Work hard to enrol voters who graduated after 2014, the CM told the leaders. The Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar MLC seat is held by the BJP while Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam by the TRS. The Election Commission of India is yet to announce the poll schedule. The term of the two MLCs ends in March 2021. The chief minister spent much of his time explaining about the new Revenue Act and the LRS scheme. “Though there is a lot of positivity about these two issues among the people, tell them its advantages, help the poor and every property owner to get their details registered on Dharani, and regularise their lands. Be with the people,” he said.CM KCR asked the party leaders to tell the people that the three Farm Bills passed by the BJP government at the Centre are against the farmers. Also, the electricity Act proposed by the Centre is against the interests of state governments and the consumers, and favourable to the private sector. BJP is lying on several issues, KCR said while talking about Farm Bills. The TRS had supported BJP on several issues in the interests of the country but the BJP government is not playing a positive role to solve the river water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, on the other hand there is a threat of Godavari river being diverted as part of river-linking project of the Centre, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-fever-lrs-fee-may-be-reduced-again/articleshow/78469020.cms||Roushan Ali
October 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Preneet Kaur: Modi government betrayed India’s farmers||PATIALA: Preneet Kaur, Lok Sabha Member from Patiala said the Modi government had betrayed the farmers of Punjab, who contributed by filling up the food grains of the country and did not allow the country to beg from any foreign country in testing times of food crisis. She flagged off a cycle rally organised by the Patiala municipal corporation to create awareness against dengue. She called upon people of Patiala to take precautionary measures against the deadly epidemic of corona and to keep their homes and surroundings clean to prevent dengue. Describing the agriculture laws passed by the Union government as anti-farmer, the Lok Sabha member said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been an irresponsible leader by passing laws with dire consequences. She said Modi government had laid the foundation of the ruin of farmers. She said the Congress government of Punjab, under the leadership of Amarinder Singh, will fight the battle of farmers. However, she said with the resignation of Harsimrat Kaur from the Union cabinet, the Akali Dal had completely lost its credibility. According to her, the proposed visit of Rahul Gandhi to Punjab to lead a tractor rally was a non-political decision to support the peasant movement. Preneet also strongly condemned the Hathras gangrape in Uttar Pradesh and said the culprits should be punished severely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/modi-govt-betrayed-farmers-who-make-nation-self-sufficient-in-food-production-preneet/articleshow/78469894.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj Chouhan, Kamal Nath engage in war of words over IIFA Awards again||BHOPAL: A month ahead of the assembly bypolls, a bitter Twitter war has ensued between chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and former chief minister Kamal Nath over the IIFA Awards, which was cancelled following the spread of Covid-19. On Saturday, the two leaders sparred on Twitter again. “Should I give relief to farmers who have become defaulters because of your false promises? Should I buy their produce? Should I pay for the losses incurred from crop insurance? Should I give encouragement allowance to students? Should I do ‘kanyadaan’ for daughters? Should I give loans to street-vendors or should I create a tamasha (spectacle) by gathering film stars?” Chouhan asked the PCC chief. The CM further said, “Kamal Nath ji, we will be honoured by the decision of the people.” In a second tweet, he said, “Neither do we know the politics of ‘tamashon’ nor of ‘tamachon’ (slaps). We only know the policy of service to the people. God, give me strength that I may serve Madhya Pradesh in every way,” Replying to Chouhan, Nath tweeted, “Shivraj ji, the people of the state had decided to elect a Congress government, so where did you get honoured by the decision of the people? Our government was toppled after bargaining. It was a murder of democracy and an insulting to the mandate.” Nath alleged that during Chouhan’s government, the state was identified with mafias and adulterators. “In our 15-month government, despite you leaving behind an empty treasury, we waived the debts of farmers, campaigned against mafia and adulterators, worked to bring investment to the state and provided employment to the youths,” he said. On Friday, Chouhan had called the film awards a ‘tamasha’. He also claimed that the Congress government collected funds from industrial houses for the IIFA Awards function. In reply, Nath said, “Shivraj ji, whose tenure was identified with the mafia and adulterators will think such functions are a tamasha (spectacle)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-nath-engage-in-war-of-words-over-iifa-awards-again/articleshow/78469028.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covid peak over? Recoveries more than +ve for 14th day||Nagpur: The district on Saturday crossed 80,000 Covid-19 positive cases with the tally reaching 80,844. The last 10,000 cases took a little longer as compared to the slabs when cases surged from 20,000 to 70,000. The district crossed 70,000 cases on September 24. A further 9,228 cases were reported in the last nine days. Also, there have been more recoveries than positive cases since 14 consecutive days. Positive cases were 876 on Saturday, which is the fifth time less than 1,000 cases were reported in the last seven days. In the first 18 days of September, positive cases were more than recoveries on 12 days. There have been more recoveries than positive cases since September 20. In the last seven days, there were 10,382 recoveries as against 6,613 positive cases. Highest 3,024 recoveries in a single day were reported on September 18 while highest 2,343 positive cases were on September 13. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI that with more recoveries than positive cases and increase in span of last 10,000 cases, it can definitely be said that peak of Covid-19 is over in the district. “But we cannot say that growth rate of positive cases has reduced. Test positivity rate (TPR) should be under 10% to prove decline in growth rate. Epidemic is considered as under control if TPR is below 5%,” he said. As on Saturday, TPR of the district was 17.22%. As per expert’s view reported by TOI on October 1, cases started riding the peak from third week of August and probably reached there in fourth week of September. There will be a plateau for at least three weeks of October before the curve flattens in October last week. Among 35 districts in the state, Nagpur is the fourth to cross 80,000 cases after Pune (3,00,623), Mumbai (2,12,462) and Thane (1,92,385). Nagpur was 10th in the state when it registered first 10,000 cases. It took 154 days for the district to register first 10,000 cases and it took 12 days to cross the 20,000-mark. Thereafter, span of each 10,000 cases was 9 days, 6 days, 5 days, and 6 days till the count touched 60,000. The district civil surgeon added 2,819 old cases in the count on September 24, due to which cases crossed 70,000 in a span of six days. Otherwise, the span from 60,000 to 70,000 cases would have been longer. As on Saturday, actual cases were 2,087 less than that projected by the Central government. Considering 51,471 cases on September 13, the government had predicted 98,663 cases on October 13 which means daily average of 1,573 cases. As per the projection, cases should have been 82,931 as on Saturday. The number of tests, cases and deaths in the district are on a decline since third week of September. The fall has fastened since October 1. Number of tests needs to be maintained to reduce TPR. But the number has gone down in last two weeks. The NMC has initiated various measures to increase number of tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-peak-over-recoveries-more-than-ve-for-14th-day/articleshow/78469163.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 4, 2020||Allahabad||‘Maoists training cyber fraudsters’||PRAYAGRAJ: UP Police’s cyber crime cell arrested notorious cyber fraudster Rupesh Singh, a resident of Ashana (Jhudo) in Jamui district of Bihar, and cracked the network of online fraudster syndicates operating in Jamtara, Devdhar, Sahebganj, Teenpahar of Jharkhand and Jamui in Bihar. Rupesh, arrested in Rs 10 lakh cyber fraud case on Saturday, revealed that cyber fraudsters are being imparted training by Naxal groups and have to pay handsome commission to them. The training for cyber fraudsters was organised by Naxal groups in forests of Jharkhand and Bihar and over 20 gangs are currently operating from the two states. Police are now looking for a key Naxal activist Pocha who collects commission from fraudsters. Rupesh said Pocha told cyber fraudsters that commission paid by them was a key money source for running Naxalite groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/naxalites-training-cyber-fraudsters/articleshow/78467922.cms||Kapil Dixit
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Spike in air ambulance transfers amid Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 has given a big push for air ambulance operators in the country. Several critical patients have been airlifted from different countries and states and transferred to medical facilities. In Hyderabad alone, an air ambulance service has shifted 25 patients, while other players are estimated to have brought in 40-45 patients for medical emergencies. Currently 4-5 operators and a few agents cater to the growing air ambulance sector, which is seeing an increased demand lately and has seen a surge in awareness during the pandemic. “An estimated 150-200 air transfers, including inter-state and inter-country transfers, happen each month,” Captain Amit Kumar, chief operating officer Bookairambulance, said, adding “awareness and demand are growing”. “There is an upswing in awareness during the pandemic. Currently, Covid-19 patients are also seeking this service, but they cannot be transferred due to rules and regulations,” he added. A majority of the patients airlifted were from some rural and semi-urban pockets and transferred mostly to five major cities — Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. “While the patients are of all age-groups and illnesses, recently we airlifted two premature twin babies who were extremely critical and were on ventilator support. They were brought from Goa to Hyderabad,” Dr Rahul Singh, co-founder, International Critical Care Air Transfer Team said, adding of the 65 air transfers since the pandemic, 25 were brought to Hyderabad. ICATT, meanwhile, operates a dedicated air ambulance service run by a doctor duo trained in aero medical sciences. It has a dedicated team and medical aircraft with required equipment like ventilators. “Usually, air ambulances in India are a make-shift arrangement made on chartered flights. Whenever a patient has to be shifted, two chairs are removed to fix a stretcher and the required equipment are set up temporarily,” explained Dr Sanjay Mishra, founder and director Air Rescuers Private Limited, which has been into the segment for the last 20 years. “While in the initial days of the pandemic, there was some impact on transfers, now we are back to normal shifting 2-3 patients daily. Usually, transplant patients and patients seeking tertiary care seek the service. With increasing awareness, this segment is likely to grow further,” he added. Currently, the chartered flights, mostly small aircraft (C-90 and B-200), cost anywhere between 5 lakh and 12 lakh per transfer, depending on distance and flying time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-air-ambulance-transfers-amid-covid-19/articleshow/78469033.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC to translate one order into Gujarati every day, post it||AHMEDABAD: For better public connect with judicial system and for utility, the Gujarat high court has decided to translate one of its judgments daily in local Gujarati language and place it on its official portal. The high court has introduced this aspect after taking a tough stand in the recent past on strict use of the English language in its proceedings. Those litigants who appear as party-in-person are now required to undergo a scrutiny whether they are able to properly present their ideas in coherent manner in English. Those find themselves wobbly in their expressions in the Queen’s language are restrained from addressing the court. This has been on a premise that the official language of the high court is English. However, Chief Justice Vikram Nath and the Artificial Intelligence Committee of the high court wanted to start this service by posting one order in Gujarati language on its website on every working day “for the benefit of litigants and general public”. The HC has decided to select orders on socially relevant issues for the purpose of translation. This translation will take place using software tools and correction to it would be made, if required. “The vernacular translation of such orders and judgments would be for general information only and for any official purpose, the original English version of the order / judgment as passed by the court will be continued to be treated as authentic,” reads a statement by HC. The high court started this practice from the day of Gandhi Jayanti on Friday by posting a translated copy of the order passed in the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-to-translate-one-order-into-gujarati-every-day-post-it/articleshow/78469034.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Goa University survey: Poor internet connectivity in rural areas affecting e-learning||PANAJI: A Goa University survey of its students has found that slow internet connectivity in the state’s remote areas is a major impediment in the e-learning scenario. A report based on the survey suggested that the government must consider establishing an optical fibre network as this can provide students with “comparatively low-cost connectivity”. “The majority (74%) of respondents were unsatisfied with the speed of the Internet,” states the GU report, adding that most of these reside in rural areas, mainly Dharbandora, Sanguem, Canacona and Quepem talukas. As per the survey, on average, a postgraduate Goa University student shells out Rs 350 a month to avail internet services. The report also found that most students access online classes on their smartphones. As students reported that the state-provided computers are damaged, the report suggests that the government considers making laptops available to postgraduate students through an EMI or subsidy scheme. Only 3.8% of the respondents use laptops to access the internet, and this will be a severe constraint for e-learning, the report reads. “The majority (80.8%) of respondents get connected to the internet through their mobile devices,” the report states. “Dedicated WiFi is available only for 12.8% of the respondents. This will be a drawback when we think of providing e-learning because mobile devices are not suitable for e-learning, and constant use could become a health issue too.” The survey carried out by GU had 553 respondents, which comprises approximately 50% of the student strength on campus. “Notably, 74.7% of the students have not used a MOOC (massive open online course) platform so far,” the report states. “The analysis of the reasons for not engaging in a MOOC shows poor internet connection (256) as the major impediment. Poor infrastructure like laptops and mobile devices (51) comes second.” A majority of the students also said they had not attended any online seminars. However, as per the survey, over 80% said they wanted to continue studying despite the challenges thrown up by the pandemic. The report states that “both ends of the communication system” at the GU-level as well as at the students’ end should be strengthened to make e-leaning effective. “We should ensure that students have laptops or desktops with the latest hardware and software,” the report reads. The feasibility study by surveying students was undertaken by Goa University “to understand the ground realities and chart a strategic and robust blueprint for initiating online mode”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-survey-poor-internet-connectivity-in-rural-areas-affecting-e-learning/articleshow/78470076.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gangi Reddy was a poor man’s doctor||HYDERABAD: Dr EC Gangi Reddy, father-in-law of AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, who breathed his last on Saturday in a hospital in Hyderabad, was popular in Pulivendula area of Kadapa district for his quick diagnostic skills. He would identify the ailment at the first instance itself and would suggest a simple treatment which would provide huge relief even to the chronic patients. Though a pediatrician by profession, he never confined himself to this specialisation alone. His wife too is a doctor and both were fond of their relative YS Rajasekhar Reddy, who was also a doctor. In fact, Rajasekhar Reddy was known in Kadapa as a one rupee doctor prior to his entry into politics. He used to take just one rupee or render free medical service to the poor. Gangi Reddy had nearly four decades of practice at Pulivendula and he was known for his pro-poor credentials. AP Lokayukta, justice P Lakshman Reddy, who also hailed from the same Pulivendula area, recalled how patients even from Anantapur district use to come for Gangi Reddy. “His demise was a huge loss to the poor of the area,” he said. The amount of respect he commanded from the people can be gauged from the huge turn out at his funeral at Samadhula thota near Pulivendula, where his body was laid to rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gangi-reddy-was-a-poor-mans-doctor/articleshow/78469031.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||HCQ to Trump’s new drug: A tale of changing Covid therapies||MUMBAI: Unconfirmed reports of US President Donald Trump taking an experimental drug after testing positive for coronavirus infection underline how Covid therapies have constantly changed over 10 months. India began its Covid-19 treatment protocol in March with antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQS) taking centre stage, but it is no longer spoken about. Read AlsoCoronavirus: HCQ, chloroquine linked to various heart problemsThe study, published in the British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology, revealed that HCQ and chloroquine were associated with life-threatening heart rhythm events, heart failure, and damage to the heart muscle.Everything in Covid care is speculative at the moment, said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19. “We are only sure about supportive therapies such as oxygen or prone position helping patients breathe better,” he said. Read AlsoHCQ was found beneficial: GovtNEW DELHI: Limited use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for treatment of Covid-19 patients was allowed as it has proved to be clinically beneficial in small single centre studies, the Centre told Parliament on Tuesday, reports Mohua Chatterjee. Junior health minister Ashwini Choubey was replying to aThere is also evidence of the steroid dexamethasone working well for critically ill patients. On Saturday, the little known REGN-COV2 — a cocktail of two monoclonal antibodies — became a topic of discussion after Regeneron Pharmaceuticals issued a statement confirming that it had provided a single 8g dose for use by Trump. Read AlsoHow the ‘world’s most powerful man’ is fighting CovidInstead of letting him play the waiting game at home like Boris Johnson and Jair Bolsonaro, Donald Trump’s doctors have sent him to hospital right away and started him on the most advanced line of treatment How did he get it? Trump has been on the campaign trail and he’s notoriouslyA doctor from a private hospital said many Covid drug candidates such as REGN-COV2 were being tested and were possibly offshoots of plasma therapy. “There are manufacturers trying to isolate antibodies from plasma that could help Covid patients. Instead of giving 200ml of plasma, the idea is to give specific antibodies,” the doctor said. Read AlsoDr Reddy's launches Remdesivir to treat Covid-19 in IndiaPharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd on Wednesday announced the rollout of potential Covid-19 treatment generic drug Remdesivir, under the Redyx brand name in India. Dr Reddy’s has announced the launch of Redyx at Rs 5,400 per 100 mg vial.In India, the treatment schedule almost uniformly followed across the country involved the new antivirals favipiravir and remdesivir. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force on Covid, said it is best to start patients in hospitals with antivirals. “Mild patients are given favipiravir while those with oxygen concentration of less than 94 are given remdesivir,” he said. Read AlsoIndia, S Africa seek waiver of patents on Covid shots, medsIndia and South Africa have sought waiver of patents and intellectual property under provisions of Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) from the World Trade Organisation for the prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. The proposal submitted to the TRIPS Council on October 2,A doctor pointed out that many patients did not prefer favipiravir because of the cost factor. “The entire course of favipiravir tablets costs Rs 8,000-9,000. People prefer to take the inexpensive combination of anti-parasitic drug ivermectin and antibiotic doxycycline,” he said. A BMC doctor said the invermectin-doxycycline combination is good for mildly ill patients who choose home isolation. The problem is most drugs have not yet been proven to work on a larger scale. “We have anecdotal proof of their ability to help Covid-19 patients, but there is no study to prove it actually works. In medicine, we only speak about evidence-based medicines and there is no evidence yet,” the municipal doctor said Coctors said it was not all dismal. “We now have an Indian Covid Risk Score, a scale that helps doctors decide how serious their patient is,” Dr Shashank Joshi said. Simple blood tests — CBC and CrP — can help a doctor decide the next course of action for their patients. “We only need to look at the red cell distribution width (RDW) and the neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio in the CBC test,” said Dr Joshi said. “Taking pulse oximeter readings at regular intervals helps.” Watch HCQ to Trump’s new drug: A tale of changing Covid therapies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hcq-to-trumps-new-drug-a-tale-of-changing-therapies/articleshow/78470912.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Surat||Union govt recommends against anti-dumping duty on nylon yarn||SURAT: The powerloom weavers in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) centre in Surat have heaved a sigh of relief after the union finance ministry and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) recommended not to impose anti-dumping duty on the nylon multi-filament yarn imported from China, Korea, Taiwan and Thailand.The decision has been taken by the government after the union textile ministry had opposed the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR)’s recommendations for imposing of anti-dumping duty on the imports from the south-east Asian countries. Powerloom weavers have stated that the quality of nylon yarn manufactured by the domestic yarn spinners was not up to the mark and the weavers are forced to import better quality yarn from other countries to reduce production loss. In February, the Gujarat textile commissioner’s office had written to the union textile ministry stating that against 19% rise in the import of nylon multi-filament yarn between 2015 to 2019, the production of yarn in the country had increased by 24% during the same period. Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers’ Cooperative Society told TOI, “Government’s recommendation for not imposing anti-dumping duty on nylon filament yarn will provide a level-playing field to the Indian textile industry in the international market. Weavers and knitters will be able to manufacture better quality fabrics at international competitive prices.” Chairman of Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI), Bharat Gandhi said, “The nylon weaving sector provides employment to over 1.50 lakh workers and has a turnover of Rs 6,000 crore per annum. With competitive availability of this yarn, the textile industry is all set to achieve new heights.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/union-govt-recommends-against-anti-dumping-duty-on-nylon-yarn/articleshow/78468252.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Varanasi||Farm laws: Irani slams RaGa for doublespeak||Varanasi: Union minister Smriti Irani attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his doublespeak on farm bills and asked him to term his party’s manifesto for 2019 parliamentary election as ‘black manifesto’ before calling the recently passed farm laws as black laws. Talking to reporters on her visit to Varanasi on Saturday, Irani said, “Rahul’s doglapan (double speaks) on farm bills is known very well. In its 2019 election manifesto, Congress had promised to repeal Agricultural Produce Market Committees Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-state trade — free from all restrictions. His 2016 speech in which he spoke on APMC Act has also not been forgotten.” She further asked Rahul why he skipped parliament session when the farm bills were tabled and passed and targeted Congress-led opposition for attacking Rajya Sabha’s deputy speaker. “They attacked the chair on which the vice president of India sits. Such degrading acts have become the work culture of Congress,” the minister said. Addressing a gathering of farmers at Shahanshahpur, Irani highlighted the key points of the new farm laws and said they in fact are making farmers independent after seven decades of independence of the country. “Now, farmers are not bound to sell their produce at any particular market of traders. They can sell it to any individual or organization of any state, who will have to clear their payment within three days. Farmers will fix the price of their own produce while trade-related disputes, if any, will be heard in their own districts, she said.“Those opposi ng the recently passed farm bills are worried as the new laws will break the syndicate of middlemen, and have not left any political opportunities for them,” she said. Irani also highlighted other initiatives of PM Narendra Modi for farmers and farm sector like Kisan Samman Nidhi, establishment of Agriculture Science Centre, soil testing facilities, soil health card, fisheries and others. She said PM Modi is fulfilling all his commitments to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/farm-laws-irani-slams-raga-for-doublespeak/articleshow/78468026.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kanpur||151 new cases take Covid tally to 25,630||Kanpur: A day after a high of 215 fresh coronavirus cases were recorded by the district health department, 151 new cases were registered on Saturday. Also six Covid patients succumbed. In the first three days of October, 559 fresh coronavirus cases have been recorded. Also in the first three days, 13 Covid patients succumbed to the viral infection. But Corona cases had reached its peak in September as 10,133 cases were recorded by the health department. Also 213 Covid patients had died in September. So far 678 persons have succumbed to the infection. With 151 fresh cases on Saturday, the total count reached 25,630. Till Saturday, while 6629 persons have been discharged after their recovery from Covid-19, 15268 persons have completed home isolation. The active cases on Saturday got reduced to little above 3,000. On Friday, active cases were 3151 and on Thursday, active cases were 3196. The deceased were resident of Chakeri, Barra, Yashoda Nagar, Lakhanpur, Keshavpuram, Lal Bangla. All the deceased were senior citizens. They were also suffering from other ailments such as Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), diabetes, hypertension. Health department collected 5506 samples for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/151-new-cases-take-covid-tally-to-25630/articleshow/78468058.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mock ‘terror’ drill conducted at Isro’s SAC campus||AHMEDABAD: A mock drill was conducted at the Space Applications Centre (SAC) campus of the Indian Space Research Organization (Isro) in the Satellite area of the city on Saturday morning. Sources said a message was passed through the control room that terrorists have entered the complex and taken a few Isro officials hostage. “Teams of Chetak Commandos from the Gujarat ATS, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) which handles the security of Isro, special operations group (SOG), bomb disposal squad and a quick response team rushed to the spot with a pilot vehicle to clear the road leading to Isro. “Local police including the ACP and DCP of the zone also reached the spot,” said a senior police official. “Local residents and commuters were surprised to see a dozen police vehicles outside the SAC campus and were curious about what had happened. Police told them that it was drill,” added a police official. Police sources said that city police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava directed all zones to hold such drills at vital installations. “Before this a drill was organized at Aakashwani Bhavan near Income Tax,” a police source said. A senior police official said the drill lasted from about 10am till 1pm. “A meeting was later held between all agencies to discuss the pluses and minuses of the drill,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mock-terror-drill-conducted-at-isros-sac-campus/articleshow/78469041.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bhopal||Freight train to Bangladesh flagged off from Mandideep||BHOPAL: In the midst of Covid-19 when most of the things have seen a downturn, it was heartening to see the first ever train from Bhopal railway division leave for Bangladesh on Friday, with 100 tractors on board. The maiden train was flagged-off from Mandideep railway station. The Union railway minister Piyush Goyal also tweeted and congratulated the officials for scripting history. DRM Uday Borwanker said, “Bhopal Division railway administration has been making continuous efforts to promote freight traffic through railway. For this, we are contacting merchants related to goods transportation, by giving information about various incentive schemes. They are being motivated to transport more and more goods through rail” . Borwanker said that 100 tractors were loaded into 25 AMG (coaches) and sent to Benapole (Bangladesh) from Mandideep station.“This gave the Railways a revenue of Rs18.23 lakh. This is the first time in the history of Bhopal division that tractor transport is being done by a freight train to another country,” he said. He invited traders to avail the benefits given by Bhopal division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/freight-train-to-bangladesh-flagged-off-from-mandideep/articleshow/78469047.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana health minister wants all vacancies at PHCs to be filled||HYDERABAD: State health minister Eatala Rajender wants all vacancies from the sub-centre level the Primary health Centre (PHC) level to be filled up on a priority basis to ensure that the department runs on full strength and to have patient counsellors in hospitals to bridge the communication gap between the patients and doctors.  The minister held a detailed review of the functioning of the health department and all its wings on Saturday. During the review, it was decided that issues related to recruitment and promotions will be ironed out for smooth functioning of the department. He also suggested that annual maintenance should be maintained for the equipment. The minister also asked for a reception desk to be arranged in every hospital for proper guidance of patients. During the meeting it was further decided that steps will be taken to promote AYUSH (Ayurveda, Unani, Homeopathy, Naturopathy and Yoga) and ensure availability of AYUSH medicines which boost immunity. Expressing dissatisfaction over non-implementation of key decisions taken in the past in the AYUSH department, the minister asked for AYUSH dispensary centres to be converted into wellness centres. Also dispensaries with less patient load were asked to shift patients to PHCs and all PHCs were asked to have an AYUSH unit. The state currently has 440 government dispensaries and 394 NRHM dispensaries. It was decided that a task force will be required for the development of AYUSH and a full report has been sought. The health minister asked officials to ensure that the quality of medicines and prices are maintained under all circumstances. It was decided that the staff of quality testing labs need to be increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-wants-all-vacancies-at-phcs-to-be-filled/articleshow/78469040.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Section 144 in force till October 31, cops to take violators to court||NASHIK: People found without masks in public places or those not maintaining appropriate social distance will now be taken to the police station, booked under relevant sections of the Bombay Police Act and then taken to court for further legal action — which could be a fine as decided by the court. Meanwhile, the police officer or constable, who registers a case against the person found violating the -Covid related rules and takes the violator to the court, would be given an award of Rs 100 and a certificate of appreciation by the police commissioner for every case. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey has given instructions in this regard to the in-charge police officials of all the police station by promulgating section 144 of the CrPC in the city. The decision to impose section 144 came on the request of municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav, who wants the use of masks and social distancing compulsory in the city. Pandey imposed section 144 from October 1 and it will be in force till October 31. As per the police order, there should be a minimum of 6 feet distance between two individuals and it is obligatory upon citizens to follow the guidelines issued by the government with regards to the containment zones. The compulsion of masks in public places, at the workplace etc. would continue and those spitting in public places will also face action. Shops have been allowed to operate between 7 am and 7 pm. Social and safe distance between customers is mandatory. Action will be taken if there are more than five people in a shop. There would be no social, political, entertainment, educational, cultural or religious programmes and even the weekly markets would be closed. People have been warned against crowding at places like Bhadrakali, Raviwar Karanja, Trimurti Chowk, Dwarka, City Centre Mall area, Central Bus Stand (CBS), Nimani bus stand, Meher Signal, Shalimar, Bytco Chowk, Railway station area, Datta Mandir Chowk, Lekha Nagar, Pathardi Phata to buy or sell groceries, fruits, vegetable etc. Those above 65 years of age, pregnant women, children below 10 years, those with serious illness should stay home, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/section-144-in-force-till-oct-31-cops-to-take-violators-to-court/articleshow/78469037.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 4, 2020||Allahabad||Activist seeks stay on narco test of Hathras victim’s kin||Prayagraj: A social activist, Saket Gokhale, has moved a letter addressed to the Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court seeking stay on the Uttar Pradesh government decision to conduct narco-analysis test of the victim’s family in the Hathras gang rape case. In his letter, Gokhale has contended that this decision of the state government is not only unlawful, but is also an attempt to coerce the family of the victim. He has alleged that subjecting the family of the victim to a narco-analysis test goes against all principles of natural justice, as they are neither accused in the case nor have been charged with any offence. The activist has said that the decision of the state administration to conduct the family’s narco-analysis test is an attempt to interfere with the proceedings of the high court. On October 2, the UP Government had issued a press note stating that “narco-analysis polygraph tests” would be conducted on everyone involved in the case. Earlier, on October 1, the Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court had taken suo motu cognizance of the case while summoning all the concerned authorities and the victim’s family to present their versions of the incident on October 12. It is alleged that four men had dragged the 19-year-old girl to a field in Hathras district, where they allegedly raped her. She was grievously injured. This gruesome incident had taken place on September 14. Subsequently, she died after battling serious injuries for a fortnight. She was first taken to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh, but later shifted to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi after her condition deteriorated. She was in a critical condition and on ventilator support and later succumbed to her injuries. The victim girl’s death has sparked an outrage. Initially, the news of her death prompted many to take to social media and demand justice. But now, nationwide protests have erupted over the death of the gang rape victim of Hathras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/activist-seeks-stay-on-narco-test-of-hathras-victims-kin/articleshow/78467877.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal for installation of ventilators in RH, Yeola||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has ordered for installation of 10 ventilators in two Covid-19 facilities in Yeola taluka at the earliest along with converting the rural hospital into a 50-bed Dedicated Covid Hospital facility. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation at his home town in Yeola, Bhujbal on Saturday stressed on the installation of five ventilators at Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) at Nagarsol and five others at rural hospital in Yeola town that will be converted into DCH to provide better treatment for people infected due to Covid-19 in the rural areas. A large population from Yeola and Nandgaon talukas rush to Malegaon or Nashik Covid-19 treatment. “The installation of ten ventilators at two facilities will provide a major relief for treatment of Covid-19 patients who may require the intervention. The officials should ensure the remaining work of the central oxygen lines is completed at the earliest to ensure the system starts functioning soon,” Bhujbal said. Bhuijbal also asked the health department to ensure appropriate expert doctors and nurses at both the centres to handle patients as well as the equipment to ensure better treatment to the people. Of the 100 beds at rural hospital at Yeola, 50 will be reserved for Covid-19 and the remaining 50 beds will be reserved for non-Covid-19 purpose, a senior officer from the district administration pointed out. Bhujbal further stressed on strict implementation of physical distance, wearing face masks, among other norms in public places and has asked police to enforce Covid-19 health advisory to ensure containing the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-for-installation-of-ventilators-in-rh-yeola/articleshow/78469042.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 4, 2020||Vadodara||Minister’s nephew shot at in Dhanpur||VADODARA: A nephew of minister of state for rural housing and development Bachu Khabad was allegedly shot at by a man at the Bhorva village of Dhanpur taluka in Dahod district. A petty quarrel over passing through a village is said to have led to the incident. The nephew Apsing Patel living in the Dudhmali village of Dhanpur taluka has stated in an offence registered with the Dhanpur police station that late on Friday evening his friend Dinesh Meda came home and they left together to go to Patel’s farm. Patel has claimed that on their way, they were stopped by two men who picked up an argument and objected to Patel and Meda moving around near the village. Patel has alleged that at this time two others including one Suresh Baria whom Patel knew came to the place. Baria allegedly pulled out a country-made handgun and fired a shot Patel. According to Patel, the shot injured him on his forehead near the right eye. Baria also started threatening Meda. Patel has stated in the offence that hearing the commotion, some relatives and others known to him rushed to his aid and the accused escaped from the spot. Meda and others rushed Patel to a hospital in Dhanpur for treatment. The police too reached there and an offence was registered in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ministers-nephew-shot-at-in-dhanpur/articleshow/78468313.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Satpuda Foundation volunteers construct check dam for wildlife||Nagpur: To tackle water crisis for wild animals during summer, Satpuda Foundation’s young members of the Vyaghra Mitra Mandal from Khapa village constructed a check dam to make available water during summer for wild animals. These youths are part of a primary response team (PRT) formed by Satpuda Foundation, an NGO working for wildlife conservation in Central India, to reduce human-wildlife conflict in the buffer area of Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) in Maharashtra. Seven youths with assistance from Satpuda Foundation constructed a check dam on a stream in the forest area near Khapa. Krishna Madavi, a wildlife lover and regular volunteer of Satpuda Foundation, said, “We constructed this check dam so that water is available for wildlife and livestock too.” Pipariya gram panchayat sarpanch Shekhar Khandate said the PRT along with Satpuda Foundation and the forest department is actively working to reduce human-wildlife conflict. Field assistant Dilip Lanjewar said the check dam construction will help prevent wildlife conflicts and also provide water for agriculture. Conservation officer for Satpuda Bandu Uikey said the project will not only help animals but communities too. Similar activities have been planned during the week in other villages of the buffer area of Pench. “Braving Covid-19 these community members are openly coming out by following social distancing norms for wildlife conservation. This is truly humbling and inspiring,” says Mandar Pingle, assistant director of Satpuda Foundation. Kishor Rithe, founder Satpuda Foundation, said, “Community participation is key for long-term wildlife conservation and undertaking such activities have huge positive impacts on wildlife conservation on the ground.” Ramnath Kokode, Dharmaraj Kumare, Sahdeo Tumdam, Krishna Madavi, Rohidas Kumre, Rajkumar Kokode and Ranjit Uikey of Khapa village volunteered during the shramdaan programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/satpuda-foundation-volunteers-construct-check-dam-for-wildlife/articleshow/78477975.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||No immersions ensure Futala Lake water remains clean, Sakkardara in poor shape||Nagpur: For the first time in seven years, the condition of Telangkhedi Lake has not deteriorated post the Ganesh festival. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s efforts to save lakes from the brunt of immersions seem to have worked well. As reported by TOI, the NMC took extensive measures to put a stop to idol immersions in all lakes in the city. For the first time, it cordoned off Telangkhedi Lake, also known as Futala, which every year sees the highest immersions especially of big idols. Mayor Sandip Joshi had also appealed to all citizens to immerse idols at home to save the lakes as well as ensure safety during the Covid-19 pandemic. The post-immersion water monitoring programme conducted by city’s environmental organization Green Vigil Foundation in collaboration with Washington DC-based international group EarthEcho revealed that Futala lake saw one of its best dissolved oxygen (DO) levels this time. During both pre and post immersion water monitoring, the lake’s DO level was found to be 4.5 milligrams per litre (mg/l). Last year post immersions, the DO levels had dropped to 3.5 mg/l from 4.5mg/l pre immersions. The fact that it has remained unchanged this time is a significant indicator that NMC’s efforts have paid off. Dissolved oxygen refers to the microscopic bubbles of gaseous oxygen mixed in water and is an important indicator of the water body’s quality. The NGO also monitored water quality of other lakes including Gandhisagar, Sakkardara and Sonegaon which were also barricaded during immersions. “The steps taken by NMC has ensured that the condition of the lakes has not deteriorated like in previous seven years when the water bodies used to be in a shambles,” said Surbhi Jaiswal, team lead at Green Vigil Foundation. Adding that the city has been receiving good rainfall since the last two months, she added, “This has resulted in high water levels at Futala, Gandhisagar and Sonegaon lake, leading to slight decrease in turbidity levels.” However, Sakkardara Lake continues to be in a poor condition. Deputy team lead at Green Vigil Mehul Kosurkar stated that DO and turbidity levels at Sakkardara lake remain at 3.0 mg/L and 80 Jackson Turbidity Unit (JTU), respectively. “The lake needs to be cleaned on priority, otherwise its ecosystem will get disrupted. Also, artificial aeration system should be installed in all lakes of the city, to enhance the DO levels and for establishing healthy state of water body,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-immersions-ensure-futala-lake-water-remains-clean-sakkardara-in-poor-shape/articleshow/78469055.cms||Manka Behl
October 4, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: SP, Congress protesters gherao Smriti Irani||VARANASI: Amidst strong protests by the women activists of Samajwadi Party and Congress workers, union minister Smriti Irani on Saturday said that the Yogi government will ensure justice in the Hathras rape and murder case, and that those guilty would not be spared once the SIT report arrives. Irani was in Varanasi to address a farmers' meet in Shahanshahpur area on Saturday. As she was stepping out of the Circuit House to address reporters in the auditorium of commission offices, scores of women activists of SP blocked her way and shouted slogans, protesting against the high-handedness of the district administration and the police in the Hathras case. Irani took the SP protesters inside the Circuit House, and spoke to them for a few minutes. Later, while talking to reporters, she said, “The women protesters were concerned about safety and honour of women in the wake of Hathras case. We too are worried about women’s safety. I told them that I represent a constituency where a senior SP leader is also facing charges in a rape case.” When Irani’s fleet was coming out of the commissioner’s compound, several Congress workers and NSUI activists intercepted it. They showed black flags and placards, and shouted slogans such as ‘Smriti Irani go back’. Irani called one of the women protesters who wasn’t wearing a mask. She offered a mask to her, and sought the reason for the protest. Congress protesters and policemen also indulged in a scuffle when the latter tried removing them to clear the road and ensure further movement of Irani’s fleet. Later, the police arrested nine Congress activists and sent them to jail. While talking to reporters, the union minister said that she had spoken to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath with respect to the Hathras case. “With the arrival of the initial investigation report of SIT, the SP and many other policemen had already been suspended. The Yogi government is committed to ensuring justice to the victim’s family. No guilty will be spared once the complete investigation report of SIT arrives,” said Irani. She further said that following the Hathras incident, she had talked to the National Commission for Women, which had then sought details of the case from the Hathras administration and police. With respect to a recent tweet of the Congress against her, Irani said, “Since my first visit to Amethi, I knew very well that I am going to be the target of Congress forever.” Reacting to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s remarks on rape cases, Irani said that she was hopeful that top Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would make a call to Gehlot as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-cong-protesters-gherao-smriti-irani/articleshow/78467993.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Volunteers line up for Covishield vaccine trials||HYDERABAD: The human trial of Oxford-Astra Zeneca Covishield vaccine has got the green signal from the state government, following which volunteer enrolment process has commenced at King George Hospital. It may be recalled that clinical trial of Covid vaccine Covaxin at KGH, being developed by Bharat Biotech, did not get the government’s approval. Conducted by Serum Institute of India at 17 sites across India, the phase three human clinical trial of the vaccine at KGH will require at least 100 volunteers and will continue for six months. “We enrolled 10 volunteers on Friday. We have taken their blood samples and both RT-PCR and antibody test would be done. As per rule, volunteers should be above 18 years of age and should not have been infected by the virus, nor should there be development of antibodies in the blood. Only then can they qualify for human clinical trial,” KGH superintendent Dr P V Sudhakar, who is also the Covid-19 special officer for north-coastal AP, told TOI.  The clinical trial of Oxford vaccine has not shown any adverse side-effects on volunteers in India so far. “Recruited volunteers would be given the first shot on day one and another shot on the 29th day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/volunteers-line-up-for-covishield-vaccine-trials/articleshow/78469045.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Despite farm protests, paddy arrival picks up in grain mkts||PATIALA: Even as the farmers of Punjab are actively participating in the agitation across the state, the arrival of paddy in most grain markets has not been affected so far, though farmer unions are expecting a slowdown in paddy harvesting in the coming week. On the contrary, the grain markets in Patiala, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts have seen a jump in both arrival and procurement of paddy compared to the corresponding period last year. However, there is some impact of agitation on the grain markets in Sangrur. In Patiala, 85,788 MT paddy arrival was recorded till Saturday, of which 70,409 MT has been procured. Last year, 8,881 MT of paddy had arrived till October 3, of which 3,201 MT had been procured. Patiala district mandi officer (DMO) Ajaypal said the arrivals have jumped more than 800 times over 2019. In Ropar, 14,572 MT paddy had arrived till Saturday, of which 14,532 has been procured, according to the District Mandi Board officials. Last year, only 587 MT of paddy produce had arrived till October 3. Similarly, in Fatehgarh Sahib, 13,630 MT of paddy has arrived in the grain markets, of which 11,056 MT has been procured, whereas only 1,499 MT paddy had arrived till this time last year. However, in Sangrur grain markets, only 1,693 MT paddy has arrived, of which 1,160 MT has been purchased, whereas last year the arrival till October 3 was 2,814 MT. DMO Jaspal Singh Ghumman said the paddy arrival might have been affected due to a slowdown in harvesting as the farmers are busy with the agitation. BKU (Ekta-Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh Patiala said, “We have intensified our agitation against the agriculture bills. Till now, the farmers’ protest has not been affected due to paddy harvesting, though the government started procurement earlier this year. However, in the coming week, the agitation may witness a decline due to harvesting. We are planning how to manage both agitation and harvesting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-farm-protests-paddy-arrival-picks-up-in-grain-mkts/articleshow/78469901.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Youth arrested for sending images of army area to Pakistani WhatsApp group||NASHIK: The Deolali Camp police have arrested a 21-year-old youth under sections of the Official Secrets Act for taking photographs of the restricted army area and sending them to a WhatsApp group in Pakistan. The youth, who is originally from the Alapur village of Gopalganj district in Bihar, has been identified as Sanjeev Kumar. He has been residing in the Deolali Camp area, in a tin shade made for workers. API R T More of the Deolali Camp police station, who is investigating the case, said on Friday, around 7.30 pm, the army personnel found out that Sanjeev Kumar had clicked photos of the army area and had sent them to a Pakistani WhatsApp group. After their internal interrogation, the army personnel handed the youth over to the Deolali Camp police and registered an offence against him under sections 3 and 4 of the Official Secrets Act, 1923. API More said Sanjeev Kumar had come to Deolali Camp about a month ago and had been working in the army area as a contract worker. He resided outside the army area in a tin shade near the Chintamani bus stop near the Deolali Camp railway station along with other contract workers. On Friday evening, the army personnel checked Sanjeev Kumar’s cellphone near the MH gate in the School of Artillery area, and found that he had sent some images of the restricted army area to a Pakistani WhatsApp group. More said the motive of the suspect would be clear once they get his custody. He was arrested on Saturday at 5 pm. The police said that so far, the suspect has been claiming that he has studied only till Class VII and does not know much about chatting on WhatsApp. He said that someone started chatting with him and he just responded. However, things would be clear during custodial interrogation, the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-arrested-for-sending-images-of-army-area-to-pakistani-whatsapp-group/articleshow/78469051.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Flesh trade racket busted; three arrested||HYDERABAD: The anti-human trafficking unit and Hayathnagar police jointly busted a flesh trade racket and rescued a Bangladeshi woman on Saturday. On a tip-off, police raided the brothel at Lecturers Colony, Hayathnagar and arrested three persons —Uyyala Yadaiah, his wife Chittamma, who were running the brothel and a customer Motepu Bhaskar. The victim was promised to be employed as a domestic help by a trafficker and was shifted to Hyderabad. The accused have been booked under 370 (A) IPC (exploitation of a trafficked person) and sections of the prevention of immoral trafficking act (PITA). Police seized cash and other material from the spot and launched a manhunt to nab the mediator, Imran, who had trafficked the victim from Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flesh-trade-racket-busted-three-arrested/articleshow/78469061.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Scheduled caste girl beaten by boyfriend||AHMEDABAD: A 20-year-old college student lodged a complaint at Chandkheda police station on Saturday accusing a man named Vijay Thakor of punching her in the face. According to the complaint, the girl was in a relationship with Thakor. On October 2, Thakor took her in his auto to drop her to Hemangi Crossroads. “There Thakor asked her why she had the numbers of other boys on her mobile. He got angry and punched her in the face and slapped her thrice. She got out of the auto and went to a nearby hospital for treatment. After that she filed a complaint against Thakor. We registered a case against the accused under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (criminal force used to outrage a woman’s modesty). The case has been transferred to the SC/ST cell as the girl belongs to a scheduled caste,” said a Chandkheda police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scheduled-caste-girl-beaten-by-boyfriend/articleshow/78469060.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar’s close aide surrenders before police||Varanasi: On police radar in a case of fraud to procure arms licence, Meraj Ahmed alias Bhai Meraj, a close associate of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and member of slain mafia don Munna Bajrangi’s ganag, surrendered before Jaitpura police on Saturday. SSP Amit Pathak said, “Meraj reached Saraiyya police outpost in morning and requested the in-charge to arrest him after disclosing his identity. Meraj also requested the cops to stop initiating action of confiscating his property. Taking note of it, the outpost cops confirmed his identity and when it became sure that he was Meraj Ahmed alias Bhai Meraj, cops arrested him.” Police had lodged an FIR against Meraj for committing fraud and conspiracy to get an arms licence sanctioned in his name. During investigation of Jaitpura police, it came to light that Meraj had not only attached police report with fake signatures of Jaitpura police station officer and a sub-inspector, but also submitted fake treasury challan. After registration of case, Meraj had tried to seek interim bail to avoid his arrest but court rejected his plea.” Police not only started issuing notices against the arms licences issued in the name of his family members, arms seizure, but also an the process of arms license cancellation and to seize his property. Two of his relatives have also been arrested. Pathak said by going through his criminal history, it came to light that Meraj was active in crime world since 2002, when first criminal case was registered against him. So far, 14 cases lodged against him have come to light, he added. Meraj had come to limelight when he was booked under section 3 (4) of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) with Mukhtar, Bajrangi and Iftekhar Ahmed for being a member of an organised crime syndicate by the Special Cell of Delhi Police in 2009 for threatening a South Delhi businessman to extort money. However, they were acquitted in 2016 due to lack of evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtars-close-aide-surrenders-before-police/articleshow/78467969.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kanpur||Oppn raking up ‘trivial issue’, says min on Hathras case||KANPUR: Minister of state for electronics and information technology Ajit Singh Pal on Friday termed Hathras case a “trivial issue” which was being raked up by the opposition to corner the government. Taking part in a saree distribution programme at Hindi Bhawan in Kanpur Dehat on Friday, Pal said: “As opposition parties are left with no issues, they are now raking up ‘chhote-mote mudde’ (trivial matters).” “The forensic report has revealed that the girl who succumbed to injuries was not raped. Investigations are underway and law will take its own course,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/oppn-raking-up-trivial-issue-says-min-on-hathras-case/articleshow/78454103.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Tiatrists sore over fallen name plaque announcing Remmie Colaco road||Margao: Tiatrists and tiatr lovers have expressed their angst over the bad condition of the name plaque of the Remmie Colaco Road, Curchorem. The plaque has fallen off and is lying in bushes by the roadside. Sources said that the road near the old Prashant theatre was named in memory of Colaco, a well known tiatrist from Curchorem, some two years ago as part of the series of initiatives taken to mark 125 years of tiatr. The plaque was unveiled at the hands of Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral. Tomazinho Cardozo, who headed the celebration committee, told TOI that he has taken cognisance of the incident and that the plaque will be restored soon. “It appears that the plaque got damaged in the heavy rains. It will be repaired and replaced within the next two to three days,” he said. Remedious John Colaco, popularly known as Remmie Colaco, passed away on March 22, 2012. Born in Curchorem on September 19, 1925, Colaco had acted in over 1,000 tiatrs and composed over 500 songs during his six decade-long career on the Konkani stage, which he enriched by his versatile roles as actor, singer, director, producer and scriptwriter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tiatrists-sore-over-fallen-name-plaque-announcing-remmie-colaco-road/articleshow/78469931.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kochi||Bineesh Kodiyeri to appear before ED in B’luru on Tue||Bengaluru: The enforcement directorate (ED) has summoned Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPM state secretary and former home minister Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to appear at its office on October 6. He will be questioned regarding his financial links with Mohammed Anoop, a drug dealer arrested by the narcotics control bureau (NCB) in August. According to ED sources, a notice was issued to Bineesh to appear before sleuths. His name came on the radar after investigators from NCB’s Bengaluru zonal unit arrested his friend and long-time associate Anoop (38) on August 22 on charges of peddling ecstasy pills and other psychotropic substances. He was picked up from a serviced apartment in Kalyan Nagar, and claimed he was running an eatery in Kammanahalli. Anoop is lodged in central prison. In his confession following the arrest, Anoop had told NCB sleuths that Bineesh had given him money for his restaurant venture, which later failed.  The narcotics team has not yet established any drug link between them. Bineesh then confirmed to the media that Anoop was his acquaintance and that he had given him Rs 6 lakh to support his catering business. ED, which has been simultaneously probing the money trail in the drug scandal allegedly involving Sandalwood stars, is said to have quizzed Anoop at the central prison complex here at September end. Following this, the ED team sent the notice to Bineesh Kodiyeri, sources said. Bineesh was not available for comments. On September 9, he was questioned by an ED team in Kochi, which wanted to ascertain if he had any link to Kerala’s gold smuggling case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bineesh-kodiyeri-to-appear-before-ed-in-bluru-on-tue/articleshow/78468318.cms||Petlee Peter
October 4, 2020||Kochi||Oppn flays govt’s duplicity in dealing with FCRA violations||Thiruvananthapuram: The opposition UDF on Saturday alleged that the government is resorting to double standards by opposing CBI probe into violations of foreign contribution regulation rules in Life Mission allegations, as the government, on June 8, 2017, had notified permitting CBI to probe FCRA violations in the state. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that FCRA came into force in 2010, and on this basis, CBI had sought the government’s permission to probe into such allegations in the state. In its reply, the state government had issued notification permitting the CBI to undertake probes, Chennithala said. The notification issued by the state government says that the government is according consent to CBI for investigating offences punishable under FCRA, 2010, and attempt, abetment and conspiracy in relation to offences under the act. The government had also given permission to CBI to probe any other offences committed in the course of the same transaction arising out of the same facts. The notification would mean that CBI can probe not only the charge of FCRA violation, but also the conspiracy and corruption that might have occurred in such a violation. On the basis of the notification, the government had last year handed over another case for probing FCRA violation to CBI. It had written to the Centre to take up the case against Good Samaritan Projects India and Catholic Reformation Literature Society. The government had handed over the case to CBI after the state police chief reported to the government that the case against the two NGOs, which were being dealt by the crime branch, had offences punishable under section 37 of the FCRA, 2010, and the CBI is the authority to investigate into such offences under the Act. On the basis of the state government’s request, CBI had taken up the case and registered an FIR on April 30 this year, and a probe is on. The CBI had, in the FIR registered for probing the allegations into Life Mission, slapped sections for conspiracy (section 120B of IPC) as well as corruption (prevention of corruption act, without specifically mentioning the section). The state government had approached the high court against the FIR registered by CBI, but the court had refused to quash the FIR. Instead, the court had asked the government to cooperate with the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/oppn-flays-govts-duplicity-in-dealing-with-fcra-violations/articleshow/78468307.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Zoo Park to allow visitors from October 6||Hyderabad: Six months after being shut due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the Nehru Zoological Park in Hyderabad will finally open its gates again for visitors from October 6. From wearing face masks to medicated footbaths at the entrance, the zoo authorities have released a set of SOPs to ensure that the coronavirus infection does not spread among the visitors. The zoo authorities have informed that the entry into the zoo without a face mask and those who have a high temperature will not be permitted. Visitors are also advised to maintain six feet distance from each other while moving around in the premises and at the ticket counters. The battery-operated vehicles will also be running with 50 per cent occupancy to ensure social distancing norms. “We are going to erect sign boards informing Covid-19 protocol at several locations. Also, guest house booking will not be allowed for the time being. Sanitisation of the zoo and battery-operated vehicles will be taken up twice every day,” said a senior zoo official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zoo-park-to-allow-visitors-from-oct-6/articleshow/78469076.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Despite nod from health department, offices slow about increasing staff strength||HYDERABAD: While state health authorities have given business entities the go-ahead to start full operations from offices, most companies are taking it slow. If many firms in the manufacturing sector have decided to continue to remain closed due to lack of demand, the Information Technology (IT) industry too is cautious about calling in additional staff. Currently, only 10% to 12% of the staff, engaged in critical operations, are working from IT offices. “Both manufacturing and service companies and unlikely to start full operations soon. While many are still shut, those open in the manufacturing sector are running at about 60% capacity,” said T Muralidharan, chairman FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry) Telangana State Council adding how most offices are following basic precautions like masks, gloves and sanitization. Majority of the IT companies too have added every possible precautionary measure in the book, the latest being installation of sanitization chambers and tunnels. Yet, companies are not keen on increasing the physical footprint at their premises at the moment. “Almost all IT companies have already announced work from home up to June 2021 and are not willing to call employees to office until a vaccine is out and employees are vaccinated. As for the 10% to 12% employees who are handling critical operations and have been working from office, all measures had been put in place like sanitizers, masks, gloves, face shields, thermal checks and social distancing, for their safety. Awareness messages have been displayed prominently in several locations within offices,” said Sandeep Kumar Makthala, gOfficelobal president, Telangana Information Technology Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-nod-from-health-dept-offices-slow-about-increasing-staff-strength/articleshow/78469069.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gram panchayat elections: 87.6% polling in 2nd phase||JAIPUR: The second phase of polling for 1,000 gram panchayats on Saturday saw a record polling of 87.6%. The turnout in the first phase was 83.50%. The highest voting turnout of 92.75% was recorded in Ramsar panchayat samiti of Barmer while the lowest turnout of 77.10% was recorded in Khurabad panchayat samiti of Udaipur. “Ramsar panchayat samiti has 29 gram panchayats with 66,617 voters. Of them, 60,237 voters cast their votes. This is a great achievement that too in the midst of the pandemic. It shows that people are highly motivated to exercise their right to vote and fully understand the importance of their democratic right,” said an official. Reports said that women voted in huge numbers. State election commissioner P S Mehra said the polling was held peacefully in all gram panchayats. “The commission is very amazed to see that the voters followed all Covid-19 norms like social distancing and face masks,” said Mehra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gram-panchayat-elections-87-6-polling-in-2nd-phase/articleshow/78469905.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nashik||NMC teams to keep tab on bars and restaurants||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to form special squads for keeping a tab on bars and restaurants in the city after they begin operations from October 5. Highly-placed NMC sources said that these special teams make surprise visits to restaurants and bars and examine whether the owners of these commercial establishments are following the standard operating procedure (SOPs) laid down by the state government and the civic body. “We are in the process of finalizing the SOP for bars and restaurants. It would be declared within the next 24 hours, including how many customers would be allowed at a time in these establishments. But, some other provisions under our proposed SOP have been finalized,” NMC sources said. It would be mandatory for owners of all bars and restaurants in the city to sanitise their outlets at regular intervals. Once costumers leave, chairs and tables have to be properly cleaned and sanitised. “Moreover the cooks, waiters and bar tenders will be required to wear proper face masks while dealing with customers. The owners should see to it that their staff wears face masks,” added civic officials. The officials also said that the owner has to keep a tab on the health of the staff and carry out screening periodically. In case of any suspicion, the owner has to get in touch with the health department of the civic body. Nearly 500 bars and restaurants in the city that had seized operations for the last six months ever since the lockdown started in the state. President of Association of Bars, Hotels and Restaurants (ABHAR) Sanjay Chavan said that the owners would abide by all SOPs issued by the civic body. “The civic body should not keep the percentage of the customer capacity too low as it would become extremely difficult for the owners to run these establishments with low footfall,” said Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-teams-to-keep-tab-on-bars-and-restaurants/articleshow/78469073.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 4, 2020||Kochi||iPhone row: Ramesh seeks police probe||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has petitioned state police chief Loknath Behera demanding that a probe be ordered to locate the users of the mobile phones, that were allegedly given as a gift to guests, at the UAE Raising Day celebrations on December 2, 2019. Unitac builders director Santhosh Eappen, who is under probe by CBI in connection with charges of foreign contribution regulation rules violation in Life Mission apartment project in Wadakkancherry, had in his writ petition in the high court said that an I-phone sponsored by his company was gifted to opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala at the celebrations. “This is fabricated and baseless allegation. I request you to take action to identify these distributed mobiles and trace them using IMEI numbers so that the persons who are using the mobiles can be identified,” he said in his petition filed on Friday. He also attached the copy of bills of mobile phones that were submitted in the high court, along with his complaint, from which IMEI numbers can be obtained. Chennithala told reporters on Saturday that he had taken part in the function on the basis of invitation from the consulate. He said that as per details of the function, it is understood that three mobile phones were distributed at the function to those who won a lucky draw contest. He said that one mobile phone was won by A P Rajeevan, state assistant protocol officer and former staff member of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. He countered Balakrishnan’s statement that the opposition leader, who has been blaming higher education minister K T Jaleel for protocol violation, also violated protocol by participating in the function and receiving the gift. Chennithala said that the protocol handbook is applicable for consulate employees, and if at all there was protocol violation as alleged by Kodiyeri, how could the state assistant protocol officer himself participate in the function. In reply, Kodiyeri said that the protocol handbook clearly states no lucky dip contest should be undertaken by foreign missions. He demanded that Chennithala should publicly apologize for the allegations raised against Jaleel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iphone-row-ramesh-seeks-police-probe/articleshow/78468337.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Collector for depositing used vials of remdisivir in pharmacy same day||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare on Saturday instructed civil surgeon of the Nashik civil hospital Ratna Raokhande to ensure that the used vials of remdisivir injections must be deposited in the pharmacy after use. He told Raokhande that the vials are to be deposited on the same day they are used. “In order to ensure complete transparency, I have asked civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande to ensure that the injection is sent to the Covid-19 facility on the day it has to be administered and at the same time ensure that empty vials are submitted on the very same day back to the pharmacy,” Mandhare said. The decision comes after a four-member enquiry committee set up by civil surgeon of district civil hospital suggested that used vials of remdesivir injections should be returned back to the pharmacy stores of the hospital to prevent any malpractice of clandestine sale of the drug. The committee was set up on the directions of district collector to investigate alleged sale of remdesivir injections into the grey market that was carried by a section of the media. The media report alleged that a contractual employee of the civil hospital had allegedly arranged and sold the remdesivir injection at Rs 1,000 less than the maximum retail price for which the injection is available in the market. The committee had given a clean chit to the civil hospital in the case saying that vial in question was not from the hospital. The collector further said, “I have also told the surgeon to ensure the vials are maintained in order so that they can be checked on any given day and considering the situation now, I will personally be inspecting the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-for-depositing-used-vials-of-remdisivir-in-pharmacy-same-day/articleshow/78469078.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Active cases cross 9,000 mark in Nashik||Nashik: The numbers of active patients in Nashik district has crossed the 9000-mark again with the addition of 355 fresh cases reported from Nashik Rural and 447 from the city on Saturday. The active numbers of patients across the district that had receded from 10,800 down to 7,400 has against started inching up to touch 9,444 on Saturday. In addition, the district also reported 17 deaths, including nine from the city. At present, the city has 4,139 active patients with 48,519 patients already cured while 759 have succumbed to the infection. Rural areas of the district, on the other hand, have a total of 4,778 active patients as of now with 16,242 patients having cured already. The rural areas have witnessed 480 Covid-related deaths so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-cases-cross-9000-mark-in-nashik/articleshow/78469083.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan tops in rape cases across country, says NCRB 2019 data||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has earned the dubious distinction of registering the highest number of rape cases in the country followed by Uttar Pradesh, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2019 data has revealed. While Rajasthan recorded 5, 997 rape cases, UP comes second with 3,065. BJP leaders — central and state — are flashing this data on their social media sites to counter the Congress’ campaign against the UP government over the Hathras incident. Rape cases in the desert state have seen a consistent rise in the last three years. In 2017, 3,305 incidents were recorded which shot up to 4,335 in 2018 and 5,997 last year. While the jump in cases between 2017 and 2018 was 2.4%, it almost doubled to 4.2% from 2018 to 2019. Maharashtra topped the country in the heinous category ‘gang-rape with murder’ with 47 cases while the state recorded seven such cases. The most astonishing part of the report was that almost half of 3,012 rape cases in the state falls in the category of friends and online friends, live-in partners on the pretext of marriage or separated husband. The report said 88.2% of the rape cases had accused known to the victim in one form or the other. The figure is almost similar in the other states. Commenting on the report, Rashmi Jain, head of the sociology department, Rajasthan University said, “The state is still living in the feudal mindset where women are treated as objects. This mindset has been the biggest contributor to crime against women. Second, there is no direct correlation between rape and education considering that there were several such cases in Kerala which has a high literacy rate. The numbers across the country indicate that women are highly vulnerable.” The only solace comes from the section of sexual assault/harassment at workplace. “The state records zero cases in this category,” reads the report. Jaipur too has recorded the second-highest number of rape cases in the category of cosmopolitan cities. Pink City, which is rated among the most preferred livable cities in the country, has 517 rape cases to its name in 2019. Delhi is leading with 1,231 cases while Mumbai, Hyderabad and Indore are on the third, fourth and fifth spots in the league of 19 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-tops-in-rape-cases-across-country-says-ncrb-2019-data/articleshow/78471906.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan tops in rape cases across country, says NCRB 2019 data||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has earned the dubious distinction of registering the highest number of rape cases in the country followed by Uttar Pradesh, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2019 data has revealed. While Rajasthan recorded 5, 997 rape cases, UP comes second with 3,065. BJP leaders — central and state — are flashing this data on their social media sites to counter the Congress’ campaign against the UP government over the Hathras incident. Rape cases in the desert state have seen a consistent rise in the last three years. In 2017, 3,305 incidents were recorded which shot up to 4,335 in 2018 and 5,997 last year. While the jump in cases between 2017 and 2018 was 2.4%, it almost doubled to 4.2% from 2018 to 2019. Maharashtra topped the country in the heinous category ‘gang-rape with murder’ with 47 cases while the state recorded seven such cases. The most astonishing part of the report was that almost half of 3,012 rape cases in the state falls in the category of friends and online friends, live-in partners on the pretext of marriage or separated husband. The report said 88.2% of the rape cases had accused known to the victim in one form or the other. The figure is almost similar in the other states. Commenting on the report, Rashmi Jain, head of the sociology department, Rajasthan University said, “The state is still living in the feudal mindset where women are treated as objects. This mindset has been the biggest contributor to crime against women. Second, there is no direct correlation between rape and education considering that there were several such cases in Kerala which has a high literacy rate. The numbers across the country indicate that women are highly vulnerable.” The only solace comes from the section of sexual assault/harassment at workplace. “The state records zero cases in this category,” reads the report. Jaipur too has recorded the second-highest number of rape cases in the category of cosmopolitan cities. Pink City, which is rated among the most preferred livable cities in the country, has 517 rape cases to its name in 2019. Delhi is leading with 1,231 cases while Mumbai, Hyderabad and Indore are on the third, fourth and fifth spots in the league of 19 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tops-in-rape-cases-across-country-says-ncrb-2019-data/articleshow/78469907.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 4, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan tops in rape cases across country, says NCRB 2019 data||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has earned the dubious distinction of registering the highest number of rape cases in the country followed by Uttar Pradesh, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2019 data has revealed. While Rajasthan recorded 5, 997 rape cases, UP comes second with 3,065. BJP leaders — central and state — are flashing this data on their social media sites to counter the Congress’ campaign against the UP government over the Hathras incident. Rape cases in the desert state have seen a consistent rise in the last three years. In 2017, 3,305 incidents were recorded which shot up to 4,335 in 2018 and 5,997 last year. While the jump in cases between 2017 and 2018 was 2.4%, it almost doubled to 4.2% from 2018 to 2019. Maharashtra topped the country in the heinous category ‘gang-rape with murder’ with 47 cases while the state recorded seven such cases. The most astonishing part of the report was that almost half of 3,012 rape cases in the state falls in the category of friends and online friends, live-in partners on the pretext of marriage or separated husband. The report said 88.2% of the rape cases had accused known to the victim in one form or the other. The figure is almost similar in the other states. Commenting on the report, Rashmi Jain, head of the sociology department, Rajasthan University said, “The state is still living in the feudal mindset where women are treated as objects. This mindset has been the biggest contributor to crime against women. Second, there is no direct correlation between rape and education considering that there were several such cases in Kerala which has a high literacy rate. The numbers across the country indicate that women are highly vulnerable.” The only solace comes from the section of sexual assault/harassment at workplace. “The state records zero cases in this category,” reads the report. Jaipur too has recorded the second-highest number of rape cases in the category of cosmopolitan cities. Pink City, which is rated among the most preferred livable cities in the country, has 517 rape cases to its name in 2019. Delhi is leading with 1,231 cases while Mumbai, Hyderabad and Indore are on the third, fourth and fifth spots in the league of 19 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-tops-in-rape-cases-across-country-says-ncrb-2019-data/articleshow/78471905.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||50 plasma donors felicitated in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: As the fight against Covid-19 continues, the Telangana Plasma Donors Association (TPDA), on Saturday, felicitated 50 plasma donors. “Plasma therapy is considered one of the most important methods of treatment. So, I decided to bring together plasma donors to help fellow human beings,” said Gudur Narayana Reddy TPDA president. About 800 donors have donated Plasma through TPDA so far. Thank You Plasma Angels — donors shared their experience. “I met the person who I had donated plasma to after his recovery. He and his family showered me with blessings,” said Shiva Bhandari one of the donors. “I have an extended family now,” he added. Joint managing director of Apollo Hospitals, Dr Sangita Reddy said, “The Plague led to Renaissance in Europe and people realised the importance of humanity, sharing of information and other virtues. Covid crisis will also help in the same way to bring the world together,” said Reddy. Sunshine Hospitals chairman, A V Gurava Reddy said, “It is commendable that so many people came forward to help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-plasma-donors-felicitated-in-city/articleshow/78469086.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan tops in rape cases across country, says NCRB 2019 data||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has earned the dubious distinction of registering the highest number of rape cases in the country followed by Uttar Pradesh, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2019 data has revealed. While Rajasthan recorded 5, 997 rape cases, UP comes second with 3,065. BJP leaders — central and state — are flashing this data on their social media sites to counter the Congress’ campaign against the UP government over the Hathras incident. Rape cases in the desert state have seen a consistent rise in the last three years. In 2017, 3,305 incidents were recorded which shot up to 4,335 in 2018 and 5,997 last year. While the jump in cases between 2017 and 2018 was 2.4%, it almost doubled to 4.2% from 2018 to 2019. Maharashtra topped the country in the heinous category ‘gang-rape with murder’ with 47 cases while the state recorded seven such cases. The most astonishing part of the report was that almost half of 3,012 rape cases in the state falls in the category of friends and online friends, live-in partners on the pretext of marriage or separated husband. The report said 88.2% of the rape cases had accused known to the victim in one form or the other. The figure is almost similar in the other states. Commenting on the report, Rashmi Jain, head of the sociology department, Rajasthan University said, “The state is still living in the feudal mindset where women are treated as objects. This mindset has been the biggest contributor to crime against women. Second, there is no direct correlation between rape and education considering that there were several such cases in Kerala which has a high literacy rate. The numbers across the country indicate that women are highly vulnerable.” The only solace comes from the section of sexual assault/harassment at workplace. “The state records zero cases in this category,” reads the report. Jaipur too has recorded the second-highest number of rape cases in the category of cosmopolitan cities. Pink City, which is rated among the most preferred livable cities in the country, has 517 rape cases to its name in 2019. Delhi is leading with 1,231 cases while Mumbai, Hyderabad and Indore are on the third, fourth and fifth spots in the league of 19 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-tops-in-rape-cases-across-country-says-ncrb-2019-data/articleshow/78471907.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 4, 2020||Goa||Flooding, the new threat to Old Goa’s heritage monuments||PANAJI: The world-famous Basilica of Bom Jesus and other monuments at the heritage site of Old Goa are at risk from a different kind of threat, that of flooding, triggered by the loss of green cover on its periphery. With neglect and decay of the centuries-old monuments at the church complex in recent years starting to show, the dangerous rise in water level near the Basilica, in the core zone, has been noticed after incessant rainfall since June this season. The 17th century church lies at the lowest level in the core zone of the site in a drainage system fed by two hills in the east and west. The hills were a scenic and natural buffer zone that sheltered and enhanced the heritage character of monuments. But the adverse impact of heavy concretisation from haphazard development is now beginning to be felt at the site. “The Basilica’s walls have been noticeably damp this season. For the first time, we have seen that they are not drying up even during dry spells,” the Basilica’s rector, Fr Patricio Fernandes, said. The apprehension over permanent damage to the popular monument - an important pilgrimage centre housing the sacred relics of St Francis Xavier, and a tourism asset – has prompted Basilica authorities to request a team of architects to study the problem. “The large movement of earth for mega infrastructure development and housing has changed Old Goa’s watershed and hydrology and led to a larger volume of water flowing down into the core area,” architects Fernando Velho, Oriana Fernandes, Vishvesh Kandolkar, Ajinkya Malkar and Aisha Kalangutkar noted in their report. “In recent years, haphazard planning, construction and expansion of the highway, and roads and other development within the buffer zone is likely to be disastrous for monuments at the world heritage site,” Velho said. “Extensive concretization of the area diverts the flow of water in open spaces and compounds of monuments. Thus, water is not being absorbed into the ground.” A row had erupted recently over the maintenance of the Basilica, as a contractor engaged by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had not been able to repair its roof before the monsoon. It was later completed expediently after the intervention of the state government. The team of architects has now suggested a few measures to prevent damage to monuments. These include demarcation of the buffer zone as indicated in the draft regional plan 2021, a ban on mega projects in the prohibited zone and regulated zone and special bylaws for Old Goa’s archaeological zones. “The buffer zone for nationally enlisted monuments is required to protect and conserve the heritage character of the precincts,” Kandolkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/flooding-the-new-threat-to-old-goas-heritage-monuments/articleshow/78469906.cms||Paul Fernandes
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Arrested 10 years later, rape accused gets bail to be with pregnant ‘victim’||AHMEDABAD: A court in Kalol town recently granted bail to a man accused of rape so that he could be with the seven-month pregnant ‘victim’ of the offence. This irony was the result of the long time the case remained pending, as the accused was arrested a decade after the case of rape was registered in 2010. The accused and the ‘victim’ had gotten married after eloping. In their 10 years of marriage, the couple have two children and were expecting their third when the man was arrested by Kalol taluka police on the basis of the FIR accusing him of luring a minor girl away from her father’s lawful custody and raping her. The man sought bail from the sessions court in Kalol town of Gandhinagar district and submitted that he and the victim were in love and she had, in fact, forced him to marry her. He asserted his innocence and requested the court to release him because he needed to be with his pregnant wife. He also promised to abide by all conditions the court would impose for his release. The state government, however, opposed the bail application and submitted that if set free, the man could influence witnesses and destroy evidence. After hearing the case, additional ssesions judge said that on perusal of the documents, it was clear that the accused and victim had got married and have two children. The victim is pregnant and therefore the court is using its discretion to release the accused on bail. The court ordered him to be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 15,000 with the condition that not try to influence witnesses and destroy evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/arrested-10-years-later-rape-accused-gets-bail-to-be-with-pregnant-victim/articleshow/78469084.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Michael Lobo not fit to hold office as minister, says Goa Lokayukta||PANAJI: In a major embarassment to the state government, the Goa Lokayukta said that waste management minister Michael Lobo is unfit to hold office as minister. Stating that he had “no business to poke his nose”, Justice P K Misra (retd) slammed Lobo for the “vengeful action” taken by him while serving as chairman of the North Goa planning and development authority. The Lokayukta also criticised other officials of the village panchayat of Arpora-Nagoa for causing loss to Arpora resident Rose De Souza by “deliberately” delaying a construction license sought by her. Indicting Lobo, Misra said he had no business to poke his nose and suggest correction of record for alleged access to the public. “If at all such a question arises, it can only be decided by the competent civil court or decided with admitted government records. Not by the mere ipse-dixit of an MLA or chairperson of NGPDA,” Misra said. “The NGPDA was obviously bound by the record maintained in the survey and settlement department.” Misra further stated, “The institution (Lokayukta) considers that it is its solemn duty to give a declaration that Lobo should not continue to hold the office of minister”. De Souza, in her complaint before the Lokayukta, highlighted the maladministration of the respondents, and alleged that they deliberately delayed the matter relating to grant of construction license, to cause harm and loss to her. After she submitted the application, a villager claimed that there was an access through the property of the complainant. The matter was referred to the NGPDA, and the villager too claimed access in the matter The respondents in the case were the sarpanch of Arpora-Nagoa, secretary and member secretary of NGPDA, and Lobo, who was its chairperson at the time. The Lokayukta also said that sarpanch Shrikrishna Nagvekar is unfit to hold office, and ordered disciplinary proceedings against secretary Rui Cardozo. De Souza is the owner of a property in Arpora, and filed an application for construction. Technical clearance was soon granted. Thereafter, she filed an application before the Arpora panchayat. Since the panchayat sat on the application, the complaint then moved the deputy director of panchayat in appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-not-fit-to-hold-office-as-minister-says-lokayukta/articleshow/78469930.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Central Railway starts three special trains||NASHIK: The Central Railway (CR) has started three special trains, including a Duronto and Garib Rath for travel between Mumbai and northern regions, of which, two will halt at Nashik Road railway station in both directions. Sources from the Bhusawal division said that Lokmanya Tilak Terminus to Prayagraj bi-weekly special train will run every Sunday and Tuesday from 5: 23 am and reach Prayagraj at 8:50 am next day. The return journey of the train will start every Monday and Wednesday at 6:30 pm and reach Lokmanya Tilak terminus at 9:30 pm next day. The second bi-weekly train between Lokmanya Tilak and Prayagraj will be a Duronto express which will start its journey at 5.25 pm on every Monday and Friday from Lokmanya Tilak Express terminus and reach destination at 12:45 pm next day. The return journey will begin on every Tuesday and Saturday at 7:20 pm and reach the destination at 2:55 pm. The third train that has been started by Central Railways is Mumbai-Jabalpur Garib Rath special train. It will start from Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh to Mumbai at 7:45 pm on every Monday, Wednesday and Saturday and reach the destination at 12:20 pm next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cr-starts-three-special-trains/articleshow/78469094.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Skeletal remains of girl found, 2 uncles detained||KANPUR: Skeletal remains of a 15-year-old girl, who went missing seven days ago, have been found in a ‘bajra’ (pearl millet) field in Gaholiya village under the limits of Rura police station in Kanpur Dehat district on Saturday. Her father has named his two brothers in an FIR and both have been detained for questioning. “My daughter was also raped before murder,” he told reporters. The remains have been identified as that of Lakshmi Devi, daughter of Om Prakash, a farmer of Gaholiya village, and sent to mortuary for autopsy. Lakshmi Devi had gone missing on September 26. The remains were found by some locals, who alerted the police. Subsequently, a missing complaint was lodged by Lakshmi’s parents at Rura police station on September 27. Lakshmi Devi’s father Om Prakash reached the spot and identified the remains by the girl’s clothes. She had gone to the fields on September 26 when she went missing, said police, adding that the remains were sent for an autopsy to district hospital. Om Prakash has accused his two brothers in an FIR. Earlier also, he had accused his brothers Brij Lal and Jiya Lal of killing his son over property issues. A couple of years ago, his son, who had gone for cattle grazing, had died after drowning in a village pond. “Even then Om Prakash had accused his two brothers of killing his son, though he had not made any police complaint in this regard. The matter was later sorted out following a panchayat,” police sources said. Om Prakash told the media on Saturday, “My brothers Brij Lal and Jiya Lal often fought with me over property. They wanted a major share in the ancestral property. I rejected their demands and they murdered my daughter.” “A dog squad and forensic experts were pressed into service. As the body got decomposed, no injury marks could be detected. We suspect that the victim died at least a week ago. Either the body was damaged by wild animals or the perpetrators of crime had used some chemical or salt to get it decomposed soon. A case of murder has been registered against Brij Lal and Jiya Lal. We have detained them and their questioning is currently underway,” said additional superintendent of police Anup Kumar. “We have been waiting for the autopsy report based on which further action will be taken,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/skeletal-remains-of-girl-found-2-uncles-detained/articleshow/78468082.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Results out on last exam day, Maharashtra to get 500 doctors||NASHIK: The university vice chancellor, Deelip Mhaisekar, had directed and guided the examination department to declare the results in record time to enable the medical colleges to have more doctors to treat Covid patients. The hospitals attached to government medical colleges are under pressure of increasing Covid patients. “We had engaged over 150 evaluators to evaluate the answer scripts of the students. We made all arrangements so that the evaluators could begin assessment of the answer scripts immediately after the first day’s exam,” added Pathak. On an average, the evaluators checked around 60 answer scripts a day. The evaluators are senior doctors involved in treating Covid patients and took out time to evaluate these papers. “We have sent the list of the successful examinees to the state directorate of medical education and research. These students would now have undergo one year of mandatory internship in the same medical college hospitals from where they have passed out. So all these hospitals would get more doctors soon,” added Pathak. MUHS had earlier declared the results of post graduate allopathy degree and diploma and superspeciality exam results within a week after completion of the exams on September 12. A total of 2,204 students had appeared for these examinations with pass percentage of 96%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/results-out-on-last-exam-day-state-to-get-500-docs/articleshow/78469088.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rashtriya Karni Sena general secretary files plaint||AHMEDABAD: District general secretary of Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena, Anirudhsinh Sagar, 22, lodged a complaint against Harpalsinh Jadeja, state general secretary of Rashtriya Karni Sena, at Sarkhej police station on Saturday alleging that Jadeja abused him near Ambli-Bopal Bridge and threatened him. The complainant has claimed in the FIR that the accused used to upload posts which could create a divide in society and he used to post comments criticizing his comments, said a police officer. “On Friday night, the accused called the complainant under Ambli-Bopal Bridge and asked him to stop posting comments against him on social media. We registered an offence under Sections 294(b) and 506(2) of the IPC against the accused,” said a Sarkhej police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/karni-sena-gen-secy-files-plaint/articleshow/78469101.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ajmer||Teen allegedly raped in Udaipur for 4 years||UDAIPUR: A 19-year-old resident of Jharno-ki-Sarai in Debari area was repeatedly raped and blackmailed for over four years by an acquaintance and his friend in Udaipur. The girl, who lodged a complainant at Pratapnagar police station on Saturday, said the prime accused even recorded the assault on his cellphone and shared it with a friend who used the clip to sexually exploiting her. No one in the family noticed anything wrong during this period, but the assault came to light on September 26 when the prime accused got inside the girl’s house and hit her. The girl said the accused are influential youths who have been giving life threats to her family and so they were forced to take shelter at her paternal aunt’s home these days. The girl said she met one Hemendra Salvi alias Gattu, resident of Bhuvana, four years ago when she was a minor and lived with her grandmother in Khempura. After befriending her, Hemendra called her at a room in Hiran Magri and raped her. He made video clips of the act and used them to threaten the girl. The teen told police that it was just the beginning of her trauma as Hemendra shared the clips with one Anil Salvi of Sundarwas area who also started exploiting her on the basis of the clips which they said would be uploaded on social media platforms. The girl said she had been bearing the trauma all these years but on September 25 when her parents had gone to Pali, Hemendra came to her house. Next morning after her parents returned, she was on the terrace of her home when Hemendra barged in and hit her so badly that she fell unconscious. She had to reveal the truth to her parents who had to leave the house after receiving threats from Hemendra. The case has been assigned to DSP Rajiv Joshi for investigation.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/teen-allegedly-raped-in-udaipur-for-4-yrs/articleshow/78472768.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||‘Saving India’s Wilderness: Challenges & Solutions’ to be released on Oct 7||Nagpur: To commemorate the completion of its 25 years, The Corbett Foundation (TCF), one of the leading conservation organizations, will come out with a coffee-table book titled ‘Saving India's Wilderness: Challenges and Solutions’. The book is a compendium of 25 essays authored by some of the leading conservationists and will be released on October 7 by MK Ranjitsinh, former secretary, Government of India and trustee, TCF. The book will be released during this wildlife week through a virtual event between 4 and 5pm. The authors include leading lights in conservation including Dr AJT Johnsingh, Dr Asad Rahmani, Dr Ullas Karanth, Dr Raghu Chundawat, Dr Renee Borges, Dr Deepak Apte, Bittu Sahgal, Vivek Menon, Ravi Singh, Dr Sanjay Shukla, Kishor Rithe and others from over 15 topmost conservation organizations and institutions in India and abroad. The articles encapsulate details on India’s varied ecosystems and biodiversity and offer solutions to address these issues. Carefully selected 185 images by well-known nature photographers like Dhritiman Mukherjee, Sachin Rai, Kedar Bhide, Isaac Kehimkar, and others have greatly added not only to the aesthetic beauty of this book but also its conservation significance. The book has been edited by Dr Rahmani and Kedar Gore. India, with its 3.29 million sq km area, occupies around 2.5% of the earth’s total land area, and encompasses a wide variety of ecosystems, harbouring 7% of the world’s known flora and about 6.5% of the world’s fauna. This amazing biodiversity places India among the world’s 17 most megadiverse countries. Unfortunately, India’s wilderness is under severe threat due to human greed and developmental policies that do not include wildlife welfare and conservation as a priority. Climate change is altering the attributes of natural ecosystems at a fast pace that many habitat-specialist species cannot cope up with and the sword of extinction looms over them. “The mayhem created by the Covid-19 pandemic has shown us a mirror to the stark reality that we no longer can afford to destroy and mismanage ecosystems and kill wildlife species for profit or illegal trade. This was perhaps Mother Nature’s way of retaliation against all this abuse,” says Kedar Gore. India is a developing country but it is high time that we do an introspection of India’s ‘developmental’ vision and take remedial actions while we still have time to take appropriate steps to prevent habitat destruction and extinction of species such as the Great India Bustard (GIB) and several other lesser-known species. “We hope that the knowledge shared and the environmental concerns expressed through these articles, reach the policymakers and helps in reshaping the conservation strategies in saving India’s wildlife and wilderness,” said Gore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/saving-indias-wilderness-challenges-solutions-to-be-released-on-oct-7/articleshow/78478027.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Sudden surge of coronavirus cases in Secunderabad cantonment||SECUNDERABAD: Health officials are concerned with the sudden spike in the Covid-19 cases in the Secunderabad cantonment area. After careful observation, the health department noticed that 90% of people are not following the pandemic guidelines and only the senior citizens are adhering to the norms. Citing a recent example, a medical officer told TOI, “A person tested positive for Covid-19. Surprisingly, he neither got admitted in the hospital nor isolated himself. He moved freely. Moreover, none of his family members were seen wearing masks.” Though the number of positive cases has increased in this area only 40 deaths were reported so far. “From mid-September, the number of positive cases are steadily increasing. Due to this sudden spurt in the cases, we have increased the number of tests at all the five centres. Earlier, we used to conduct only 50 antigen tests at each centre. Now we are conducting 70-90 tests per day. From every centre, 5 to 8 are found positive,” sources in the medical and health department said. Officials attribute this increase to the relaxation of the lockdown. “In March there were only 30 positive cases. But the numbers doubled in the next few months. Now the positive cases in cantonment have touched the 1,000 mark. Once the unlock started many stopped following the norms,” a medical officer said. Despite appeals from the government and health officials, people in the cantonment are neither wearing masks nor maintaining social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sudden-surge-of-coronavirus-cases-in-secbad-cantonment/articleshow/78469096.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Man, 5-year-old daughter electrocuted in Rajura village||Chandrapur: A man and his 5-year-old daughter were electrocuted in a nullah adjacent to their farm in Sindhi village in Rajura tehsil on Saturday morning. The nullah water had electric current as broken cable of an agriculture pump was touching it. Sources informed that the accident occurred when the girl, Shejal Chahare, went to the nullah to fetch water. She was electrocuted after touching the water. Her father Swapnil (30) rushed after seeing her collapsed in the nullah. As soon as he reached down to lift his daughter, Swapnil too was electrocuted. Sources claimed that there is an agriculture pump to lift water from the nullah. The insulation of the pump’s cable was ruptured due to which electric current was flowing into the water. Swapnil’s father was the first to sight the bodies. Farmers nearby rushed to the spot on hearing his cries. They snapped the power supply to the pump before recovering the bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-5-year-old-daughter-electrocuted-in-rajura-village/articleshow/78469091.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 4, 2020||Kochi||MCI denies permission to Idukki medical college||IDUKKI: The Medical Council of India (MCI) has denied permission to Idukki Government Medical College for admitting students due to lack of infrastructure and other facilities as prescribed by the MCI. The permission was denied by the council’s last hearing on September 25. In a letter sent to the medical college, MCI board of governors’ secretary general R K Vats stated that seven deficiencies, including residents (58%), bed occupancy (29.3%), faculty (18%) clinical lab and radiological investigation were found at the hospital. The report also said that there was no approach road to the hospital and an old district hospital building was being used for the medical college and para clinical and clinical departments were under construction. “The hearing committee noted that in the compliance submitted by the college during June 2020, the college could not fulfil many eligibility criteria for the establishment of the new medical college. The committee also decided not to grant letter of permission for admission of 50 MBBS seats for establishment of new medical college in ldukki for the academic year 2020-21,” stated the letter. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, no physical verification was conducted by the MCI officials. The medical college has lost the last chance of admitting MBBS students in the current academic year. The college was started by the former UDF government in 2014 at the Idukki district hospital building near district headquarters at Cheruthoni with intake of 50 students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mci-denies-permission-to-idukki-medical-college/articleshow/78468346.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Udaipur||Teen allegedly raped in Udaipur for 4 years||UDAIPUR: A 19-year-old resident of Jharno-ki-Sarai in Debari area was repeatedly raped and blackmailed for over four years by an acquaintance and his friend in Udaipur. The girl, who lodged a complainant at Pratapnagar police station on Saturday, said the prime accused even recorded the assault on his cellphone and shared it with a friend who used the clip to sexually exploiting her. No one in the family noticed anything wrong during this period, but the assault came to light on September 26 when the prime accused got inside the girl’s house and hit her. The girl said the accused are influential youths who have been giving life threats to her family and so they were forced to take shelter at her paternal aunt’s home these days. The girl said she met one Hemendra Salvi alias Gattu, resident of Bhuvana, four years ago when she was a minor and lived with her grandmother in Khempura. After befriending her, Hemendra called her at a room in Hiran Magri and raped her. He made video clips of the act and used them to threaten the girl. The teen told police that it was just the beginning of her trauma as Hemendra shared the clips with one Anil Salvi of Sundarwas area who also started exploiting her on the basis of the clips which they said would be uploaded on social media platforms. The girl said she had been bearing the trauma all these years but on September 25 when her parents had gone to Pali, Hemendra came to her house. Next morning after her parents returned, she was on the terrace of her home when Hemendra barged in and hit her so badly that she fell unconscious. She had to reveal the truth to her parents who had to leave the house after receiving threats from Hemendra. The case has been assigned to DSP Rajiv Joshi for investigation.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/teen-allegedly-raped-in-udaipur-for-4-yrs/articleshow/78472764.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Teen allegedly raped in Udaipur for 4 years||UDAIPUR: A 19-year-old resident of Jharno-ki-Sarai in Debari area was repeatedly raped and blackmailed for over four years by an acquaintance and his friend in Udaipur. The girl, who lodged a complainant at Pratapnagar police station on Saturday, said the prime accused even recorded the assault on his cellphone and shared it with a friend who used the clip to sexually exploiting her. No one in the family noticed anything wrong during this period, but the assault came to light on September 26 when the prime accused got inside the girl’s house and hit her. The girl said the accused are influential youths who have been giving life threats to her family and so they were forced to take shelter at her paternal aunt’s home these days. The girl said she met one Hemendra Salvi alias Gattu, resident of Bhuvana, four years ago when she was a minor and lived with her grandmother in Khempura. After befriending her, Hemendra called her at a room in Hiran Magri and raped her. He made video clips of the act and used them to threaten the girl. The teen told police that it was just the beginning of her trauma as Hemendra shared the clips with one Anil Salvi of Sundarwas area who also started exploiting her on the basis of the clips which they said would be uploaded on social media platforms. The girl said she had been bearing the trauma all these years but on September 25 when her parents had gone to Pali, Hemendra came to her house. Next morning after her parents returned, she was on the terrace of her home when Hemendra barged in and hit her so badly that she fell unconscious. She had to reveal the truth to her parents who had to leave the house after receiving threats from Hemendra. The case has been assigned to DSP Rajiv Joshi for investigation.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-allegedly-raped-in-udaipur-for-4-yrs/articleshow/78469929.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jodhpur||Teen allegedly raped in Udaipur for 4 years||UDAIPUR: A 19-year-old resident of Jharno-ki-Sarai in Debari area was repeatedly raped and blackmailed for over four years by an acquaintance and his friend in Udaipur. The girl, who lodged a complainant at Pratapnagar police station on Saturday, said the prime accused even recorded the assault on his cellphone and shared it with a friend who used the clip to sexually exploiting her. No one in the family noticed anything wrong during this period, but the assault came to light on September 26 when the prime accused got inside the girl’s house and hit her. The girl said the accused are influential youths who have been giving life threats to her family and so they were forced to take shelter at her paternal aunt’s home these days. The girl said she met one Hemendra Salvi alias Gattu, resident of Bhuvana, four years ago when she was a minor and lived with her grandmother in Khempura. After befriending her, Hemendra called her at a room in Hiran Magri and raped her. He made video clips of the act and used them to threaten the girl. The teen told police that it was just the beginning of her trauma as Hemendra shared the clips with one Anil Salvi of Sundarwas area who also started exploiting her on the basis of the clips which they said would be uploaded on social media platforms. The girl said she had been bearing the trauma all these years but on September 25 when her parents had gone to Pali, Hemendra came to her house. Next morning after her parents returned, she was on the terrace of her home when Hemendra barged in and hit her so badly that she fell unconscious. She had to reveal the truth to her parents who had to leave the house after receiving threats from Hemendra. The case has been assigned to DSP Rajiv Joshi for investigation.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/teen-allegedly-raped-in-udaipur-for-4-yrs/articleshow/78472765.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu actors agree to 20% cut in remunerations||HYDERABAD: To keep the wheels of the multi-crore Telugu film industry running and steer it out of the Covid situation, film artistes have reportedly agreed for a 20 per cent cut in their remuneration. This is to facilitate production of films and to enable the film industry tide over the crisis. The Active Telugu Film Producers Guild on Saturday announced that an agreement had been reached with the Movie Artistes Association (MAA) on the remuneration after it held ‘fruitful discussions’. From whatever remuneration each of the artistes were taking prior to Covid, the reduction will be 20 per cent. Also technicians and other individuals who were being paid Rs 5 lakh per film will also have a 20 per cent reduction in their remuneration. Artistes whose remuneration is Rs 20,000 per day will be exempt from the 20 per cent reduction decision. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/actors-agree-to-20-cut-in-remunerations/articleshow/78469092.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 4, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 65-year-old booked for rape bid||BAREILLY: A 65-year-old man was booked for attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl in Kanshiram colony in Shahjahanpur city on Saturday. The man was thrashed by locals and later handed over to the police. The man was booked under IPC sections 354 (assault to outrage the modesty of a woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) and POCSO Act. The girl was sent for medical examination and police force was deployed in the colony to ensure peace as the minor belonged to another community. The complaint lodged by the girl's father mentions that the girl was playing with her younger brother when the accused Israr, who lives in the neighbourhood, offered biscuits to both of them and took them along in his room where he attempted to sexually assault the girl. The girl somehow managed to escape from there and narrated the ordeal to her mother. SHO Pravesh Singh said, “We have registered an FIR and the accused is in our custody. We are taking cautious steps as attempts could be made to make this matter communal. The girl’s medical report will be available soon. Statement of the family will be recorded in front of a magistrate and the accused would be sent to jail.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/65-year-old-booked-for-rape-bid/articleshow/78469093.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Two held for betting on IPL matches in Ajmer dist||Ajmer: Ganj police on Saturday arrested two youths for betting in IPL matches. Police seized two mobiles, a laptop, Rs 5,000 and an account with Rs 2.60 lakh of betting money. According to police, they raided a house on Foisagar Road where the two accused Ravi Ramlakhani (30) and Puneet Tak (32) were running a betting racket. Three arrested with country-made pistols: Clock Tower police on Saturday arrested three persons with countrymade pistols. Police said they arrested Rajveer Singh, a resident of Foy Sagar Road, and seized a countrymade pistol from his possession. During interrogation Singh revealed that he purchased the weapon from Vardhman Jain, a resident of Fathegarh, near Sarwar. Woman duped of Rs 64k: Saroj Saini, a resident of Adarsh Nagar, was duped of Rs 64,000 by an unknown person who helped her withdraw money from an ATM. Clock tower police said Saroj on Saturday came to city for some work and was trying to withdraw money from an ATM on Station Road. Seeing that she was having problems, a youth standing outside tried to help her and asked the pin of her ATM card. Later, Saroj got a message that Rs 64,000 was withdrawn from her account without her knowledge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-held-for-betting-on-ipl-matches-in-ajmer-dist/articleshow/78469952.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bareilly||70-yr-old year dies in hit-and-run case||Pilibhit: Kalyan Singh (70) of Singhpur village, under Pilibhit's Puranpur kotwali police station, was run over by an unidentified speeding vehicle on the Pilibhit – Basti stretch of national highway 730 on Saturday morning when he was waiting for a public transport vehicle to go to Puranpur to buy medicines. He died on the spot. The vehicle driver fled the spot. An FIR has been lodged against the unidentified driver, said SHO SK Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/70-yr-old-year-dies-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/78469099.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bareilly||Mystery deaths: Two youths jump off overhead water tank in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: Two youths, both 23 years old, jumped off an overhead water tank in Kakra area of Shahjahanpur city on Friday night, baffling police. Both had suddenly left their homes after receiving a phone call, police said. Both climbed atop the tank and jumped down. It is not known why they jumped to their deaths.The deceased were identified as Akash Kumar, an engineer, and Saurabh, an assistant of a doctor. Both were barely acquainted. Their families could not throw any light on the matter.Akash had got married in June but his wife had gone back to her parents' home on September 27 due to unknown reasons. Family said that Akash had skipped work after his wife had refused to return. Saurabh's wife, Aarti, was shocked to learn about his death.Ashok Pal, SHO, Sadar Bazaar police station, said, “The reason behind this extreme step is still a mystery for us but we have sought their call details and are waiting to record the statement of Akash’s wife.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mystery-deaths-two-youths-jump-off-overhead-water-tank-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78469102.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 4, 2020||Vadodara||93% candidates appear for PET at MSU||VADODARA: M S University registered 93% presence in the PhD Entrance Test (PET) which was conducted online on Saturday. The tenth PET saw 1,168 students appearing for the test against 1,253 candidates who had registered for it. It is worth mentioning here that last year a total of 1,011 candidates had registered for PET against which 892 had finally appeared. PET is the qualifying test which is held for admission to PhD across various departments of the university. “We had conducted PET for 39 subjects. A majority of candidates appeared for life sciences, chemistry, physics, English among others,” said PET’s coordinator professor C N Murthy. The test was conducted on university developed online platform in two sessions. While paper I was for testing the general aptitude, analytical skills and research methodology of the candidates, paper II was for testing the subject proficiency of the candidates. “Both the sessions were of one hour each. Students had to answer 50 MCQ-based questions in one session,” said Murthy, adding that the questions were a combination of easy, moderate and high degrees of difficulties. To avoid last minute panic, the university had conducted two mock rounds ahead of the test. “The students were quite prepared for the test and it was conducted smoothly without any major hitches. Also, students were very cooperative during the test,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/93-candidates-appear-for-pet-at-msu/articleshow/78468330.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon varsity exams from October 12||NASHIK: The online and offline examinations of the final semester for final year students pursuing courses at the Kaviyatri Bahinabai Chaudhari North Maharashtra University, Jalgaon, will be held from October 12. The KBCNMU had issued a letter on September 30 about postponement of examinations of the last semester of the final year of all degree, graduate and post graduate courses conducted by the varsity. Public relations officer Sunil Patil said, “The examinations will start from October 12 and will be conducted as per the timetable that has been put on the website http://exam.nmu.ac.in.” On September 29, the varsity had announced that the exams slated to begin from October 1 were postponed indefinitely following ‘pen down’ and ‘tool down’ agitation by non-teaching staff since September 24. According to officials, there are 53,504 final year students and 16,643 students with backlogs who will be appearing for the exams. While 78% of the students have opted for online examinations, 22% have opted for offline mode. For all the offline examinees, the varsity has set up 45 examination centres in Jalgaon, 30 in Dhule and 16 in Nandurbar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-varsity-exams-from-oct-12/articleshow/78469104.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Kochi||With third escape, Dracula haunts cops again||KOCHI: Suresh, 30, alias ‘Dracula’ Suresh, an infamous burglar who had tested positive for Covid-19 escaped from Kalamassery Medical College Hospital (MCH), where he was admitted under guard, on Saturday morning. This was his third getaway in less than two weeks. According to the police, Suresh was moved to MCH on September 30 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He was lodged in a cell at the psychiatry ward of the hospital and policemen were deployed to guard him. However, the accused managed to make good his escape through a gap in the wall of the cell at around 10.30am on Saturday. Kalamassery police have registered a case. “He was reported missing on Saturday morning. We are on the lookout for him. It seems he escaped by jumping through a gap in the wall. A comprehensive probe will be carried out to find out how exactly he managed to pull it off,” said a senior officer with Kalamassery police. Angamaly police had registered two cases when Suresh escaped custody on September 23 and 25. Police had arrested him on both occasions, only to see him give them the slip again. On September 23, Suresh attacked cops on guard early in the morning at a detention centre at Karukutty. However, he was tracked down within 23 hours and returned to the same detention centre, where he was held with a roommate. Suresh, according to sources, had been held at the detention centre before and his understanding of the building blueprint aided his escape. He broke open the door and climbed down a tree next to the centre to flee, along with his roommate, in the early hours of September 25. He was arrested the very next day. “He is a seasoned burglar. It is very difficult to guard him at a civilian facility. The man has the tendency to attack cops as well. On top of it all, he is Covid positive,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/with-3rd-escape-dracula-haunts-cops-again/articleshow/78468356.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Banswara minor died by consuming poison: SP||Udaipur: There has been no headway in the death of a 16-year old girl in Banswara’s Khamera block. Police are puzzled on whether it was a suicide or a murder though the postmortem report revealed poison to be the cause of death. However, the girl’s mother has alleged that her daughter was gangraped by a minor, his father and other relatives from the same village. Meanwhile, Banswara SP Kavendra Singh Sagar said the cause of death was poison as indicated by the autopsy report. The officer said there were no injuries on the girl’s body or genitals and so there is no evidence of any sexual assault. “The minor took the girl to a PHC from where she was taken to the district hospital in an ambulance where she died later. We are investigating the case and prima facie there is no evidence of gangrape,” the SP told TOI. During interrogation, police came to know that the boy and girl were in a relationship for two years. The boy had been engaged to another girl recently. This infuriated the minor girl who reportedly called the boy to meet her in a farm and consumed poison in front of him on Wednesday. While the girl’s mother filed a complaint claiming that her daughter was gangraped by the minor, his father, paternal uncle and grandfather.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/banswara-minor-died-by-consuming-poison-sp/articleshow/78469961.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Madurai||672 test positive in central TN, 551 in southern region||Trichy/ Madurai: The central region of state recorded a mild dip in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases as it registered 672 cases on Saturday. With this, the tally has climbed to 53,960, which include 5,343 active cases. The region also recorded five deaths, taking the toll to 737. Meanwhile, the 10 southern districts reported 551 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths. The deaths were recorded in Dindigul and Virudhunagar, according to the health department bulletin. Both of them had comorbidities.Kanyakumari (93) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Madurai (85), Tirunelveli (76), Tuticorin (75) and Theni (66). Five districts recorded less than 50 cases each with Ramanathapuram (16) continuing to record the lowest numbers. Tenkasi (30), Virudhunagar (35), Sivagangai (36) and Dindigul (38) also recorded fresh cases. Active cases continued to fall further and account for only 4.15% of the total cases in the region.The death rate in the region, even though it is higher than the state’s average, continues to drop week after week. The overall death rate in the region dropped to 1.65% on Saturday from 1.75% last month. The death rate has been on the decline from 1.73% since September 13 to 1.70% on September 19 to 1.67% on September 26 and to 1.65% on Saturday.Thanjavur continue to record more than 200 cases for the fourth straight day. On Saturday, it reported 244, taking the tally to 11,900 cases. Thanjavur was ahead of Trichy by 1,119 cases. Trichy district reported 85 fresh cases pushing the tally to 10,781.Tiruvarur recorded 143 fresh cases taking its tally to 7,600. The positive cases in Pudukottai have touched 9,333, showing a dip as it was placed third next to Thanjavur and Trichy.The region so far discharged 47,880 cases. In the number of deaths, Thanjavur (184) is on top followed by Trichy (152), and Pudukottai (143).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/672-test-positive-in-central-tn-551-in-southern-region/articleshow/78470670.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Madurai||PACS poll put off again over ministers’ turf war||Madurai: The standoff between chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam seems to have given a fillip to the turf war between the AIADMK’s Madurai strongmen — ministers R B Udayakumar and Sellur K Raju. Elections to the primary agriculture cooperative society in Melur have now been postponed for the third time as supporters of two ministers have fielded different candidates.T T V Dhinakaran’s AMMK has a stronghold in Melur and was among the contestants for the post of chairman of the cooperative society. However, the elections were cancelled on October 6, 2018 and then on December 12 that year. With AMMK’s A Selvaraj going to court, the Madras high court directed the government to take steps to hold the elections. It was announced that nominations would be accepted from September 30 this year and elections would be held on October 7. However, a notice pasted on the notice board of the society’s office in Melur the same day stated that the elections had been cancelled. Members of AIADMK went in two groups and received nomination forms from election officer Vinod Kumar. One group included Melur town secretary Baskaran, AIADMK east district treasurer Ambalam and Rajendran. Ambalam is a supporter of Madurai North MLA V V Rajan Chellappa and minister for co-operatives Sellur K Raju. The other group included former MLA K Tamilarasan and Melur union chairman K Ponnusamy and their supporters, who are supporters of revenue, disaster management and IT minister R B Udayakumar. Tamilarasan said they were not in favour of Ambalam being elected as he had messed up things for their party in Melur. Hence, they were filing a separate nomination. AMMK’s Selvaraj says the notice announcing the cancellation of election for the third time, without the signature of the election officer, was unacceptable. ``We fail to see what law and order issues can arise now, maybe the two groups of the AIADMK may clash,’’ he said. Madurai collector T G Vinay and other officials have been petitioned by Selvaraj, seeking that polls be conducted immediately.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pacs-poll-put-off-again-over-ministers-turf-war/articleshow/78470672.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Madurai||Kunnathur Chatram will open by Dec: Min||Madurai: The construction work of the Kunnathur Chatram building is nearing completion and it will be put to use before December this year, said minister for cooperation Sellur K Raju. He inspected the construction site near the centuries-old Puthu Mandapam on Saturday in the presence of Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan and city engineer S Arasu.The minister said that 95% of the construction work has been completed and final touches are being given at present. Once the three-storey building constructed under the smart city scheme at the cost of Rs 7.13 crore is completed, around 280 shops functioning in the Puthu Mandapam will be shifted to the Kunnathur Chatram. Once shifted, the intrinsic carvings and sculptures of the historical structure will be saved from vandalism. People can visit the historical structure and appreciate its beauty, he said.Eight works are carried out at a cost of Rs 977 crore under the smart city scheme and Kunnathur Chatram project is one among them. Most of the projects are slated to be completed by March 2021. Various projects are being carried out keeping in mind the facilities required for te tourists, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kunnathur-chatram-will-open-by-dec-min/articleshow/78470671.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Now, pursue PG degrees in architecture, fine arts in Goa||PANAJI: Graduates of fine arts and architecture from Goa now need not venture outside the state to pursue their postgraduate studies. After over 35 years of their existence, the lone fine arts and architecture colleges — both government-run — will offer Master in Fine Arts (MFA) and Master in Architecture (MArch) programmes, respectively, from the academic year 2020-21. Goa College of Art now has ten seats each available for MFA programmes in the painting and applied art streams. While students of painting can opt to specialise either in painting or mural, those from the applied art stream have specialisations in design and illustration to choose from. The selection of students for MFA seats is set to be carried out based on an entrance exam, which will test the aspirants for both their general knowledge of fine arts and their drawing abilities. A presentation of the fine arts graduates’ latest art works will also be part of the selection procedure. The admission process has begun with the college accepting forms up to October 12 and the entrance test scheduled for October 20. The MFA programme classes are expected to begin from November 2. The fees for two years of the programme combined will be around Rs 60,000. In the case of the MArch programme, students can choose to specialise in either urban design or sustainable habitat. The first round of admissions for the MArch programmes, however, are already nearly over, with classes for the first batch of the MArch in urban design programme set to begin from October 5, and for the MArch in sustainable habitat, from October 15. The college is offering 12 seats in each specialisation, with fees for the first year of the programme at around Rs 50,000. Among other criteria, students have to possess a valid GATE score for entry. “The programme intends to work directly with local civic bodies, in order to provide think-tank, as well as enable the working of public participation to address various issues of development and conservation of urban-built environment,” the Goa College of Architecture has stated about its MArch programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-pursue-pg-degrees-in-architecture-fine-arts-in-goa/articleshow/78469960.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 4, 2020||India||Covid delays decision on 100 names sent by HC collegiums||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the appointment of high court judges with about 100 recommendations made by several HC collegiums pending for long, either with the government or the Supreme Court collegium, for their background checks and approvals. This has pushed the vacancies in 25 HCs in the country to a high of 404 against a sanctioned strength of 1,079. Over 37% of judges’ positions are vacant in the high courts, as on October 1, affecting case disposal and further increasing the pendency. The Allahabad HC has 60 judges’ post vacant, the highest, followed by Calcutta with 37, Punjab & Haryana with 31, Patna with 30 and Bombay and Delhi High Courts with 28 vacancies each. Eight of the 25 HCs alone account for 66% of the total vacancies. According to sources, about 100 recommendations received from various high court collegiums since last year are currently pending with either their vetting by the Centre incomplete or their approval of the apex court collegium awaited. The day-to-day functioning of courts and sittings of collegiums have been impacted during the pandemic. As a result, both case pendencies and appointment of judges have been hit. The case pendency in 25 HCs have gone up to 52 lakh at present as against 46 lakh before the lockdown was imposed in March, an increase of around six lakh cases. The pendency in subordinate courts stood at 3.2 crore cases before the pandemic which have gone up to 3.5 crore. The apex court too has a backlog of over 60,000 cases. The refusal of many Bar associations and lack of adequate information technology infrastructure in court premises have only aggravated the situation and made it difficult for the judiciary to migrate to virtual courts. With the initiative taken by the SC, the HCs and subordinate courts started virtual courts. An assessment of the Union law ministry shows that during the lockdown period between March 24 and July 15, district and subordinate courts alone held 12 lakh hearings through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-delays-decision-on-100-names-sent-by-hc-collegiums/articleshow/78470915.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 4, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Two get life term for murder||BAREILLY: The court of Special Judge Naresh Kumar here on Saturday awarded two persons life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 15,000 each for murder. The duo had killed a youth in September, 2009 in order to take back the money they had lost to him while gambling. Inability to pay the fine would earn the convicts an additional two years, said additional district government council Anoop Koharwal. Koharwal told TOI, “Accused Maniram and Jaspal were booked for the murder of their friend Laljeet on the complaint of Laljeet’s mother Urmila Devi."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-get-life-term-for-murder/articleshow/78469107.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 4, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Ostracised barber’s daughter bitten by snake as family goes to live in forest||MADURAI: The daughter of a barber, who was allegedly ostracised from a village in Virudhunagar district forcing his family to take refuge in a forest, was bitten by a snake and is undergoing treatment in a hospital. The incident has led to protests with members of the CPM demanding action against the villagers for their inhuman act. M Raja, 33, lived in Ualakudi village, Tiruchuzhi taluk with his wife Saraswathy, daughter Narmatha,10, and son Ramachandran, 12. Since people of all communities visited his shop, some villagers wanted him to avoid people from other communities saying they could not share the same chair with them. Raja, however did not heed their demand. A few days ago, Raja’s brother-in-law Krishnamoorthy eloped with a girl in the village. Her parents and other villagers traced them to Tirupur and produced both of them before the Tiruchuzhi police station on September 26. Raja was also summoned, but he says he told the police that he was not aware of his brother-in-law’s actions and he was not connected with it in any way. At 11 AM on September 27, the temple priest of the village, Virumandi, met Raja and told him that his family was being ostracised on the orders of the village panchayat and he would have to leave immediately. Raja demanded to know what wrong he had done, but the village leaders told him their decision was final. Not knowing what to do, Raja rushed to a shop nearby to buy a lock to lock his house and leave. However, he was stunned when an employee of a local cooperative bank who came there told the shopkeeper that he would have to pay a fine of Rs 5,000 for selling something to Raja who had been ostracised by the village. Raja had no choice but to return the lock and get back the money. He went home and, along with his family, set out for the forest area near Kattanur. They cooked food and stayed there. However, on September 29, Narmatha was bitten by a snake and admitted to the Manamadurai government hospital. Tiruchuzhi tahsildar visited the family and asked them to go back to their village, but Raja said he feared for his family’s security back in the village. He urged the officials to ensure they will be safe by getting it in writing from the villagers. When contacted, Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said a probe by revenue officials had shown that the man was not ostracised and that he had left the village after his brother-in-law’s elopement came to light. They have assured him that he could return to the village without fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ostracised-barbers-daughter-bitten-by-snake-as-family-goes-to-live-in-forest/articleshow/78470674.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
October 4, 2020||Goa||Closure of Zuari bridge deferred||Panaji: The closure of the existing Zuari bridge scheduled for October 4 has now been deferred to October 18. The bridge will be closed for all types of traffic from 6am to 9am on that day, the PWD has said. The closure has been scheduled to record deck levels of the bridge. Traffic will be diverted via Borim bridge and also via ferry boats from across the Zuari river from Cortalim to Agasaim and vice-versa, the PWD has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/closure-of-zuari-bridge-deferred/articleshow/78470007.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||14 test positive at Kalupur railway station||AHMEDABAD: During screening for Covid-19 at the Kalupur railway station on Saturday, seven passengers from Delhi who had arrived on the Rajdhani Express were found to have Covid-19. Since testing at the Ahmedabad station began, most of the those testing positive have been passengers of the Rajdhani Express. AMC officials said 1,231 passengers from Delhi, Gorakhpur and Muzaffarpur were checked on Saturday of whom 14 tested positive for Covid. Of the 525 passengers of the Rajdhani Express, seven were positive. Some 351 passengers from Muzaffarpur were checked of whom two tested positive. A total of 355 passengers of the Gorakhpur Express were tested and five were found to be positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/14-test-positive-at-rly-station/articleshow/78469108.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Woman jumps from 2nd floor of Jaipur hotel||JAIPUR: A 22-year-old woman jumped from the second floor of a hotel in Pratap Nagar police station area on Saturday evening following which she was rushed to the hospital and is undergoing treatment. The woman hails from Tonk district and cops have started an investigation into the matter. “The woman jumped around 5.30pm on Saturday from the balcony of the hotel room where she was staying. We are trying to contact her family. She has suffered multiple injuries and has been admitted to the hospital,” said Purshottam Maheriya, SHO, Pratap Nagar police station. According to the preliminary investigation, the woman was staying alone at the hotel since September 29 though cops are yet to determine the reason for her stay in Jaipur. Explaining further, the SHO said, “The woman is unable to speak at this point and perhaps her family will be able to give more details into the matter. We will also question the hotel staff to get more details in the matter.” The cops are also leaning towards the fact that it was an attempt to suicide and the official said, “It does appear to be an attempt to suicide as it is visible on CCTV footage that the woman went to the balcony and jumped. No one else seemed to be visible. Although everything can be confirmed once the woman is in a condition to speak.” Cops will also search the room in which she was staying in case she left behind a suicide note before jumping from the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-jumps-from-2nd-floor-of-city-hotel/articleshow/78469983.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Over 17k to appear for civil services prelims today||Nagpur: Over 17,000 candidates are scheduled to appear for Sunday’s civil services preliminary examination in Nagpur. The exam will be held across 45 centres with Covid-19 safety guidelines in place. MC Musale, exam centre coordinator for Government Polytechnic, Nagpur (GPN) said utmost care will be taken to ensure the safety of all candidates. “On Saturday we sanitized all the places and items which candidates will come in contact with. On Sunday there will be a temperature check at the entry gate, along with hand sanitization. Those who do not have a mask shall be provided one from our side,” said Musale, who is also a faculty member at GPN in the electrical engineering department. If candidates show above normal temperature, they will be escorted to a separate room. “Such candidates will not be denied a chance to appear for the exam. A separate exam room with ample capacity has been readied to accommodate them,” Musale said. For the candidates who clear the temperature check, seating arrangements have been made as per the new normal. Musale said, “Earlier we would easily seat 48 candidates in one classroom. This is because we have much bigger classrooms. But now that number has been reduced to 24 to comply with norms. Across the centre, every candidate will have a dedicated one square metre of space inside the exam room.” Hand sanitizers will be placed inside every classroom for both supervisors and candidates. “All our staff members will be wearing gloves and masks,” said Musale. The exam is conducted by Union Public Services Commission (UPSC). The last major exam by UPSC was for National Defence Academy and Naval Academy, held last month. However, just over 30% candidates appeared for it. Fear of Covid-19 compounded by shortage of safe lodging and transportation facilities seems to be the biggest reason behind it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-17k-to-appear-for-civil-services-prelims-today/articleshow/78469120.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 4, 2020||Madurai||Households feel the pinch as prices of veggies skyrocket in purattasi month||Madurai: The price of carrot and beans has touched Rs 100 per kg in kirana stores in residential areas due to increased demand and short supply due to the recently rains. While the price of all vegetables are on the higher side, including onion, homemakers are now feeling the heat. Many do not have the option of avoiding vegetables as they cannot eat non-vegetarian food due to ongoing purattasi month.Traders say that most of the vegetables are selling at almost double the price it was selling a few weeks back. Prices of both the English vegetables grown in hilly areas and locally grown vegetables like brinjal and ladies finger have gone up.S Murugan, a trader from Mattuthavani, said that carrot, which was selling at Rs 40 a kg last month is now selling at Rs 80. Retailers are selling 250g of carrot and beans at Rs 25. Due to the fear that people might not purchase beans at such a high price, many retailers did not stock it up as it has less shelf life. R Thiagarajan, another trader said that intermittent rains in both the plains and hill stations has fuelled the price rise. “While the supply has been hit, the demand did not come down due to purattasi month, resulting in the price rise. The price of veggies can be expected to come down only a week or two later,” he saidL Mathumitha, a resident of Iyer Bungalow, said, “I was shocked to hear the price of carrot and beans when I went to a shop next door this morning. But I had to purchase them since it is a norm to cook sambar on the third Saturday of purattasi month in our tradition.”Venmathi, a home maker from Teppakulam, said, “It would be much cheaper to cook chicken these days considering the price of vegetables. Fish is also sold at lower price than normal. However, we cannot go for non-vegetarian items until this Tamil month passes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/households-feel-the-pinch-as-prices-of-veggies-skyrocket-in-purattasi-month/articleshow/78470675.cms||V Devanathan
October 4, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit district ranks first in UP for ‘bestperformance’ in national nutrition month||Pilibhit: The district of Pilibhit has secured first rank in Uttar Pradesh for projecting the outstanding feat in launching nutritional programmes for malnourished children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. This prestigious rank has been awarded to the district by the Union ministry of women and child development after a close review of the performance by all 75 districts in the state. Apart from launching the routine nutritional programmes, the district had introduced two distinctive plans. One was to allot cows to the families of severely malnourished children to facilitate them with natural nutrition in the form of cow milk. Another was the tele-nutrition counselling that was innovated in view of the Covid times. The Prime Minister’s overarching scheme for holistic nutrition or Poshan Abhiyan is Government of India's flagship programme to improve nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. Launched in March 2018, it directs the attention of the society towards the problem of malnutrition to address it in a mission mode. Each year the month of September is celebrated as Poshan Maah across the country with an intensive set of activities to address the curse of malnutrition. With the prevalent novel corona outbreak, carrying out the message of Poshan Maah was a challenge like never before for the district administration. Pilibhit planned the inter-departmental coordination and activities conforming to the Covid-19 protocols. Tele-nutrition was a district level innovation, first of its kind in the entire state, which gained momentum in no time. A series of webinars, and Poshan Panchayats were conducted throughout the month involving all the possible stakeholders, according to district magistrate Pulkit Khare. "If telemedicine can deliver the medical advice of expert doctors to remote rural corners through virtual medium, then why not tele-nutrition for much-needed nutritional guidance," he said. A team of counsellors led by nutritionists was then deployed. Telephone lines were arranged at the districts' Nutritional Rehabilitation Centre (NRC). A dedicated video-calling number for each block of the district was circulated to the Asha, ANM (auxiliary nurse midwifery) and Anganwadi workers, the frontline workers of the block through a network of block level WhatsApp groups, the DM explained. He further said that giant hoardings were put at prominent places in the city to publicise the numbers of NRC and nutritionists. A weekly feedback mechanism regarding the effectiveness of advice given was also incorporated by making weekly return calls to check the status of the malnourished child. "Nutrition is often ignored, especially in rural areas even in normal times. With the prevalent Corona pandemic, the challenge for the district administration was magnified. Families were reluctant to get their malnourished child admitted to the NRC. With tele-nutrition, we successfully used simple technology to reach directly to such children and track the improvement in their growth," said Dr Neeta, the nodal officer of NRC. Radha Mandal, a mother living in a remote village, was overjoyed when a video call, placed by her Anganwadi "didi", connected her to a nutritionist who advised simple tips about feeding her two-year-old child Ankit, whose stagnant weight was a growing cause of concern for the mother. A feedback call was again received by her a week later confirming the improvement in weight of the child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-district-ranks-first-in-up-for-bestperformance-in-national-nutrition-month/articleshow/78469105.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Madurai||Ten tonnes of gutka seized from Madurai, four arrested||Madurai: The Madurai city police seized 10 tonnes of banned tobacco products from two trucks and also at the premises of two parcel service companies in the city on Saturday.A search conducted in two trucks stationed near the Madurai Railway Junction by a police team from Thideer Nagar police station. The team led by inspector Kavitha found a large quantity of banned tobacco products and arrested truck drivers identified as Duraipandi, 63, and his son Balasubramani, 35. Based on the information obtained from them, police teams conducted searches at Irfan and Selvi parcel service companies on North Masi Street. 16 gunny bags with tobacco products were seized from the premises. Irfan parcel service manager M Balamurugan, 24, and Selvi parcel service manager Suryaprabakar, 23, were also arrested. Police said that the managers and drivers were not aware of the source of the tobacco products. They were given the task of distributing it to other districts by V Pazhani, 50, from Barathiyar Street and his son Karthick. They said that they will get the complete picture of the source only after arresting the two. The trucks used for the crime have been seized. Meanwhile, the seized tobacco products and trucks have been handed over to the food safety department for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ten-tonnes-of-gutka-seized-from-madurai-four-arrested/articleshow/78470673.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||With WFH a reality, people go places to find comfy offices||NEW DELHI: Just as Deepika Deepti was settling into her new role as CEO of a fashion brand, the Covid lockdown was announced — and the fulltime professional took on the added roles of 24x7 pet parent and home chef for the next few months. As the relaxation of the lockdown was announced, Deepti realised she could keep up with her busy schedule from anywhere, so why not from a cosy, pet-friendly cottage in the mountains, she pondered. Thus started her plans to look for a place in the mountains where she could set up a home office for a few weeks at a stretch. New work guidelines, working from home without compromising on productivity, school lessons conducted online and attention to hygiene in the Covid era have changed the way city people consider their year-end vacations. While slowly but surely, people have started heading out, the quick weekend dash has been replaced by a longer stay. With office attendance not mandatory, all that professionals now need is a WiFi connection and the H in WFH could mean a hill home, highway hotel, farm hangout or a beach hut. Simran Kodesia, communications lead, Airbnb, observed that online vacation rental consumers exploring long-term stays, flexible accommodations, unique features and affordability. One of the biggest trends, Kodesia pointed out, was longer stays with people searching for temporary relocations either to be closer to family or to work from a destination of their choice. Other major searches have been options for long breaks with children. “The consumers are also increasingly looking for unique accommodations such as tree houses, farm stays, lodges and campsites and preferring local road-based travel,” Kodesia revealed. Search trends at online reservations agency Booking.com too show a preference for long stays. This has prompted the company to introduce weekly and monthly rate plans, said Ritu Mehrotra, country manager (India, Sri Lanka and Maldives). Besides metros like New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru, Mehrotra disclosed that the top booked destinations for October are Lonavala, Jaipur, Manali, Goa, Darjeeling, Shimla, Rishikesh and Digha in West Bengal. The first long weekend in the unlock period and the restart of domestic travel activity is a ray of hope for the hospitality sector. Prominent operator Ankush Nijhawan, MD, Nijhawan Group and co-founder, Travel Boutique Online, has noticed a surge in demand for Lonavala, Alibaug, Mussoorie and Shimla, in particular, and for the states of Rajasthan and Goa, in general. While most international destinations are closed, Nijhawan said, “With ample health measures and precautions in place amid the pandemic, Dubai is witnessing the onset of outbound travellers from India. That city is inching towards becoming a minimum of 6N/7D destination with an escalated demand for luxurious homestays.” While Daniel D’Souza, president and country head (Leisure), SOTC, underlined the focus on curated travel itineraries to avoid public transport, Vipul Prakash, COO, Goibibo, noticed significant increase in bookings for weekend getaways and holiday products, and almost 70% of the bookings are for drivable destinations or those within 400km from the home city. Similarly, ITC’s area manager Benita Sharma felt people were more confident about leaving home now and so weekend stays were soaring in her hotel group’s leisure properties in and around Delhi. Jayant Singh, managing partner, Treehouse Hotels, said people were travelling to nearby resorts or boutique hotel chains that are convenient for them and safe too, being close to their homes. Puneet Satija, director, F&B, The Lodhi Hotel, added that any property with big open spaces and amenities such as pool and all meals in the room are much favoured over the weekends. People evidently seek a quick change in the scenery within the city to beat the fatigue of working from and living at home. With most hotels now open, wedding-related travel too is showing up as a trend. With only small wedding functions allowed, ITC’s Sharma found events being planned even on ‘non saya’ days. Hotel chain Accor also discerned a pent-up desire to celebrate all the occasions that fell during the lockdown. Its campaign, Missed Celebrations, which allows people a second chance to mark missed occasions like anniversaries, birthdays, family dinners or gatherings with friends is doing well in all its hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-wfh-a-reality-people-go-places-to-find-comfy-offices/articleshow/78470002.cms||Amin Ali
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bapu’s ideas unlocked for new generation||AHMEDABAD: The corona pandemic has brought in a 360° turn in the way we live. Experiences during the lockdown and adjusting to the new normal remind us all about Mahatma Gandhi’s tenets and lifestyle, which seem ever more relevant today! The lockdown affected the basic essentials of living and spurred panic. Sudarshan Iyenger, former vice-chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith, said: “If the concept of Gram Swaraj was in place, each village would have worked as an independent unit and all needs would have been met within the radius of 5km.” He added: “Bapu’s idea of simple living also came to the fore when people ate home-cooked food and did not hoard clothes and other things. Need replaced greed, for good.” Echoing similar sentiments, Nupur Vaishnav, a Class XII student, said: “During the pandemic, we have learned to live with bare essentials and this is a habit we should not do away with.” Rakshit Dubey, a Class IX student, said: “The lockdown actually made people live without restaurants, gyms, malls, theatres, and excessive shopping, making Gandhian principles of simple living shine beautifully.” Surbhi Shah, a Class IX student, said: “The blessings are that nature is healing, and people are developing small gardens at their homes.” That Bapu’s life is his message has been proven yet again. Narottam Sahu, senior scientist at Gujarat Science City, said: “Gandhiji’s lifestyle, if followed sincerely, can go a long way in reducing carbon footprints and in easing the pressure on natural resources.” Sahu added, “Besides, conservation, Bapu also laid emphasis on cleanliness — each individual needs to be the change.” Anuja Singh, an educator, said that failures or hardships never deterred Gandhiji. She said, “I will adopt his composure for handling any challenge, and aim for social progress during these tough times.” And lastly, his mantra “Vocal for Local” needs to be pursued in totality! Sahu said: “His vision was that of “Atmanirbhar India”, where globalization of ideas was welcome, but not of goods.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bapus-ideas-unlocked-for-new-generation/articleshow/78469129.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Madurai||From over 100 in July-August, Covid deaths in Madurai fall to 37 in Sep||Madurai: While more than 100 Covid-19 deaths were seen in July and August, in September only 37 deaths were reported, which is a considerable drop. Doctors and health officials said that early identification, isolation and treatment of patients have helped bring down mortality in a significant manner.During the months when Covid-19 cases peaked in Madurai, in July and August, 208 and 109 deaths were recorded respectively. From four to six deaths per day, the district is reporting around one death per day now. The significant decline in mortality is being attributed by health officials to targeted early identification and treatment of Covid-19 patients. “More than 200 fever camps continue to be held every day even now. We are ensuring that contact tracing is also thorough so as to not miss out anyone. After declaring Covid-19 results, we immediately follow up with all patients,” said a health official.Of the total Covid-19 deaths, 90% were patients with co-morbid conditions including diabetes, hypertension, heart disease and kidney disease. 52% of the total Covid-19 deaths so far in Madurai district occurred at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). “Our Virology Lab is ensuring quick release of test results by functioning 24x7. This has helped in fast isolation of Covid-19 patients and ensuring they get the required care. Both oxygen capacity and outlets at the hospital have been increased to ensure there is no shortage,” said Dr J Sangumani, GRH dean.The dean further said that for all Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions, specialists like diabetologists, nephrologists, cardiologists etc. are also monitoring and providing care. He added that plasma therapy has also been useful in treatment of severe Covid-19 patients. So far, 22 Covid-19 patients at GRH have recovered and discharged after being given plasma therapy. “In case of referral cases from other districts as well, a special team is coordinating to ensure that when the patient arrives, there is no delay in providing treatment. We have ensured there are zero delays in our triaging area,” said Dr Sangumani. Doctors said that treatment protocols have also evolved to best suit patients. With life-saving drugs like Remdesivir being made available, many severe Covid-19 patients have recovered due to timely medical intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/from-over-100-in-july-august-covid-deaths-in-madurai-fall-to-37-in-sep/articleshow/78470677.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 4, 2020||Madurai||Corneal regrafting on man, 22, at GRH turns successful||Madurai: The corneal regrafting surgery, performed 10 months ago, on a 22-year-old man with congenital aniridia (absence of iris) at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has been successful as the patient has crossed the risk period. The patient had already undergone corneal transplantation but later suffered loss of vision due to leucomatous corneal opacity. From having more than 95% loss of vision, it has come down to 60-70% and the patient has not shown signs of rejection of graft.“It was a high risk case as congenital aniridia is a rare condition and the patient has already undergone a failed corneal transplantation in both his eyes. Regrafting is a challenge because scarring and bleeding would have happened already after the failed graft and it needs to be removed. Administering stitches is also highly difficult,” said Dr Vijaya Shanmugam, head of ophthalmology at GRH. As per a press release from the hospital, the corneal regrafting for one eye of the patient was planned after suitable investigation. The cornea was retrieved from a young road traffic accident victim under the Hospital Cornea Retrieval Programme (HCRP). The corneal transplantation surgery was done within 24 hours by the cornea team at GRH.After 10 months now, the graft remains clear and the patient has crossed the risk period for graft rejection and has vision enough to be physically and socially independent. Around 350-400 corneas is retrieved via the HCRP every year at GRH. “We are currently having more number of donors for HCRP. However, the number of recipients have been comparatively less. More awareness about transplantation and how it can restore vision, especially in rural areas, is needed for more patients to benefit,” said Dr Vijaya Shanmugam. Around 30-40 transplantations are done every year at GRH. Public who are willing to donate their eyes can contact 0452-2532535.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corneal-regrafting-on-man-22-at-grh-turns-successful/articleshow/78470676.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||NCW raises red flag over rising crime against women in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A delegation of National Commission for Women (NCW) visited Jaipur on Saturday and met senior police officers, including DGP Bhupendra Singh, regarding the growing crime against women in the state. The delegation also raised the issue about the state commission for women not having a chairperson for the last two years. NCW member Rajulben Desai said, “Almost every day, crime against women is being reported in Rajasthan which has become a serious cause of concern for the commission and the state government needs to take measures to curb this trend. It is high time that the government wakes up before more women and children suffer.” The delegation also quoted National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data which puts Rajasthan on top when it comes to rape cases in 2019. “NCRB report also proves that better policing is required in the state to protect women and children. We spoke to DGP Bhupendra Singh regarding this and gave him instances of just one week where cases of rape were reported in Rajasthan on a daily basis. Moreover, when the commission asks for the details of these cases, it takes months before we get a reply,” added Desai. The delegation was assured by officials that they would get a monthly report about the crimes against women in the state. Another cause of concern for the NCW members was that state commission for women was still lacking a head. Desai said, “We are having cases of human trafficking in Rajasthan and heinous crimes, but even after two years, the government has not taken any steps to select the chairperson for the women commission in Rajasthan. If they would take this basic decision, it would help immensely in protecting and helping the women.” Desai said if the current trend continues, then Rajasthan would top the list in crime against women in 2020 report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ncw-raises-red-flag-over-rising-crime-against-women/articleshow/78469998.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 4, 2020||Meerut||4-year-old girl from Harganpur thrashed, succumbs at Delhi hospital||BIJNOR: A four-year-old girl was allegedly thrashed to death by a mentally challenged man here at Harganpur village under Nagina Dehat police station area. The incident took place on September 28 and the minor girl was admitted to the district hospital for treatment from where she was referred to a higher centre for treatment. She was undergoing treatment at a Delhi-based hospital where she succumbed on Saturday. According to SP Dharamveer Singh, police have registered a case against the accused, identified as one Vinod Kumar. The man is said to be mentally challenged. She was playing outside her house when the man attacked her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-year-old-girl-thrashed-succumbs-at-delhi-hosp/articleshow/78469115.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||3 days on, kin of ward panch candidate accept his body||Jaisalmer: After the police conducted the postmortem again on Saturday, the family of a ward panch candidate agreed to take his body. The body of a ward panch candidate was found in Sheo police station area of Barmer district three days ago. The family members alleging murder had refused to take the body. The family members also meet Barmer-Jaisalmer prabhari minister Sukhram Bishnoi and urged action against culprits. At 8am on September 30, ward panch candidate Dwarka Ram left to take fodder from his field at Kashmir village in Sheo police station area. His body was found near his field on the next day. The family members had lodged a missing person complaint. Reportedly, Dwarka Ram during election was working as cook at another candidate’s house. Family members alleged that the other candidate was annoyed with Dwarka Ram’s candidature due to which he was murdered. Since last three days, hundreds of people of the community along with the family members were demonstrating at the mortuary at the district headquarters. Police and administration were continuously persuading the family. Allegation of the family is being investigated. The medical report indicates brain hemorrhage, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-days-on-kin-of-ward-panch-candidate-accept-his-body/articleshow/78469996.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Agra||Fortress hathras cut off for 2nd day, media & politicians barred, ‘manhandled’||HATHRAS: The village in UP’s Hathras where the 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped before she died was off limits to the media and politicians for the second day in a row. Many who tried to enter and reach out to the bereaved family were manhandled, pushed to the ground and forced off on Friday. Later in the evening, based on what the SIT suggested in its preliminary report, chief minister Yogi Adityanath suspended Hathras SP Vikrant Veer. The CM also suspended three cops posted at Chanda police station at the time of the incident — Sadabad circle officer Ram Shabd, station house officer Dinesh Kumar Verma and sub inspector Jagveer Singh — along with head moharrir (clerk) Mahesh Pal. Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal will take over as Hathras SP. There is one main access point to the village and a tertiary route from behind farmlands leading up to a cluster of Dalit houses. Both had been barricaded, with six cops at one and 15 at another. Police stopped a TOI team from entering the village around 11am, warning against “moving any further” and saying they had “strict instructions from higher authorities” to not let anyone pass. Six cops, including three women constables from Kasganj, were stationed there, with several police and government vehicles parked a few metres away. Another news channel reporter was also stopped by police, who forced her into a police jeep and dropped her and the accompanying cameraperson outside the village. A four-member Trinamool Congress team — MPs Derek O’Brien, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Pratima Mondal and ex-MP Mamata Thakur — that was approaching the village met a similar resistance. Around noon, about 1.5 km from the village, O’Brien was seen being pushed to the ground by joint magistrate Prem Prakash Meena in a video that went viral. “The country is unsafe for women. Their honour is in danger. We only wanted to meet the victim’s family,” a Trinamool representative said. Police put this down to a need for enabling investigation. “Media entry has been banned so the SIT investigation is not hampered. Counter-questioning is on, statements are being recorded. We will allow entry only after the probe is over,” Hathras additional SP Prakash Kumar said. “Politicians will, however, not be allowed because of the law and order situation. They will only be let in after the administration thinks the situation is normal.” Later in the evening, ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand said media could be allowed to enter on Saturday. “Statements of the family members and others have been recorded.” The three-member SIT had been set up on Wednesday. It stayed in the village for over 48 hours and recorded statements of over 100 people. No action has been taken against Hathras district magistrate Praveen Laxkar, who was purportedly heard “threatening” the family in a video, additional chief secretary Avnish Awasthi confirmed. The government has ordered narco-polygraph tests for everyone involved in the case — cops, the accused and victim’s family. Their protest marches cut short, some political workers set up base at the barricades. AAP workers sat on a dharna. When police used “mild force” to remove them, they started singing the national anthem. Members of the Sangh Parivar outfit Hindu Mahasabha also converged on the site to register protest and demand action against the accused. They were also made to leave. Within the village, upper caste community members were seen moving freely, putting together a “counter-protest” to demand “justice for the accused”. The four accused are from their community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fortress-hathras-cut-off-for-2nd-day-media-politicians-barred-manhandled/articleshow/78451739.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 4, 2020||Meerut||Bulandshahr: Minor girl shoots rape complaint to police on WhatsApp; 2 accused held||MEERUT: Three people were booked in a rape case after a 16-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district forwarded a written complaint to the police on WhatsApp. A team led by a woman circle officer was sent to the rape survivor’s home where her statement was recorded and an FIR under suitable sections was registered. According to Bulandshahar senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar, the rape survivor in her complaint claimed that she was violated multiple times by two of the three accused during a course of over one-and-half years. The family of the rape survivor got to know about the ordeal of the girl after her condition deteriorated recently and she was rushed to a local hospital where the family was informed about her pregnancy. “In a statement to the police, the rape survivor said she was initially sexually harassed by one of the accused, Shrichand, a 72-year-old man. The second accused in the case is Balveer, 52, younger brother of Shrichand who allegedly raped the girl on several occasions. Third accused Mahesh, a milk vendor is also accused of raping the girl,” the SSP said. Police also claimed the accused Balveer had facilitated a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh to the family and there was a brawl recently when he confronted the family for its repayment. “Over a year ago, the rape survivor’s brother had sustained severe injuries in a train accident. The accused Balveer had facilitated a loan from a Noida farm house owner to the family. The accused claimed that a brawl ensued on Thursday when he approached them for its repayment,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/minor-girl-now-4-months-pregnant-shoots-rape-complaint-to-police-on-whatsapp-2-accused-aged-72-and-52-held/articleshow/78469130.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Meerut||UP government forms panel to probe 'land grab in wildlife corridor'||MEERUT: Days after a TOI report on the alleged land grab of 12,000 acres in the wildlife corridor between Corbett and Rajaji national parks, UP government has formed a four-member high-level committee comprising commissioner, Board of Revenue, UP; Bijnor DM; joint director, consolidation directorate, Lucknow; and Bijnor divisional forest officer (DFO) to look into the alleged discrepancies involving the fudging of revenue records in favour of land grabbers. The letter issued by the office of UP additional chief secretary and accessed by TOI has directed the committee to submit a report within a month. Earlier, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had asked the UP government to submit a report on a complaint alleging that nearly 12,000 acres of forest land spread around 12 villages — parts of which serve as a critical wildlife corridor — had been encroached upon by private players using fake documents of ownership. The corridor, which is part of Bijnor’s Najibabad forest division, borders Corbett National Park and Rajaji National Park in Uttarakhand, and records frequent passage of animals, including tigers and elephants, between the two protected reserves. According to local sources, the earlier committee set up under Additional DM on August 27 to probe the allegations "left too many unanswered questions", led to the letter in question signed by additional chief secretary of UP Renuka Kumar and dated September 15. "Since the matter is highly complex, old, odd and comprehensive, a decision has been taken to get it exhaustively investigated by a high-level committee at the Board of Revenue level," stated the document. Lawyer Gaurav Bansal had made the complaint on the basis of the findings of the whistleblower in this matter, Kishan Chand, a stenographer posted at the office of sub divisional magistrate of Nagina tehsil of Bijnor district. Interestingly, the Bijnor administration had admitted to finding prima facie evidence of fudging of revenue records of one village, Telipada. Commenting on the latest development, Bansal said, "It is not possible that thousands of acres of land has been encroached upon by the land mafia without the help of senior government employees. The new committee must look into the role of higher bureaucracy in this issue, otherwise, the UP government should itself transfer the investigation to CBI."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-forms-high-level-panel-to-probeland-grab-of-12k-acres-in-wildlife-corridor/articleshow/78469132.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Sex racket: 2 accused sent to three-day cop custody||Jaipur: Two of the five accused in the alleged sex racket case in Sawai Madhopur including the former BJP office bearer were produced in court on Saturday and sent to three days’ police custody. The accused had been arrested after a minor girl lodged a case on September 22 alleging that the accused forced her to have physical relationship with people in exchange for money. BJP has suspended Sunita Verma for six years. The complainant along with her parents lodged a complaint following which an investigation was initiated. It was found that the alleged assault happened between October 2019 and May 2020. Sudheer Choudhary, SP, Sawai Madhopur, told TOI, “the accused have been sent to police remand and further investigation is on. More arrests are likely”. Sawai Madhopur police arrested five persons including former BJP Mahila Morcha district chief Sunita Verma for running an alleged sex racket after a minor girl lodged a case. She was removed from her post after the case was registered. Cops are yet to arrest Poonam Choudhary who is also allegedly involved in the racket and is apparently part of the local Congress unit though none of the party leaders seem to have any knowledge of her. “Poonam was the one who befriended the girl and apparently told her that she would her succeed in life as she had previously helped others. We are yet to arrest her,” said O P Solanki, circle officer, Women Cell, Sawai Madhopur. On August 4, Verma had attempted to send the girl to Jaipur and taken money from her. The girl alleged that after the first sexual assault, the accused made a video and continued to blackmail her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sex-racket-2-accused-sent-to-three-day-cop-custody/articleshow/78470006.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||After weeklong search by cops, rapist held in Sirohi||Jodhpur: After a weeklong chase, police arrested a person accused of raping and murdering a minor girl in Sirohi on September 25. The accused was a neighbor of the victim and had been consuming liquor near the spot of incident in Talpikhera village, a tribal belt in Sirohi under Reodar subdivision. Sirohi SP Pooja Awana said accused Noka Garasia (24) had been hiding in an agricultural farm when police caught him. Describing the incident, Awana said the incident took place on September 25 in the village where some children including the victim, an 8-year-old girl, had also been playing in the afternoon. “Other children left after sometime, while this girl stayed there to take a bath in a pond. But when she did not return by night, family members and others went in her search and found her dead near the pond,” said the officer. Initially, they were not suspicious about her death considering it to be an accident, but in the morning, they spotted some injury marks on her body and reported the matter to police. “We filed the case and got the medical examination done by a medical board. The report stated rape and strangulation,” Awana said, adding that based on this report, police interrogated the children who had been playing with the girl and it came to light that the accused was the only person around and consuming liquor. Police began searching for the accused and finally nabbed him from an agricultural field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-weeklong-search-by-cops-rapist-held-in-sirohi/articleshow/78470008.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Meerut||Hathras cremation rerun of what we faced: Kin of CAA protesters||MEERUT: Hushed up, hurried and with little that can pass for consent, bodies of those who die in periods of unrest are often marked for “quick disposal”. Families of those who died during the CAA and Dalit protests in the state say the Hathras case is a reminder of what they went through — a grave loss, followed by pressure from the police and administration, and, finally, a forced burial. Police insist this is done to prevent a “volatile situation” from getting out of hand. On December 20 last year, Noor Mohammad was on his way from a medicine store in Muzaffarnagar when he was shot in the head. It was the second day of the countrywide anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests and counter-protests in support of the amended law, clashes had broken out and police had stormed Muzaffarnagar. Noor, 26, was caught in the crossfire. “We were handed the body and asked to bury him at Daurala in Meerut right then. We wanted to bring him home. But police said we would have to give in writing that should there be a law and order problem because of this, we’d be responsible,” said Mohd Manshad, Noor’s 55-year-old uncle. They relented and Noor’s body was buried that night. Official records show 22 protesters had been killed in the violence that unfolded in response to the CAA and the crackdown on protests. Suleiman was a 20-year-old in Bijnor, also out on December 20, a Friday, to offer namaaz. Police had later admitted in a TV interview that he had been shot by a cop “in self-defence”. The case, like the body, was buried quickly. “Some neighbours told us Suleiman had been shot. When we got there, he was still alive. He died by the time we reached the hospital,” Munsaf Malik, his 46-year-old cousin, said. That night, the family was handed the body but with riders. “Senior police officers forced us to not take the body back home to Nahtaur. Late that night, he was buried in Bagdad Ansar. It was hushed up,” Malik added. Senior police and administration officials did not deny the pattern but attributed it to an anticipation of escalating “tension”. Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni said they always “persuade” but don’t force anyone. “On several occasions, citing law and order, we request families to cremate early, but this is not done without their consent,” he said, adding, “If they resist, we try and persuade them with help from local politicians.” “Sometimes, we receive information that handing over the body might politicise the matter. It might get worse. That is where the local administration intervenes and oversees the cremation or burial,” said a senior police official who did not want to be named. But the “intervention”, families said, often turns into blatant threats. On April 2, 2018, when Dalit-led protests against the dilution of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were raging across the country, Ankur Jatav was shot in Meerut. The 25-year-old protester succumbed to injuries later. “His body was first moved from a Meerut hospital to Ghaziabad when his condition deteriorated. We were told he has been referred to a higher centre in Delhi,” said Gyanendra Kumar Gautam, a family member. When he died, a team led by the sub divisional magistrate and circle officer visited the family. “They convinced us not to bring the body home. They said they would not register an FIR of his death if we did not agree,” Gautam added. The next morning, some members of the family were escorted to the hospital in Ghaziabad where Ankur had died and then to the postmortem house. “We were taken straight to Brajghat (cremation grounds), where the police had already prepared everything. The last rites were hurriedly performed without proper rituals or permission.” No one has been arrested for any of the three deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hathras-cremation-rerun-of-what-we-faced-kin-of-those-killed-in-caa-dalit-protests-speak-up/articleshow/78469121.cms||Piyush Rai
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Over 33% students skip MHT-CET in 1st two days||Nagpur: The long awaited Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MHT-CET 2020) finally commenced from Thursday, after it was twice deferred due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, over 33% students skipped the papers in the city, according to the officials from Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), which is conducting it. Though they claimed that a big number of students skipping the test was due to Covid-19 pandemic, DTE coordinator for the city, RR Chaudhari, said it may be due to papers of physics, chemistry and biology (PCB) group slated in the first few days. “You will see a lot of students appearing in the exam after physics, chemistry and mathematics (PCM) group papers begin. Normally, the students give less preference to PCB group and prefer PCM,” he told TOI. The exam was supposed to be conducted in May as per regular schedule. As per revised schedule released by State Common Entrance Test (CET) cell of Department of Higher and Technical Education, the PCB group papers began from October 1 and continue till 9, with just a day’s break on October 3. The PCM papers would commence from October 12 and continue till October 20, with a break on October 17. Over 5.24 lakh students have registered for the exams from the state, of which 16,962 are from other states. The CET Cell has fixed eight centres in the city for conducting online examinations that included engineering and commerce colleges. “We’re conducting papers in two shifts in the morning and afternoon. The first one starts from 9am to 12 noon while the second begins from 2.30pm and ends at 5.30pm,” Chaudhari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-33-students-skip-mht-cet-in-1st-two-days/articleshow/78469134.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After long wait, ‘mulakat’ of Tihar inmates with kin||NEW DELHI: It was an emotional moment for 285 prisoners of Tihar Jail when they got to meet their families on Saturday. The jail administration had suspended the bi-weekly mulakat, or family meeting, after the Covid-19 outbreak as a precautionary measure. Arrangements were made to accommodate 400 visitors on the first day of the resumption of the family meets, but unlike earlier when three members of a family could come, only one person was allowed this time. Since March, when the Covid lockdown was announced, and then subsequently with cases of Covid reported in the central prison, the mulakat was suspended, and the convicts could interact with their relatives only through video conferencing. To begin with, every day, around 400 visitors will be allowed to meet the inmates of the sixteen jails in the central facility. On the first day, 285 visitors arrived for the mulakat. “Thermal screening and sanitisation were done at the entrances. The visitors also signed an undertaking, declaring that they had not come in contact with anyone who had tested Covid-positive. We have received a great response to the resumption of the mulakat,” said Sandeep Goel, DG, Prisons. At the mulakat, everyone involved must compulsorily wear a face mask. The meeting area is disinfected after the meetings. Families will be permitted to meet the convicts between 7.30am and 11.30am on any weekday except gazetted holidays. The duration of the meeting will be a maximum of 15 minutes. Like earlier, visitors can bring clothes for the convicts, but the inmates have been directed to wash them first before using them. Earlier two mulakats were allowed per week, but for the time being Tihar authorities will organise only one a month for each prisoner. This way, all the inmates will be able to meet their family members, but the risk of the coronavirus spreading will also be checked. During the lockdown, the inmates initially kept in contact with families telephonically until video-conferencing was introduced in June. These family meetings are also now being resumed in Rohini and Mandoli jails. The decision to repermit the family meetings was taken after the Covid risk in Tihar Jail decreased. Two inmates died of the coronavirus, while 70 prisoners proved to be infected, of whom most have now recovered. In addition, 188 prison staffers have so far tested positive, and like the prisoners, most of them have recovered and the remaining are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-long-wait-mulakat-of-tihar-inmates-with-kin/articleshow/78470029.cms||Sakshi Chand
October 4, 2020||Bhopal||Eggs from Pokhran to revive Son Chiraiya in MP||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh is working out a plan to reintroduce the critically endangered great Indian bustard (GIB) at ‘Son Chiraiya’ sanctuary in Ghatigaon, Gwalior district, after collecting eggs from Pokhran in Rajasthan. ‘Son Chiraiya’ sanctuary — officially known as Karera Wildlife Sanctuary — is spread over 202 sqkm and was notified to protect the great Indian bustard. Now, the state government is in the final stages of denotifying 110sqkm of this protected area, and species rehabilitation and management is one of the key conditions. National Wildlife Board will take the final decision on this during its meeting scheduled next week, said sources. Son Chiraiya, as GIB is locally known, will be reintroduced in the remaining half of the sanctuary. The area earmarked for denotification has 22 villages, where locals have been demanding separation from the sanctuary since Son Chiraiya hasn’t been seen here in at least 12 years. There are said to be only around 200 GIBs left in India, mostly in Rajasthan, putting them on the critically endangered list. Some studies show there may be as few as 50-60 left. “We are making a project for species rehabilitation. The initial plan is to get eggs from Rajasthan, perhaps Pokhran. Shifting hatchlings is not possible,” Gwalior DFO Abhinav Pallav told TOI. GIBs were originally found in 11 states — including MP, Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Andhra Pradesh. Rajasthan was the only place where they can be seen now. In 2013, the MP forest department had planned to shift a few pairs of GIBs from Desert National Park, Jaisalmer, but it never got off the files. Insiders say, authorities are yet to decide upon a new site for its breeding, as a major portion of Ghatigaon sanctuary and the whole Karera (Shivpuri) sanctuary – that once held sizeable populations of the bird — are awaiting de-notification. The forest department had also identified alternative land in Damoh district in view of Supreme Court’s condition that new sanctuaries have to be set up against denotification of existing sanctuaries, said sources. The 2011 ‘red List’ of birds, released by International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), has enlisted the great Indian bustard in the 'critically endangered' category, the highest level of threat. The birds were exterminated in MP by human greed for land, mining and poaching besides neglect towards their habitat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eggs-from-pokhran-to-revive-son-chiraiya-in-mp/articleshow/78469135.cms||P Naveen
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||BSF plants bottle palm to resolve waterlogging issue||Jaisalmer: With the problem of waterlogging getting worse due to increasing level of groundwater, the BSF has started planting bottle palm at its sector headquarters as a pilot project. DIG Gurpal Singh launched the campaign at the sector headquarter campus on Friday. Initially, 21 plants have been planted to get relief from the underground water problem. For the last few years, the underground water level is increasing at a dangerous level in Barmer city, especially near collector’s office and Baldev Nagar, which are on slope. Many houses in Palika Bazaar are facing waterlogging in their basements. The residents are flushing out the water using motors. Geologist Anil Paliwal said the situation of underground water is getting worse. With the supply of canal water, underground water is not getting discharged and groundwater level is continuously increasing. “We get water by digging the ground at three feet at some places. The situation will turn worse in the coming days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-plants-bottle-palm-to-resolve-waterlogging-issue/articleshow/78470026.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 lesser florican chicks hatched in incubator||AHMEDABAD: Lesser floricans, a species on the verge of extinction, got a shot of revival one chick at a time when four eggs hatched in an incubator, small enough to fit a child, on July 5 and 6. Three chicks were born healthy while one was weak and died. Amid Covid-19 pandemic gloom, the birth of baby lesser floricans, one male and two females, hatched at the Velavadar bird sanctuary, have nestled hope amongst the forest department that they finally may be able to save the bird whose bird count is estimated less than 100 in the country. This was around 600 in 1980s. “This is the first time in India that eggs of lesser florican have been hatched artificially. As there was no prior information available, the team dabbled in some trial and error till they got it right. The birth of three birds holds great promise for revival of this species,” said principal chief conservator of forest Shyamal Tikedar. Chief conservator of forest Velavadar bird sanctuary, D T Vasavada, said that the eggs were retrieved from outskirts of Velavadar from revenue area. The eggs, green in colour, were placed in the incubator and hatched for 21 days, the time period which is naturally used by mother lesser florican to hatch her chicks. “We set the incubator at 36 degrees which is generally the temperature locally between June and September and 60% humidity to match natural conditions. The team was over the moon when they saw chicks hatching around 21 days,” said Vasavada. Forest department officials said that the three chicks are being fed high protein diet. As per wildlife norms, these three will not be released in the wild but the second generation chicks born through them will be released into the wildlife. “We will undertake artificial insemination of the Lesser Floricans once they turn around 18 months. Eggs will again be hatched in the incubator and the chicks born will be released in wildlife. We are hopeful this project will see revival of Lesser Floricans here,” said Tikadar. It needs mention that latest report of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) says that lesser floricans face the threat of extinction due to two principal reasons-- the loss of grasslands to gando baval (Prosopis juliflora) and poaching. Eggs in the wild are mostly eaten by dogs or destroyed. Gujarat is home to three species of bustards — the great Indian bustard, the lesser florican and MacQueen’s bustard. The officials said that in order to revive the species from extinction the department has also tagged a female and a male florican to study the movement and behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-lesser-florican-chicks-hatched-in-incubator/articleshow/78469153.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Covid battle: Local celebs to help Delhi govt in festive period||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s action plan to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the upcoming festive and winter season will see an aggressive awareness campaign, which will include roping in local celebrities and influencers to spread information on safety measures people should take. Delhi chief secretary had asked all the departments, including municipal corporations and other agencies, to prepare a Covid-19 action plan for the months of October and November, which witnesses the festive season and when Delhi’s winter season also sets in. “For the past many years, celebrities who call Delhi their home have been roped in for voter awareness campaigns before assembly or general elections, with successful results,” a Delhi government official said. The department would make short videos, where these personalities would tell people about the benefits of wearing face masks, not spitting in public, washing hands with soap and water, maintaining social distancing etc. The official said that all district magistrates of the capital have been asked to prepare a short-list of prominent people who live in their districts by around October 10. These influencers will then be approached for their help. The awareness campaign would also include distribution of pamphlets in places with high footfall. The decision to prepare action plans was taken after instructions from the cabinet secretary, who held a meeting with all the states on Thursday. “After the virtual meeting for launching an intensive and focused Covid-19 campaign, a directive was issued to all the departments of Delhi government,” an official said. Though all departments of Delhi government and other agencies were asked to submit their action plans by 5 pm on Saturday, it is not clear exactly how many departments and agencies submitted it by the deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-battle-local-celebs-to-help-govt-in-festive-period/articleshow/78470055.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 toll reaches 200 in Vadodara and district||VADODARA: The Covid-19 death toll reached 200 in Vadodara and district, with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) health bulletin confirming one more death on Saturday. Most of the deceased had comorbidities. Of the 200 deaths so far, 48 persons were from the north zone of the city. The east and south zone had 40 victims each, while 36 died in the west zone of the city. The areas of the district outside the VMC limits witnessed 36 deaths. In 24 hours since Friday evening, 4,389 more tests were conducted in the city and district. From these, 117 more positive cases were detected, taking the total number of positive cases to 12,150. As many as 147 persons were discharged from home quarantine or various hospitals in the city, taking the total number of discharged persons to 10,317. After this, 1,633 persons remained under treatment including 73 on ventilators and 179 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-toll-reaches-200/articleshow/78468433.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||First Orange Exp to Bangladesh starts from Warud on Oct 19||NAGPUR: First train carrying consignments of 460 metric tonne of oranges will be chugging to Bangladesh from Warud tehsil — region’s major orange growing centre in Amravati district — on October 19. Even as the fruit from the region is regularly exported to Bangladesh, this will be for the first time a consignment is being sent through the rail link between the two countries. The rail route will be cutting the travel time to less than half as compared to road. The consignment includes stock from Shramjeevi Nagpur Farm Producers’ Company and Riyaz Orange Producers’ Company apart from private traders. Ramesh Jichkar, CEO of Shramjeevi, said the train will start from Warud on October 19 and reach Benapole in the neighbouring country. Jichkar told TOI that the concept was mooted by Union minister for surface transport Nitin Gadkari. The train journey will reduce the travel time by over 60 hours. As against 90 hours taken by road, the oranges will reach Bangladesh in little over 25 hours. “There will be 16 wagons full of oranges in the train out of which one will be having Shramjeevi’s consignment,” said Jichkar. Apart from it, private traders have also booked wagons, he said. The oranges will be sold to various fruit traders in Bangladesh as a table fruit, he said. Since Shramjeevi did not have export licence, its consignment is being sent through another trading firm, said Jichkar. The price will be realized on the basis of offers made by traders in Bangladesh depending on the quality. The first journey is being undertaken as a pilot project, after which the rail link is expected to be tapped on a regular basis, said Jichkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-orange-exp-to-bdesh-starts-from-warud-on-oct-19/articleshow/78469169.cms||Shishir Arya
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||GUVNL invites applications for small scale solar projects||AHMEDABAD: The state-run Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) has invited applications within two months for setting up small scale solar power projects of 0.5 to 4MW capacity. The applications have been invited from eligible entities, which also include any individual or body of individuals, company or association, co-operative society of individuals or farmers among others. The power generated through such smaller projects will be procured by GUVNL by signing power purchase agreements (PPAs) under state government’s policy for development of small scale distributed solar projects, which was unveiled in 2019. This policy aims at promoting establishment of small-size solar projects across the state. According to the policy, the small scale project developer will be eligible for additional 20 paisa per unit over and above the average tariff discovered in the competitive bidding for large scale solar power projects conducted by GUVNL. A public announcement issued by GUVNL on Saturday states that the applicable tariff for PPAs to be signed with small scale project developers from October 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 will be Rs 2.83 per unit (Rs 2.63 per unit tariff discovered for large projects and additional 20 paisa offered under the policy). “The time duration applicable for commissioning of project under the policy is 12 months from the date of signing of PPA. The tariff mentioned in the PPA shall be fixed for the entire duration of 25 years from Commercial Operation Date of the project,” GUVNL added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guvnl-invites-applications-for-small-scale-solar-projects/articleshow/78469164.cms||Kalpesh Damor
October 4, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor: Woman stages abduction triggering massive search, found at boyfriend's house||BIJNOR: A massive search operation, including use of a drone, was launched to find a 35-year-old woman who mysteriously went missing while collecting fodder from a field along with other family members on Friday morning at Bhonawala village under Najibabad police station. All that people heard was a cry for help and then she was gone. But five hours later, Santosh Devi was found in Haridwar, hale and hearty, at the residence of a relative she was allegedly in a relationship with. Dharamveer Singh, superintendent of police, said there was a hue and cry over Santosh Devi's disappearance. A heavy police force was deployed on the scene and the cane field where woman and her family members were working in was cordoned off. Police deployed a drone to trace her in the nearby jungle. Police also turned to electronic surveillance and traced the woman's last call from her mobile phone to a Haridwar-based relative whose phone was active in the area. Thereafter, it did not take long for police to track Santosh Devi to Baharpili area under Shyampur police station area of Haridwar, the SP said. She confessed to having an affair with her brother-in-law, Devendra Kumar, for the past two years. On Friday, she staged her abduction and fled with Kumar, who was waiting for her near the cane field. They sped away to Haridwar on his bike. He dropped her at his relative's house and returned to Bhonawala village to join the search. Police have registered a case against the woman and her paramour under relevant sections of the IPC and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-stages-abduction-triggering-massive-search-found-at-boyfriends-house/articleshow/78469156.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Schoolkids to clean house, urge friends to fight dengue||NEW DELHI: In the fifth week of its ‘10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute’ anti-dengue campaign, Delhi government plans to engage schoolchildren to spread awareness about measures to prevent dengue. Schoolchildren will be encouraged to do their homework by inspecting their houses at 10 am for 10 minutes for signs of stagnant clean water, a statement from Delhi government said. After inspecting their houses and draining the accumulated water, the children will also be encouraged to call their friends and motivate them to inspect their houses for clean stagnant water and participate in the campaign, it added. Last week, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had asked all the residents’ welfare associations of Delhi to come forward and make the residents in their localities aware of the measures to be taken to prevent dengue. “Taking forward the campaign against dengue today on the fourth Sunday by replacing the water collected at home. In this way, we have to stop the breeding of dengue mosquitoes and protect our family and the entire Delhi from Dengue. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute Har Ravivaar Dengue Par Vaar,” he had tweeted. Kejriwal had kick-started the anti-dengue campaign on September 6 this year. Delhi government has also launched a telephonic helpline – 011-23300012 and a WhatsApp helpline - 8595920530 to assist the city residents in the fight against dengue. As part of the campaign, Delhiites are encouraged to change clean stagnant water collected at their homes every Sunday. The first edition of the campaign was launched in September 2019. Last year, only 2,036 dengue cases and two deaths were reported compared with 15,867 cases and 60 deaths in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/schoolkids-to-clean-house-urge-friends-to-fight-dengue/articleshow/78470085.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||Foreign secretary & Army chief to leave for Myanmar today||NEW DELHI: Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and Army chief M M Naravane will travel together on Sunday to Myanmar, a strong pillar of India’s both Neighborhood First and Act East policies. Official sources said the joint visit by the Army chief and top diplomat is meant to facilitate a comprehensive review of security and defence ties, border development programme and also India’s development work in the strife-torn Rakhine state. During their visit, the delegation will call on the state counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and commander-in-chief of Myanmar armed forces, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing. Myanmar is crucial for India’s security in the north-east and, as Shringla had said in the foreign office consultations earlier this week, both countries have remained sensitive to each other’s concerns with Myanmar handing over insurgents to the Indian government. India is looking to finalise an extradition treaty with Myanmar. As they look to deepen defence cooperation, a team for the deployment of meteorological squadrons will be reaching Myanmar this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/foreign-secretary-army-chief-to-leave-for-myanmar-today/articleshow/78470917.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kochi||MVD guidelines on customization soon||Kochi: With a massive social media campaign going on against motor vehicle department’s (MVD) intensified checking of vehicles and imposition of fines for various offences, including customization of vehicles, the department plans to come out with clear rules and guidelines on what is allowed and what is not. Though enforcement rules on customization exist, most officials find it difficult in scrutinizing and interpreting them as they are ambiguous. This ambiguity in rules leads to their implementation at the discretion of officials, thereby leading to heated arguments with the public and motorists. Sources at MVD said that discussions are on to come out with specific circulars that will clearly describe and differentiate legal and illegal customization on all kinds of vehicles. These are expected to be out in the coming week and the department hopes to make motorists aware of offences, penalty and clear their doubts. Moreover, the MVD has started a self-defence campaign on its official Facebook page by highlighting fake posts made by users raising allegations against the checking and fine imposition. “The MVD is strictly following rules for enforcement and there is a massive smear campaign going on in the social media these days. Most of these social media posts are fake and mislead the public, and are posted with the support of people with vested interests. The department will be coming out with detailed instructions to officers deployed in enforcement,” said Rajeev Puthalath, joint transport commissioner. There has been a lot of complaints raised by the public alleging that the MVD is imposing fine illegally for various customizations, including changing alloy wheels, colour, headlamps and fixing additional lamps, use of HID lamps and high-decibel horns, gluing stickers, tinted glass, etc. However, MVD officials said that the fines are imposed as per the amendment of Motor-Vehicle Act Amendment 2018. They said the rate of enforcement has increased during lockdown after the department started implementing e-challan, which is a digital traffic/transport enforcement solution with the help of modern gadgets and technology. “There are specific rules about the use/ change of lights, horn, exhaust and also the use of cooling paper on window glass and tinted glass. We use decibel meter, lux meter and tint meter to check the sound (of engine, exhaust and horn), luminous intensity (of headlamps or additionally fitted lights) and tint of glasses respectively. Use of cooling paper is illegal but tinted glasses are permitted with minimum transparency limits. However, there is still lack of clarity in terms of customization like colour changing, stickering and use/change of alloy wheels. Even though all customization that violates the manufacturers specifications and could affect structural dimensions are offences, using alloy wheel with permitted dimension are legal. But present rules on all these are ambiguous and enforcement is done at the discretion of officers,” said a senior MVD officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mvd-guidelines-on-customization-soon/articleshow/78468452.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Demand highest for maths, computer courses at US education fair||HYDERABAD: The demand for maths and computer science courses remained high at this year’s US University Graduate Virtual Fair. Students sa id with the IT sector remaining resilient during the pandemic, they were confident of their career choice. Vishal Adi, an engineer working with an IT firm, said, “while many sectors got hit during the pandemic, dependence on IT and software continued. I think software is still the future.” In fact, a report in June this year suggested that IT jobs across all industries in the US had increased by an estimated 2.27 lakh positions, a fact that was not lost on those aspiring to work and settle in the US. For Sharda Alluri, an engineering student, a switch in professions isn’t likely anytime soon. “I was interested in exploring other sectors after I complete my BTech. But considering how unstable other sectors have been, my family decided I should continue to explore a masters in computer science.” In a response to a query by TOI, Ingrid Specht, spokesperson, US Consulate General Hyderabad said: “STEM and Math/Computer Science remained the most popular fields of study in 2018-2019 (Open Doors Report 2019). Thirty-seven percent of Indian students who were in the US for higher education in 2018-2019 opted for Math/Computer Science, while 34.2% opted for STEM majors.” About other preferred options, the spokesperson said: “Business/Management (10.3%) and Physical/Life sciences (5.6%) are the next two most popular fields of study. EducationUSA advisers have noted similar trends in the Hyderabad consular district (AP, Telangana, and Odisha).” Nationally, there has been a steady increase in the number of students opting for math and computer science, from 19.8% students in 2009-2010 to 37% in 2018-2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demand-highest-for-maths-computer-courses-at-us-edu-fair/articleshow/78469176.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||NDMC hopes to finish tree census by year-end||NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) targets to complete its much awaited tree census in Lutyens’ Delhi by December-end and make the information, including number of vintage trees, their health status and GPS locations, public by January-end. “As of now, 80% of the trees have been counted and the horticulture department is verifying the data collected by the company appointed for the survey. There were places where some trees were not counted and we are now considering all of them,” said an official. “The trees in Central PWD bungalows and some VIP areas are still left and NDMC is approaching various agencies to access these trees,” he added. NDMC started the census in December 2019 through a Mumbai-based company and started capturing details of all trees in gardens and parks. This was followed by a survey on the 135 roads of New Delhi, where neem, jamun, arjun, peepal and amaltas saplings were planted almost a century ago. “The project was supposed to complete in four-five months but due to Covid-19, the exercise halted for a few months. Most of these trees are above 70 years old and their health status will help us decide the future course of action,” said the official. “The information collected is being digitised for better tree management. But the process of feeding the information at the command centre will take some time.” The details include a tree’s girth, height, crown area, location, any deformity, blooming season, carbon dioxide in-take and oxygen releasing capacity, and if it was ever uprooted. Till now, the trees along the roads largely stayed outside the monitoring system. “We are also making arrangements for each tree to bear a QR code on a metal plate, cloth or a rubber belt. We are yet to finalise the material,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-hopes-to-finish-tree-census-by-year-end/articleshow/78470122.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake FDCA officer nabbed in Odhav||AHMEDABAD: Sandeep Sarvadia, 27, of Nikol lodged a complaint with Odhav police on Friday alleging that one Amit Jaykumar Acharya had tried to cheat him by posing as one A K Patel, a Class-2 officer of vigilance department of of Food and Drugs department. Saravadia stated that on October 1, Acharya had visited his factory in Odhav and demanded to see his licences and certificates. Then he said that the fire safety certificate, pollution board certificate and other certificates were missing, and he could provide the certificates against Rs 3,500. Sarvadia, however, called up a friend in the secretariat and through him contacted a senior officer in the food and drugs department. The next day, when the impostor arrived with the certificates, Sarvadia called up the officer. “A team from the department arrived and nabbed Acharya, who is a resident of Khokhra. They handed him over to us, and we have sent him for pre-arrest Covid-19 test,” said inspector R G Jadeja of Odhav police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-fdca-officer-nabbed-in-odhav/articleshow/78469175.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Poachers use Goa as source and market of wild animal meat, organs||Keri: With thriving wildlife in its Western Ghats, Goa is a target for poachers to illegally source wild animals. This meat and organs of wild animals are traded in other parts of the country and even the world. But what is not sufficiently acknowledged yet is the market Goa locally offers for such poached wild animal meat and animal organs. Wildlifers in the state said that various derivatives are being brought in Goa from different parts of India and the world to be sold here. “Recently, we helped the forest officials from Karnataka to nab culprits from Goa involved in the trade of imported ivory and hippo teeth. Our department is taking steps to curtail wildlife crime and trade in Goa,” assistant conservator of forests Anand Jadhav said. Some persons were recently arrested by the forest department for killing wild animals. The animals are hunted for their meat, blood, teeth, nails, hair, skin and antlers, among other parts. Illegal wildlife trade in marine curios is being carried out in the coastal markets of Goa. Protected seashells and cowries are collected and various handicrafts made from them are sold in the markets. Parakeets and squirrels are sold as pets. During monsoons, every year frog species like the Indian Bullfrog are available as ‘jumping chicken’ on the menu of some restaurants and are sought by consumers as a delicacy. Over the last two months, many cases of poaching of monitor lizards by locals for its meat were reported in Goa. The monitor lizard meat, blood and oil have enjoyed a reputation in traditional oriental medicine as a cure for many ailments. Poaching and sale of sambar, wild boar meat is rampant in many areas of the state. Recent increase in demand for pangolin scales has become a major threat to this species. Obtaining of crest feathers by killing peacocks for religious belief also takes place in Goa. “People from Maharashtra want sand boa snake in the activities of sorcery and black magic and we have received information that these snakes are being taken from Goa to meet their demand,” a wildlifer from Bicholim, Amrutsingh said. This type of exploitation of some animal and plant species, along with other factors like loss and degradation of their habitat, is resulting in depletion of their population. If a species decline in number, it can spell disaster for the entire ecosystem with the prey-predator relationship disturbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poachers-use-goa-as-source-and-market-of-wild-animal-meat-organs/articleshow/78470176.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||MUHS results out on same day as practicals end||NAGPUR: The Maharashra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has completed the MBBS final year examination process in a record time this year under exceptional conditions of Covid-19 pandemic. Exams began on September 8 and ended on September 21. Results were announced late evening on October 2, the day when practicals were completed. “Under the guidance of vice-chancellor Dr Deelip Mhaisekar, we completed the work quickly. As a result, 513 fresh MBBS doctors will be available to treat Covid-19 patients in medical colleges across the state,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, controller of examination. MBBS pass-out interns are working as frontline warriors in Covid-19 wards in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur and some other districts. They have also earned appreciation from the municipal corporations and district administrations in Pune and Mumbai, and also got some cash incentives. In Mumbai, interns are paid at par with resident doctors. However, interns working in Nagpur still get only their fixed stipend of Rs11,000. All the fresh pass-outs will get their registration as medical practitioners from the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) through an online process as soon as they complete the internship period of one year. MMC vice president Dr Vinky Rughwani said that the MMC has taken a few “important steps to help students”. “Colleges will send information about students who have passed out to MMC after they complete their internship period. These students will be awarded permanent registration numbers online. The original document verification process at MMC office at Mumbai will not be required,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/muhs-results-out-on-same-day-as-practicals-end/articleshow/78469183.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, recoveries double of new cases in Vidarbha||Nagpur: For the first time since the onset of coronavirus in Vidarbha, the number of patients who recovered in a day was more than double of the new cases reported. The region reported 1,666 new Covid-19 cases, while 3,435 patients recovered from the 11 districts on Saturday. Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 caseload reached 1,55,059, while 1,23,546 of them have recovered. This took the recovery rate of the region to 79.67%. After almost three weeks, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is slightly more than the state’s average of 79.3%, but still way behind the national average of 83%. Deaths also reduced to 46 on Saturday. August 30 was the last time when fewer than 46 deaths were reported in a day. Since then, for 33 days straight, daily death count has been more than 45. While number of deaths has reduced, the case fatality rate of Vidarbha is still 2.68% — on the higher side. Of the 46 deaths reported on Saturday, Nagpur accounted for 22. With Bhandara (7), Amravati (5), Wardha, Gondia, Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana (2 each), Chandrapur and Washim (1 each)’s additions, the region’s death toll reached 4,163. Saturday’s 1,666 new cases were the lowest in a day since August 27. With Nagpur (876), Bhandara (136), Chandrapur (114), Buldhana (113), Gondia (96), Amravati (96), Gadchiroli (74), Wardha (57), Yavatmal (44), Washim (38), and Akola (22)’s fresh cases, the total reached 1,55,059. Nagpur also accounted for the highest recoveries (1,821) of the day. The orange city was followed by Chandrapur (401 recoveries), Gondia (282), Bhandara (204), Amravati (197), Buldhana (161), Akola (121), Washim (105), Gadchiroli (101), and Wardha (42), respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-recoveries-double-of-new-cases-in-vidarbha/articleshow/78469165.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Electric vehicles push: Subsidy to be sent to bank account soon||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s plan to transfer subsidies for buying electric vehicles (EV) directly to the bank accounts of buyers is going to start very soon. As part of its ambitious EV policy, the government would provide subsidies of up to Rs 30,000 for two-wheelers and up to Rs 1.5 lakh for cars to promote faster adoption of EVs. The policy also allows waiving off road tax and registration fees for electric vehicles and the notification to bring these provisions into effect is also expected very soon. TOI was the first to report that the subsidy for buying EVs would be directly transferred to the bank accounts of buyers within seven days of the purchase. According to Delhi government officials, the software developed to allow this direct transfer is ready and is undergoing safety tests at present. Launched by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 7, the government’s comprehensive policy aims to push the adoption of the vehicles by creating a complete EV ecosystem in the capital, which includes incentives for buying new EVs, creating a robust charging infrastructure, funding through various sources like congestion charge, and monitoring mechanism for timely implementation. While Delhi government plans to roll out all the provisions of the extensive EV policy as early as possible, it wants to ensure that the financial incentives assured under the policy are put in place first. As part of this roll-out plan, the direct transfer of subsidy and waiving off road tax and registration charges are being implemented first. The government is also trying to ensure that those opting for EVs get the financial benefits without facing any hassles and the development of dedicated software for the transfer of the subsidy is part of this plan. This would allow online filling up of a form at the EV dealership, where bank account details of the buyer would be submitted. This form would be approved by the motor licensing officer of the respective Regional Transport Office (RTO) where the EV would be registered and the amount would be transferred. After incentive, the other primary aspect the government is working on and will help promote EVs is creating the charging infrastructure. While launching the policy, Kejriwal had said that one of the reasons people do not purchase electric vehicles is that charging is not as easily available as petrol pumps. He had said that keeping this in mind, a huge network of charging stations will be created in Delhi and the government’s target is to create 200 charging stations in the next one year and eventually, creating a charging station every 3 kms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ev-push-subsidy-to-be-sent-to-bank-a/c-soon/articleshow/78470144.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||US universities woo Indian students, waive GRE||HYDERABAD: Universities went out of their way to convince students that US education remained the best even during a pandemic. To woo students, a majority of universities have waived the GRE for their programmes and many are offering remote learning options. Speaking to TOI, a representative of University of Michigan, Flint, said, “Our computer science program does not require GRE.” For students who are apprehensive of travelling to the US, the university is offering a hybrid mode of studying. “We also emphasise hands-on learning so there are lots of opportunities for internships and 100% of CS and engineering internships at UM-Flint is paid,” said the spokesperson, adding that in spite of the pandemic the quality of education being offered is unmatched. Alyssa Bixby of Chatham University also said that most of their programmes did not require the GRE. “We only offer two fully online programs: Healthcare Informatics and MBA. While some are considered a hybrid, most of these programs are on-ground,” she clarified. While a majority of institutions TOI spoke with are waiving the GRE for this year, some did continue to insist on it. A representative from the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School said, “We will continue to accept at-home/online versions of required exams including GMAT Online, GRE at Home, TOEFL iBT Special Home Edition, and IELTS Indicator.” However, the representative maintained that keeping in mind the inability to take standardised tests as many times as one would prefer or prepare in the same way, “we will consider applications holistically and take testing challenges into account as we review applications this year”. The representative added that test score requirements have been waived for all applicants to part-time programs for spring 2021. In most universities, a decision on fall 2021 requirements is yet to be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-varsities-woo-indian-students-waive-gre/articleshow/78469181.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Slow pace of Bahadurpura flyover work irks residents and motorists||HYDERABAD: The slow pace of Bahadurpura flyover works and prevailing hurdles have added to the woes of motorists and residents. Locals and motorists are facing much inconvenience to reach their respective destinations. The delay in widening the road is leading to further problems. Locals complained that the pathetic condition of the road has been a challenge for them and sometimes traffic jams add to their woes. Mohd Ahmed, TDP GHMC minority cell vice-president, told TOI that people had come forward to cooperate with the civic body in land acquisition process hoping to get rid of traffic snarls in the locality, but the tardy flyover work has irked them. “Nobody appears to be serious about Old City development. GHMC officials accompany local leaders just to be seen active in carrying out surveys and in rhetoric but practically they are slow. Not only is the flyover work pending, other civic issues too cropped up during the recent rain in many localities that need to be addressed,” said Ahmed. “The people here are very eager to see development on par with Hi-Tec City but it seems the government has failed to keep promises give by the ruling prty and address Old City’s problems,” added Ahmed. A shopkeeper told TOI that the road from Puranapul to Tadbun is a busy one and motorists face difficulties. “I think the road needs to be taken into consideration immediately as the traffic continues to swell during peak hours. There are no proper dividers and speeding vehicles pose a serious threat to light vehicles during the night time,” Syed, the shopkeeper, said. A motorist, Mohd Khasim, complained that potholes on the roads have became a peril for motorists and it would be a double whammy in case of heavy rain. “The flyover has been inspected with political party representatives. The restoration works will be taken up this week,” GHMC zonal commissioner, Charminar, Ashok Samrat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slow-pace-of-bahadurpura-flyover-work-irks-residents-and-motorists/articleshow/78469185.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Driver charred to death after two trucks collide in Rajasthan's Churu||KOTA: A 46-year-old truck driver from Churu district was burnt alive inside the cabin of his vehicle on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday after it hit a stationary truck on NH-52 near Ramganj village under Bundi Sadar police station. The deceased was identified as Shankarlal Mali (46), circle inspector of Bundi Sadar police station Shokat Ali Khan said. The truck loaded with wooden furniture was heading to Kota when around 2.30 am it collided with a stationary truck outside a hotel and caught fire, he added. The driver attempted to jump out but before he could, the rising flames engulfed the cabin and the truck, he added. The tyres and some parts of the stationary truck also were also burnt, he added. The body of the driver was handed over to family members after postmortem on Saturday afternoon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/driver-charred-to-death-after-two-trucks-collide-in-churu/articleshow/78470133.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Need for better coordination among western states’||GANDHINAGAR: Minister of state for home, law and legislative affairs, Pradipsinh Jadeja, while speaking at the 7th western region police coordination committee held through national level video conferencing, said on Saturday that there is need to improve coordination between western states to further strengthen law and order. DGP Asish Bhatia delivered the welcome address. Jadeja said in order to improve crime detection, investigation and conviction rates, technology exchange and better coordination among states is needed. The state should adopt best practices of other states to improve the law and order situation, he said. Jadeja said there is also a need to improve the justice delivery system in order to increase trust level on judiciary. The minister said Gujarat’s Raksha Shakti University and Forensic Sciences University have received national recognition. He claimed the Gujarat government has recruited over 37,000 persons in police force and invested in technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/need-for-better-coordination-among-western-states/articleshow/78469180.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ghaziabad||Delhi: ‘Illegal to bar doorstep delivery of newspapers’||NEW DELHI: Home delivery of newspapers is an essential service that should not face any hindrance, according to a statement from the apex body of residents’ welfare associations of Delhi, United RWAs Joint Action (Urja). In a statement released here on Saturday, Atul Goyal, president of Urja, stated: “It has come to our notice there are some housing societies and residents’ welfare associations that are not allowing distribution of newspapers to their residents, which is illegal, wrong and challenges the integrity of our society.” He added that all community leaders, RWA presidents, secretaries and office-bearers are advised not to interfere in the home delivery service or act in violation of the orders of the competent authorities, which are punishable. The statement added: “In these times of rumours and fake news, it is newspapers that bring in credibility and uphold the right of information for the people. Circulation and distribution of newspapers is an inseparable and essential part of dissemination of information and is protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India guaranteeing right to free speech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that newspapers have tremendous credibility—and, by acting as a link between the government and the people, play a critical role in creating awareness about the Covid-19 outbreak at both the national and regional levels.” The statement added: “There is absolutely no bar on door-to-door distribution of newspapers; in fact the Union government had, by way of a letter dated March 29, 2020 from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states, specified that even during the lockdown due to Covid-19, the entire newspaper delivery chain will continue to be allowed to operate as part of exemptions granted to the print media. Hence all must adhere to the laws of the land and cannot stop the entry of newspaper distributors into housing societies and the distribution of newspapers to the homes of citizens.’’ It went on to say that Urja supports the home delivery of newspapers under an essential service to also greatly help the livelihoods of thousands of newspaper distributors, who are an essential part of the newspaper chain. It stressed that this would safeguard the citizens’ right to information, adding that this would also go a long way in re-starting the cycle of economic activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/there-should-be-no-hindrance-to-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-apex-rwa-body-urja/articleshow/78490010.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi: ‘Illegal to bar doorstep delivery of newspapers’||NEW DELHI: Home delivery of newspapers is an essential service that should not face any hindrance, according to a statement from the apex body of residents’ welfare associations of Delhi, United RWAs Joint Action (Urja). In a statement released here on Saturday, Atul Goyal, president of Urja, stated: “It has come to our notice there are some housing societies and residents’ welfare associations that are not allowing distribution of newspapers to their residents, which is illegal, wrong and challenges the integrity of our society.” He added that all community leaders, RWA presidents, secretaries and office-bearers are advised not to interfere in the home delivery service or act in violation of the orders of the competent authorities, which are punishable. The statement added: “In these times of rumours and fake news, it is newspapers that bring in credibility and uphold the right of information for the people. Circulation and distribution of newspapers is an inseparable and essential part of dissemination of information and is protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India guaranteeing right to free speech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that newspapers have tremendous credibility—and, by acting as a link between the government and the people, play a critical role in creating awareness about the Covid-19 outbreak at both the national and regional levels.” The statement added: “There is absolutely no bar on door-to-door distribution of newspapers; in fact the Union government had, by way of a letter dated March 29, 2020 from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states, specified that even during the lockdown due to Covid-19, the entire newspaper delivery chain will continue to be allowed to operate as part of exemptions granted to the print media. Hence all must adhere to the laws of the land and cannot stop the entry of newspaper distributors into housing societies and the distribution of newspapers to the homes of citizens.’’ It went on to say that Urja supports the home delivery of newspapers under an essential service to also greatly help the livelihoods of thousands of newspaper distributors, who are an essential part of the newspaper chain. It stressed that this would safeguard the citizens’ right to information, adding that this would also go a long way in re-starting the cycle of economic activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/there-should-be-no-hindrance-to-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-apex-rwa-body-urja/articleshow/78489776.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Widow accuses son, his wife of threatening to kill her||AHMEDABAD: A 67-year-old widow from Juhapura, Shahenaz Malek, lodged a complaint at Vejalpur police station on Friday against her son, Irfan Malek, and his wife Rizwana, for evicting her and threatening to kill her if she returns. According to the complainant, her husband Yasin Malek, who was a senior clerk with the AMTS, died in 2008. “She stated that she lived with Irfan and Rizwana in Juhapura. As she has asthma, she uses a machine to help her breathe. On September 20, when she was using the machine, her son told her that because of the noise of the machine, he cannot take online classes and started fighting with her. Rizwana also abused her. Malek had called the police control room at the time but with the intervention of their relatives the matter was resolved,” said a senior Vejalpur police officer. According to the FIR, the next day the complainant went to live with her other son, Illyas, who lives nearby. “The next day Irfan and Rizwana went to Illyas’s house and started fighting with Shahenaz. The complaint says Irfan threatened his mother saying the next time she comes to stay at his house he would kill her. Malek submitted an application of complaint to the police station through her lawyer. She told police that she could not come to register a complaint earlier because she was ill. We have registered an offence and are probing the allegations made in the FIR,” said a Vejalpur police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/widow-accuses-son-his-wife-of-threatening-to-kill-her/articleshow/78469189.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Online consultation grows multifold during Covid times||NAGPUR: Covid-19 pandemic has brought many changes in the day-to-day life and one of them is use of smartphones, tablets and other Internet-enabled devices for online consultation from doctors. As visiting hospital increases the risk of infection, many people in the city as well as smaller towns are now going for online consultation. “There were many apps which were already being used at national level. But now, many such applications are available even at the local level which are finding many users,” said cardiologist Dr Amar Amale. “Covid pandemic is not going to end soon. We have to adapt and start living with it. Teleconsultation provides the safest way. Patients should also understand that instead of not having follow-up for long duration resulting in mismanagement, they should be willing to go for online consultation for non-emergency follow-up,” he added. As per data provided by online medical consultation platform Practo, consultations for cardiology grew by 350% in the last six months and more than 30% of the queries were from people residing in non-metro cities. Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynecology Society (NOGS) has started one such free online platform ‘ISHA’ for needy patients. “NOGS members had shared their numbers with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation and NGOs working for counselling. During Covid period, it helped a lot of women. We received many calls and the numbers are increasing daily,” said Dr Vaidehi Marathe, president of NOGS. Medical practitioners started offering teleconsultation sometime in 2000. But, in Covid-19 pandemic situation, this has received much-needed statutory basis and support. State Medical Council revoked ban on teleconsultation. Now, it’s fully legal and very beneficial for patients as well as doctors. “Teleconsultation has worked as a boon for many during the pandemic. It is a safe and effective way to assess and treat patients while minimizing the risk of disease transmission,” said Dr Sameer Arbat, interventional pulmonologist. “In a pandemic, health systems can struggle to cope with an uncontrolled and exponential demand. Teleconsultation has been helpful in reducing patient anxiety and uncertainty during these difficult times,” he added. Psychiatrists were the first who started offering online consultation right in the beginning of the pandemic. “Earlier, I was sceptical to accept this change. In our field, we need to observe body language of patient which we don’t get to observe on phone or on webcam,” said psychiatrist and psychotherapist Dr Nikhil Pande. “But, gradually, I came to know about the benefits. It’s best for follow-up patients. Outstation patients can skip travelling to Nagpur only for consultation. But, sharing personal number of WhatsApp may create problem, at least, for psychiatrists. I received long WhatsApp messages many times. I am now using an online application, which is good,” Dr Pande added. Online consultation is preferred in one more field which is sexual medicine. “People feel more comfortable to share their problems online rather than visiting the clinic,” said senior sexologist Dr Sanjay Deshpande. “But, I have made it a point to provide e-consultation only to my follow-up patients. For new patients, I insist on at least one face-to-face visit to the clinic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-consultation-grows-multifold-during-covid-times/articleshow/78469215.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Young teachers to help students sort out NU app-related issues||NAGPUR: With hundreds of complaints pouring in regarding its Pariksha app, the Nagpur University administration has decided to constitute a coordination committee comprising young teachers to help students sort out technical problems. The examinees are also facing several problems in downloading hall tickets from a link that was posted on the NU website on Friday. The blunders in mock tests continued even as NU claimed that it had removed all discrepancies. When students logged in, they were surprised to see that their names were changed while many received wrong question papers not belonging to their faculties. Prafulla Sable, Board of Examination and Evaluation (BoEE) director. told TOI that teachers on the coordination committee will be selected from four districts under NU jurisdiction — Bhandara, Gondia, Wardha and Nagpur. “They would be tech-savvy and provided training for using the app. Their numbers would be uploaded on the website so that students could contact them directly,” he said. Despite tall claims by Promarc Software Limited which developed the app, students, particularly from rural areas, are facing numerous problems in downloading it. Many aggrieved students from Bhandara contacted former NU Management Council member Mahendra Nimbarte. “Even on hall tickets names and numbers are changed while there are several mistakes in spellings,” a Senate member told TOI. According to the BoEE director, the committee members were told to work with all principals in their respective jurisdictions to understand problems faced by students. “They have been instructed to note down all difficulties faced by the examinees and add it into frequently asked questions (FAQ) section, which then would be updated on the website and app,” he said. NU teachers to try exam app: Nagpur University has decided to rope in selected teachers from all faculties who will appear in online MCQ tests on Pariksha app and share their experience. “They will also suggest improvements. One more panel would be formed consisting of five member from NU Exam Section and two from Promarc, who will incorporate changes suggested by the teachers and also sort out students’ problems,” said Sable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/young-teachers-to-help-students-sort-out-nu-app-related-issues/articleshow/78469192.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 4, 2020||Noida||Delhi: ‘Illegal to bar doorstep delivery of newspapers’||NEW DELHI: Home delivery of newspapers is an essential service that should not face any hindrance, according to a statement from the apex body of residents’ welfare associations of Delhi, United RWAs Joint Action (Urja). In a statement released here on Saturday, Atul Goyal, president of Urja, stated: “It has come to our notice there are some housing societies and residents’ welfare associations that are not allowing distribution of newspapers to their residents, which is illegal, wrong and challenges the integrity of our society.” He added that all community leaders, RWA presidents, secretaries and office-bearers are advised not to interfere in the home delivery service or act in violation of the orders of the competent authorities, which are punishable. The statement added: “In these times of rumours and fake news, it is newspapers that bring in credibility and uphold the right of information for the people. Circulation and distribution of newspapers is an inseparable and essential part of dissemination of information and is protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India guaranteeing right to free speech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that newspapers have tremendous credibility—and, by acting as a link between the government and the people, play a critical role in creating awareness about the Covid-19 outbreak at both the national and regional levels.” The statement added: “There is absolutely no bar on door-to-door distribution of newspapers; in fact the Union government had, by way of a letter dated March 29, 2020 from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states, specified that even during the lockdown due to Covid-19, the entire newspaper delivery chain will continue to be allowed to operate as part of exemptions granted to the print media. Hence all must adhere to the laws of the land and cannot stop the entry of newspaper distributors into housing societies and the distribution of newspapers to the homes of citizens.’’ It went on to say that Urja supports the home delivery of newspapers under an essential service to also greatly help the livelihoods of thousands of newspaper distributors, who are an essential part of the newspaper chain. It stressed that this would safeguard the citizens’ right to information, adding that this would also go a long way in re-starting the cycle of economic activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/there-should-be-no-hindrance-to-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-apex-rwa-body-urja/articleshow/78489779.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Faridabad||Delhi: ‘Illegal to bar doorstep delivery of newspapers’||NEW DELHI: Home delivery of newspapers is an essential service that should not face any hindrance, according to a statement from the apex body of residents’ welfare associations of Delhi, United RWAs Joint Action (Urja). In a statement released here on Saturday, Atul Goyal, president of Urja, stated: “It has come to our notice there are some housing societies and residents’ welfare associations that are not allowing distribution of newspapers to their residents, which is illegal, wrong and challenges the integrity of our society.” He added that all community leaders, RWA presidents, secretaries and office-bearers are advised not to interfere in the home delivery service or act in violation of the orders of the competent authorities, which are punishable. The statement added: “In these times of rumours and fake news, it is newspapers that bring in credibility and uphold the right of information for the people. Circulation and distribution of newspapers is an inseparable and essential part of dissemination of information and is protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India guaranteeing right to free speech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that newspapers have tremendous credibility—and, by acting as a link between the government and the people, play a critical role in creating awareness about the Covid-19 outbreak at both the national and regional levels.” The statement added: “There is absolutely no bar on door-to-door distribution of newspapers; in fact the Union government had, by way of a letter dated March 29, 2020 from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states, specified that even during the lockdown due to Covid-19, the entire newspaper delivery chain will continue to be allowed to operate as part of exemptions granted to the print media. Hence all must adhere to the laws of the land and cannot stop the entry of newspaper distributors into housing societies and the distribution of newspapers to the homes of citizens.’’ It went on to say that Urja supports the home delivery of newspapers under an essential service to also greatly help the livelihoods of thousands of newspaper distributors, who are an essential part of the newspaper chain. It stressed that this would safeguard the citizens’ right to information, adding that this would also go a long way in re-starting the cycle of economic activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/there-should-be-no-hindrance-to-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-apex-rwa-body-urja/articleshow/78490011.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Illegal to bar doorstep delivery of newspapers’||NEW DELHI: Home delivery of newspapers is an essential service that should not face any hindrance, according to a statement from the apex body of residents’ welfare associations of Delhi, United RWAs Joint Action (Urja). In a statement released here on Saturday, Atul Goyal, president of Urja, stated: “It has come to our notice there are some housing societies and residents’ welfare associations that are not allowing distribution of newspapers to their residents, which is illegal, wrong and challenges the integrity of our society.” He added that all community leaders, RWA presidents, secretaries and office-bearers are advised not to interfere in the home delivery service or act in violation of the orders of the competent authorities, which are punishable. The statement added: “In these times of rumours and fake news, it is newspapers that bring in credibility and uphold the right of information for the people. Circulation and distribution of newspapers is an inseparable and essential part of dissemination of information and is protected by Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India guaranteeing right to free speech. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that newspapers have tremendous credibility—and, by acting as a link between the government and the people, play a critical role in creating awareness about the Covid-19 outbreak at both the national and regional levels.” The statement added: “There is absolutely no bar on door-to-door distribution of newspapers; in fact the Union government had, by way of a letter dated March 29, 2020 from Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to chief secretaries of all states, specified that even during the lockdown due to Covid-19, the entire newspaper delivery chain will continue to be allowed to operate as part of exemptions granted to the print media. Hence all must adhere to the laws of the land and cannot stop the entry of newspaper distributors into housing societies and the distribution of newspapers to the homes of citizens.’’ It went on to say that Urja supports the home delivery of newspapers under an essential service to also greatly help the livelihoods of thousands of newspaper distributors, who are an essential part of the newspaper chain. It stressed that this would safeguard the citizens’ right to information, adding that this would also go a long way in re-starting the cycle of economic activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/there-should-be-no-hindrance-to-doorstep-delivery-of-newspapers-apex-rwa-body-urja/articleshow/78470158.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Engineering, pharmacy trial allotment today||Thiruvananthapuram: The online option registration for admission to engineering/pharmacy courses for 2020-21 commenced on September 30 and will end on October 6 at 10am. Based on the options received up to October 3, 5pm, a trial allotment will be published on October 4. On the basis of allotment received in the trial allotment, candidates can re-arrange the options, if necessary. Candidates who do not give online options within the time limit will not be considered for trial allotment, said a statement from office of commissioner for state entrance examinations. Candidates whose results have been withheld due to various reasons can also register their online options for allotment. But the options submitted by such candidates will not be considered for allotment unless they rectify the defects before 2pm on October 4. Candidates will ensure details of course of study, college and fees structure before registering options. The entrance commissioner office informed that fees of government seats in St Gits College of Engineering, Kottayam, shown in the option site is semester-wise fees (Rs 37,500).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/engineering-pharmacy-trial-allotment-today/articleshow/78468460.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Trichy||Over 2.5 lakh Covid-19 patients used free 108 ambulance: Minister||Pudukottai: Inaugurating a recruitment drive for GVK-EMRI 108 ambulance service on Saturday, state health minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar said that as many as 2.5 lakh Covid-19 patients utilized the free ambulance service during the pandemic in the state.“More than 5.5 lakh people utilized the service for some other medical services,” said Vijaya Baskar after inaugurating the two-day recruitment drive for 400 emergency medical technicians (EMTs) and pilots in Pudukottai.Candidates from several other districts attended the recruitment drive. Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had recently announced to strengthen the existing 1,000-fleet of 108 ambulances with 500 more vehicles spending Rs 103 crore.Stating that eligible candidates can make use of the drive to join the service, which works round-the-clock, the health minister said that 108 ambulances had been added to the fleet. In one or two week, 100 more ambulances will join service.The call centre of the 108 ambulance service received 15,000 calls seeking various medical help and 4,000 people are benefitted every day, said the minister.The minister stated that 5,52,938 Covid-19 patients were treated in the state. He also talked about setting up post-Covid-19 care clinics at all the government hospitals in the state and he asked the recovered patients to visit the centres to get the functioning of lungs and breathing checked.On the human trials of vaccine for Covid-19, the health minister said that the trial on human has not shown any side effects at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGH) in Chennai. He also said that the efforts were on to identify volunteers for the trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-2-5-lakh-covid-19-patients-used-free-108-ambulance-minister/articleshow/78470162.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Government to start Covid autopsies in Ahmedabad and Surat||AHMEDABAD: In a high-level meeting at the Civil Hospital on Saturday, state senior health and family welfare department officials decided that pathological autopsies of Covid-19 patients will start soon at government-run medical colleges in Ahmedabad and Surat. Other government-run medical colleges with the post-mortem facilities are also mandated to prepare for the same. The move met with apprehensions from forensic medicine experts who have been working on the draft proposals for the same for past three months. Sources close to the development said that the primary bone of contention was a lack of standardized autopsy chambers with negative pressure and air filters. “In principle, an x-ray machine can be installed anywhere – but we don’t do it as it requires certain specifications. Similarly, we had made representations for proper infrastructure, considering the nature of the virus. We are hopeful that the safety measures will be in place – we have already seen the deaths of several doctors treating the Covid-19 patients,” said an official on the condition of anonymity. Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, told TOI that the first of the autopsies of Covid-19 patients had already taken place in Rajkot. “We all know the importance of the autopsies to understand the disease. Surely, we are going to take care of all the standardized equipment and premises requirements – safety of doctors is of utmost importance,” he said. Shivahare confirmed that the procedure would start with Ahmedabad and Surat and would eventually be performed in other government-run medical colleges across the state. “The viral infection is comparatively new, and the systems are still evolving. From our experience, I can say that no care is enough, and all the precautions should be adhered to the T,” said Dr Jayanthi Yadav, additional professor (forensic medicine & toxicology) at AIIMS Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-to-start-covid-autopsies/articleshow/78470152.cms||Parth Shastri
October 4, 2020||Pune||IMD hints at 10-day delay in complete withdrawal of monsoon from Maharashtra||PUNE: The complete withdrawal of monsoon from Maharashtra is likely to be pushed to the end of third week of October — a delay of almost 10 days. Monsoon withdrawal may begin from the extreme north of the state by October 6-7. But a couple of weather systems, expected to appear around October 10-11, may stop the process. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials stated that if monsoon did not withdraw from Pune and Mumbai around October 9-10, its exit from the two cities was likely to be pushed beyond October 15. If monsoon withdraws from Pune and Mumbai around October 8-9, its exit from the two cities would conform to the IMD’s newly released monsoon withdrawal dates — October 8 for Mumbai and October 9 for Pune. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “As per Global Forecasting System (GFS) model running at the IMD, monsoon may withdraw from some parts of north Maharashtra by October 9, when it may also exit from Pune and Mumbai. If it does not happen, the exit of monsoon from the two cities may get pushed beyond October 15, and that from the entire state to around the end of October third week, as per the latest extended range forecasts.” Kashyapi said an upper air cyclonic circulation was expected to form around October 10-11over south-central Maharashtra, followed by a sheer zone passing through south-central parts of the state. “These systems are likely to cause some rainfall in Maharashtra. Monsoon withdrawal cannot be attempted for a region until rainfall and moisture reduce. Models show that after these systems appear and dissipate, withdrawal may restart from the state after October 15. Thus, the complete exit of monsoon from Maharashtra may be witnessed around the end of October third week,” he said. According to the IMD’s criteria, three conditions need to be fulfilled to declare withdrawal of monsoon — cessation of rainfall activity over an area for five days on the trot, establishment of anticyclone in the lower troposphere and considerable reduction in moisture content over the region as inferred from satellite water vapour imageries and tephigrams. Normally, monsoon withdraws from most areas of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, west Uttar Pradesh (UP) and some parts of east UP, and west Madhya Pradesh (MP) by October 1. As per normal dates, monsoon withdraws from most parts of Maharashtra, east MP, north Chhattisgarh, east UP, most parts of Bihar and Jharkhand, and some parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal by October 10. The withdrawal covers most parts of the country, including Maharashtra, by October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-hints-at-10-day-delay-in-complete-withdrawal-of-monsoon-from-maha/articleshow/78469195.cms||Neha Madaan
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Fake IDs: Four accused brought to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Four culprits, who allegedly created fake social media accounts of policemen from different states, including Telangana, were nabbed by Nalgonda police and brought to the state. Deputy inspector general of police (DIG) A Ranganath, in an official note issued on Saturday, said the four —Mustaqeem Khan, Shahid, Saddam Khan and a minor boy— from Ketwada in Bharatpur district of Rajasthan were brought to Nalgonda. Till now, the accused had created fake IDs of 350 policemen, including 81 from Telangna, across the country. Officials found the accused had bought SIM cards from persons who were already using it by paying Rs 3,000. Using these SIM cards, the accused had been duping people. When Nalgonda police went to Rajasthan, they tried to resist their arrest with the support of villagers. Apart from fake IDs of policemen from Telangana, they had cheated police personnel from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fake-ids-four-accused-brought-to-t/articleshow/78469193.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat has highest rate of crimes involving senior citizens: NCRB||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat might be considered a safe state but senior citizens are facing higher security threats. In 2019, the state recorded 85.4 crimes per 10 lakh population of the elderly, the highest among Indian states against senior citizens. To put the figure in perspective, the national crime rate for the category was 25.9, according to the recently-published ‘Crime in India 2019’ report by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The crimes included 66 murders, 231 cases of hurt and 531 cases of thefts. Compared to 2018, the state recorded 98% rise in hurt cases, 89% in theft cases and three times rise in criminal intimidation complaints by senior citizens. In absolute numbers, the state recorded 4,088 cases of crimes against seniors and ranked third after Maharashtra (6,163) and Madhya Pradesh (4,184). Year-on-year analysis revealed that the state recorded 92% rise or nearly doubled the crimes against senior citizens. The cases have doubled every year as the state had recorded 496 cases in 2016 and 1,099 in 2017. Ragesh Shah, director of Somchand Dosabhai Trust, a city-based NGO working in the field of senior citizen safety and well-being, said that the issue of senior citizens is more critical in wake of the Covid-19 epidemic. “Since 2016, we have been distributing SOS devices to the senior citizens living alone after we realized their plight,” he said. “The pandemic has made them more vulnerable to several socio-economic issues. Their safety should be a priority for the police and society at large.” Ashish Bhatia, state DGP, said that they will verify the figures and check the criteria. “But the figures should also be seen in the light that more senior citizens have come forward to lodge their complaints. The state police have been actively making efforts to proactively reach out to the senior citizens and listen to their concerns so that they don’t have to personally visit a police station,” he said. “In Ahmedabad, we started an initiative called Project Naman where the police stations identify the senior citizens living alone, register them and the She teams visit them regularly. With its success, we intend to replicate it at state level.” The DGP also encouraged senior citizens to register themselves on the Citizen Portal or Citizen First app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-has-highest-rate-of-crimes-involving-senior-citizens-ncrb/articleshow/78470183.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Pune||Deccan College hopes big in its Bicentennial year||PUNE: A year packed with outreach activities and lectures will mark the beginning of Deccan College Post Graduate and Research Institute’s bicentennial year celebrations on October 6. While the college boasts of an unparalleled history in archaeology, history and linguistics education, among others, the lack of funding is a challenge it faces for maintenance and conservation of the Gothic-style building as well as the preservation of the artefacts within. As part of the celebration, said vice-chancellor Prasad Joshi, the university will organize monthly lecture series on recent research in Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology, Linguistics, Sanskrit and Lexicography by eminent scholars. It will also publish a monograph series on the subjects and a special issue of the Deccan College Research Institute bulletin. A few new certificate courses have also been proposed. “The university is also going to commence a series of workshops on Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology, Linguistics, Sanskrit and Lexicography to popularize current research in these subjects. Some projects undertaken by the university include Sanskrit Dictionary Project, Marathi Dialects Project by the Linguistics Department, Gorewada Archaeological Theme Park project and a joint project with APH Solapur University: Junnar Archaeological Museum Project funded by RUSA. Two projects by the university in collaboration with C-DAC are proposed to be financially supported by the Department of Science & Technology,” said Joshi. Talking about the funding issue, Joshi added, “The building has been included in the list of heritage structures by the Pune Municipal Corporation and a sum of Rs50 lakh was given to the university in each of the last two years. However, for complete renovation of the building as well as conservation of artefacts within, the funding required is much more. We have proposed a plan of Rs100 crore to the state and the central government,” said Joshi. He further added that the institute is facing encroachment issues. “Some land was acquired by the government to construct roads and the TDR has been pending for the past 8-9 years. To maintain the structure, an annual fund is required from the civic body. We are hoping that industries would also donate to the institute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deccan-college-hopes-big-in-its-bicentennial-year/articleshow/78469204.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Societies given legal tap connections in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal corporation (AMC) has announced that Nal-se-Jal projects will be open for citizens to get tapped water till December 31 this year. The corporation has so far given connections to 6,858 houses. The AMC has decided that those residents who have taken illegal drinking water connections will be given legal connections by just charging Rs 500. The residents, according to the AMC, will have to file applications before the civic body. The AMC officials said that about 555 applicants submitted applications to the officials at their door steps and that the connections were granted to them. Moreover in Odhav ward, Indravihar Society, with 107 houses having illegal water connections, was provided with legal connections. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/societies-given-legal-tap-connections/articleshow/78469203.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: TSRTC plans to generate revenue through fuel outlets||HYDERABAD: The debt-ridden Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), which is in further financial crisis due to the ongoing pandemic, is looking forward to generating profits by setting up fuel outlets which will be operated in the Greater Hyderabad, Hyderabad and Karimnagar zones. After entering into an MoU with HPCL and IOCL for commissioning and operation of retail fuel outlets on mutually agreed terms and conditions earlier this month, the RTC is planning to commission a total of 92 fuel outlets. According to TSRTC officials, the corporation appointed zone wise service providers through open tenders for three zones. “Through the 92 fuel outlets, the corporation will be able to generate a profit of around Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per month from every outlet. This initiative will relieve the financial burden to an extent,” said a TSRTC official. Meanwhile, TSRTC has found several takers for its parcel, courier and cargo (PCC) services launched in June this year. According to officials, the corporation has raked up a total revenue of over Rs 2 crore so far. Since the inter-state services have resumed, the officials are expecting a further rise in the revenue. “In addition to setting up PCC offices at 147 bus stations, we are also identifying potential business places and appointing agents. Soon, there will also be at least 70 to 80 agents in the city to publicise counter details and book parcels which will be collected by our staff and transported to the bus station from where it will be distributed to the destination,” said TSRTCPCC special officer S Krishna Kanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-plans-to-generate-revenue-through-fuel-outlets/articleshow/78469202.cms||Moulika.KV
October 4, 2020||Trichy||4 child labourers rescued from Trichy establishments||Trichy: Following complaints of children being employed in commercial establishments during the lockdown, a team of government officials jointly with Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) project carried out raids in Trichy recently and rescued four child labourers. The raids were conducted in commercial establishments at Somarasampettai, Thathaingarpettai, Inamkulathur and Sathirapatti in rural Trichy and at Palakkarai in the city. They found the four boys employed in Somarasampettai area — two 16-year-olds in a two-wheeler mechanic shop, a 12-year-old in a bakery and a 15-year-old boy in a petrol bunk. The four-day drive was undertaken on September 22, 24, 29 and 30 by the district task force committee (DTFC) comprising assistant commissioner of labour, assistant inspectors of labour, anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) inspector P Azeem, state coordinator of BBA H Natharsha Malim, Child Labour Elimination and Effective Rehabilitation Society (Cheers) project director Pearline Sathyanathan, project manager S Gowtham and officials from district child protection unit (DCPU) .BBA state coordinator Malim lodged a complaint with the Somarasampettai police against the three commercial establishments for employing the children in violation of several laws including IPC, juvenile justice Act, child and adolescent labour (prohibition and regulation) Act, and for employing minors in hazardous work. However, cases were yet to be registered. “The police are stating that they are awaiting approval from the higher officials to register a case,” said Malim adding that the process of getting a case registered after the rescue of child labourers remained a tough task in Tamil Nadu. Cheers project manager Gowtham said the child labourers were paid Rs 60 to Rs 100 daily. “The boys in the mechanic shop discontinued their studies while the others were sent by the parents to work during the lockdown,” he said adding that the boys were made to work for more than eight hours. The officials said that the raids will continue across the district in October also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-child-labourers-rescued-from-trichy-establishments/articleshow/78470184.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 4, 2020||Vadodara||Two killed in bus accident near Natapur junction||VADODARA: Two women were killed and four persons injured when the passenger bus of a private operator met with an accident near Natapur junction in Morva Hadaf taluka of Panchmahal district on Saturday morning. According to police, the driver of the bus lost control and the bus overturned. The bus also had passengers beyond its capacity and no social distancing was maintained in it, said police. According to an offence registered regarding the incident, the bus was travelling to Godhra from Santrampur in Mahisagar district. When the bus overturned, personnel of the 108 emergency services as well as the police rushed to the spot to start the rescue work. The deceased were identified as Roopali Baria and Savita Baria, while the injured included Dharmendra Sangada, Manilal Harijan, Kanti Harijan and Babu Khant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-killed-in-bus-accident/articleshow/78468440.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Agra||44 test Covid +ve in Agra, active cases now 625||Agra: At least 44 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 5,896. The patients included a junior doctor of the SN Medical College, six persons suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, five of influenza-like illness, another five of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two of kidney ailments. Also, 100 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 5,896 cases reported in the district, 87.2% have been declared as "cured and discharged". There are now 625 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 5,143 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/44-test-covid-ve-in-agra-active-cases-now-625/articleshow/78468458.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Pune||Digital personalised gifts find favour in times of social distancing||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Finding the right gift is never an easy task. More so in the middle of a pandemic. With social distancing being the norm, digital gifting has become popular for those who don’t want to walk into a store or a mall or order a physical gift online. Gauri Nair, freelance video editor, said, “People nowadays prefer digital gifts as they are easier to process. Whether it is your best friend’s birthday, sibling’s wedding anniversary or wishing your grandparents on Durga Puja or Diwali, you can send them a heartfelt or a humorous video story. These personalised video stories can convey your feelings for them in the most intimate way.” Akansh Jain offers ‘memoragzines’ which are 10-20 pages of digital magazines specially made and customised for gifting loved ones for any occasion such as birthdays, anniversaries, weddings, retirement, graduation, and so on. “Digital gifts are pocket friendly, can be delivered on priority, with easy sharing options. From expressing friendship to celebrating a love bond, this magazine becomes an innovative option. In India, where festivities are celebrated with great enthusiasm, not only pre but post-celebration memories, too, can be saved in the form of a customised magazine,” she said. Digital gifts are high in demand for corporate and festival gifting. “Whether it is turning your clients into brand ambassadors or celebrating festivities with evolved versions of photo albums, online gifting is the way to go. We provide magazines in regional languages, too,” said Jain. Clients contact them via their Facebook page, website or WhatsApp, share the photos and information they want to be featured in the video and then their creative process begins. “All we need is some basic information and pictures from the client to create a lifelong souvenir gift that can be delivered to their doorstep. The digital magazine can be made and provided in 3-5 days,” said Jain. Shantanu Bhowmick, an IT professional, said, “We were supposed to get married this September, but postponed it next year. The date, however, remains the same. Since we live in different cities, she was feeling sad, I got a video story made for her about us and sent it to her on the day we were supposed to get married. Along with our pictures together from the start of our relationship, we also had videos of our friends and family.” There are many apps that allow one to make their own e-card with pictures and videos. But one can always reach out to video editors for a professional touch. Other digital gifting options include subscriptions to video or audio streaming services. Nisha Jamb, a marketing professional, said, “I hired a comedian for a live conversation on video call with my younger brother for his birthday in August. He was absolutely thrilled to have a one-on-one conversation and it made him feel special.” There is a website that allows one to hire any Hollywood celebrity and have them send personalised messages to loved ones. “But nothing like this exists in India. One of my friends recently hired a musician to serenade his wife on their anniversary through video calls,” Jamb said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/digital-personalised-gifts-find-favour-in-times-of-social-distancing/articleshow/78469219.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Trichy||Trichy city cops launch ‘a beautiful world’ to wean youths off alcohol||Trichy:Aimed at providing a new lease of life to youths who are addicted to alcohol and drugs, Trichy city police launched a programme – Beautiful World of Youths – in the city on Friday. Commissioner of Trichy city police J Loganathan addressed a gathering of 60 youths from Srirangam, Woraiyur, Thillai Nagar and government hospital police station areas as part of the programme. The project will identify youths in slum areas and vulnerable locations in the city. All police stations in the city will be given the task of identifying youths addicted to alcohol, drugs and other substances. Police will give them counselling and will track them to prevent them from becoming addicted to such substance again.Police officials said that youths in the age group of 15 years to 20 years were found involved in criminal and nuisance cases in the city. Addiction to liquor and drugs has been a major reason for them to be involved in criminal acts. A police officer said that friendship of teenage boys with offenders has also spoiled many teenagers’ lives.After analysing the family background and other aspects of an addicted youth, police will try to bring out their talent in a specific subject. Guidance to appear in competitive examinations, training programs, honing their skills in sports etc. will be undertaken by the police department. Apart from police getting involved in the task, the public can also join hands with police by providing information on addicted youths, for which the city police have asked people to pass on information to a WhatsApp number – 96262-73399. Police said that the identity of the informers will be kept secret.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-cops-launch-a-beautiful-world-to-wean-youths-off-alcohol/articleshow/78470211.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two held for siphoning off Rs 7 crore from victim||HYDERABAD: Two persons, who allegedly siphoned off Rs 7 crore belonging to an investor after collecting the money with a promise to use the victim’s money for investing in stock trading, were arrested by CCS sleuths on Saturday. In a press note, CCS officials said they had arrested Anil Karkala Upadyaya and Rajdeep M Javeri from Mumbai and they were brought to Hyderabad on prison transit warrant. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-for-siphoning-off-rs-7cr-from-victim/articleshow/78469208.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Strapped private budget schools face closure||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown hitting the education sector hard, close to 10,000 private budget schools that charged less than Rs 50,000 fee annually are staring at closure and have approached the state government for a takeover. The institutions, which had around 20 lakh students enrolled and constituted nearly 90% of total private schools in the state, charged an average fee of up to Rs 25,000 annually. Most students here were children of daily wage earners or those who work in unorganised sector. As most education institutions have remained shut since March, private budget schools have come under severe financial crisis. “I have to pay a monthly rent of Rs 90,000 towards the infrastructure. As the schools have been shut since March, parents have refused to pay the fee arrears due to which I am struggling to pay the rent. If this continues, we will soon have to give up and close down the school,” said Okesh Victor, owner of Victory High School that had been running for 25 years with an enrolment of 220 students, in Begumpet. “Many parents pay the fees during the SA-2. However, this year, the school was shut even before we could hold the exam. We fear that we may have to give up and handover our operations if the government does not come to our rescue,” said Mahesh P, owner of Vidya Vihar School, a 35-year-old institution with an enrolment of 200 students and annual fee of up to Rs 20,000, in Kavadiguda. Fearing permanent closure of schools and transition of students from private schools to government schools, managements have approached the state government to take over. Not just this, schools have also sought various exemptions from the government towards property tax, road tax and extension of recognition. Following issues raised by the budget schools, the school education department is likely to conduct a high-level meeting this week with all the KG to PG private educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/strapped-pvt-budget-schools-face-closure/articleshow/78469225.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 4, 2020||Kochi||‘Suicide’ bid as Mohiniyattam row gets murkier||Thrissur: Dancer and actor RLV Ramakrishnan was admitted to hospital on Saturday evening reportedly after an attempt to commit suicide. The condition of Ramakrishnan was stable, said doctors at Apollo Adlux Hospital, Karukutty. “All his parameters are stable, he is under observation. We were told that he consumed five tablets, but we don’t know which tablet,” said Dr Neeraj of emergency wing of the hospital. Ramakrishnan, the brother of late actor Kalabhavan Mani, had raised a banner of revolt after the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi had reportedly rejected his application to present a Mohiniyattam performance as part of its online arts festival. Ramakrishnan was found unconscious in a room at Kunnissery Raman Memorial Kalagriham on Saturday evening by his friends, said his elder brother’s son K V Sinesh. He was initially rushed to the taluk hospital, and later shifted to Apollo Adlux Hospital. Sankardas, leader of the Sambava Sabha, said Ramakrishnan appeared disturbed after the Akademi incident. Meanwhile, Akademi chairperson KPAC Lalitha has sought to distance herself from Ramakrishnan’s claim that she had supported his request for presenting Mohiniyattam as part of Akademi’s online cultural programmes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/suicide-bid-as-mohiniyattam-row-gets-murkier/articleshow/78468487.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Vehicle owners clueless as no clarity on hi-tech numberplates||NeW DELHI: What started with a confusing notice 12 days ago is fast descending into chaos. A public notice of the transport department on September 22, warning of an enforcement drive ‘very soon’ against vehicles without high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers saw thousands of Delhiites scurrying to book a slot online. Many of those who managed to book a slot after facing an array of technical glitches were in for a rude shock when they reached the authorised vehicle dealership on the allotted date and time, only to be told by the staff that they had no clue about their plates or stickers. Ajoy Sehgal, head of media relations at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, booked a slot on the website www.bookmyhsrp.com on September 23. But when he visited the designated vehicle dealership in Moti Nagar on October 3, he discovered that the staff there had no clue when his HSRP would be sent by the company authorised to make it – Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited. “On asking when it would come, they asked me to call the helpline, which was not reachable,” Sehgal said. “Thousands of law abiding citizens are getting harassed every day,” he added. “I reached the designated car dealership on the allotted time but was told to come back later as the HSRP had yet not arrived. I have checked with them twice but they have no clue when the plate will come,” said R Shekhar, an east Delhi resident. “I don’t want to shell out Rs. 10,000 fine for no fault of mine and keep the booking receipt in the car to show it as proof that I tried to get the HSRP,” he added. Many have taken to social media to vent their ire. “Have visited twice with appointments to the allocated centre and no number plates. Huge inconvenience to Delhi public, shambles and fights on at centre at Janakpuri. Complete failure from Rosmerta,” tweeted Saurabh Paul, a vehicle owner, on Saturday. “HSRP fiasco in Delhi utterly mismanaged. People standing in long lines, without knowing if their registration plate has even arrived,” tweeted Shivani Gupta. “I reached the car dealership in Okhla on September 29 at the allotted time but the staff there said they had no idea where my number plate was,” said a Vasant Vihar resident. “They asked me to call before I visit next time and when I called today (October 3), they said there are no signs of the plates,” she added. “Height of inefficiency. Booked HSRP online with www.bookmyhsrp.com. The appointed slot is 10 am to 12 pm. The HSRP is nowhere to be seen, staff is just clueless,” tweeted another car owner, Manoj Srivastava, recently. When asked about these instances, a Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited spokesperson said they have received no direct complaint from any customer. “For the last 8-10 days, we are able to provide all orders in time,” he said, adding that its customer care helpline is fully functional between 10am and 6pm. “While we regret any inconvenience the vehicle owners may have faced, we would request you to kindly share the vehicle numbers of these persons who may have approached you with their complaint. We would like to find out the reasons why the HSRP could not be affixed on their vehicles on the scheduled date and time,” he said, adding that the company is taking all care to process and deliver HSRP and fuel stickers well in advance at the affixation locations before the scheduled date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vehicle-owners-clueless-as-no-clarity-on-hi-tech-numberplates/articleshow/78470218.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Akola sees lowest Covid-19 cases in a day since April||AKOLA: Good news came from Akola as only 22 tested positive out of more than 350 tests conducted in a day. This number is lowest since April 2020 for Akola. On the other hand, 121 patients recovered from the district. Three patients died in a day taking death toll of district to 243. Now, Akola has 7,594 cases, 6,330 recoveries and 1,021 patients under treatment. BHANDARA: Seven deaths of Covid-19 patients took Bhandara’s death toll to 133 on Saturday. The district once again witnessed more than 100 new cases (136), while 204 patients recovered. Now, Bhandara’s Covid-19 caseload is 5,864, including 4,006 recoveries and 1,725 patients under treatment. WASHIM: Only 38 new cases were reported in Washim, while 105 patients recovered. With 1 death on Saturday, Washim’s death toll due to Covid-19 reached 95. Out of 4,502 cases in total, 3,841 patients have recovered in the district. At present, Washim has 566 patients under treatment, which is the lowest in Vidarbha region. BULDHANA: With 2 deaths reported on Saturday, Buldhana’s Covid-19 deaths reached 99 on Saturday. Against 113 new cases, 161 patients recovered from the district. For the first time in the last 25 days, number of patients under treatment went below 1,000 in Buldhana. The district now has 7,510 cases, 6,412 recoveries and 999 patients under treatment. GONDIA: The district reported less than 100 new cases for the third consecutive day on Saturday. On the other hand, 282 patients recovered. Now, 5,595 patients out of total 7,347 in Gondia district have already recovered. With 2 more deaths reported on Saturday, Gondia’s death toll reached 104. Total 1,648 patients are still under treatment. GADCHIROLI: 101 more patients recovered in Gadchiroli, while 74 new cases were reported. No death was reported on Saturday. With 2,066 patients recovered out of total 3,086 cases, Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is more than 72%. With only 21 deaths reported till date, the case fatality rate of the district is 0.68%, which is the lowest in Maharashtra. Gadchiroli has 832 patients under treatment. YAVATMAL: Two Covid-19 patients died on Saturday, of whom a 59-year-old man from Wani and a 63-year-old man from Darwha. There are 43 new positive patients, of whom 28 are men and 15 women. Yavatmal city alone recorded 32 positive patients on Saturday. With the available data, the district had 218 active positive patients on Saturday. 256 are in the isolation wards. 8,726 positive patients were reported so far. No data is available regarding the recoveries. CHANDRAPUR: For the first time in over a month, the district registered less than 150 Covid-19 positive cases. The caseload reached 10,867 after 114 new patients were detected on Saturday while a 76-year-old woman from Bhiwapur ward died, taking the Covid toll to 163. The day also saw 401 patients getting discharge to take total recoveries to 7,130, leaving 3,574 patients under treatment. WARDHA: Two men (71 and 65) from Selu tehsil died due to Covid-19 on Saturday. The district reported 57 new patients (30 women and 27 men), taking the caseload of district to 4,852, while 42 patients were discharged after recovery on Saturday. Total 414 reports were received on Saturday. Highest number of positive cases came from Wardha (44), followed by Deoli (6), Hinganghat (5), Selu and Karanja (one each). With total 2,627 patients having recovered and after 134 deaths, there are 2,091 patients under treatment in the district. AMRAVATI: Five deaths on Saturday took the district’s Covid-19 toll past the 300-mark to reach 301 even as the day recorded a sharp fall in the number of new cases. The district reported 96 new cases, taking the caseload to 13,867, while 197 patients recovered. The deceased in the last 24 hours included three men and two women. The men (56, 70 and 80) hailed from Belpura, Wadali and Dastur Nagar localities while the women (68 and 75) were from Shikshak Colony and Bhaji Bazar localities. The first Covid death of the district was reported on April 2 and it took 185 days to reach the 300-mark. The toll reached the 100-mark on August 18 while the 200-mark came on September 14. The case fatality rate of the district is 2.1%. The number of recovered patients has reached 11,408 for a recovery rate of 82.3%, said a report from the civil surgeon’s office. There are 2,158 patients under treatment, including 982 admitted to Covid hospital, 12 in Nagpur and 1,164 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/akola-sees-lowest-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-since-april/articleshow/78469232.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 4, 2020||Trichy||Mavadikulam tank gets facelift, but wastewater continues to pollute it||Trichy:Though Mavadikulam tank, one of the largest waterbodies in Trichy city, is undergoing a major beautification, the authorities are yet to find a solution to prevent wastewater from polluting it. As the Rs 1.92-crore project is nearing completion, local people and environmentalists have asked the stakeholders to devise a plan to prevent wastewater from entering the 142-acre tank. Mavadikulam tank at Ponmalaipatti in ward 31 of the corporation is fed by the New Kattalaimettu canal that branches off from the Cauvery near the Mayanur check dam. The public works department (PWD) has allocated Rs 1.92 crore from its mine fund for developing the tank, which is under constant threat of sand mining and rampant pollution. As a part of the proposal, the bund was strengthened utilizing the soil desilted from the tank. At present, PWD is constructing a bathing ghat at the southeast corner of the tank and a pedestrian platform along the bund. While PWD has planned to complete the work by this month, environmental activists have raised a concern over the pollution problem. “The project focuses only on beautification instead of addressing the wastewater discharge from households to the tank. The embankment slopes should be strengthened with concrete mixture,” K C Neelamegam, state advisor, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam, said. Though the embankment slopes don’t have a concrete layer, PWD maintained that side compaction will be carried out with the help of machines to strengthen the bund. The PWD said that installation of paver blocks for 214 metres of the pedestrian walking track is pending. “Wastewater discharged from households is temporarily diverted. Trichy Corporation has assured us to expedite the underground drainage work within a year as a permanent measure to prevent pollution,” a PWD official said. As Mavadikulam attracts migratory birds, two mounts were established at the middle of the tank to plant tree saplings that could serve as a resting zone for the avian visitors. After the completion of the beautification work, Melakalkandar Kottai Road that passes along the bund will be widened, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mavadikulam-tank-gets-facelift-but-wastewater-continues-to-pollute-it/articleshow/78470238.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Let CBI probe Nayeemuddin-cop nexus: FGG||HYDERABAD: NGO Forum For Good Governance (FGG) has written a letter to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan seeking a CBI inquiry into the alleged nexus between slain gangster Nayeemuddin and policemen and politicians. They also expressed no confidence in the probe being done by the state-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT). “It is a case of deadly combination of policemen, politicians and gangster coming together and committing atrocities on innocent people, their lands were grabbed. Anyone who resisted were murdered. The involved politicians, police and gang members of Nayeem deserve punishment,’’ FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said in his letter. He said SIT appointed by government four years ago was not capable of doing justice to the case. “It is therefore requested to kindly order for CBI inquiry into the case,’’ Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/let-cbi-probe-nayeem-cop-nexus-fgg/articleshow/78469230.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad adds 1,343 cases, 12 deaths||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in the last 24 hours added 1,343 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 1.41 lakh. It was the fifth straight day for the state to record less than 1,400 daily cases. The new cases in Gujarat include 277 from Surat, 194 from Ahmedabad, 163 from Rajkot, 128 from Vadodara, and 90 from Jamnagar. The cumulative cases in Surat inched closer to the 30,000-mark with 29,927 cases. The cases in Ahmedabad reached 37,518, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 12,477 and 9,720 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of 12 Covid patients, taking the state death toll to 3,490. The latest reported Covid deaths in Gujarat include four from Ahmedabad, three from Surat, two each from Vadodara and Banaskantha, and one from Narmada. It was the first death recorded in Narmada district and Dang is the only district in Gujarat that has not recorded any deaths of Covid-19 patients. A total of 1,304 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.21 lakh. The discharges include 299 from Surat, 254 from Ahmedabad, 171 from Rajkot and 147 from Vadodara. With the update, the number of active cases reached 16,789 — another high for the state. The share of the active cases is 11.9%. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 85.7% and 2.4% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 57,065 tests, taking the total to 45.88 lakh. The state health department officials claimed that it was 878 tests per day per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-adds-1343-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/78470247.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad She team gets 161 complaints in September||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad She Team booked 27 criminal cases against the harassers for targeting women victims during September. According to officials, Cyberabad She team received a total of 161 complaints from women victims through different platforms during September. A total of 41 cases were registered, out of which 27 are criminal cases and 14 are petty cases. In an incident, a 17-year-old boy was nabbed after Cyberabad She team received a complaint against him for making a video of a 13-year-old girl bathing. Later, She Team conducted a decoy operation, nabbed the offender and sent him to the juvenile home. In another incident, a 17-year-old girl was sexually molested by her physics tutor at her home in Kukatpally on September 4. When the girl revealed the incident, the family approached the cops and the offender was booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyberabad-she-team-gets-161-plaints-in-sept/articleshow/78469220.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Goa||Housing board invites bids from agencies to conduct e-auctions||Panaji: Moving forward with its plans to conduct e-auctions and allotment of plots and tenements, Goa Housing Board (GHB) has invited bidders to execute this initiative. To select an implementation agency to conduct the e-auctions, Goa Electronic Limited (GEL), on behalf of GHB, is seeking a request for proposal (RFP) from parties in two bid formats comprising technical and financial bids. GHB has nominated GEL to bring in IT intervention in its operations. GEL will be the monitoring agency for the entire project period of five years. “The e-auction will be equivalent to an offline auction, only much better and efficient,” states the tender document. GHB’s objective is develop affordable real estate projects for people of the state.There are two primary approaches by which flats get alloted to applicants - lottery system and auctioning. The decision of whether to opt for lottery, auctioning or a combination of both is up to the board’s discretion, states the tender document. “The selected bidder shall provide a complete secured end-to-end e-auction solution adhering to all acts, rules and regulations of GHB. The board will release an advertisement in newspapers displaying the schedule for the e-auction along with other relevant details. Simultaneously, GHB will also create a corresponding schedule for the e-auction in the portal. It will map which units will be put up for auction from the inventory of assets, auction timings for each unit, base prices, etc,” mentions the tender document. GHB will have an entire list of inventory (shops, flats, row houses, etc) in their existing Goaonline portal. The e-auctioning portal should import or create the entire inventory from GHBs existing application for every auction in real time and also have the provision to create the inventory in the system itself. “The e-auction portal should have a provision to set the date and time in the system as per the created schedule, and subsequently conduct the live e-auction at that set date and time,” states the document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-board-invites-bids-from-agencies-to-conduct-e-auctions/articleshow/78470305.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Pune||Metro’s Vanaz depot work gains momentum as workers return||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has completed than 60% of the overall civil work of the depot at Vanaz — which will cater to the rakes on the fully elevated Vanaz-Ramwadi route. MahaMetro officials said the work was expedited once workers were deployed in full strength and expect to complete the remainder of the work by next year’s monsoon. MahaMetro further said a crucial part of the construction of a viaduct wing for the entry-exit of Metro rakes at the depot was in its last stages. “About 50% of work, pertaining other facilities including rake maintenance shed, washing plant, stabling lines and engineering unit, has been completed,” officials said. “The depot is located on the left side of Paud Road, a few metres from the Vanaz Metro station and towards Chandni Chowk. As the Metro will be running along the road median, it was necessary to construct a wing for the rakes to enter the depot. The construction of this wing is now in its last stages, after which the laying of tracks on this wing will begin,” a senior official said. After entering the depot, the rakes will travel to the washing plants, maintenance, stabling lines, and engineering units. The MahaMetro is also exploring the option of setting up a commercial complex at the depot. The officials said the operations of the daily maintenance of the rakes would be at the topmost level, while the commercial complex and the parking lots will come up under the depot. There will be separate entrances for the depot and the proposed commercial area, officials said. The Vanaz Metro depot is coming up on a 12.2-hectare plot of land that had earlier served as a garbage transfer station for the Pune Municipal Corporation. MahaMetro has also initiated steps to segregate the dumped garbage at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metros-vanaz-depot-work-gains-momentum-as-workers-return/articleshow/78469234.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's air quality dips, may enter ‘poor’ category by Monday||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality is gradually deteriorating and likely to turn “poor” by Monday due to weather conditions and rise in stubble burning cases. Air Quality Index (AQI) stayed in the higher end of “moderate” category in the last two days— 189 on Saturday and 180 on Friday. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the union ministry of earth sciences, Delhi’s AQI is likely to stay in the higher end of the moderate category on Sunday. “PM2.5 contribution is increasing as characteristic of wintertime. Further deterioration and the higher end of moderate to lower end of the poor category are likely by October 5,” said SAFAR on Saturday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe government body added, “An increase in stubble burning fires observed on Friday around Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring border regions is likely to start impacting Delhi in the coming days.” Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department, said, “If the stubble burning increases, the north westerly wind direction is favourable for pollutants to reach Delhi and affect the AQI.” Cases of stubble burning have slowly started rising in Punjab and Haryana, satellite images have shown in the last few days. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said last month, “Last year, the stubble burning comprised 44% of Delhi’s pollution apart from Delhi’s own share of pollutants.” This year, Delhi has so far enjoyed clean air compared with 2019. Only two “severe” air quality days were recorded in January and 15 “very poor” days in January and February this year. Delhi saw 33 “poor” days in January and February this year while two “poor” days were recorded each in March, May and June. Four “good” days were recorded in August and one each in March and April. While an AQI reading of 50 or below is classified as “good”, readings between 51 and 100 fall in the “satisfactory” category and those between 101 and 200 are classified as “moderate”. “Poor” air ranges from 201 to 300, “very poor” from 301 to 400 and “severe” from 401 to 500. Watch Delhi's 'poor' air days could start soon as stubble burning rise||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-dips-may-enter-poor-category-by-monday/articleshow/78470271.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 4, 2020||Pune||TOI webinar talks Covid's toll on mental health||PUNE: The toll of Covid-19 on our minds has largely gone undiscussed or ignored. But those looking for signs are trouble are finding plenty. Helplines nationwide are reporting spikes in distress calls. Many of the callers, reports said, called to discuss job cuts, financial uncertainty and the substantial changes to daily life the pandemic has caused. To discuss these unprecedented times and the impact on our mental health, TOI has invited Dr Yajyoti Singh, developmental psychologist and special educator, and Kanchan Shelke, a clinical psychologist. The two experts will take questions on changing family dynamics at home; anxiety management and other issues. The elderly have been particularly affected. Hundreds of thousands of pensioners across the country have been asked to stay home. Many have not had physical interactions for months. Lessons from SARS, which in 2003 had triggered similar restrictions, have shown that regular counselling over the telephone, healthy contact with rest of the family and updated health information proved to be important for the mental health of the elderly. However, Covid-19 has been more widespread than SARS. India's lockdown on March 25 brought the global number of people under some form of curbs to around 2.6 billion – or one-third of the human population. That means there were more people confined to their homes than the number who were alive during World War 2. And the research has been worrying. Spikes in anxiety have in turn impacted quality of sleep. There has been a rise in domestic violence too. Among people who were already experiencing domestic violence, the violence has gotten worse in nearly 60% of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/toi-webinar-talks-covids-toll-on-mental-health/articleshow/78469228.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt issues SOP for Favipiravir use for patients in home isolation||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Saturday came up with a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the use of Favipiravir tablets by Covid-19 patients during home isolation. It has advised patients to take the medicine strictly under supervision and report side-effects immediately. Since home isolation of asymptomatic and mild cases has become an acceptable practice, and a significant number of cases in the state are under home isolation, the provision of giving Favipiravir to eligible symptomatic Covid-19 patients in home isolation has become a necessity. The rapid response team (RRT) of the state government will be specifically trained to assess the condition of the patient in home isolation and whether she/he can be administered Favipiravir tablets at home in consultation with trained doctors. “If the patient is eligible for administration of this drug, the RRT team will explain to the patient and his/her relatives about the use of the tablet, its side-effects, precautions and actions to be taken by him/her after initiation of therapy,” said the SOP document. The RRT team will collect a consent form from the patients and take steps for provision of five days’ course of Favipiravir. The team will give information sheet/advisory to the patient regarding the tablet’s use, its adverse reactions and progress of the disease. The patient can be counselled to report any adverse reactions occurring during therapy. If the patient’s condition worsens, he/she will be shifted to the appropriate Covid care facility. “The patient shall will be followed up regularly by physical observation, telephonic or online contacts via dedicated telephone numbers to be created in each district. The RRT team, doctors on call and other stakeholders will be trained for this,” said the health department sources. The department advised patients to take Favipiravir tablet only as per the dose and duration suggested by doctors. The most common side-effects of this medicine are increased uric acid level in blood, diarrhoea, decreased white blood cell count and increased liver enzymes. If any of these side-effects emerge, patients can consult their doctors. They can also inform doctors about their history of sensitivity to this drug, abnormalities in uric acid metabolism, severe kidney or liver disease and gout before taking this medicine. The drug is not recommended for women who are pregnant, suspected to be pregnant or breastfeeding. “It is also not recommended for children. Persons above 60 must keep their doctors informed about the side-effects of the drug,” said Biranchi Mohapatra, a professor of medicine and principal of Sri Jagannath Medical College and Hospital, Puri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-issues-sop-for-favipiravir-use-for-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78468486.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
October 4, 2020||Agra||Hathras case: DGP places blame for ‘forced cremation’ on DM & ousted SP||HATHRAS: A day after being served a notice by the UP women’s commission and under scrutiny by the Allahabad high court, the UP police chief, who visited the family on Saturday, lay the blame for the “forced cremation” of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras entirely on the DM and SP, saying it was a decision “taken locally”. Additional chief secretary Avnish Awasthi and DGP HC Awasthi arrived in the Hathras village around 2.30pm and met the family for about 40 minutes on Saturday afternoon. “The decision to cremate her then was taken locally, by the DM and SP,” the DGP told the media after meeting the victim’s family. The SP at the time, Vikrant Veer, was suspended on Friday. The district magistrate, Praveen Laxkar, continues to hold charge of the administration. The Allahabad high court had on Thursday taken suo motu cognizance of the Hathras case and events leading up to the cremation of the girl. On Friday, the UP women’s commission had served a notice on the DGP about the cremation, finished hurriedly at 2.40am on Wednesday. The family has said they had not consented. The additional chief secretary said the family has been promised strict against the accused. “Security in the village will remain in place to maintain peace,” he said. “The SIT will address all problems raised by the victim’s family. We will try and resolve each.” The three-member SIT had been set up on Wednesday and asked to submit its report in a week. It was the SIT’s presence in the Hathras village that the police had cited to restrict entry of media and politicians. Police deployment, however, remained massive. Even on Saturday, vehicles were stopped 2km from the victim’s house on the main road, with the media asked to cover the rest on foot. Additional SP Prashant Kumar arrived at 12.30pm to brief the cops posted there about the two officials’ visit before going into the village. The new SP of Hathras, Vineet Jaiswal, said he will try and understand what happened before making any comment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dgp-places-blame-for-forced-cremation-on-dm-ousted-sp/articleshow/78468484.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 4, 2020||Cuttack||CMRF released Rs 472 crore for Covid care||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has spent Rs 472.63 crore from the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF) since March for Covid-19 related expenditure, stated planning and convergence minister Padmanabha Behera in a written reply to the assembly recently. Behera said the CMRF grant is apart from other expenditure made from the budget allocation. Total expenditure for Covid management in Odisha would be more than Rs 2,000 crore, said an official source. The minister’s reply has no information on the amount received by the CMRF since March, after outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in Odisha. The CMRF grant has been sanctioned to district collectors for establishment and management of Covid care centre , for welfare of police personnel, train ticket for Shramik Express trains, quarantine incentive of the migrants, transportation cost of Odia migrant workers stranded in Nepal and for formation of ward-level committees in rural and urban areas for Covid management. Official sources said of the Rs 472 crore, maximum amount has been sanctioned to be paid as quarantine incentive to the migrants, who have successfully completed their institutional quarantine period. The state government had earlier announced to pay incentive of Rs 2,000 to each migrant. While Rs 160 crore has been released to panchayati raj department to be paid as quarantine incentive to the migrants in rural areas, Rs 5.54 crore has been released to the housing and urban development department to disburse as quarantine assistance in urban areas, said reply of the minister. Quarantine incentive of Rs 135 crore has so far been disbursed to over 7 lakh migrants while other migrants would also get the incentive soon, said an official source. Among other expenses, Rs 15 crore has been sanctioned from the CMRF for welfare of police personnel, who have played a key role in the Covid management of the state. Also, Rs 19 crore has been spent to provide assistance to street vendors in urban areas, whose business was hit due to the lockdown. As the state government has announced to bear transport expenditure of migrant workers returning to Odisha by Sharmik Special Trains, it has paid Rs 9 crore to the East Coast Railway towards it. With the state government’s focus on decentralization management of the pandemic, as many as Rs 48 crore has been spent for more than 46,000 ward committee in rural areas and over 2,000 ward committees in urban areas. Similarly, Rs 1.34 crore was spent to feed the stray animals in urban areas during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/cmrf-released-rs-472-cr-for-covid-care/articleshow/78474321.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
October 4, 2020||Agra||It wasn’t our girl who was cremated, says Hathras family after barricades are lifted||HATHRAS: In their first comments to the media after being cut off by the UP administration from speaking out for days, the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras said on Saturday that they will not immerse the ashes of the dead teenager as they don’t know if it was hers. They also said they will not submit to a narco-polygraph test as they are not the ones who are lying. And, in a significant statement, the family said that they had been “imprisoned” by an administration that “forced” them to sign a paper saying they accept the compensation and job offered to them by the state government. “Insaaniyat ke naate wahaan se asthiyaan le aaya...Koi nyay nahin mila (I collected the ashes out of humanity, not because we got justice),” said the victim’s brother. It has been four days since the girl, who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village, was cremated by the police without the presence of the family. The spot is a small cremation space carved out in the middle of bajra fields for the village’s Dalit community. The family won’t immerse the ashes. “We are not sure whose ashes these are,” the brother said. The girl’s mother asked why her face was not shown to the family before cremation: “Everyone who went close was driven away, kicked.” For the past two days, the family said, they have been confined to their house. “We were imprisoned in our own house. We don’t know what happened with the investigation,” the brother said, when asked how meetings with UP officials went. “We won’t be satisfied until we get answers.” But they do know the government has ordered narco and polygraph tests for everyone involved in the case — the cops, the accused and even them. “Why should polygraph tests be conducted on us? Are we the culprits?” asked the victim’s sister-in-law. “We will not undergo these tests. They should conduct truth tests on the accused and the cops who are trying to twist the narrative.” The girl’s father, for instance, had been “forced to sign a paper of compensation and job”, the sister-in-law said. “These two days, cops have questioned every movement of ours. We didn’t even get to step out. It was only today that some of our family members could go out and buy provisions," the sister-in-law said. The 19-year-old had two brothers and two sisters. When told that the SP had been suspended on Friday, the girl’s brother shot back: “What about the DM?” The district magistrate, Praveen Laxkar, had been seen in a video purportedly threatening the family with a reminder that “media will leave, we’ll be here.” The brother said the family had indeed been warned: “The DM had asked if we would have got any compensation if my sister had died of corona.” In the afternoon, when additional chief secretary Avnish Awasthi and DGP HC Awasthi called on them, that was what the family brought up. The brother said, “We sought replies from them, they didn’t ask us anything. We have registered our complaint about the DM.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/it-wasnt-our-girl-who-was-cremated-says-hathras-family-after-barricades-are-lifted/articleshow/78468488.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Eamcet results on October 6 although retest postponed||HYDERABAD: The results for Telangana Engineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance Test (Eamcet) are scheduled to be announced on October 6, even as the exam for those students who missed it due to Covid-19 has been postponed. A retest was earlier supposed to be conducted on October 2 for those who missed it between September 9 and September 14. T Papi Reddy, chairman of the Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE), said that the retests will most likely be conducted on October 8, adding that the results will be announced before admission process begins. “We had initially planned to conduct the exam on Saturday, but had to postpone it as the information about the exam did not reach all students,” told Reddy to TOI. He said that there won’t be any change in the result date. “We are all set to release results on October 6. These students will be clubbed with the others during counselling.” On Friday, A Govardhan, the convener of Eamcet 2020, announced the postponement of the exam at around 10 pm. While about 24,000 candidates missed the engineering stream Eamcet exam, the officials said that hardly a hundred students might have missed the exam due to Covid-19. “A special exam will be conducted for only those students who missed engineering stream Eamcet because they were tested positive for Covid-19 between August 17 and September 14. This is the one-time chance for candidates,” added Reddy. As per the release issued by the EAMCET convener on Saturday, eligible candidates who wish to appear for this exam have to submit an undertaking form along with supported documents Covid-19 positive report, corresponding Covid-19 negative report and a copy of candidate’s hall ticket to the convenor of Eamcet via email by midnight of October 5. According to the officials, about 80 students intimated the helpdesk beforehand that they cannot appear for the exam between September 9 and September 14 as they tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eamcet-results-on-october-6-although-retest-postponed/articleshow/78469261.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana releases 66 prisoners for good conduct||HYDERABAD: Telangana state government has issued orders to grant special remission to 66 prisoners, who were released from jail on Saturday. According to a source from the prison department, out of the 66 prisoners were released for their good conduct, 28 were from Chanchalguda jail, out of which 15 were from Chanchalguda women prison. The premature release has been given with the execution of a personal bond of Rs 50,000. The prisoners have been directed to appear before the nearest police station once in three months. Meanwhile, eleven women prisoners were among 38 released from Warangal central prison on Saturday. All the prisoners were released a day after the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. According to prison superintendent N Murali Babu, the 27 men and 11 women prisoners were released on their good conduct and all prisoners hail from erstwhile Warangal, Karimnagar, Khammam and Adilabad districts. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-releases-66-prisoners-for-good-conduct/articleshow/78469269.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Fake BPOs in Kolkata ran on ‘accounts-on-rent’||KOLKATA: It’s the modus operandi, that of using “rented accounts”, that helped the fake BPOs in the city, which had been duping people in the UK and US out of their money before being busted over the past 48 hours, run their illegal operations for such a long time. Police said both the gangs used other people’s accounts, which they took on”rent”. According to the master plan, police said, money siphoned off their targets in foreign shores were parked in such accounts, the original KYC documents and debit cards of which were transferred to the accused. Multiple people from the slums of Dhakuria, Pyarabagan and Maniktala, who earned monthly “rents”, ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 20,000, by lending their accounts to such gangs were now under the scanner of the detective department, police said. Gaurav Satwani and Arun Kumar Shaw ran the fake BPO on Rashbehari Avenue for the past five years. It was Shaw who made arrangements so that four persons from Pyarabagan would let them use their accounts, police said. “Usually, cheats use dormant salary accounts to park their money. But here, household accounts were being used. We are probing the role of at least two persons, one of them identified as Uday Sahu from Pyarabagan,” claimed a source. Sources said a gang was likely to operate on the mule account format from the southern tip of the city. Two things helped kingpin Satwani, from whose Behala house a stash of Rs 6.9 crore was recovered. “First, he was confident that all the fraud cases would be reported in the UK and not in India. Secondly, he believed the mule system offered him anonymity and helped him remain hidden from law-enforcers. He ran a real estate business and filed his income tax regularly. It was Shaw, who arranged for the mule accounts and withdrew money from there. Satwani would never himself come to the fore,” explained an officer, adding Shaw had also ventured into other trades. “Whenever the mule accounts fell dormant, Shaw deposited Rs 100 to activate them. As soon as the defrauded money landed in the account, he withdrew them from different ATMs.” According to police, cyber frauds sometimes create accounts, using fake or stolen credentials. Those accounts were a serious problem for banks (and any victims of identity theft), but no account-holder was affected or involved, police said. “It is not true for people who willingly allow their bank accounts to be used as mule accounts. Cyber criminals will often try to recruit people for their operations, using social engineering to lure people with hashtags like #PayPalFlip, #EasyMoney, and #legitmoneyflips,” an officer said. “Criminals go for young people or those who are from the lower economic strata and have unfounded fears about banking.” But, even if the account-holders are not part of the racket, it still makes them complicit in the crime. “Apart from potential jail time, the mule may not be allowed to open a bank account for years,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fake-bpos-ran-on-accounts-on-rent/articleshow/78469274.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||2 Covid deaths, spike of 43 cases in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: Two Covid-19 patients died on Saturday, of whom a 59-year-old man from Wani and a 63-year-old man from Darwha. There are 43 new positive patients, of whom 28 are men and 15 women. Yavatmal city alone recorded 32 positive patients on Saturday. With the available data, the district had 218 active positive patients on Saturday. 256 are in the isolation wards. 8,726 positive patients were reported so far. No data is available regarding the recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-covid-deaths-spike-of-43-cases-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78467494.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Jobs lost, many sniff business in steam inhalers||Steam inhalers are selling like hot cakes on online platforms and at medical stores. Many unemployed youth are eking out a living by setting up street shops and selling at half the price of what is charged in stores. Meet Pratik Lokhande (21) from Siraspeth. He was a mason and was left with no work after Covid set in. Today he is selling stuffed toys and steam vaporizers at Reshimbagh Square. Some others are selling masks and sanitizers along with inhalers. “I don’t know whether this gear is a solution to ward off coronavirus. I started selling them on the advice of one of my relatives. He too is selling them in bulk after procuring from traders in Itwari,” said Lokhande adding that buyers are using it for sauna too. The printed cost on the inhalers is Rs599 and Rs999. “I am selling them for between Rs150 to Rs250 depending on how customers drive a bargain. I make a profit of Rs50-100 per piece and sell around 8-10 inhalers every day,” adds Lokhande. The inhalers come with brand names ‘Living Well’, ‘Health Plus Breathe In’ and ‘Dr Trust’, all of which probably no one has heard of. But Lokhande says, “Don’t go by the packing. These products vary in size and hence are packed in different boxes.” TOI found that the same products were available at a higher price at medical stores which offer a 10-20% discount on the printed price. “At a medical store in Mahal, the same product sold was being sold for Rs300,” said Ranjit Tarekar, a resident of Gandhigate. Tarekar believes that coronavirus dies with steam. “Even otherwise, steam inhalation is traditionally used as a home remedy for common colds and upper respiratory tract infections. It boosts immunity,” said Tarekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jobs-lost-many-sniff-business-in-steam-inhalers/articleshow/78469290.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CMRF released Rs 472 crore for Covid care||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has spent Rs 472.63 crore from the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF) since March for Covid-19 related expenditure, stated planning and convergence minister Padmanabha Behera in a written reply to the assembly recently. Behera said the CMRF grant is apart from other expenditure made from the budget allocation. Total expenditure for Covid management in Odisha would be more than Rs 2,000 crore, said an official source. The minister’s reply has no information on the amount received by the CMRF since March, after outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in Odisha. The CMRF grant has been sanctioned to district collectors for establishment and management of Covid care centre , for welfare of police personnel, train ticket for Shramik Express trains, quarantine incentive of the migrants, transportation cost of Odia migrant workers stranded in Nepal and for formation of ward-level committees in rural and urban areas for Covid management. Official sources said of the Rs 472 crore, maximum amount has been sanctioned to be paid as quarantine incentive to the migrants, who have successfully completed their institutional quarantine period. The state government had earlier announced to pay incentive of Rs 2,000 to each migrant. While Rs 160 crore has been released to panchayati raj department to be paid as quarantine incentive to the migrants in rural areas, Rs 5.54 crore has been released to the housing and urban development department to disburse as quarantine assistance in urban areas, said reply of the minister. Quarantine incentive of Rs 135 crore has so far been disbursed to over 7 lakh migrants while other migrants would also get the incentive soon, said an official source. Among other expenses, Rs 15 crore has been sanctioned from the CMRF for welfare of police personnel, who have played a key role in the Covid management of the state. Also, Rs 19 crore has been spent to provide assistance to street vendors in urban areas, whose business was hit due to the lockdown. As the state government has announced to bear transport expenditure of migrant workers returning to Odisha by Sharmik Special Trains, it has paid Rs 9 crore to the East Coast Railway towards it. With the state government’s focus on decentralization management of the pandemic, as many as Rs 48 crore has been spent for more than 46,000 ward committee in rural areas and over 2,000 ward committees in urban areas. Similarly, Rs 1.34 crore was spent to feed the stray animals in urban areas during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cmrf-released-rs-472-cr-for-covid-care/articleshow/78468492.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
October 4, 2020||Agra||Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka meet Hathras victim’s family, say they stand by them||HATHRAS: On their second attempt, after a stand-off with cops along the state border, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and her brother Rahul Gandhi were finally allowed to pass and meet the Hathras girl’s family on Saturday evening. “I am a mother, I know your pain. I have nothing else to say,” Priyanka told the mother of the 19-year-old who had been allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village a fortnight before she died in a Delhi hospital. The mother broke down. Then, the doors were shut as Priyanka, Rahul and three other Congress leaders spoke to the family for about an hour. After stepping out, Congress MP Rahul said, “If anyone thinks they can stop us from standing for justice and truth, they are wrong. We will stand by you, no one can silence us.” The last time they had attempted to visit the family, on Thursday, they had been detained, released and later booked for breach of Covid control measures. On Saturday, when news reached the village that the two had been allowed to cross the Delhi-UP border after police lathicharged Congress workers who had gathered on the DND Flyway, there was a flurry of action in Hathras. Instructions were shot across to control the crowds expected. In Mathura, where the Congress representatives had taken a break on their way to Hathras, Priyanka told the media, “I don’t understand why the government is not supporting the family. It is their duty … I have spoken to her father over the phone. I feel his pain.” When they reached Hathras, however, it was only a small group that was allowed up to the girl’s house. When they left, the girl’s brother told the media that they had spoken about the behaviour of the local administration. “We told them about the attitude of the DM,” he said, referring to a thinly veiled “threat” reminding the family that the media would leave at some point in a video that went viral. After that, the SIT probing the case visited the family to record the statement of the victim’s father. Samajwadi Party, meanwhile, said it will also make a second attempt to meet the family — the first had been cut short on Thursday — with party chief Akhilesh Yadav expected to visit on Sunday. RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary has planned to do the same. Workers aligned with the upper caste community to which the accused belong, meanwhile, staged a counter-protest near the point of entry to the village. They complained they were not being allowed to meet the families of the accused. “A panchayat was held in favour of the four accused who are in police custody,” a worker said. “We demand an unbiased probe.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rahul-priyanka-meet-hathras-victims-family-say-they-stand-by-them/articleshow/78468489.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 4, 2020||Pune||ACB nabs two cops in bribery case||Pune: The state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Friday arrested two constables, both posted with the Manchar police station, for taking a Rs20,000 bribe from a 22-year-old man. The two constables allegedly accepted the bribe to allow the man to continue betting on Indian Premier League matches. An ACB team headed by inspector Alka Sarag arrested Prashant Suresh Bhujbal (33) and Krushnadev Subhas Sabale (31). The ACB said the duo were tipped off about the man running a betting racket on September 30, following which they approached him and threatened to file a case. The two demanded 50,000 from the man to allow him to continue running the racket and agreed to settle for Rs20,000. The man then approached the ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/acb-nabs-two-cops-in-bribery-case/articleshow/78469238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Delimitation of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation completed||AHMEDABAD: The state election commission has completed delimitation of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation with its newly merged areas. The area formerly under the Bopal-Ghuma nagarpalika will now be split and included in four wards, Jodhpur, Thaltej, Bodakdev and Sarkhej. According to officials, the larger part of Bopal-Ghuma has been merged with the Thaltej and Jodhpur wards while smaller portions have been added to the Sarkhej and Bodakdev wards. Officials said about 5,000 people from Ghuma will now be part of the Sarkhej ward. “The inclusion of 5,000 people will not make dramatically change the demographics of the Sarkhej ward, which is a minority-dominated area.” According to the final delimitation scheme, the city has a population of 56.64 lakh and 48 wards, for an average of 1.18 lakh people in each wards. Of the 192 seats (4 seats per ward), 20 will be reserved for scheduled castes, two for scheduled tribes and 19 for other backward classes. Of the four seats in each ward, two seats will be reserved for women. Jodhpur will be the biggest ward. While Sarkhej covers the area from Ghuma to Sarkhej, Jodhpur ward covers the area from Bopal Gam to the Jhansi ki Rani statue. Thaltej ward will extend from Bopal Gam to Science City Circle. The final notification states that the area in Bopal from the Swaminarayan Temple on SP Ring Road to Sterling City, Bopal Gam to Ghuma Gam Talav and Ghuma Gam will be included in Thaltej. The area from Manokamna Mahadev in Bopal to Madhav Bungalows to Ambli Gam will be in Bodakdev ward, while the area from Sundarvan Bungalows to Infinium Toyota will now be in Jodhpur ward. The area from Manipur-Ghuma Road to Aarohi Plot Owners Association will be in Sarkhej ward. Kathwada residents, who had challenged the move to merge the area in the AMC, are now part of Nikol ward. Officials said smaller areas that were merged with the AMC have been included in the nearest ward. After demilitation, Thaltej ward will be the biggest in terms of population with 1.31 lakh, followed by Saijpur Bogha with 1.3 lakh. In terms of area, Thaltej and Jodhpur are the biggest wards in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/delimitation-of-amc-completed/articleshow/78470321.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Pregnant women avoid hosps due to fear of infection, end up increasing risks||Bhubaneswar: Nivedita (name changed), a 25-year-old pregnant woman, and her husband had a nightmarish experience when she tested Covid-19 positive a day before her expected date of delivery. Her gynaecologist asked her to go to a Covid-19 hospital in the city, but due to fear of infection the couple opted to go to a private hospital. Most leading private hospitals denied her admission, and finally she was admitted to AIIMS-Bhubaneswar, where she tested Covid-19 negative. Nivedita is not the lone such case. Amid rising cases of Covid-19, the stress of pregnant women has increased manifold as most private hospitals are not admitting them. On the other hand, doctors say a large number of pregnant women are coming late to hospital due to the fear of infection, leading to complications. “Although the state government has ordered hospitals to give admission to Covid-19 patients as soon as possible, several are not doing so. Many rules are there on pen and paper, but, in reality, the Covid management situation is grim in the city,” rued Nivedita’s husband. Pregnant women are considered at high risk of Covid-19 infection. Doctors said pregnant women had a higher risk of being admitted to ICUs than non-pregnant women. “All pregnant women are at risk and need to be brought to the hospital on time. You cannot predict things as many high-risk cases deliver normally and many normal cases end up becoming high-risk. We have noticed that a large number of pregnant women are reaching hospital late, increasing the risk factor. Sometime they need blood transfusion or surgery,” Gitanjali Batmanabane, director of AIIMS-Bhubaneswar, where a separate labour room has been set up for delivery of Covid-19 pregnant women. Around 100 pregnant women are delivering every month in AIIMS, of whom around 10 are Covid-19 positive. Batmanabane said the health of women in general, including that of pregnant women, had been neglected during the pandemic. “Women are dependent on their family to bring them to hospital. Due to fear of infection, many family members are not ready to bring women to their check-ups. We have also noticed a decline in the number of patients with gynaecological problems,” she said. The plight of pregnant women has cut across class or locality. “Initially we used to receive a large number of Covid-19 positive pregnant patients from across the state but of late the number has reduced. We have made a separate ward, operation theatre and labour room for Covid-19 pregnant women. All pregnant women coming to non-Covid section are undertaking RT-PCR test,” said Ambika Mohanty, medical superintendent, KIMS Covid Hospital. He too said regular pre-natal and post-natal health check-ups had decreased during the pandemic. Patients also said doctors were encouraging normal delivery to avoid surgery or longer stay in hospitals. They also said most doctors and nurses were overburdened or engaged with Covid-19 care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/pregnant-women-avoid-hosps-due-to-fear-of-infection-end-up-increasing-risks/articleshow/78468498.cms||Minati Singha
October 4, 2020||Agra||Valmiki community stir continues, protesters ‘pelt stones’ at civic body vehicles, cops in Agra||AGRA: The protest of Valmiki community over alleged rape and murder of teenager in Hathras continued for the fourth consecutive day. Over 100 protesters indulged in stone-pelting in the middle of the city on Saturday causing damage to the garbage collection vehicles of the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC). Policemen were also targeted. The stone-pelting continued for over 20 minutes. Police resorted to lathi-charge to control the protesters. Heavy police deployment was made in the Dalit-majority localities in Agra as senior officials fanned across the district. Police used drone cameras to monitor the densely populated areas of the city. The district cyber cell was put on alert to check the content related to the Hathras incident being shared on social media. Superintendent of police (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said, “The situation has been completely normalized. People who indulged in stone-pelting are being identified on the basis of available video recordings. After consulting with senior officials, an FIR will be registered against those who tried to disturb the law and order situation.” “To prevent any untoward incident, social media is being closely monitored by the cyber cell. Drone cameras are being used for surveillance in densely populated areas. Police patrolling has also been increased. Anti-social elements will be identified and strict action will be taken against them,” he said. Over 90% of sanitation workers at AMC belong to the Valmiki community. On Saturday morning, sanitation workers staged a protest at a dozen places around the city. Protesters indulged in argument with policemen at different places. In Awas Vikas colony, sanitation workers held a sanitary inspector and zonal sanitation officer hostage for an hour when the officials allegedly tried to force them to join their duty. Uttar Pradesh Safai Kamgar Sanghthan president Shyam Kumar Karunesh said, “We condemn the stone-pelting and the law and order disturbance caused by a few people. We are reaching out to youngsters and asking them to not indulge in any sort of violence. But we are not satisfied by the response of the state government in the Hathras case. We want the case to be heard by a SC-monitored fast-track court. Besides, the state government should immediately take strict action against the Hathras DM. He has caused a huge pain to not just the family of the victim but also to the Valmiki community.” Meanwhile, following the protest of the Valmiki community for the last four days, heaps of garbage have gathered in residential colonies and marketplaces. Major roads remain littered with garbage. Lack of cleanliness at government hospitals caused a lot of inconvenience to the patients. Majority of sanitation workers at the SN Medical College remained on strike. Most government hospital premises remained littered with hazardous medical waste. Cleanliness work at private hospitals also remained affected. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/valmiki-community-stir-continues-protesters-pelt-stones-at-civic-body-vehicles-cops-in-agra/articleshow/78468495.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Engineering students hold protest over exams in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of engineering students on Saturday staged a protest in front of two autonomous engineering colleges in the city demanding cancellation of semester examinations for first, second and third year students. They questioned the need to conduct exams, especially when the University Grants Commission (UGC) has released a circular permitting to promote students in the view of the pandemic. “When the exams for final year students were held recently, one of the MBA students tested positive for Covid-19 and all the other students who appeared for the exam in the same room had to get quarantined. If exams are conducted for first, second and third year students as well, more students ought to get infected,” said Venkat Balmoor, state president of National Students’ Union of India, who took part in the protest in front of Sri Indu Engineering college. Students, who protested in front of Anurag and Sri Indu colleges, claimed that autonomous colleges are conducting exams to pressurize students and their parents to pay the first term fee. NSUI has p lanned to hold a mass protest in front of JNTUH on October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-students-hold-protest-over-exams/articleshow/78469317.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Impose fee for CLAT objections’||HYDERABAD: An expert committee formed to look into the objections or representation submitted by the candidates in respect of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 has recommended to impose a fee for filing objections from the next year. The Consortium of National Law Universities, vide a release, said thatfrom next year a fee would be imposed for the filing of objections and if the objection is accepted, the fee paid should be refunded. “The committee noted that a large number of unnecessary objections were filed because unlike NEET, JEE and NET, etc. which charge Rs 1,000 per objection, CLAT-2020 had made filing of objections absolutely free and therefore the number of objections filed was so high,” the released added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/impose-fee-for-clat-objections/articleshow/78469304.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMC tax-waive offer kicks off with Rs 1 crore collection||KOLKATA: Two days after Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) launched the interest waiver scheme on property tax on October 1, the civic body on Saturday mopped up over Rs 1.1 crore from four major defaulters who made the payments. One of the four applicants on Saturday handed a cheque of Rs 50 lakh to KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim. Another defaulter paid Rs 22 lakh in demand draft. Besides filling specified forms for the waiver, which will be available at the assessment collection department at the borough level, those interested can pay online through the KMC portal (www.kmcgov.in) or civic app. Those who will apply physically, specified format will have to be submitted at treasury counters, e-Kolkata citizen service centres or at the unit offices of KMC assessment collection department. According to the scheme, 100% interest and penalty on outstanding property tax will be waived if dues are cleared within February 28, next year. But if a property owner fails to apply within the date, he/she will be entitled to 60% interest and 99% penalty on outstanding amount. This facility will continue till May 31, 2021. The civic body will also offer instalment facility to applicants. However, for those who will apply for instalments will need to clear the entire dues within the scheme deadline of May 31, 2021. According to the rules, an applicant who wants to avail of the scheme, will need to visit the KMC assessment collection department offices to receive the demand notice. The applicant can then pay the outstanding amount and get the benefits. Hakim said the scheme was planned to offer relief to defaulters, who were so far not paying because of the huge rate of interest and penalty levied on the actual amount due to non-payment of taxes on time. “We may lose some revenue because of the cent percent waiver of interest but at the same time, we will bring more property owners within the tax net. This way, our revenue will get augmented,” Hakim said. A KMC revenue official said the civic body would get tough on a section of major defaulters, who would still not take advantage of the current waiver scheme and cough up the dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-tax-waive-offer-kicks-off-with-rs-1cr-collection/articleshow/78469340.cms||Saikat Ray
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Anna market to open again with less than 50% shops||Coimbatore: Much to the relief of vegetable traders, who were moved onto the premises of Government College of Technology (GCT) temporarily following the lockdown, Anna market on Mettupalayam Road would resume functioning in a day or two.After a few traders tested positive for Covid-19 in June, the city corporation had closed the market and moved the vendors to the Ramalinga Chettiar Higher Secondary School at Saibaba Colony, from where they were relocated to GCT, to ensure social distancing.Following the continuous rainfall, waterlogging and sludge on the college campus had made it difficult for the traders to do business. For the past one month, the traders had been staging protests, demanding the civic body to reopen the market.A source with the city corporation said they have decided to reopen the market based on the traders’ request and only 150 of the 370 shops would be allowed to operate at any given time. “They have to do business on rotational basis.”City corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian, meanwhile, inspected the market premises on Saturday. He directed the traders to follow all guidelines and operate only alternate shops a day to ensure social distancing at the market. They have also been asked to ensure that customers wear face masks and maintain physical distancing.G A Wahab, secretary, Mettupalayam Road Daily Market All Traders’ Welfare Association, said, “We are happy that the city corporation has granted permission to resume our business at the market. Minor repair and cleaning work are being carried out on the market premises and that would take a day or two to complete. We would move to the market once it is ready.” He said they would adhere to all precautionary measures and appoint gatekeepers to check customers’ temperature and ensure that only those with face masks were allowed in.S Shanmugaraj, treasurer of the association, said it was difficult for them to do business on the college ground on rainy days because of the sludge and waterlogging. “Both the customers and traders had fallen on the slippery ground and vegetables used to get soaked in rainwater. As a result, footfall had come down.”He said the vegetable market would not function on GCT ground on Sunday when the college would host the civil service preliminary examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/anna-market-to-open-again-with-less-than-50-shops/articleshow/78469318.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 4, 2020||Vadodara||Man drowns in Narmada River at Chandod||VADODARA: A 32-year-old man from Vasna Road locality of Vadodara drowned in the Narmada River at Chandod on Friday. The body of Parth Shah was fished out by firemen from Vadodara on Saturday from the same place where he was swallowed by the swirling water. According to police, Shah and his parents had visited Chandod on Friday to perform religious ceremonies on the bank of Narmada River. The deceased and his parents participated in the ceremonies at Ramnath Ashram on Chandika ghat. At the end of the ceremony, when Shah went near the river water to immerse the ‘pind’, he slipped and fell into the water. As the water level in the river has been high lately, Shah was sucked into it. The local boatmen unsuccessfully searched for him till late evening. The police sought the help from Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services on Saturday. Fire officials said that Shah’s body was found a few metres away from the ghat from where he had slipped. His body was taken to referral hospital in Dabhoi for post-mortem and a case of accidental death was registered at Chandod police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-drowns-in-narmada/articleshow/78468446.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Pune||Two engineers held on ATM theft charge||PUNE: Two engineers, including the ex-staffer of an ATM cash refilling firm, were arrested on Friday on the charge of stealing cash from two ATM kiosks in Dighi last month. Police have recovered Rs66.1 lakh from them. Pimpri Chinchwad police chief Krishna Prakash identified the arrested as Manoj Uttam Suryavanshi (30) of Pimpri and Kiran Bhanudas Kolte (35) of Chikhali. “We have recovered Rs 66.10 lakh from their possession, besides a motorcycle used in the crime,” he said. Prakash said Suryavanshi, an electronic engineering diploma holder, was employed with an ATM cash refilling firm as an engineer. His firm was providing services to the targeted ATM’s bank. “His friend, Kolte, has done Masters in Computer Application (MCA) and was working with a private firm as an engineer,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath said, “On September 24, somebody attempted to break open the ATMs at two locations in Dighi and also stole their CPUs. Bank officials registered a theft case in this regard. Further investigation by the bank officials as well as police revealed that a huge amount of cash was stolen from the two ATMs. Since the CPUs were also stolen, the officials took time to tabulate the stolen cash.” Police then directed their attention to the CCTV footage, but failed to establish the identity of the suspects as they had put an adhesive tape on the CCTV cameras. “Suryavanshi used to deposit the cash in the ATMs after unlocking the digital locks using the PINs. A few months back, Suryavanshi had quit his job with the company, but he was still in possession of the digital PINs. He used these PINs to commit the crime,” he said. Suryavanshi landed in police net during interrogation of all the current and former employees of the cash refilling firm. “The Talegaon Dabhade police had registered a similar theft in 2017, in which the stolen amount is still being tabulated. We think that this theft too was committed by Suryavanshi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-engineers-held-on-atm-theft-charge/articleshow/78596466.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases drop for second day, caseload still below 500||Coimbatore: The number of active Covid-19 cases dropped for the second consecutive day in the district on Saturday, when 685 patients were discharged from treatment centres. The active cases now stand at 4,718, against 4,913 on Friday.The caseload also continued to remain below the 500-mark, as 486 tested positive for the virus, taking the tally to 33,611. At least 28,438 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district so far.The toll, meanwhile, rose to 455, with five more patients succumbing to the virus. Among the deceased were a 23-year-old myeloid leukemia patient and a 49-year-old who died of hypoxic encephalopathy and bilateral bronchopneumonia caused by the virus. The latter didn’t have any comorbidities. The remaining deceased were a 65-year-old woman, an 87-year-old man and a 75-year-old woman.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s second national sero-survey has, meanwhile, found that most of the district’s population continues to be vulnerable to the virus. Out of the 428 people’s blood samples it collected in the district last month, only 7.2% or 31 of them were found having antibodies to the SARS-CoV2 virus. In fact, the district had the least number of immune people, compared to Chennai (33.4%) and Tiruvannamalai (8.5%). This is despite collecting blood samples only from the Covid-19 hotspots in the city and rural areas. However, the numbers have increased compared to May when only 2.5% or 10 out of the 400 samples had antibodies.Dr K Kolandaswamy, former director of public health, said, “This shows that herd immunity is still a long way to go and the vulnerable people, who are children, senior citizens and people with comorbidities, have to be protected.”District collector K Rajamani had met people incharge of prevention measures in all the 12 blocks on Friday and directed them to earmark containment zones to be monitored by block development officer and medical officers, and conduct fever camps in the hotspots in each block.The officers have also been instructed to inform the village panchayat heads before conducting the fever camps. “It will help them to mobilize the people, especially symptomatic and old, to attend the fever camps, which would then be more effective,” said Dr Krishna, joint director of medical services. “This will help in early detection of cases, isolation and preventing them from infecting others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-drop-for-second-day-caseload-still-below-500/articleshow/78469302.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrialists demand direct flights to Ahmedabad, Kolkata and Madurai||Coimbatore: October has seen Coimbatore enjoying partial connectivity to two more destinations Ahmedabad and Madurai. While Alliance Air has introduced a flight from Madurai to Coimbatore four days a week, Indigo Airlines has introduced one from Ahmedabad to Chennai daily. On Friday, a chartered flight was also operated from Coimbatore to Kolkata, a route that has no direct flights. Industrialists said these are signs that show demand for the routes and appealed to airlines to make the new services permanent and make them two-way.Both the new flights are one-way flights where people from the destinations can land in Coimbatore. The flight from Ahmedabad leaves at 9.30am and lands in Coimbatore at 12pm. But Coimbatorians who want to fly to those destinations have no direct flight. Flights to Ahmedabad have a stopover in Mumbai and Hyderabad taking at least five hours. Flights to Madurai have to be taken via Bengaluru or Chennai, making road or train options more viable. Industrialists said direct flights to Ahmedabad, Kolkata and Madurai have been a long pending demand for the last five years. “Already, the Ahmedabad-Coimbatore flight has a good load factor of around 60%. It will only increase. We hope this becomes a permanent flight,” said J Sathish of J Engineering. “The operation of the charter flight to Kolkata is also evidence of the demand for this route.”Direct connectivity to Ahmedabad and Kolkata is crucial for movement of passengers as well as goods because Coimbatore is a textile hub and has a massive population for both the states. “The existing flights have 80% occupancy and it will only increase this quarter as business is picking up. While north Indians fly back and forth often, many of our textile businessmen often fly to Ahmedabad and back for purchases, among others,” said D Nandhakumar, managing director of Selvam Agencies. “It is time airlines revive the flight to Kolkata with a stop. We do not mind a stopover as long as it does not involve us having to get off and on a new flight.”The industrialists have written to Air India to introduce a direct flight to Chennai and back and an evening flight to the city from New Delhi, in addition to the morning flight. “That will benefit many people flying in from the US, who first land in New Delhi,” said Sathish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-demand-direct-flights-to-ahmedabad-kolkata-and-madurai/articleshow/78469314.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||India reiterates stand on nuclear disarmament, no first-use policy||NEW DELHI: India reiterated on Saturday its long-standing and unwavering commitment to “universal, verifiable and non-discriminatory” nuclear disarmament leading to the complete elimination of nuclear weapons, in line with the final document of the First Special Session of the UN General Assembly on disarmament. The government said it also remained committed to its no-first-use of nuclear weapons policy against nuclear weapon states and non-use against non-nuclear weapon states. Participating in the high-level plenary meeting to commemorate and promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said India’s approach to nuclear disarmament was encapsulated in its working paper submitted to the UNGA First Committee in 2006 and to the Conference on Disarmament in 2007. “We believe that nuclear disarmament can be achieved through a step-by-step process underwritten by a universal commitment and an agreed multilateral framework. India remains convinced of the need for dialogue among all states possessing nuclear weapons, for building trust and confidence,” said Shringla. According to the government, India has since 1998 tabled an annual resolution in the UNGA on ‘Reducing Nuclear Danger’ that calls for steps to reduce the risks of unintentional and accidental use of nuclear weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-reiterates-stand-on-nuclear-disarmament-no-first-use-policy/articleshow/78470987.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||As recoveries exceed new cases, active tally drops||Panaji: Goa’s Covid-19 mortality count climbed to 451 after eight people died on Saturday. As the number of recoveries exceeded the number of new cases, the tally of active cases dropped slightly below 5,000. With 523 people cured and 445 new cases detected, the count of new cases on Saturday was little a less than that of Friday. Both days had less than 1,500 tests conducted. The average of tests per day drops during the weekends with some centres remaining closed for testing. Of mortalities, four deaths were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim and four from ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said that two patients – a 55-year-old man from Taleigao and an 80-year-old from Margao died within a few hours of admission to the hospital. While both developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) shortly after they were brought to the hospital, the man from Taleigao did not have any comorbid condition. Other deaths were that of three women — a 57-year-old from Curtorim, a 74-year-old from Curchorem and a 70-year-old from Bali. Beside, three men — a 59-year-old from Taleigao, a 45-year-old from Bicholim, and 60-year-old from Navelim, succumbed to the virus on Saturday. All the deceased had ARDS at the time of admission. On Saturday, Panaji reported 12 new cases and its tally stood at 247. On Friday, the state capital had 27 people testing positive. On Most days, its case tally ranges between 20 to 30 cases a day and on few days, it has crossed the 40-mark. The caseload of Porvorim dipped slightly owing to recoveries. In South Goa, Canacona saw its numbers rising and had 140 active cases on Saturday, Ponda’s total jumped to 250 with the addition of 16 new cases. Curchorem and Sanguem have their case load rising gradually and each has over 100 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-recoveries-exceed-new-cases-active-tally-drops/articleshow/78470324.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covid recovery rate surges to 81% in Amravati||Amravati: A spike of 256 cases took the district’s Covid-19 caseload to 13,333 even as cured patients continued to outnumber new cases for the sixth successive day. A total of 289 patients were discharge on Wednesday, taking the number of recovered patients to 10,856 for a recovery rate of 81.4%. The doubling rate increased to 42.7 days from 36 on Tuesday. The district also reported five deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 287. Now, there are 2,180 patients under treatment cases, including 1,152 admitted to Covid hospital here, 12 in Nagpur and 1,026 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-recovery-rate-surges-to-81-in-amravati/articleshow/78415085.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Two, including minor, held for killing bizman||Coimbatore: The city police arrested two people, one of them a minor boy, at Karaikudi in Sivaganga district on Saturday for murdering an elderly man at Singanallur in the city.One of the accused was R Vikram, 23 who had come out of the Coimbatore Central Prison just a month ago after he was caught in a theft case. The other accused was a 17-year-old boy.An investigation officer said the duo had murdered businessman S Krishnasamy, 69, of Singanallur, by hitting him on his head with an iron rod and strangling him during a burglary attempt at his house on the intervening night of Thursday -Friday. “The duo knew that the businessman was alone at his house and planned the burglary. When the elderly man woke up hearing some noise, they hit him on his head and strangulated him, and fled with cash, two mobile phones and a car,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-including-minor-held-for-killing-bizman/articleshow/78469345.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Two in Kolkata women lodge complaints against sons for assault||KOLKATA: Two women from the Netaji Nagar area have lodged complaints against their sons for allegedly assaulting them over various disputes. A 70-year-old woman, Ila Dutta, lodged a complaint at the Netaji Nagar police station on Friday that her son, Subhasish and daughter-in-law Sulogna hit her when she refused to give in to their demands. The cops said they would summon the son. Another case has been registered against a man, Arka Sen, for allegedly assaulting his mother, Banani (58), following a dispute over a property on Baisnabghata Bylane. He also reportedly threatened other family members. Banani claimed she received injuries on her right hand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-women-lodge-plaints-against-sons-for-assault/articleshow/78469374.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops intensify combing operations in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Police have intensified combing operations after inputs that members of Communist Party of Inida (Maoists) are moving in tribal areas of Bhadradri Kothagudem. Cops said that they have information that Maoists are moving in the bordering areas between Telangana and Chhattisgarh. Officials said that police have been doing extensive vehicle checking, looking for land mines and other measures are being taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-intensify-combing-ops/articleshow/78469354.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||2-day-old found abandoned near drain, sent to Telangana-run home||HYDERABAD: A two-day-old baby girl was found abandoned near a drainage in RC Puram limits on Friday. The family was traced and the baby was shifted to a state-run home. According to police, the baby girl was found by a passer-by on Friday evening, who alerted the cops. During the investigation, police discovered that the baby was delivered in Parancheru hospital’s maternity ward and launched a search operation to trace the family. “We took the help of the CCTV footage and traced the mother and grandmother of the child,” said an official. After the delivery on October 1, the family went to MAC Society and left the baby at the side of the drainage. “The baby had spent the whole night, till the next morning near the drainage before a woman noticed her and approached the cops,” added the official. The parents of the baby were traced from Nallagandla and were booked under section 317 (Exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years) of IPC. The couple will be produced before the court, said police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-day-old-found-abandoned-near-drain-sent-to-state-home/articleshow/78469351.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Pune||No shortage of remdesivir in Maharashtra, says health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no shortage of remdesivir injection in Maharashtra and all the six companies giving it to the state were told to increase the supply. At present, the state requires 22,000 vials a day. The total supply per day to the state was 30,000, an official from the Food and Drug Administration said. Against the backdrop of the letter from the leader of opposition, Devendra Fadnavis, to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, requesting him to ensure that there was no hoarding or black marketing of remdesivir injections, the state FDA said it was not the case. “Each district collector has our control room number. Any shortfall in a district is registered and it is immediately supplied,” said JB Mantri, the joint commissioner of FDA, adding that there were no complaints of any shortfall. “Two weeks ago there was shortfall, but that has been streamlined now. There is a steady flow of injections. There are also regulations put out by the health department to all collectors to direct medical practitioners to use the drug rationally,” the state health minister, Tope, said. Fadnavis in a reply to a text message from TOI said, “The government had announced it will issue remdesivir through civil surgeon or deputy director of health to patients from economically weaker sections admitted in private or government hospitals. But now, when they are contacted, they state they do not have stock.” He added doctors had stated the same about the shortage. In his letter, Fadnavis mentioned patients from economically weaker sections were not able to buy remdesivir. “Claims made by the government regarding the availability of remdesivir doesn’t matter as patients have informed me about its shortage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-shortage-of-remdesivir-in-state-says-health-minister/articleshow/78469356.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 4, 2020||Pune||Referral delays, gaps in care led to many deaths: Officials||PUNE: Delayed referrals, gaps in patient care, non-availability of drugs, oxygen supply shortages and ambulance response times were discussed during a recent meeting of the task force set up to control the district’s Covid mortality rate. The team said these problems had caused scores of deaths. The fatality rate in Pune district is currently 2.2%. Ideally, it should be below 1%. Subhash Salunke, the technical advisor to the state on Covid-19 and head of this task force, said the issues discussed during the meeting would be fixed soon. Nearly 30 cases from the region will be analysed by the task force before it arrives at solutions. The Centre has asked states with high mortality to form teams to carry out death audits. Salunke said the task force has already reached out to large hospitals in the region to resolve the issue of late referrals. “Both corporations — the PMC and the PCMC — and officials in the rural areas have given us a list of people with comobordities. The data will ensure swift hospital admissions if these people develop symptoms. The bed availability system should be of use here,” Salunke said. He said a team of experts has also been assembled — and are being trained — to improve handling of hospitalised Covid-19 patients and complications such as pulmonary or renal issues. On shortage of important medicines and delayed ambulance response times, Salunke said better coordination between agencies would be key. Deputy director of health services Pune region, Sanjay Deshmukh, said mortality rate has been decreasing from the start of the month, but added that efforts are on to improve coordination and prevent further deaths. “Rural hospitals have had a high Covid-19 mortality as per our discussion. To deal with the problem, we have tried to improve their overall operations by setting up tele-ICU facilities and shoring up oxygen supply. We have installed liquid oxygen tanks in five major district hospitals, which includes Sassoon General hospital, Aundh hospital and Naidu hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/referral-delays-gaps-in-care-led-to-many-deaths-officials/articleshow/78469333.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Online trader swindles Rs 10cr, held||Coimbatore: A 34-year-old online trader was arrested on Saturday for duping investors of more than Rs 10 crore in the city.The Economic Offences Wing of the city police identified the accused as Senthilkumar, a resident of Karamadai.According to a police officer, Senthilkumar had floated a private online trading firm near Athipalayam in the city in 2018. He introduced many schemes, offering to double or triple the invested money over a certain period. “One scheme promised a return of Rs 3 lakh for every Rs 1 lakh for an investment period of 100 days. Hundreds of people opted that scheme and invested several lakhs of rupees. Meanwhile, Senthilkumar went into hiding more than a year ago. “To our knowledge, the officer said, about 500 people had invested more than Rs 10 crore in the firm to their knowledge. “The number might increase in the future. We registered a case against him based on a complaint lodged by one Saravanan, who had invested Rs 7 lakh in the firm.”Based on his complaint, police booked Senthilkumar under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act. He was produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/online-trader-swindles-rs-10cr-held/articleshow/78469324.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Psychological help given to prisoners in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: It was a matter of anxiety for a large number of inmates at Ahmedabad Central Jail when the first lockdown was announced. Several of them had plans to get a parole and help their families. But when the entire country was cooped up in their homes, they had no option but to remain in the prison. Reena Sharma, a city-based forensic psychologist and founder of Mind Practice, an NGO that works with jail inmates, said that the symptoms seen in the population at large – depression, anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), etc. also got manifested among the inmates. “With the prison authorities, we launched an initiative where we visited the barracks wearing PPEs, talked to them about Covid-19 and dispelled myths,” she said, adding that about 3,000 inmates were covered under the initiative. Dr K L N Rao, ADGP (prisons), said that steps such as minimizing overcrowding in prison and round-the-clock reporting system helped. “Systems are in place to ensure minimal spread of disease within the prison system,” said Rohan Anand, superintendent of Ahmedabad Central Prison. The authorities said that initiatives such as video calling were initiated after realizing the need for socialization and reducing anxieties of the families of the inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psychological-help-given-to-prisoners/articleshow/78470320.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court slams south corporation for harassing elderly trader||NEW DELHI: It’s not only multinational companies or big corporates, but also small traders like the appellant who bring about a significant change in improving the economic status of the country, a Delhi court has observed in a case. A senior citizen fought a case against South Delhi Municipal Corporation and won after the court ordered desealing of her shop. District and sessions judge Dharmesh Sharma held the SDMC officials responsible for causing “irreparable damage to the quality of life” of the old woman, besides causing her great pain and anxiety. “The officials or the public functionaries in SDMC must be reminded time and again that they are in position of great trust and responsibility towards the general public and must comply with the law in fair manner that promotes not only the objectives of the government under the DMC Act, but also the larger interest of people to have a planned development in the city of Delhi,” the judge noted. The municipal body had sealed the shop, first in 2014, of Inderjeet Kaur, a senior citizen, but the sealing order was subsequently set aside. A year later, she again received a sealing order alleging that she was running a “cement godown”. Kaur challenged the sealing order but the appellate tribunal held that she couldn’t even run a “retail cement shop much less a cement godown” for the shop area prerequisite wasn’t met. The owner contested it, arguing that according to the Delhi Master Plan 2021, her shop fulfilled this requirement. It came to court’s notice that the first sealing order was a “mirror image” of the other. Interestingly, the court said, the appellate tribunal had failed to perceive that mere storage of any material in a shop or premises may or may not amount to using it as a godown. “Elementary as it may look, it would be a matter of common business sense that storage of goods may be a dominant purpose, or it may be incidental purpose depending upon whether one is doing business in wholesale or retail trade, having regard to usage of such terms in common business sense.” Judge Sharma, in his order, also highlighted that just because a place was being used for storage of goods, it didn’t mean it was a “godown” and not used for selling or trading goods. “This case is a stark case illustration of the manner in which SDMC officials acted whimsically, mechanically and perversely to the detriment of the fundamental rights of the appellant to carry on trade and business,” the court said. In its opinion, such an “arbitrary, whimsical and lackadaisical” approach on the part of public functionaries caused “untold miseries and a ripple effect” on the economy of the city, if not nationally. SDMC officials were, therefore, directed to have a re-look at their disposition in applying laws selectively and restrain themselves from creating unwarranted road blocks in the path of economic progress. Besides, the court said that the SDMC commissioner should initiate a disciplinary action against the erring officials, who violated the letter and spirit of the law, and thereby “eroded the confidence of the people in such institution and caused loss to its exchequer”. The civic body was also asked to cough up Rs 2 lakh that would eventually go to the appellant as compensation for violation of her fundamental rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-slams-s-corpn-for-harassing-elderly-trader/articleshow/78469359.cms||Aamir Khan
October 4, 2020||Pune||Two-swab strategy a non-starter in Pune metropolitan region, say task force medical experts||PUNE: The state government’s latest two-swab testing strategy for symptomatic patients has remained on paper in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). On Friday, medical experts from the city’s task force raised concerns about the strategy at a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Senior public health expert Subhash Salunke, who is also the state government's adviser on Covid-19 management, said, “There is no denying the fact that the new testing protocol has been a non-starter in PMR. Barring a few government-run hospital and medical college, it has not been implemented at all state- and municipal corporation-run health hubs and testing centres in the region. The issue was raised at the meeting with the deputy chief minister.” On September 18, state principal secretary Pradeep Vyas issued the notifications asking the local government bodies to adopt the two swab protocol with immediate effect. In accordance with the protocol, if the person's first swab comes negative on the 30-minute rapid antigen test, the second swab will be immediately put through the gold standard RT-PCR test for reconfirmation. As per the norms of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), those who test negative for the Covid-19 by rapid antigen test should be definitely tested sequentially by RTPCR to rule out infection. A positive test should be considered a truly positive and does not need reconfirmation by the RT-PCR test. However, Maharashtra stands very low with only 7% of such symptomatic negative patients having been re-tested through the RTPCR process. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “We are gearing up to implement the two swab testing strategy. We will implement it across designated hospitals and testing centres run by the civic body.” Pawan Salve, chief of the health department at Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), also admitted that the testing protocol was yet to be implemented at the civic body-run designated hospitals and testing centres. He said, “We will start it soon, as this will aid in immediately following up the antigen-negative patients on RT-PCR. Now, when a person tests negative on the rapid antigen test, he or she doesn't turn up for the RTPCR despiting pursuing with him/her," Salve said. The two swab testing protocol cannot be enforced in the private designated laboratories and hospitals, as availing of the tests involves footing the expenses. But as per the norms, every symptomatic patient who is antigen-negative should be followed up with the RT-PCR test for confirmation of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-swab-strategy-a-non-starter-in-pmr-say-task-force-medical-experts/articleshow/78469396.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharani: Panchayat secretary collects money to enter details, suspended||HYDERABAD: A panchayat secretary in Jogulamba Gadwal district has been suspended for allegedly collecting money from villagers for entering their property details on Dharani portal during a survey being undertaken by revenue department. Jogulamba Gadwal collector Shruti Ojha has ordered suspension of Gudur village panchayat secretary P Subhashini on October 2 for collecting Rs 2,300 to Rs 3,300 from every house in the village. Subhashini reportedly collected amount from 70 people saying this was for making an entry of their properties online. When the villagers sought a receipt for the amounts paid, she reportedly gave a receipt for Rs 300 as house tax. The survey, as part of the efforts to enter property details of everyone on the Dharani portal, is taking place across the state. Meanwhile, Nagarkurnool additional collector Manu Chowdhury instructed all sarpanches and panchayat secretaries to ensure details of houses and other structures in the district be collected as desired by the government. In Shaheenpalli, Allapur and Salkaripeta villages of Nagarkurnool, Thoodakurthi and Biinnpalli mandals that he visited, the additional collector instructed that the survey be competed by October 10. He said people should be educated about the benefits of the details being uploaded on Dharani website. Details of all places of worship have to be gathered too. Sangareddy district collector Hanumantha Rao paid a surprise visit to Kandi mandal headquarters to inspect how the work pertaining to collection of property details was going on. He said if all details were uploaded on the website, there would be no scope for any issues relating to property ownership. The details of property owners and photograph was also being taken as part of the procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-panchayat-secy-collects-money-to-enter-details-suspended/articleshow/78469423.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 4, 2020||Dehradun||Tourist hotspots spring back to life in Uttarakhand||MUSSOORIE/DEHRADUN: After a lull of nearly six months, Uttarakhand’s popular tourist destinations seem to have sprung back to life. Due to the state easing its entry restrictions (a Covid-19 negative report is no longer mandatory) and the long weekend that started on October 2, hotspots like Rishikesh, Mussoorie and Nainital were flush with visitors again over the weekend. The Mussoorie Mall Road, more or less deserted only days ago, was chock-a-block on Friday and Saturday. “All the hotels haven’t opened yet but those that have, registered 80 to 90% occupancy on Friday,” said Rakesh Mathur, president of Mussoorie Hotels Association. Owners of local shops, who had opened in June but had been largely sitting idle since, were also upbeat. “For the last six months, our businesses faced huge losses. The last two days have been a huge relief,” said Rajat Agarwal, President of Mussoorie Traders Association. “We were not expecting such a large turnout of tourists,” said Vikas Negi, who runs a small eating joint on the Kempty Fall route. According to Negi, several local residents who had been out of work for the last six months, were now being hired by hotels and restaurants. The situation was no different in Nainital, where tourists were seen flocking to the Mall Road. “For the first time since March, we have tourists in such large numbers. Several hotels have opened and bookings are finally good. Most of us just hope that this situation continues, so we are able to recover from the losses incurred during the lockdown,” said Dinesh Sah, president, Nainital Hotel and Restaurant Association. However, some hoteliers met the SDM, saying tourists were being stopped from entering Nainital even though border restrictions had been lifted. “The district administration has promised help in this regard,” said Sah. Apart from the hotels, even the dhabas and small shops on the Char Dham road did brisk business. Meanwhile, administration officials said they are working to ensure safety standards are met amid the rush. “We are making regular announcements about wearing masks, distributing free masks to tourists and also issuing challans to those not wearing masks. Several antigen testing booths have also been set up. We have displayed numbers of our control room at hotels for the convenience of guests as well,” said Mussoorie sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Manish Kumar. Speaking to TOI, state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said, “Even though a Covid-negative report is no longer mandatory for those entering the state, we have directed hotel and homestay owners to inform authorities in case a guest is unwell or displays any symptoms of the coronavirus. Uttarakhand is an attractive tourist destination and we expect the number of tourists to further go up in the coming weeks.” (With inputs from Prashant Jha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-make-a-beeline-to-uttarakhand-hotels-witness-near-full-occupancy-on-long-oct-2-weekend/articleshow/78467544.cms||Anmol Jain
October 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 2,390 test positive; active cases continue to drop||PUNE: The trend of more people recovering than testing positive for Covid-19 continued on Saturday, with Pune Metropolitan Region reporting 2,952 discharges and 2,390 fresh cases. The municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, as well as municipal council areas, rural parts and cantonment limits too witnessed this trend on Saturday. The region has so far reported 2.47 lakh recoveries, while the progressive tally (overall cases) of positive patients stood at 2.91 lakh. About 1,286 patients recovered in Pune Municipal Corporation limits on Saturday, while 816 patients were discharged in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation areas. Rural, cantonment and municipal council areas together reported 850 recoveries. The region’s daily death toll too dropped — 63 people succumbed on Saturday as against the 89 fatalities recorded on Friday. PMC limits had the most fatalities at 38, followed by 11 deaths in PCMC limits. Fourteen patients died in the rural, cantonment and municipal corporation areas. Many of the patients who died had underlying health conditions, such as heart problems, diabetes and hypertension, officials said. A report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that the region’s death toll reached 6,750 on Saturday. This included 3,758 deaths in PMC areas, 1,644 deaths in the rural parts, cantonment limits and areas under municipal council jurisdiction, and 1,348 deaths in Pimpri Chinchwad. Meanwhile, the number of active patients in the region dropped by 600 to 37,106. On Friday, the region had 37,731 active patients. A drop in the active patients was mainly because more people recovered compared to detection of new patients, officials said. Data from the past two weeks show that recoveries in the region were up by 4,000. The number of samples testing crossed the 12 lakh-mark on Saturday, with 11,690 samples being tested in 24 hours. Of these 12 lakh tests, PMC has accounted for 6.43 lakh tests, while 3.35 lakh samples were tested in PCMC limits. Rural areas, municipal council and cantonment limits have conducted 2.27 lakh sample tests so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2390-test-positive-active-cases-continue-to-drop/articleshow/78469411.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Varsity admissions start, but how to handle hostels? nobody is sure||NEW DELHI: As universities brace for admission season, what happens to hostels is a question of concern. In Delhi University, hostel admission will not take place alongside college admissions this year. Many college principals don’t see the hostels opening before January next year, but they are certain about having to restrict facilities to meet Covid-19 norms. Poonam Verma, principal of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, which has hostels for both male and female students, described the reopening of hostels as a “challenge”. She said, “Till the time classes continue online, we will not provide hostel facilities. But once the hostels have to open, we may consider converting the triple-sharing rooms to two seaters. It will not be possible to give a single room to all students.” Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava hoped for guidance on reopening hostels from the university authorities. The first disinfection effort will be hampered because of the belongings left behind by the earlier hostellers who had to exit in haste, she said. “For the health and safety of students, we will have to reduce the intake, but increasing hostel fees might not be feasible because of the financial hardship faced by many students,” Srivastava added. Despite Srivastava’s observation, many believe that the Covid restrictions, especially the reduction in the number of students who can stay in hostels, will lead to an increase in hostel fees. Some college hostels run on self-financing mode and do not receive funds from UGC. One of those who portends a hike in fees is Venkat Kumar, principal of Sri Venkateswara College, which offers boarding facility for 75 boys and 75 girls. “It is clear that the number of students admitted to hostels will come down. But the full expenses have to be recouped because we have to pay the staff on contract working in the hostel,” he argued. Many principals are already working out modalities for the reopening of hostels. SGTB Khalsa College has 49 rooms that can accommodate 147 women students, with three sharing each room. Principal Jaswinder Singh said, “Though our hostel rooms are spacious, we may only put two girls in one room. We know the hostel won’t open before January, but we have already identified four rooms to keep inmates in isolation should they exhibit Covid symptoms.” Shri Ram College of Commerce, which has both men’s and women’s hostels, will receive feedback from students through Google forms. “We want to know whether they want the college to reopen with or without hostel facility,” said principal Simrit Kaur. Jamia Millia Islamia’s precedent could be followed by DU hostels. It accommodated BDS and physiotherapy students from outside Delhi in the AM Khwaja Hostel, after advising them to reach the hostel six in advance of the exams so they could remain in isolation for the mandated period. “Bona-fide hostel residents were required to carry a recent Covid-negative certificate, and on arrival they underwent the usual checks plus had their baggage disinfected,” revealed Ahmed Azeem, Jamia PRO. "They aren't allowed to leave the hostel except for their exams.” DU also has a model, having already opened its hostels for research scholars. A 14-day quarantine was made mandatory and hostellers were also asked to limit their time outside of their rooms. The university also asked hostels with fewer residents not to run the messes, but to arrange food from nearby hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/varsity-admissions-start-but-how-to-handle-hostels-nobody-is-sure/articleshow/78469417.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Unauthorised sale of fertilizers banned||Coimbatore: After stopping an attempt to smuggle 160 bags of subsidized urea meant for farmers in the district from Pollachi, the district agriculture department has constituted a special squad to trace the source of the fertilizer.District administration officials sealed a godown after finding hoarded fertilizer stock on Thursday. Agriculture officials launched a search to trace the course of the stock. Inquiry revealed that it was bought from Somanur. “But when we visited Somanur, there were no documents to show it was from there. We have constituted a special squad to trace the source,” an official told TOI. After the violation came to light, the agriculture department reiterated that subsidised fertilizers meant for farming purpose should not be transported to other districts or states. “Apart from direct farming, government-recognised compound fertilizer-making units can use them as raw material. Using them for any other purpose is a crime under Fertiliser Control Order, 1985,” said a communication from agriculture joint director Tom P Silas.The district has been allotted 4,470 metric tonnes of urea, 4,260 metric tonnes of diammonium phosphate, 5,610 metric tonnes of potash and 7,700 metric tonnes of complex fertlizer for the rabi season. “All sellers should sell fertilizers only to farmers who have Aadhaar card. They should not be repackaged for sales,” said the official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unauthorised-sale-of-fertilizers-banned/articleshow/78469367.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||DIC to help MSMEs get Mudra loans||Coimbatore: The district industries centre (DIC) will facilitate Mudra loans for micro and small industrial units here to help them tide over fund crunch.The move comes after representatives of micro and small industrial associations made several representations to the collector, bank officials and DIC officials seeking bank loans. But they were not given loans as the units had no prior loan transactions and cannot be covered under the emergency credit line guarantee (ECLG) scheme.DIC district general manager B Karthigaivasan said the collector had recently met bank officials and asked them to give loans to the units. “The units are customers and as they are not covered under the ECLG scheme, banks should give them loans under Mudra scheme. We are taking efforts to get them loans as the procedures are easy and the interest is less,” he said.Representatives of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia), a consortium of 19 micro and small industrial associations, had submitted 410 loan applications.“We have deputed four field officers to take loan applications to banks and facilitate to get loans for the units. Each official will be given 100 applications to follow,” said Karthigaivasan.Industrialists said they are expecting to get loans soon. With the lockdown bringing down orders and delaying payments, they need working capital to survive. J James, a Focia coordinator, said the collector has been supportive. “But banks have not been responsive. We hope they give us loans soon. Or else we have to resort to protests in front of banks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dic-to-help-msmes-get-mudra-loans/articleshow/78469401.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman killed, body dumped in Vikarabad district||HYDERABAD: Mild tension prevailed at Annasagar village in Vikarabad district on Saturday after an unidentified woman’s body, packed in a polythene bag, was recovered. Villagers opened the bag and were shocked to find the body. According to police, the victim, suspected to be between 22 years and 25 years old, was killed elsewhere and her body was dumped on the roadside. “The body is partially decomposed. The villagers opened it after getting foul smell from the bag, left close to the roadside,” Vikarabad deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sanjeev Rao said. “After the villagers found the body, we were alerted,” the DSP added. Clues Team and dog squad were pressed into service and the body was shifted to the mortuary for an autopsy. “The body was found inside a polythene bag. The PME report may reveal the cause of death. Meanwhile, we are checking CCTV camera footage of nearby areas to identify the victim,” the officer said. Police have booked a murder case under relevant sections of the IPC. They were trying to establish the identity of the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-killed-body-dumped-in-vikarabad-dist/articleshow/78469403.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: HoHo buses will be back in a global avatar, after a long break||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s Hop On Hop Off (HoHo) bus services that provide sightseeing options to tourists but had lost its sheen in the last few years, will be back in a new ‘global’ avatar. The comeback, however, has to wait for some time as Delhi battles the spread of Covid-19. Started by Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) during the 2010 Commonwealth Games held in the capital, the HoHo bus services cover 18 tourist attractions and allow tourists the flexibility of getting down at any pick up and drop point, spend as much time they want at any place and then take the next bus from the same point. Though DTTDC offers the services, the buses are run and managed by an operator on revenue sharing model. The contract with the last operator, however, came to an end in July and the corporation is in no hurry to engage a new one. “The tender got over on July 9, but this is not the right time for engaging a new vendor. We will now look for a professional operator with global experience, but that will have to wait for some time,” a senior official said. There were plans to revamp the HoHo bus services, but the Covid-19 outbreak put a spanner in the works. “We have to look at the economic viability of the services too, before we engage a new vendor. For HoHo services, we need at least 15 buses to provide dependable services to tourists, with certainty of getting a bus at regular intervals,” the official said, adding that with strict social distancing norms in place for all transport facilities, the services won’t be viable at the moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hoho-buses-will-be-back-in-a-global-avatar-after-a-long-break/articleshow/78469488.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers: Remove encroachments on water pathway of Aanaimaduvu dam||Salem: Farmers on Saturday demanded the district administration evict encroachments along the water pathways of Aanaimaduvu dam, stating they were obstructing inflow to the dam. Constructed across the Vasishta river near Puzhuthikuttai village in Vazhapadi taluk, the dam has a storage capacity of 67.25ft. An official source said the dam could store 267 million cubic ft water. Its catchment areas are spread across 263.86 acres.Water from the dam is used to irrigate 5,011 acres spread across Kurichi, Neermullikuttai, Kolathukkombai, Chinnamanaickenpalayam and Chandrapillaivalasu villages. Similarly, it is also a source of drinking water for the residents of more than 20 villages, including Belur, Kurichi, Kottavadi and Athanurpatty.Other waterbodies in the region are also dependent on the Vasishta river and the dam water.M Kaliannan Gounder, a farmer from Kurichi, said, “Last November, water level in the dam had touched 45ft. Public Works Department (PWD) officials had then released water for irrigation purposes.”Water was released from the dam for nearly two months. As a result, the water level had dipped to 16.75ft in the first week of February, forcing the officials to down the sluice gates. Following the rain in September, the water level in the dam has increased by nearly 12ft to 28.21ft.The farmers said had there been no encroachments, the dam would have received more water. They said the present water level wasn’t enough to meet their irrigation needs. “If there weren’t any encroachments, the dam would have received at least 50ft of water during the rain,” said S Rajagopal, another farmer. He said the inflow to the dam had come down because of the encroachments.The farmers urged the district administration to look into the issue at the earliest and find a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-remove-encroachments-on-water-pathway-of-aanaimaduvu-dam/articleshow/78469460.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman kin beat up her husband, abduct her||Erode: A 25-year-old man has sought police help to rescue his wife who was forcibly separated from him by her relatives. He also lodged a complaint with the Gobichettipalayam police against ten people after they allegedly trashed him and his two brothers and abducted his wife at Nainampalayam village here on Saturday. Police said K Ashok, 25, of Avvayarpalayam village near Gobichettipalayam married Soundranayaki, 24, of the Nainampalayam village on September 16. They are from different castes.“As my wife parents refused to give assent to our marriage, we eloped from our houses and got married at a temple,” Ashok said. Ashok said Soundaranayaki received a phone call from her brother C Vasudevan, 26, on Saturday morning and was told that her father Chinnappan, 52, was sick. Subsequently, Ashok with his wife and two brothers Bharanidharan, 25, and Surya, 26, went to his in-laws house in a car. “Upon reaching there, a group of people hiding in the house attacked us and beat us up. They also carried off my wife,” Ashok said. Following this, Ashok lodged a complaint with the Gobichettipalayam police. The police registered a case and launched a search for the ten people, including the woman’s father and brother. Meanwhile, the brothers were admitted to the government hospital in Gobichettipalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-kin-beat-up-her-husband-abduct-her/articleshow/78469458.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Governor could send representative: Bhatti Vikramaraka||HYDERABAD: Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramaraka said that governor Tamilisai Soundararajan should have received Congress representation against the farm bills at least through her representative. “Her excellency, the respected governor is the constitutional head of the state, where else should we go,” said Bhatti, reacting to the governor’s statement that due to the pandemic she is not personally receiving any representations. Speaking to TOI, the Congress leader said that as the head of the state, she is bound to give audience. “She may not meet in person but like other governors, she should send representatives,” he said. Bhatti wondered if the pandemic rule applies only to the opposition party. “Many government dignitaries, including the chief minister, have met her. Her excellency should come to our rescue too,” he said. Reacting to governor’s remarks that Raj Bhavan is a not a political venue, Congress leader Dasoju Sravan tweeted, “If Her Excellency the Honorable Governer @DrTamilisaiGuv Garu, the Saviour of Democracy & Constitutional Protector of Voiceless, unfortunately, perceives representations of Oppn Parties as Political Dramas, where else people have to turn to if ruling Govts turned to be dictators (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/governor-could-send-representative-bhatti/articleshow/78469513.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||28-year-old techie hangs herself in Narsingi home||HYDERABAD: A 28-year-old techie died of suicide at her house in Narsingi on Friday. The victim, identified as Ramya Krishna, a resident of Bandlaguda was an adopted child. She was found hanging at her old house in Lakshmi Narasimha Colony in Narsingi. “She was staying with her husband and mother after her adoptive father died three months ago. They had shifted from Narsingi to Bandlaguda. She came to the old house in Narsingi which they were vacating, on the pretext of collecting a few things and hanged herself,” said Narsingi SI, Anvesh Reddy. The victim left a suicide note stating she was not upset. “She wrote in the suicide letter that she doesn’t feel affection from both in-laws and her family. She claimed that her life was mechanical, hence she took the extreme step,” added the officer. When she did not respond to her calls, the family came to check on her only to find her hanging to the ceiling fan. A case of suspicious death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/28-year-old-techie-hangs-herself-in-narsingi-home/articleshow/78469433.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Expectant mother beats Covid-19, gets ready to welcome first child||ed:sajuCoimbatore: A 35-year-old pregnant woman, who had suffered 80% lung damage after testing positive for Covid-19 a month ago, was discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here on Friday.Doctors have told the eight-month pregnant woman to wait until her due date to deliver the baby. They say that Covid-19 patients including pregnant women and those with severe lung damage who seek the right medical care early, can be saved.When Divya* began experiencing breathlessness after even short walks in her house, she dismissed it as a side-effect of her being in the eighth month of pregnancy. However, as it got worse, she called her gynecologist, who recommended a Covid-19 test. Divya’s worst fears came true when the test turned positive. Her nightmare got worse, when her fertility centre refused to admit her because she was Covid-19 positive.By the time someone recommended her to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, her Rathinapuri-based family had gone into panic mode.Divya, who got married at the age of 20, was unable to conceive naturally and had opted for in-vitro fertilization (IVF). “By the time she got admitted with us, her breathlessness was quite severe. So, we put her on high flow oxygen,” said hospital dean Dr Nirmala.“We usually never do CT scan on pregnant women as it has radiation of 200 chest x-rays put together. But in her case, we made the difficult decision and placed a lead sheet over the abdomen to protect the child,” said medical superintendent Dr Ravikumar.It was then doctors realized that 80% of her lung was infected. “It was a tightrope walk because any severe medicine would reach the baby, conceived after many hardships. So, we gave her safe steroids, antivirals like remdesivir and anticoagulants. We then slowly weaned her off oxygen,” said Nirmala.The hospital also performed ultrasound scans on Divya thrice. “There was a risk of growth retardation or even the baby’s brain getting affected due to lack of adequate oxygen supply. So, we kept monitoring the baby,” said Ravikumar.The doctors said their achievement was not performing an emergency c-section, which is what other hospitals would have done. “Handling a premature baby is extremely difficult. But we ensured that the baby could safely remain inside the mother till the due date next month,” Ravikumar told TOI.“We have told her that if her fertility clinic refuses to admit her, she can return to ESI for delivery,” added Nirmala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/expectant-mother-beats-covid-19-gets-ready-to-welcome-first-child/articleshow/78469428.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Gang rape of guest worker: Two more men arrested||Coimbatore: Two more accused in the gang-rape of the 22-year-old guest worker from Assam were arrested in Tirupur on Saturday. With this, police have arrested five accused in the case. Another one culprit is still at large and police are on the lookout for him.A police officer identified the arrested as Rajeshkumar, 23 and Damodaran, 22, both residents of Palladam.On Wednesday, police had held Raju, 21, Kavin Kumar, 23 and Anbu, 21, of Palladam, in the case.The officer said special teams have been working on to nab the remaining accused, identified as Tamil, at the earliest.He said the woman, who is residing in Coimbatore, was an acquaintance of Rajeshkumar, whom she approached for a job. “On Monday, she met him at his house at Palladam after he insisted on a personal meeting. When she requested him to drop her back at the bus stand in the evening, he entrusted his brother Raju with the task,” the officer said.Raju took her on his two-wheeler to a vacant plot near Kallimedu-Ugayanur road, where four of his friends were waiting. Five of them then took turns to rape her and fled with her mobile phone and Rs 2,000.On Tuesday, she lodged a complaint with Palladam all-woman police, who registered a first information report and launched a probe. In her complaint, the woman said Rameshkumar was the mastermind behind the crime and he had sent her with his brother purposely.On Wednesday, police arrested three of the accused, who were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-rape-of-guest-worker-two-more-men-arrested/articleshow/78469408.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Pune||Puneites steer clear of resorts, rent villas, farmhouses for safe vacation||PUNE: Renting farmhouses and private villas, located a short drive away from the city, has become the go-to option for hundreds of citizens looking to take a break. The demand for such rental spaces has seen a phenomenal increase over the last three months as most people are refraining from staying at hotels, which are usually occupied by many other people. According to bungalow owners and companies dealing in farmhouse rentals, occupancy rates during the last three months of the lockdown have been higher than pre-Covid times and revenues have been soaring. Owners and customers agreed that people want to avoid spending time in a hotel lobby or restaurant for fear of getting infected. City-based working professional Shikha Jain said, “We booked a private villa as it was safer due to the limited and known occupants. Hotels are now functioning at 100% occupancy and we do not know how safe it is to stay with so many people hailing from different places. A farmhouse gave us the liberty to use the entire property instead of being cooped up inside a room. Many of my friends and relatives, who are travelling, have also booked private villas instead of staying at hotels.” Amit Parmar, owner of a private villa located close to Pen, said, “We have been renting out our farmhouse for three years but the last three months have been the most lucrative. Before Covid-19, our property saw occupancy mostly on weekends but, since July, the farmhouse is booked even on weekdays. My friends, who run hotels at hill stations, are complaining of poor occupancy while we’ve had 70% occupancy throughout these months.” Parmar stated that they check the temperature and oxygen concentration level of each guest before permitting them on the property. “The door knobs and other frequently-touched surfaces and furniture are sanitized thoroughly after a group leaves and before another group checks in. Not only groups but even two or four people are opting to book larger villas by paying a higher price these days,” he explained. Devendra Parulekar, founder of hospitality collective Saffron Stays, said that bookings for August and September were much higher than pre-Covid times. “We have seen a spike in demand for private villas. With families studying and working from home, there is an opportunity to travel on weekdays, which people are exploiting. We have had bookings ranging from a night to months,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-steer-clear-of-resorts-rent-villas-farmhouses-for-safe-vacation/articleshow/78469455.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 4, 2020||Delhi||DU student, woman kill selves in north Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old married woman and a 21-year-old student of Delhi University allegedly killed themselves in two separate incidents reported from Burari in north Delhi on Friday. Neither left behind a suicide note. In the first incident, a man called police to report that his wife had hanged herself to death in their house. A police team reached the spot and rushed the woman to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead. Police found during inquiry that the woman was married since 2012 and had two children. Her husband did not give any strong reason that might have forced the woman to take such an extreme step. “He said they had an argument, but could not believe his wife would end her life over that. A crime and forensics team was called to the spot. A case has been registered to probe the matter,” said a police officer. The same day, police received another call from the family members of a 21-year-old Delhi University student reporting that she hanged herself to death at their house in Burari. “The woman was in her BA final year. The family members could not give any strong reason for her to kill herself. Her cellphone had stopped working after falling into water due to which she was a little upset, they informed the cops,” the police officer said. Police are now questioning her friends and other family members to find out the reason, which may have forced her to take the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-student-woman-kill-selves-in-north-delhi/articleshow/78469518.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 52,000 enroll as voters for GHMC elections||HYDERABAD: Ahead of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, over 52,155 people from 15 assembly segments in Hyderabad district enrolled themselves as voters. More than 52,406 people applied for change of address too. The draft roll, which will be published on November 16, will have the changes and additional enrollments made. After checking their names in draft roll, if there are any objections about the names or details published, residents can visits https://www.nvsp.in/ and click on the option forms. Within the forms section, a person should select the option Form-6 for inclusion of name in electoral roll, Form-7 should be selected for deletion, Form-8 should be selected for change in particulars, and Form- 8A should be selected for change of address within the constituency. If there are any objections about residents’ details published in the draft roll, residents can claim objections between November 16 to December 15 by visiting www.nvsp.in. The final rolls will be published on January 15, 2021. “The polling stations are being changed as some of them have been demolished and some of them are not feasible for this election. The names of some polling stations will change as ownership of establishments like schools has been changed,” said an official from district election office, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/52k-enroll-as-voters-for-ghmc-elections/articleshow/78469492.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 4, 2020||Delhi||In pedestrianised Delhi's Chandni Chowk, plan afoot for smart traffic system||NEW DELHI: After making the congested Chandni Chowk into a pedestrian zone, Delhi government plans to use an intelligent traffic management system to manage vehicle movement and security and to reduce traffic violations in the area. The high-security CCTV system will be put up on the stretch between Lal Jain Mandir and Fatehpuri Masjid, which will then be the first public thoroughfare in the capital to get a fully integrated traffic management setup. Till now, around 150 speed detection and red light violation detection cameras, part of ITMS, have been installed by Delhi traffic police across the city, but the Chandni Chowk road will be the first to get a full-fledged ITMS, with each camera given its own media access control and video management system, e-challan generation software, investigation scene-building server and other facilities. The total budget of this project, officials say, will be Rs 2.4 crore. The ITMS and CCTV system will be monitored from a central control room in Chandni Chowk and simultaneously from the ACP’s office in Daryaganj and Delhi Police traffic control room in Todapur. The system will be integrated with the existing traffic police system. According to PWD, around 150 high-security HD-quality CCTV cameras with red light violation detection and automatic number plate recognition capabilities will be installed. The latter will determine an errant vehicle’s number plate with an accuracy of at least 70% in daylight and 60% at night. It can also track and store car colour and licence plates of at least 10,000 vehicles and alert the police if a vehicle is stolen or under suspicion. “The APNR system will have a hotlist with high functionality such as wanted, suspicious or stolen vehicles,” disclosed a PWD official. APNR will generate an alert if a vehicle is caught crossing the stop line, irrespective of whether the signal is green or red, and trace the movement of a vehicle on Google Maps to help police track it, the official said. The red light violation detection cameras will capture the licence plates of vehicles ignoring the red signal and generate e-challans. These systems will store archived videos to help police rebuild a crime scene whenever necessary. The tender for the project has been floated. According to insiders, the project is being monitored by both chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi High Court. Watch Delhi: Smart traffic system planned for newly pedestrianised Chandni Chowk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-pedestrianised-chandni-chowk-plan-afoot-for-smart-traffic-system/articleshow/78470331.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Mobile testing unit a boon for the vulnerable||BHUBANESWAR: With the capital still reporting high number of Covid-19 cases, the mobile testing facility here has proved to be a boon for the elderly, the differently abled and the pregnant. In a little more than a month, the mobile van has tested 2,400 people, out of which 700 are senior citizens, 170 are pregnant women and 200 are differently abled. The rest are family caregivers and quarantined people. The mobile facility uses RT-PCR test. On a daily basis, more than 50 samples are being collected through the mobile facility. This is exclusively meant for those whose mobility is restricted, said a BMC officer. Based on people’s phone call to the control room at Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) and from the field level, a provisional list of people to be tested is prepared. Then, it is validated by a dedicated team by calling each household. The final list is then prepared and given to Capital Hospital here to coordinate with the mobile facility. The mobile testing facility takes the list and moves from door to door to collect the swab sample for RT-PCR test, the officer added. Sangram Sahoo, a resident whose 102-year-old mother-in-law had fever, recalled how the mobile testing van reached her quickly. “We made a call to the BMC control room and the testing van came within an hour. Thankfully, she was detected Covid positive at an early stage. She is being treated at home and recovering,” Sahoo said. The city now is testing close to 5,000 samples daily, out of which the bulk is rapid antigen test. The mobile testing facility complements the testing camps being organized on a daily basis at health centres here. The camps have proved to be an effective platform for people to go for voluntary Covid test. The capital city on Saturday reported 329 fresh cases, taking the total count to 22,876. On Saturday, 341 more patients recovered. With 100 deaths and 19,255 recoveries, the city now has 3,502 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/mobile-testing-unit-a-boon-for-the-vulnerable/articleshow/78468559.cms||Riyan Ramanath V
October 4, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: South Goa past peak, North may be close to it||PANAJI: Covid-19 infections in Margao, Vasco and Cortalim appear to have somewhat stabilised signifying that they have crossed the peak, while parts of North Goa such as Panaji, Porvorim, Sakhali which continue to throw up cases are yet to touch the peak. “In South Goa, Vasco and Margao have seen the peak, whereas North Goa areas may be close to the peak,” said state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar. In June, following the outbreak in Mangor Hill, South Goa started reporting more cases than the centres in North Goa. The trend, however, changed since earlier September as Porvorim, Pernem, Panaji, Bicholim started showing more cases. Declining to comment when the state may peak, he said, it can’t be spelled out. “Let’s wait for two more weeks,” he said. For a while, Betodkar said maximum 600 plus cases a day are seen, but the state can heave a sigh of relief only when cases start dropping rather than plateauing at some point. Cases in Vasco and Margao have dropped with their average fluctuating between 200 to 400. Ponda too has seen decline with its numbers dropping below 100. But in the last three days it is seeing more cases. From the beginning of September, the total cases detected in North Goa have exceeded those in South Goa. On Saturday, the tally of South Goa cases was 2,068 while that of North Goa was 2,852. Explaining the drop in the number of tests done per day, Betodkar said that unlike in June-July, testing is more focussed now. “Then, we tested people in areas that had cases. Also, bulk testing was done with people reporting due to panic. Now, we test all symptomatic people, high risk contacts, including people having co-morbidities,” he said when asked if the testing strategy had changed and it had resulted in drop in the number of tests done per day. June -July saw 3,000 to 4,000 tests conducted every day, while now the average daily has been 1,500 to 2,000 tests which further drop to 1,000 to 1,200 during weekends. He denied that shortage of kits has led to drop in the number of tests being done. “Our focus has to be on symptomatic and people having co-morbid conditions,” he said when asked if the state should conduct more tests as the positivity rate has gone up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-past-peak-north-may-be-close-to-it/articleshow/78470335.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 4, 2020||Dehradun||With 252 tigers at Corbett Tiger Reserve, tourists can spot one easily||DEHRADUN: The fourth annual tiger estimation exercise conducted by the state forest department in association with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has come up with encouraging results as the number of tigers in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR)has registered a steep rise -- from 231 earlier to 252 now. This, forest officials said, makes CTR a landscape with a tiger density that is the highest in the world, allowing tourists to have a very high chance of spotting a big cat. “We have 252 tigers in an area spanning around 1288.32 sq km. We are confident that with these kind of numbers, the chances of sighting tigers has certainly increased manifold for tourists,” said Rahul, director of CTR (who uses only his first name). What makes the chances of a tiger sighting at CTR even more strong, said a senior scientist from WII, is the fact that “tigers in the reserve are not only high in numbers but they are evenly spread.” “There are tiger reserves in the country bigger than CTR but their big cat population is almost negligible due to factors like insurgency, poaching etc,” said the scientist. During the estimation exercise — which was done in the period between December 2019 and March 2020 — a total of 7049 cameras were installed across the reserve. In all, the presence of 119 tigresses and 91 tigers was registered while the sex of 41 animals could not be identified, officials said. India has the highest number of tigers currently in the wild followed by Russia and Indonesia. Incidentally, some of the prominent tiger reserves of the country which are spread in almost the same area as Corbett have a tiger population that is half that of Corbett. For instance, Bandhavgarh in Madhya Pradesh which is spread over 1536 sq km has 101 tigers, while Kaziranga in Assam which is spread over 1173 sq km, also has around 100 tigers. Melaghat Tiger Reserve in Maharashtra which is spread over 1677 sq km has just 35 tigers whereas Simplipal Tiger Reserve in Odisha which is spared over 2750 sq km has just eight tigers. Palamau Tiger Reserve in Jharkhand, spread over 1130 sq km currently has no tiger. Notably, CTR is opening for tourists from October 15 and has been seeing a surge of interest from wildlife lovers who have been making bookings for night stay inside the reserve. As per park officials, 740 night stay permits have already been given out while for day visits, 1032 permits have been given for the various zones of the reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/more-chances-of-spotting-a-tiger-at-corbett-at-252-big-cat-population-in-a-comparable-area-most-dense-in-world-say-experts/articleshow/78467575.cms||Shivani Azad
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Collector turns Good Samaritan for 15-yr-old disabled girl in Salem||Salem: It only took a WhatsApp message for the 15-year-old disabled girl, R Shini, 15, of Thammampatty in the district, to get a two-wheeler. And collector S A Raman, whom she sent the message, was kind enough to find a solution to her issue in just two days. Shini’s single mother Roopa said she had been carrying her daughter on her arms as she couldn’t move. “She can’t also go to restroom without help.”Roopa had separated from her husband when Shini was a kid and been living at her father’s house.Roopa said she had borrowed money from many people to take care of her daughter, as they couldn’t survive on her father’s income alone.Meanwhile, Shini came to know through local media people that the collector could help her if she approached him. They also provided her the collector’s official mobile phone number.“On Thursday, I sent him a message mentioning my family’s plight and seeking a two-wheeler. He immediately responded to it,” Shini said.An official with the Attur revenue department contacted her based on the collector’s direction.M Ramasamy, managing director of Rasi Seeds Pvt Ltd at Attur, subsequently came forward to help the girl. He booked a two-wheeler for Roopa to take Shini for her medical needs.The collector, along with Ramasamy, donated the two-wheeler to the mother-daughter duo on Friday evening.Roopa thanked the collector and Ramasamy for their kind gesture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-turns-good-samaritan-for-15-yr-old-disabled-girl-in-salem/articleshow/78469477.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Trichy||1,750 extra beds ready for patients in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: The district administration has allocated 1,750 additional beds for isolation and treatment of Covid-19 patients, taking into account the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Thanjavur. According to officials, there are already 11,000 Covid beds in 200 government and private institutions across the district. As many as 244 fresh cases were reported in the district on Saturday. As of October 3, the total number of positive castes reported in Thanjavur district stands at 11,900. The district has witnessed 184 Covid-19 deaths so far, while there are 1,660 active cases in the district. With Unlock 5.0 having come into effect, the public movement has increased manifold in the district. This has to lead to the spike in positive cases, said district collector M Govinda Rao. "We have made available 450 beds at boy’s hostel and 1,000 beds at an auditorium in a government engineering college in Sengippatti on the outskirts of the district. This apart, a quarantine centre has also been set up at SASTRA university campus with 300 beds", the collector said. Rao instructed the officials concerned to arrange toilet and water facilities at the newly established Covid care centres. He also inspected fever camps held at Vallalar Nagar in Neelagiri panchayat, Mariyal village in Nanjikottai panchayat and Vilar panchayat along with project director of District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), Pazhani, Thanjavur RDO Velumani, joint director of medical services, Ramu, deputy director of health services, Raveendran, and revenue officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1750-extra-beds-ready-for-patients-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78470326.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Muslim men conduct final rites of Hindu||Salem: Members s of the Tamilaga Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) party performed the final rites of a Hindu Covid-19 patient in the Salem city on Saturday.V Murugan, 58, of Virudhunagar district, was found positive for the virus when he was admitted to a private hospital in Hosur in Krishnagiri, where he met with an accident on September 30. “He died in the hospital on October 1 and his body was sent to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital for further proceedings,” Syed Mustafa, district president of TMMK, said. Murugan’s wife Uma told doctors that she did not have money to take the body to their native place. Following this, the hospital authorities requested the TMMK to help dispose the body. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/muslim-men-conduct-final-rites-of-hindu/articleshow/78469494.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Spike in will registrations in Maharashtra in September||PUNE: The registration of wills went up by 50% this September compared to that in the same month last year, conforming to the trend of upswing in the practice after the Covid-19 outbreak. A total of 3,609 wills were registered in September 2020 — the highest since January 2020 and the second highest in the past 12 months. The registration of wills in the state has increased each month from April 2020, according to the IGR (inspector general of registration) data. According to lawyers, the will-writing activity has increased manifold in the state though not all wills are registered as it is not a mandate. “The writing activity by itself has increased and the pandemic has definitely added to the urgency in people writing their last will and testament,” said advocate Vijay Pal Dalmia, practising in the Supreme Court of India and Delhi High Court. Dalmia, who also runs makemywill.in, said though not mandatory, registration of will was always a preferred option. It helps in cutting out long circuitous route for the family when the will is enforced later. “In the absence of a registration, some entities insist on a probate to be obtained from a court, which is both expensive and time consuming,” he said. Registrations, however, form only a small part of the will-making activity. It is also the only document that can be registered anytime. According to lawyers, many more people than ever before are taking to writing a will. Also, more youngsters are also showing an interest in writing their wills. “Though still a small number, the sub-50 age group will-writers are increasing. But 80% of the will-writers are still over 50s as there is a sense of stability by then. From April to now, the activity of actual will-writing has doubled,” said Jatin Popat, founder, Mumbai-based WillJini.com. WillJini has tied up with multiple banks and insurers to offer will-writing services online. Popat said, along with registrations, writing a will should be aligned with the nominations made as that helps in a much smoother devolution of assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spike-in-will-registrations-in-state-in-september/articleshow/78469481.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: 95-year-old Covid patient recovers after spending 21 days on ventilator||By: Sandeep Dighe PUNE: A 95-year-old diabetic woman suffering from Covid-19 was discharged from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Pune Cantonment General hospital on Friday, after being on ventilator for three weeks. The woman, having her roots in Sangli and living in Kharadi for the past few years, had arrived at the hospital on September 10 morning with high fever. She was gasping for breath. So, doctors had to put her on oxygen supply in the isolation ward of the hospital. To make matters worse, she fell in the washroom of the hospital on the fourth day. Her condition deteriorated and she was shifted to the ICU ward. “When she was admitted in the intensive care unit, her oxygen saturation-level had dipped to 70%. This woman was breathing more than 50-60 times a minute, while 10 to 20 breaths per minute is normal for a human being,” said resident medical officer (RMO) V D Gaikwad of the hospital. The normal oxygen saturation-level for most people is in the range of 94-100%. Gaikwad said, “At the early stage, we had given her antiviral drug (remdesivir) injections and oxygen support adequately. Her body responded positively to a course of six injections. We had roped in our staffers to monitor her oxygen-level and check on her health on a regular interval.” The RMO of the hospital said, “The woman’s positive mindset played a very important role in her recovery. She would always say, ‘I want to return home on my feet and nothing has happened to me.’ Because of her sheer willpower, she managed to overcome the critical phase of her life. We doctors can provide best medical care to patients, but their psychology plays an equal role in their recovery.” The woman’s family members remained in contact with her over the phone through nurses. Her 46-year-old grandson, who works in a private firm in Kharadi, said, “We got all kind of support from doctors and nurses of the hospital. Despite having food at the hospital, we ensured to take home cooked food for her and speak to her over the phone whenever it was possible. A conversation of a minute or two with us would boost her confidence. It was not possible to be there in the hospital physically because of the Covid situation, but doctors and nurses always helped us to remain in contact with her. They took care of her as if she was their family members.” Amit Kumar, the chief executive officer of the Pune Cantonment Board, said, “It was a big task for our doctors. They made extra efforts to save the patient. All patients above 60 with comorbidities are vulnerable to coronavirus. Our doctors and other medical staffers take extra care of these patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/95-year-old-covid-patient-recovers-after-spending-21-days-on-ventilator/articleshow/78469502.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||PDS rice sold at Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg in open market, fetches higher price internationally||HYDERABAD: The smugglers buy rice from fair price shops and dealers at Rs 10 per kilogram. Officials of vigilance and enforcement directorate (V&E) told TOI that the public distribution system (PDS) rice is sold for Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg in the open market. It fetches a higher price in the international market. Officials said that they have so far been able to detect that PDS rice in Malaysia is sold at 7 ringgits (Rs 123) per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pds-rice-sold-at-rs-40-to-rs-50-per-kg-in-open-market-fetches-higher-price-internationally/articleshow/78469546.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Boyfriend’ of woman found dead arrested from Assam||NEW DELHI: A week after the semi-naked body of a woman was found stuffed in a bed box in a house in Chhawla in southwest Delhi, police have arrested her colleague in a BPO at Gurugram. Apparently, Satish Kumar was in a relationship with Dishu Kumari, but suspected her of liaisons with other men. During a heated argument, Kumar allegedly smothered her to death and fled to Assam. On September 25 morning, Chhawla police station received a call about a bad odour from a locked house. When the cops broke in, they discovered the decomposed body of a 26-year-old woman stuffed into a bed box. Santosh Kumar Meena, DCP (Dwarka), said the initial scan of CCTV footage of the house showed the woman entering the house with a man on September 23, but only the man leaving after a few hours. Footage showed the man riding away on the woman's scooter, Meena disclosed. “Local enquiry revealed that the man was Satish Kumar who had taken the house on rent,” said Meena. “The phones of both Kumar and Kumari were switched off. Investigators went to the office where the two worked, and found that Kumar was married and had a two-year-old daughter. He, however, did not live with his family.” Mounting technical surveillance, police tracked Kumar to Dibrugarh in Assam. In the Assamese city, the Delhi Police team received information that the suspect was in touch with a friend there. Kumar’s call detail records enabled the cops to prepare a list of people he had recently contacted. Based on that, police met the absconding man’s friend in Moran town. “Acting on the friend’s inputs, Kumar was arrested from a hotel in Dibrugarh,” said Meena. “He had booked a taxi for Rs 9,000 and was about to leave for Shillong, Meghalaya. Kumar also disclosed that he had deserted Kumari’s scooter at a bus stand in Lucknow.” Kumar told police of the two of them being in a relationship since 2017, but lately suspecting her of friendships with other men. At Kumar’s house on September 23, Kumari got calls from men and an argument ensued when Kumar demanded to see her phone. When she refused, the infuriated man strangled her to death. He wrapped her body in a blanket, stuffed it into the bed box and fled the house. Kumar sold his mobile phone in Sector 12, Dwarka for Rs 31,000 and threw Kumari's phone near Greater Kailash I. According to Meena, Kumar rode to Agra on the woman’s scooter and then to Lucknow. From there he took buses to Gorakhpur, Muzaffarpur, Siliguri and finally Dibrugarh. “He told us he watched TV programmes like Crime Patrol and Savdaan India and presumed he could evade arrest in this fashion,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/boyfriend-of-woman-found-dead-arrested-from-assam/articleshow/78469549.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Four feared drowned in Krishna river, 1 body found||VIJAYAWADA: Four youths are feared to have drowned in Krishna river, near Royyur village of Thotlavalluru mandal in Krishna district, on Saturday. Thotlavaluru police said the incident happened in the evening when five youths, two of them brothers, and all aged between 18 to 25 years, went for a swim in a channel near the village. With Krishna in spate due to the recent rains, the water flow in the connecting channel too was swift. While four of them got drifted towards the deep end and were washed away by the strong current, one of them managed to swim back safely. While police and fire brigade personnel managed to fish out one body, there was no sign of the other three till late in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/four-feared-drowned-in-krishna-1-body-found/articleshow/78468354.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Kerala CPM secretary’s son to appear before ED in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Bengaluru has summoned Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary and former home minister Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, to appear at its Shantinagar office on October 6. He will be questioned regarding his financial links with Mohammed Anoop, a drug dealer arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in August. According to ED sources, a notice was issued to Kodiyeri to appear before sleuths. His name came on the radar after investigators from NCB’s Bengaluru zonal unit arrested his friend and long-time associate Anoop, 38, on August 22 on charges of peddling ecstasy pills and other psychotropic substances. He was picked up from a serviced apartment in Kalyan Nagar, and claimed he was running an eatery in Kammanahalli. Anoop is lodged in Central Prison. In his confession following the arrest, Anoop had told NCB sleuths that Kodiyeri had given him a few lakhs of rupees for his restaurant venture, which later failed. The narcotics team hasn’t yet established any drug link between the duo. Kodiyeri then confirmed to media that Anoop was his acquaintance and he’d given him Rs 6 lakh to support his catering business. ED, which has been simultaneously probing the money trail in the drug scandal allegedly involving Sandalwood stars, is said to have quizzed Anoop at the Central Prison complex in Bengaluru towards September end. Following this, the ED team sent the notice to Kodiyeri, sources said. Kodiyeri was not available for comments. On September 9, Kodiyeri was questioned by a Kochi ED team, which wanted to ascertain if he has any link to Kerala’s infamous gold smuggling case. He was later booked under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kerala-cpm-secys-son-to-appear-before-ed-in-bluru/articleshow/78468496.cms||Petlee Peter
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||High-intensity blasts at quarries damaging homes in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: Locals of Donabanda under Nandigama mandal in Krishna district have stopped work at quarry sites and taken to the streets in protest against the use of explosives for quarrying. Locals alleged that high-intensity blasts are damaging their houses and causing pollution and associated health complications. Srinivasa Rao, a resident of Donabanda, said the quarry managements are using ammonium nitrate and other explosives that lead to air pollution while dust from the quarry has given rise to respiratory and digestive problems in locals, he said. Sheik Khaja, another resident, said he had a new house constructed two years ago but every wall has developed deep cracks. “We fear for the safety of our house if the situation continues like this,” M Nageswaramma, a local, said her house has also developed cracks at multiple places. Locals alleged that the quarry managements have violated norms by digging rigs with depths of over 100 feet and is stuffing the rigs with high-intensity explosives to mine large quantities of gravel. Despite several representations, official action is yet to be taken, they said, appealing to the mining department to order an inquiry into the issue and take action. The quarries are maintained by two private companies. When contacted, the additional director (AD) of the mining department was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-intensity-blasts-at-quarries-damaging-homes/articleshow/78468343.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Jal Shakti minister assures aid for Balaji reservoir in Tirupati||TIRUPATI: Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has assured TTD officials of Centre’s support for completion of Balaji reservoir works that will help address the drinking water needs of the temple city. Shekhawat, who offered prayers at Tirumala temple on Saturday, was told by TTD officials about the water needs during his visit to Papavinasanam dam near Tirumala. Officials briefed the minister on the status of water storage at five dams in Tirumala, and the need to ground the Balaji reservoir to address the perennial drinking water woes of the temple city which attracts millions of devotees annually. TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, Rajempet MP PV Midhun Reddy and Srikalahasti legislator B Madhusudhan Reddy accompanied the Union minister. Meanwhile, the state government sanctioned Rs 10 crore to upgrade facilities at Shilparamam in Tirupati. All existing facilities would be revamped and new features would be added to attract more visitors to the venue. Shilparamam was set up in the temple city in 2014 to promote, popularise and preserve the cultural heritage of the country, especially of the Telugu states. The existing facilities have outlived their utility and are in a dilapidated condition. The works that would be taken up include construction of entrance plaza, arch, visitor’s facility centre, water fountain and arts and crafts village with stalls and open ground, training centre for artisans, crafts emporium with souvenir shop, food courts, toilet blocks and renovation of open-air theatre, providing pathways, landscaping and gazebos, storms water drains, electrical works, plumbing and sanitation works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jal-shakti-min-assures-aid-for-balaji-reservoir/articleshow/78468265.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Chided for waking up late, youth kills self||VIJAYAWADA: A 20-year-old committed suicide by consuming pesticide at his residence in Gannavaram village under Macherla mandal in Guntur district on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Amara Mahesh (20), an unemployed undergraduate. According to Macherla police, Mahesh took the step in the morning after his parents went out to work their agricultural land. On returning home, Mahesh’s parents found him lying unconscious and holding a pesticide bottle. Mahesh was rushed to Macherla government hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Police reached the spot and upon inquiring into the incident, found that Mahesh was upset after his parents chided him for waking up late every day and hoped that he could instead focus on securing a job. Police sent Mahesh’s body for post-mortem. A case under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered at Macherla police station. Investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chided-for-waking-up-late-youth-kills-self/articleshow/78468306.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Abundant rain claimed 133 lives in Karnataka this year||BENGALURU: It may have brought relief to people, particularly farmers, amid the pandemic, but bountiful rain also resulted in many deaths and widespread destruction this year. Since April, flash floods, landslides and lightning have killed about 133 people and 514 livestock in Karnataka, besides damaging crops on nearly 5 lakh hectares of land. Detailing the large-scale destruction caused by pre-monsoon and monsoon rain this year, Manoj Rajan, commissioner of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, said the death toll and losses would have been higher if the state hadn’t been prepared for the deluge. In 2019, over 200 lives were lost within a month and the damage was much greater compared to this year mainly because of floods in three major districts of North Karnataka, which affected about 25 lakh people. “An integrated dam management mechanism was put in place in coordination with Maharashtra and Kerala and water release from reservoirs was regulated in August and September by taking into account the rainfall forecast, possible inflow into dams and carrying capacity of rivers downstream. This largely helped reduce flooding and disaster,” explained Rajan. “This time, about 10,000 people were severely affected by floods and crop damage was one-fourth of what was recorded last year,’’ he added. However, public and private infrastructure was massively hit. A total of 22,466 families suffered partial (19,365) or complete damage (3,101) to their houses. The government is planning to announce measures like cash compensation and is awaiting funds from the Centre. Record monsoon showers in 13 yearsAccording to KSDMA, the state recorded 16% excess rainfall this monsoon, highest in the past 13 years. For North Interior Karnataka, the figure stood at 36% (highest since 1961) and for Chitradurga district, it was 79% (highest since 1960). The number of rainy days (over 2.5mm of rain) was 50 (out of 122), the second highest in 60 years. North interior Karnataka saw 46 rainy days, highest since 1960, while south interior Karnataka witnessed 36. “All districts, regions and the state as a whole recorded more rainy days than the average, said a senior revenue department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/abundant-rain-claimed-133-lives-in-ktaka-this-year/articleshow/78468474.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cops suggest suspension of 30,480 DLs, RTO officials act against 5,899||BENGALURU: Regional Transport Office (RTO) authorities have suspended licences of nearly 6,000 Bengalureans since 2018 for driving under the influence of liquor or performing bike stunts. The suspensions were initiated following recommendations from traffic police. However, not all recommendations for suspension of DLs are accepted. In most cases, RTO officials give the offenders a chance to present their version. Between 2018 and September 20 this year, of the 30,480 recommendations made for suspension of DLs, only 5,899 requests were acceded to. The gravity of the offence also matters. According to sources in traffic police and the transport department, drunk-driving cases witness speedy suspension of DLs. In the third week of September, a businessman allegedly drove his car under the influence of alcohol and rammed a bike waiting at Richmond Circle junction for the signal to turn green. A 23-year-old courier delivery boy, who was riding the two-wheeler, died on the spot. Attaching the FIR, police sent to the RTO a request for suspension of the man’s DL and it was executed immediately. Prior to this incident, 15 youths, most of them undergraduate students, were caught performing bike stunts on the city’s outskirts. Apart from seizing their vehicles, traffic police sent their driving licences to the RTO for suspension. However, RTO officials have decided to hear out the youths and find out if the allegations made against them are true, before taking a call on the recommendation. According to data accessed by TOI, there is a fall in the number of licences recommended for suspension, as also those suspended. Joint commissioner of police (traffic) BR Ravikanthe Gowda said, “Most of these cases are related to drunk driving. Usually, offenders booked for driving under influence of alcohol do not repeat the mistake. This is one prime reason for the decline in the number of licences sent for suspension.” N Shivakumar, commissioner for transport and road safety, said awareness among motorists that their licence could be suspended if they are caught driving drunk is a reason for the decline. “Also, while issuing a new licence, we inform motorists about the reasons that could lead to them losing the DL,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-suggest-suspension-of-30480-dls-rto-officials-act-against-5899/articleshow/78468485.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Kanaka Durga temple readies for socially distanced Dasara||VIJAYAWADA: Preparations are underway at the Kanaka Durga temple for the 10 day-long Dasara celebrations starting October 17. Though temple authorities have limited darshan to only 10,000 devotees per day, officials have been making arrangements for the festival, while maintaining Covid-19 protocols. At the Durga temple, Dasara is celebrated as a state festival. Devotees from across AP offer special prayers with numbers for darshan going up to one lakh devotees on average during Dasara. In previous years, queues have stretched for three kilometres. This year, officials will permit only those devotees who have booked their darshan slots in advance. Temple authorities have taken the decision to organise queues such that a distance of three feet is maintained between each devotee. The engineering wing of the temple will erect spacious structures for queues. “Safety of devotees is our priority. We are continuing darshan for last three months following Covid-19 protocols and it has given us results. Similarly, we have designed spacious queues for darshan, prasadam, other offerings. Sanitizers will be placed at multiple locations. Waiting time will be very low this year,” said trust board chairman Paila Somi Naidu. The Malleswara Swamy temple that has remained closed for the last five months will also be opened for Dasara. Temple restoration works are complete, except for the gopuram. “We will take up these works after Dasara,” Naidu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/durga-temple-readies-for-socially-distanced-dasara/articleshow/78468282.cms||Venu Lanka
October 4, 2020||Dehradun||Mana, last village on India-China border, to continue with its own lockdown||DEHRADUN: Even though the entire country is in Unlock mode, the 500-odd residents of Mana – the last Indian village before China border adjoining Uttarakhand – have unanimously decided to continue with their self-imposed lockdown and isolation. Not a single case of Covid-19 has been reported in the village with over 150 families, and the locals do not want to spot their track record. Healthcare is a major concern and in case of emergency, the patients would have to be rushed to either Badrinath or Joshimath for treatment, therefore Mana resident are unwilling to drop guard. The village, where agriculture and tourism are the two key revenue sectors, have remained quite particular in this regard and even when the unlock process was started, the villagers have placed a “No Entry” board outside the village. It was a unanimous decision by all the families. On October 1, a circular was run through the village and all residents were informed about the meeting on October 2. To make sure that the district and police authorities were update with the development, the locals even informed the Badrinath police station, which deployed two constables to attend the October 2 meeting. Pitambar Molpha, the pradhan of Mana village, told TOI, “We are well aware that this decision will have a severe impact on our financial condition, which is already going through a rough patch. If we could not earn almost anything for last six months, we do not expect miracles in the remaining 30 to 45 days of the yatra season.” He asserted that the villagers have unanimously decided to give health the top priority. “In case anyone falls ill, we have to rush that person to the PHC at Badrinath or a Charitable hospital, which is further away. The health facilities are not good and we know that treatment will get extremely tough if Covid-19 once enters this village,” he added. Another village resident Nandan Singh did not fail to mention that as health is the top priority, the locals had earlier banned the entry of any outsider in the village. “There is a big tourist footfall each year and most of the locals are dependent on tourism sector. People come here to see Vyas Gufa and Ghantakarna temple. When we asked people for their opinion, they decided to maintain a complete lockdown,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mana-last-village-on-china-border-to-continue-with-its-own-lockdown/articleshow/78467588.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana second in exploitation of trafficked persons||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded the second-highest number of cases of exploitation of trafficked persons, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. According to the NCRB’s Crime in India - 2019 report released recently, Telangana recorded 39 instances under exploitation of trafficked persons under section 370-A of IPC, after Andhra Pradesh, which reported the highest number of such instances with 79 cases. When compared to 2018 data, Telangana jumped from third place to second place and from 30 cases to 39 cases in 2019, with most of the instances reported from districts. As per official data, She Teams rescued around 36 minor girls from the clutches of traffickers at Yadagirigutta in the last two years, apart from conducting decoy operations to bust flesh trade businesses running at outskirts of the city. “The city booked employers of child labourers who keep children in confined spaces after trafficking them from other states . Most of these children are from Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha,” said a source from Rachakonda Special Operation Team (SOT). According to the official, close to 30 brothels were shut in Rachakonda alone. “Telangana has been very proactive in handling trafficking cases. In addition, we have been detaining the traffickers or offenders involved in trafficking under the Preventive Detention Act,” said Mahesh Bhagwat, CP, Rachakonda. Meanwhile, the conviction rate in human trafficking cases remains low. “As most of the victims are from other states, they hardly turn up during the trials. The traffickers in some cases would go scot-free. Now we are focusing on physical and technical evidence to score convictions in trafficking cases,” said an officer. Additionally, according to NCRB data, the pendency percentage among the cases under crimes against women is as high as 76% with over 39,000 cases pending trial at courts in the state. While Hyderabad’s conviction rate is 44%, the pendency percentage is close to 62%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-2nd-in-exploitation-of-trafficked-persons/articleshow/78469543.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Constable rewarded for his honesty by Visakhapatnam CP||VISAKHAPATNAM: A constable from Gajuwaka police station in the port city was rewarded for his sincerity in the line of duty. City police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha rewarded constable Ch Pradeep Kumar after it was learnt that the officer refused to accept a bribe. The same bribe was accepted by another officer who landed up in the Anti Corruption Bureau’s net. Following the ACB’s trap in Gajuwaka police station, the commissioner inquired about the incident and found that a person had offered constable Pradeep a bribe of Rs 5,000 for his father’s post-mortem report along with a 41A notice. The officer rejected the bribe and told the person to get the required documents from higher officials. Upon learning about the incident, the commissioner gave a reward of Rs 10,000 to constable Pradeep. The reward was handed over by Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) in-charge Anitha Vejendla on Saturday. The commissioner said that the faith of the public was being maintained due to officers like Pradeep and warned corrupt officials of stern action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/constable-rewarded-for-his-honesty-by-vizag-cp/articleshow/78468242.cms||Siva G
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Weekly markets see less than 2% positivity rate||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 tests conducted on people at weekly markets of the capital have revealed less than 2% positivity rate. Out of 14,975 people tested for the novel coronavirus at various sites across weekly markets in 11 districts, only 223 people tested positive. The state government has extended the functioning of the weekly markets till October 31 and allowed more markets to be opened. Meanwhile, enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines has been quite strict with the authorities mounting a regular surveillance in all these bustling places. Altogether 3,888 people have been issued challans for violating the Covid-19 guidelines at the weekly markets. DDMA had initially allowed the weekly markets to function on a trial basis from August 24 to August 30, which was later extended. Only one weekly market per day per zone under the three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board was allowed. Twelve weekly markets started functioning from August 24. “We were alert to keep a check on the functioning of the weekly markets because there were many apprehensions about the compliance of the Covid-19 guidelines in the unorganised markets. Initially not many violations were detected because the weekly markets’ vendors were aware that the trial period would not be extended if violations were reported on a large scale,” said an official. Since August 24 till September 15, only 20 challans were issued in North district, 25 in North East, 30 in South East, 45 in West district, 50 in New Delhi, 63 in North West and South districts, 93 in South West district, 287 in East district and 379 in central district. Among all the 11 districts, only Shahdara district stands out for issuing 2,833 challans. Shahdara has multiple patches of congested areas where weekly markets are organised in narrow locations. The total violations are more than the combined violation of all the districts. Shahdara DM Sanjeev Kumar did not take calls made to ask the reason behind the high scale of violations. A district official, however, said it was largely because of the efforts of the enforcement teams on the grounds. Finding the overall functioning of the weekly markets satisfactory, DDMA has extended their functioning further and even allowed more weekly markets to operate. The weekly markets can now function till October 31 and two weekly markets per day per zone have been permitted. Delhi government wanted to allow all the weekly markets to function the way they did during the pre-Covid era. Watch Delhi: Regular checks at weekly markets show less than 2% positivity rate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/weekly-markets-see-less-than-2-positivity-rate/articleshow/78470337.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Covid adds to woes of Parkinson’s patients||NEW DELHI: Home confinement during lockdown has affected patients with Parkinson’s disease badly. Many of them developed health complications, which did not exist before, a questionnaire-based survey carried out recently by neurologists from AIIMS (Delhi and Rishikesh), Institute of Neurosciences (Kolkata) and PGIMER (Chandigarh) among others found. It involved 832 patients with Parkinson’s disease. Majority (84%) of them were aged 50 years or older, with nearly one-third (33%) in the 60-69 year age group. According to the survey, while worsening in slowness, stiffness, tremor, gait, freezing of gait, and speech was reported by one-fifth persons with Parkinson’s disease, a similar proportion reported worsening of non-motor symptoms like easy fatigability, pain, anxiety, depression, constipation and forgetfulness. Sleep disturbances were reported by 35 per cent respondents, with 24 per cent reporting worsening or new-onset sleep disturbances within the past three months, the study found. “Overall, 38.5 per cent patients reported worsening of Parkinson’s disease symptoms,” it added. Home confinement for more than 60 days was significantly associated with worsening in tremor, speech and urinary problems. Worsening in gait and postural dizziness was significantly associated with lack of available support at home during home confinement and disease duration of more than seven years, respectively. “Sleep disturbances were common in those lacking adequate support at home during home confinement,” the study found. Commenting on the study, Dr Shamsher Dwivedee, chairman, neurosciences and director of clinical services at Delhi’s VIMHANS Nayati Super Specialty hospital, said patients afflicted by Parkinson’s disease and other related disorders have poor brain reserve and plasticity. “Disuse of any physical activity or cognitive activity leads to sharp decline in these capabilities. Lack of social interactions and activities has an impact on mood, which in turn has a negative impact on any questionnaire based on quality of life scale,” he said. In the research published in the journal, Parkinsonism and Related Disorders, the neurologists found one-third patients (34%) who adopted new exercises/hobbies during home confinement experienced significantly reduced worsening in slowness. Medication unavailability was reported by 7.5% patients. Stress resulting from the novel coronavirus andemic and prolonged home confinement may result in global motor worsening in Parkinson’s disease, doctors warn. Staying in a confined space might worsen gait and increase freezing, they add.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-adds-to-woes-of-parkinsons-patients/articleshow/78470340.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board orders meter image audit to tackle inflated bill trouble||NEW DELHI: If you received an inflated water bill with wrong readings recently, you may not be alone. Delhi Jal Board has received a large number of complaints regarding water bills with inflated charges and has directed its zonal officers to carry out ‘meter image audits’ to rectify the situation. An order issued by a senior member of DJB stated that “complaints of wrong readings are being received in large numbers across the zones.” A senior official said that these wrong readings in such large numbers could be either due to meter readings not being taken on site or provisional status being fed for generating bills. DJB has warned its field workers that action will be taken if cases of wrong readings being noted are found. “The physical visits of meter readers had been suspended during the lockdown. After the lifting of the lockdown, an increasing number of consumers have been complaining that they are being billed for very high amounts. This could be due to reading being taken without visiting the site,” the official said. Of the total 2.6 million connections sanctioned by DJB till 2018, 13% did not have functional meters, and 3.5% connections were unmetered. Another official said that every third to fourth complaint being received by the DJB grievance cell is related to inflated bills. “Any provisional status other than actual cases or case of wrong reading will be viewed seriously and action will be taken against such meter reading staff,” the order states. A senior DJB official said that in order to detect the anomalies and catch the culprits, an audit of bills has also been instituted and all the zonal revenue officers have been directed to check the instances of wrong reading or wrong status for their respective zones. “Meter image audit of every billing cycle should be done by respective zonal revenue officer for at least 25% cases and at least 10% cases by the deputy director (R),” the order states. The official said that the report of the audit is to be submitted to the office of joint director (revenue) along with details of action initiated against the erring staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-orders-meter-image-audit-to-tackle-inflated-bill-trouble/articleshow/78469557.cms||Paras Singh
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lockdown, prolonged monsoon spell double whammy for salt makers||AHMEDABAD/ RAJKOT: With the onset of October, saltpan workers or Agariyas as they’re colloquially known in Gujarat, should ideally have been working at the Little Rann of Kutch. However, thanks to the prolonged monsoon — just like last year — and several patches at the Little Rann of Kutch still flooded with 3-4 feet of water, salt production this year is expected to get delayed by at least two months. As a result, overall salt production is expected to decline by 40% this season, suggest estimates by Indian Salt Manufacturers’ Association (ISMA). Thousands of saltpan workers in the Little Rann of Kutch are thus struck by the double whammy of the lockdown amid the ongoing pandemic and the extended monsoon. The situation is also the same across Kutch. Saltpan workers spend a minimum of six to eight months producing salt, typically from October to May. The lockdown disrupted salt production and distribution a quarter ago. And the extended monsoon now has further delayed the onset of the manufacturing activity, leaving saltpan workers and manufacturers in a lurch with income sources drying up. Manufacturers were adversely affected with less production for the past two seasons as it shrunk their revenues. Due to excessive rains and extended monsoon, the production went down by 30% last year. If salt production does not resume soon, this year too ISMA expects a similar decline. Gujarat accounts for at least 75% of India’s annual salt production, clocking a volume of 2.4 crore tonnes. However, this year, merely 1.9 crore tonne salt was produced due to the lockdown, which will further decline if the prolonged monsoon delays the season. “Generally, it takes two and a half months for the first crop after the end of monsoon, but this year too the rain continues in parts of the salt producing areas. The rain this year is 200-250% of average in salt producing areas, which will adversely affect the production,” said ISMA vice-president, Shamji Kangad. This year, the protection walls of saltpans were destroyed too which cost manufacturers heavily. The reduction in salt production, however, did not affect the domestic market because the export also remained low due to the trade war between China and USA as well as the lockdown. “The exports have been declining every month since January this year. India’s annual export has come down from 95 lakh tonnes in 2018-19 to 70 lakh tonnes in 2019-20. Reduction in exports helped bridge the production deficit in the domestic market,” Kangad further explained. In Kutch alone, two crore packets (1kg each) of iodized salt are made daily by several refineries. Gujarat is a home to some 2,500 small-scale units, which produce salt. Bachu Aahir, president, Gujarat Small-scale Salt Manufacturing Association (GSSMA), said, “We are ready to start salt production but extended monsoon has hindered the resumption of work. Start of salt production this year is expected to get delayed at least by two months.” "During the lockdown, both export and distribution of salt took a major beating. This coupled with less production dented the saltpan workers' income in 2019-20. If the production is delayed by another two months, the production and quality of salt will be adversely affected, which will further hit incomes of saltpan workers,” said Pankti Jog, programme coordinator, Agariya Hit Rakshak Manch (AHRM). "Agariyas and salt manufacturers also fear the releasing of Narmada waters into the Little Rann of Kutch will have a disastrous impact on salt production," Jog added. “In the previous season, salt manufacturers lost out on four productive months due to the extended rainfall. The lockdown-induced distribution and production disruption further added to their woes. This year again, the monsoon has prolonged delaying the new production season, which may cut salt production by 40%.” Bharat Raval, president, ISMA “The livelihood of at least 50,000 people involved in salt production in the Little Rann of Kutch will be impacted. Extended monsoon will cause the quality and quantity of crop to suffer, and as a result, yield less revenues for saltpan workers.” Pankti Jog, programme coordinator, AHRM. With drop in exports, domestic supply salvaged China is the biggest producer of salt in the world, but it is also a major importer of salt from India. Estimates suggest that 40% of India’s salt exports go to China. Thanks to the lockdown and the US-China trade war, the exports took a hit in 2019-20. While this did impact revenues of salt makers, the supply requirements of the domestic market could be salvaged as the overall production went down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-prolonged-monsoon-spell-double-whammy-for-salt-makers/articleshow/78470368.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Anganwadi panels to monitor services||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam launched an online initiative to improve public service delivery — Mukhya Mantri Anganwadi Monitoring Committee — during a webinar on Saturday. As part of the initiative, which aims at setting up a monitoring mechanism for distribution of supplementary food to beneficiaries such as pregnant and lactating women and malnourished children, 233 monitoring committees have been formed at the ward level. Each monitoring committee includes one supervisor, three parents of children who are beneficiaries or women beneficiaries of the area, apart from three social workers from the community, Delhi government said in a statement. The committees would monitor the distribution of supplementary nutrition food (SNF) among beneficiaries, assist in expanding the base of beneficiaries through the enrolment process and suggest areas where new anganwadi centres can be opened or existing ones can be clubbed or shifted to a better location. The department of women and child development had organised the webinar programme on the closing ceremony of ‘Poshan Maah-2020’ at its Kashmere Gate-based headquarters. Speaking on the occasion, Gautam appealed to the departmental teams to continue their efforts while maintaining the momentum to reduce malnourishment among women and children of the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anganwadi-panels-to-monitor-services/articleshow/78469570.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Salem||Contract health staff drop swab samples on road, suspended||Salem: Two contract workers of the health department were suspended on Saturday for careless handling of Covid-19 swab samples. The department had conducted a camp at Thanneerpanthal village on Friday to collect swab samples. After collecting 87 samples, K Saravanan, 26 and M Senthil, 25, returned to the lab in Attur on a motorcycle. Eight samples spilled out of the bag, said S Vijayakumar, a commuter. “I found the samples scattered on the Salem-Chennai national highway near Kothampadi and alerted health department officials. I waited there for two hours, but nobody turned up,” he said. Meanwhile, the issue was brought to the notice of deputy director of health services of Attur health district R Selvakumar, who initiated an inquiry. “The contract workers had dropped eight swab samples on the road due to negligence. We dispose of the samples properly,” he said. Selvakumar also instructed officials to collect samples once again from the eight people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/contract-health-staff-drop-swab-samples-on-road-suspended/articleshow/78469575.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Teachers of Ganjam school walk the extra mile to reach students||BERHAMPUR: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, online classes for school students have become the norm. But for those who are unable to attend virtual classes, either due to poor internet or lack of resources, help has arrived in the form of teachers turning up to teach at students’ homes. Teachers of the government-run Utkalamani High School, Madhabandh, in Chikiti block have been going out of their way to do their job. Headmaster Sanjay Kumar Patro and the other teachers of the high school, including women teachers, have been visiting the houses of students in different villages, all located within a five-km radius of the school. The 54-year old school, located on the border of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, has 285 students from classes I to X and 14 teachers, including the headmaster. The students of nine nearby villages study in the school. “We started visiting the houses of the students from April, when the Covid-19 situation was at its peak,” said Patro. Starting their rounds at 9 am, every teacher would visit at least 20 students per day in different villages. Each teacher would have to make a round at least twice a week. With maintaining social distance and wearing a mask, the teacher would take classes in the veranda of each student’s house. “Although the government asked us to conduct virtual classes for students, we decided to visit them individually as most students have no smartphones or laptops. Moreover, network is patchy in the area,” Patro added. In fact, the practice of teachers visiting the students has been on for some years now. Earlier, they would do so during the vacations. “Usually, all the students of a village would gather in one house but, this time, teachers visited students separately after taking permission from the parents,” the headmaster said, adding that it helped strengthen the bond between the teachers and the students. In order to encourage the students, the headmaster himself spent around Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 every month to provide them with study material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/teachers-of-ganjam-school-walk-the-extra-mile-to-reach-students/articleshow/78468597.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Teen ends life after father chides him for playing online games||KEONJHAR/BHUBANESWAR: A 13-year-old boy committed suicide by hanging himself after his father scolded him for playing online games on his cellphone in Keonjhar district. Psychiatrists said parents need to intervene in children’s online behaviours early to prevent possible addiction. Family members found the body of the boy hanging in the toilet on Friday morning in Kamarjoda village under Joda police station, around 60 km from Keonjhar town. Sources said the boy, a Class VIII student, was always playing online games on his cellphone given to him by his father for online classes. Binod Apat, father of the deceased, on Friday came to know that his son has lost Rs 91,000 by playing an online game. The boy had used the bank account information of his parents. Apat had scolded him for wasting the money, sources added. Later, Apat found the body of his son hanging inside the toilet. The family members took the boy to a private hospital at Joda where he was declared dead. After receiving information, local police recovered the body and sent it for autopsy. Raisen Murmu, inspector-in-charge of Joda police station, said “Postmortem has been done after registering an unnatural death case at Joda police station.” Lagnajit Dash, neuropsychiatrist in SUM Hospital, said internet gaming disorder is like an addiction. Because of this, a person doesn’t show interest in other works and gets addicted to gaming only. “As the boy lost a huge amount of money and got scolded by his father, the fear, shame and guilt feeling might have driven him to take the extreme step,” he added. Dash said parents need to keep an eye on children’s online behaviours early to prevent possible addiction. “Mobile use of children should be regulated by the parents. They should evaluate the internet and mobile use regularly,” he added. Psychiatrist S N Parida said the teenagers do not know the negative impact of online gaming. “When the boy lost the money online, the father scolded him. The boy must have thought that the scolding has harmed his self-respect. The worthlessness thought might have triggered him to commit suicide,” he added. He said parents can counsel children when the kids are in a good mood. “If you impose restrictions immediately by applying force, the child might get rebellious. Parents can make the teenagers understand about the bad impact of online gaming addiction,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/teen-ends-life-after-father-chides-him-for-playing-online-games/articleshow/78468581.cms||Naresh Chandra Pattnayak
October 4, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi eateries may have to specify type of meat||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) may soon make it mandatory for eateries and restaurants to declare it on their boards about what type of meat is being served in their establishments. Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said that many people had been approaching them for this. “Even sweet shops mention what type of milk has been used in preparations of different items. Similarly, it will be better if the establishments, which serve non-vegetarian food, also put up boards stating whether halal or jhatka meat was being served,” he added. Chawla said that it was still a proposal but the public health department had been asked to work on it so that it could be incorporated in the health licencing policy. All the eateries are required to obtain annual health trade licence from the municipal body. “Some people prefer halal meat, while others jhatka. The specification will help in maintaining clarity for people regarding what they are eating. Some communities have approached us to introduce this policy for clarity. Consumers should have both clarity and choice,” added the SDMC functionary. A senior official said that for the implementation of the idea, the public health department would have to propose it as a formal agenda item in the standing committee meeting. It would also need clearance from elected members. The official, however, added that eateries might be reluctant to adopt this practice. In August 2018, the east corporation had cleared a similar proposal. The resolution mandating halal-jhatka boards had argued that “a lot of people from Hindu and Sikh community reside in east Delhi and there are quite a lot of restaurants serving meat (dishes)” and that “consumption of halal meat is not allowed as per the Hindu and Sikh religions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-delhi-eateries-may-have-to-specify-type-of-meat/articleshow/78469579.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||India||Shopian victims’ bodies handed over to their families||SRINAGAR: More than two months after they were shot dead by the Army and buried as unidentified “foreign terrorists”, the remains of three young labourers from Rajouri in Jammu were exhumed from their graves in north Kashmir’s Baramulla on Friday and handed over to their families. “The three bodies were exhumed around 10.30pm last night, 77 days after their burial. The youths’ kin carried the remains to their native village and completed the last rites there on Saturday,” an official said. The parents of Abrar Ahmed (25), Imtiyaz Ahmed (20) and Mohammed Ibrar (16) had been waiting until last week for DNA tests to confirm that the three youths killed in the alleged encounter with the 62 Rashtriya Rifles at Amshipora village in south Kashmir’s Shopian on July 18 were their missing sons. An Army court of inquiry has found “prima facie evidence” of a team from the 62 Rashtriya Rifles “exceeding” powers vested under the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act. Defence spokesperson Col Rajesh Kalia had said the “dos and don’ts of the Chief of Army Staff, as approved by the Supreme Court, have been contravened”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shopian-victims-bodies-handed-over-to-their-families/articleshow/78470998.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Potholes, unfinished drains add to rain misery in Silk City||BERHAMPUR: Roads replete with potholes and unfinished drains have added to the misery of commuters of Berhampur, the biggest commercial hub of southern Odisha, as rain lashed the city. The road infrastructure deteriorated in several areas due to the laying of the pipelines under Janibili water supply projects while drain works of 2.6-km-long in Prem Nagar and Andhapasara Road, started about three years ago, under Odisha Disaster Recovery Project (ODRP), a World Bank funded project, are yet to be completed. Residents of the different locations on Saturday vented their grievances while MP (Berhampur) Chandra Sekhar Sahu and MLA (Berhampur) Bikram Kumar Panda along with commissioner, Berhampur Municipal Cprporation (BeMC), Siddheswar Baliram Bondare inspected drain and roadworks in different areas of the Silk City. “Earlier we had apprised the BeMC of problems faced by people due to the slow pace of the construction works. We demanded that the works be completed as soon as possible,” said Durga Prasad Panda, a resident. “We visited some of the problematic areas in the city and discussed with the local residents to sort out the problems. We have asked the BeMC authorities to take up works to solve the waterlogging and overflowing of the drains in a priority manner. Similarly, we have also asked them to direct the contractor to repair the potholes and broken roads in the city,” Sahu said. He said they would hold a meeting with the officials of the civic body and district collector to review the ongoing development works of the civic body. “We asked the BeMC authorities to take up the development of Agula Bandha, one of the major water body of the city, and the cremation grounds at First Gate and Goshaninuagaon,” he added. BeMC commissioner said they would repair the roads and drains very soon. “Some other projects for permanent solution of the drainage problem would be taken up,” he said. Local representatives and officials of civic body visited the areas, including Bijipur, Diamond Tank Road, Sashtri Nagar, Khodasingi, Bidutpuri Colony, Andha Pasara Road, Prem Nagar, Gate Bazaar, Lochapada Road, Aska Road, Meenakshi Nagar and Bramhanagara to take stock of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/potholes-unfinished-drains-add-to-rain-misery-in-silk-city/articleshow/78468600.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
October 4, 2020||Vadodara||Medical negligence case filed after a year||VADODARA: A year after a 28-year-old woman died following a caesarean surgery at a private hospital in Bodeli, an offence was registered on Friday. Nimisha Vankar had died on October 5 last year, following severe complications arising after her C Section at the Sangam Hospital on September 26. According to Narendra Vankar, husband of the deceased, Nimisha died due to negligence committed by the doctor during the surgery. Doctors at first conducted a sonography and told the couple that the child had died in the womb and that she would have to undergo an urgent surgery. However, during operation it was found that the child, a baby boy, was alive. But Nimisha continued to bleed after the surgery and doctors asked Vankar to manage blood bottles and scheduled another surgery two days later. However, the bleeding didn’t stop and a day later her kidneys too were damaged. Later, her liver was also affected, while doctors kept treating her. On October 5, Nimisha passed away. Following Vankar’s allegations, a forensic post-mortem was conducted at the SSG Hospital which established the fact that Nimisha had died from doctor’s negligence. Vankar then gave a complaint to the police for registering an offence. “We had registered a non-cognizable offence initially, but after taking proper opinion from medical experts, we registered the case,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/medical-negligence-case-filed-after-a-year/articleshow/78468698.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Chain worth Rs 40K robbed in Nashik||Nashik: Two unidentified bike-borne men snatched a gold chain worth Rs 40,000 from a woman in the Gangapur Road area of the city on Friday evening. A case of robbery has been registered by the Sarkarwada police against the two men As per the police, the incident took place at around 7.15 pm near Shagun Dining Hall along Gangapur Road. The complainant was out for a walk with her daughter. When the complainant and her daughter were walking towards their house in Lokmanya Nagar, two unidentified bike-borne men came close to them from the wrong side and snatched the gold chain the woman was wearing The duo escaped towards the Vadgaonkar hospital, said the police. According to the complaint, the two suspected chain robbers are in the age group of 20 years to 30 years. The police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/chain-worth-rs-40k-robbed-in-nashik/articleshow/78467685.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Goa faces shortage of local Indian Forest Service officers||Ponda: Goa is facing a shortage of local officers in the Indian Forest Service (IFS) as vacancies in the induction quota have not been filled since 2009. Presently, there’s only one officer, Sanjay Varadkar, against the six slots reserved for Goans in the IFS. Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Subhash Chandra, the highest level IFS officer in the state forest department, said the slots remained unfilled due to non-eligibility of officers. As per eligibility rules, an officer should have eight years service as an assistant conservator of forests (ACF) for induction into IFS. Chandra said the state will have to wait till 2021 for filling up the vacancies as some local officers would by then possess the length of service required for their induction. However, sources in the forest department have alleged that the local officers are lagging behind as the senior IFS officers were not keen to fill the vacant slots. Sources said that if Ramesh Desai, Camu Prakash, N D Naik, Anil Shetgaonkar, Vikas Desai and Pradeep Verenkar had been promoted as ACF on regular basis in 2007, instead of adhoc basis, the officers could have been eligible for induction in 2015. Of the six officers, Vikas voluntarily retired in July this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-faces-shortage-of-local-indian-forest-service-officers/articleshow/78470377.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
October 4, 2020||India||Ulfa-I operating from base in China: Centre tells tribunal||GUWAHATI: The Centre, in an affidavit before the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal here, has officially submitted for the first time that the Paresh Barualed Ulfa (I) is currently based in Ruili in Yunnan Province of China from where it is carrying out its anti-India activities . For years, only the Ulfa (I) leader was beleived to be in Ruili situated in southern part of China on the border with Myanmar while the group’s operational base and training camps of cadres were known to be based in Sagaing division of Myanmar adjacent to the bodrer with India. In a separate affidavit in the same tribunal, the state government has submitted that as a result of the Myanmar army’s operations against Indian insurgent camps in Taka from January 28, 2019, the “Lungmark, Taka and Nilgiri camps of Ulfa (I) suffered a big jolt. Several cadre also deserted the outfit.” The state government has submitted a list of eight locations in the Sagaing division where Ulfa (I) has set up its operational camps with help of NSCN(K). The tribunal here has also been informed by the Assam government that Ulfa (I) is planning to utilize the IT expertise of some of its new recruits for cyber-related technical work in Darknet, which is an emerging threat for law-enforcement agencies. The submission by a representative of MHA and Assam home department were made before the tribunal headed by Justice Prasanta Kumar Deka of Gauhati High Court for adjudicating whether or not there was sufficient cause for declaring the outfit as unlawful under the UA(P) Act. Last month, the tribunal had confirmed the MHA’s notification issued in November, 2019 extending the declaration of Ulfa (I) as unlawful association for five more years because its activities “were detrimental to the sovereignty and integrity of India.” MHA deputy secretary RK Pandey, in his evidence on affidavit, stated before the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Tribunal here that “the Ulfa (I) led by Paresh Barua is currently based in Ruili, Yunnan Province, China is continuing with violent activities, including extortion, recruitment and procurement of arms.” The MHA representative also submitted in his affidavit that “Ulfa (I) used to incite ethnic violence at the time of the movement in Assam against the amendment to the Citizenship Act, 1955.” Joint secretary of Assam home & political department Simanta Kumar Das, in his affidavit, submitted that from 2016 to 2018, there was a sudden spurt in recruitment in Ulfa (I) through Facebook and other social media. The publicity wing of Ulfa has been trying in motivate the youth. “In 2017 and 2018, 37 youths have been found to have joined this outfit. Some of them are qualified in certain technical areas which the outfit has contemplated to utilise for cyber related technical work in Darknet,” he submitted. While Taka is the outfit’s council mobile headquarters, its general mobile headquarters, central training centre and the UG camp are at Lungmark. The Nilgiri camp, which is the council camp, is at Naimung Basti. The UG camp is the place where the outfit’s arms, ammunition and explosives are kept concealed. The outfit’s “eastern command” headquarters is located at Hayat Basti in Myanmar adjacent to Mon district of Nagaland. The Arakan Camp, also known as Brigade Camp, and the Operation Camp are at Papung Naga Basti where act groups are stationed for striking in Assam. According to the MHA submission, “The outfit continues to indulge in anti-India propaganda to influence public opinion by boycotting general elections holding it to be a flawed democratic process and has been trying to bring all insurgent groups under a common platform to fight against India.” The state government has also submitted that a new organisation under name and style “ANMMMTA” was formed formally on August 19, 2018 in Golaghat. “ANMMMTA”, which stands for Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura and Assam, has been formed to cause mass mobilization against the lawfully established government by adopting various democratic movements, mobilization through electronic and print media, social media recruitments for extremist activities and funds collection. Baruah monitors all the developments at the political front through “ANMMMTA”. “All instructions come through Facebook account of Ulfa(I) operated by Arunodoi Dohotiya,” the affidavit said. The state government has also submitted that the outfit has procured huge quantity of arms, ammunition and explosives from international arms smugglers and by snatching from security personnel. “Paresh Barua, C-in-C ULFA(I) is instrumental in procuring arms and explosive consignments with help of Meitei militant outfits and other ethnic militant groups in Myanmar,” it said. The state representative submitted that the arms are transported through the Chindwin river of Myanmar that runs parallel to the Indo-Myanmar border from north to south and then kept in the UG camp. Watch Ulfa(I) shifts operating base from Myanmar to China: Centre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ulfa-i-operating-from-base-in-china-centre-tells-tribunal/articleshow/78471000.cms||Prabin Kalita
October 4, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 50,000 in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand crossed the 50,000-mark with 503 fresh infections reported from the state on Saturday. The infection rate continues to be above 7% in the state. Meanwhile, 919 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on Saturday, taking the recovery rate beyond 82% and the total number of cured cases to 41,095 in the state. Also, test results of 14,000 samples were pending. On the day, BJP minister Uma Bharti was discharged from AIIMS Rishikesh as she recovered from fever and other symptoms of the virus. Doctors at AIIMS Rishikesh informed that Bharti has been asked to remain in isolation for another 10-to-14 days as a precautionary measure. “We have informed the district surveillance officer about her discharge and home isolation as per the ICMR protocol. Her oxygen level and fever will be monitored during the isolation period,” said Harish Thapliyal, PRO AIIMS. Also, doctors at the Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) said that state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat is recovering fast as his x-ray test showed that his chest was 50% clear from the infection. Briefing about his health, Dr NS Khatri, GDMCH, said that his x-ray and blood reports have shown positive signs. “He is under observation in the hospital and is doing well,” he added. Among the fresh infections found on Saturday, the maximum of 143 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 99 from Haridwar, 72 from Tehri, 71 from Nainital, 34 from Uttarkashi, 32 from Udham Singh Nagar, 16 from Pauri, 13 from Bageshwar, 10 from Champawat, seven from Rudraprayag, four from Chamoli, and three from Pithoragarh. Apart from fresh cases, 12 deaths of Covid-19 patients were also reported on Saturday, taking the toll of the virus to 640 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-50k-in-ukhand/articleshow/78467727.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||Polo forest in Vijaynagar taluka closed for tourists||HIMMATNAGAR: The Sabarkantha district administration on Friday clamped ban on tourists visiting the famous Polo forest in Vijaynagar taluka on every Saturday and Sunday. According to the notification, the ban will be in force on October 3-4, October 10-11 and October 17-18 in order to check the spread of Coronavirus. The entry of the tourists is banned from Sabarkantha forest check post to the road towards Vijaynagar. “Every Saturday and Sunday, more than 20,000 tourists visit Polo forest, exposing themselves to the danger of Covid-19 infection. Thus, the administration has decided to ban the entry of tourists into the Polo forest,” said C J Patel, Sabarkantha district collector and magistrate who issued a notification in this regard on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/polo-forest-closed-for-tourists/articleshow/78468645.cms||---
October 4, 2020||---||BSP’s Bihar unit president joins RJD||Just weeks ahead of Bihar assembly elections, BSP state unit president Bharat Bind joined RJD on Saturday. This is considered as another blow to RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, who had recently formed an alliance with BSP after quitting the ‘Mahagath-bandhan’ and failing to strike a deal with BJP for the polls. Bind took the RJD membership from leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Sources said Kushwaha had formed an alliance with BSP and Janwadi Party (Socialist) on September 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bsps-bihar-unit-president-joins-rjd/articleshow/78471003.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed teen’s ‘suicide note’ with Maratha quota angle is forged||Aurangabad: The case of an 18-year-old from the Maratha community allegedly committing suicide took a turn after the police found that the purported suicide note found in his register was forged. A case has been registered with the Beed rural police station against unidentified suspects for the forgery. Initially, it was claimed that the student, Vivek Kalyan Rahade, was dejected over the Supreme Court’s stay on Maratha reservation. Beed superintendent of police R Raja told TOI: “The police learnt about the suicide note only after it went viral on social media. Later, the deceased youth’s register was seized and his answer sheets were sent for the opinion of a handwriting expert — who concluded that the student’s natural handwriting did not match the handwriting in the suicide note.” The officer said an offence under IPC sections 465 (forgery), 471 (fraudulently using a forged document as genuine), 505-B (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class) has been booked. Raja added the police are trying to find the perpetrators who planted the forged letter to give the suicide a different colour. The youth was found hanging from a tree in a farm on September 30. Though there were reports that he was upset with his performance in the NEET, those close to the boy’s family claimed Rahade was also dejected over the SC stay on Maratha reservation and that he had left a suicide note to that effect. Preliminary probe indicated that the youth had obtained good marks in the HSC examination and was expecting to do well in NEET. However, he didn’t perform as per his expectations and was, therefore, upset. The purported suicide note was not found on his body, but was later handed to the police by Rahade’s relatives who said the boy had left the note at his home in Kotura village in the Beed taluka. The note, the police said, stated that since he (Rahade) belonged to a poor family, he wanted to do well in life. “But with the Maratha reservation gone, his dreams were shattered. The note also stated that since he could not afford medical education in a private institution, he had decided to end his life,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-teens-suicide-note-with-maratha-quota-angle-is-forged/articleshow/78467746.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 4, 2020||Dehradun||Set up thermal screening, sample testing booths at tourist destinations: Uttarakhand CM||DEHRADUN: In his weekly review meeting, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday directed the district magistrates to ensure that thermal screening and sample collection booths are set up at all prominent tourist locations as it would help visitors. “The number of tourists in the state has increased rapidly. Thus, it should be ensured that a good treatment is meted out to the tourists and they do not face problems. We need to set up booths for thermal screening and sample testing at tourist locations,” said the CM. The CM also directed state authorities to rope in prominent personalities and circulate their videos and messages to generate awareness regarding Covid-19 prevention among the people. The CM also suggested essay writing and cartoon making competitions to help generate awareness on Covid-19 among the children. CM Rawat pointed out that the next few months would be more challenging for effective control of Covid-19 and asked the authorities to remain alert. He added that though the number of positive cases have gone down in the last one week, the authorities should not drop guard. He directed the DMs to deploy SDM and COs of their respective areas to make sure that mandatory norms of wearing masks and compliance of social distancing are being followed. The CM instructed the state and district officials to rope in prominent personalities and circulate their videos and messages among the people to spread a positive message. He advocated the need to set up hoardings at religious locations and crowded places to spread awareness among people. Meanwhile, secretary (health) Amit Negi said, “We have to pay special attention to vigilance as economic activities have shot up in the Unlock phase. The positivity rate for coronavirus among local youths is high in Uttarakhand. Thus, special attention is required to contain the spread. People should be made more aware of immunity enhancing substances. All districts need to have the required manpower to fight Covid-19 for the next six months,’ said Negi. The official also backed the need for Google mapping service of all Covid-19 care centres and sample collection centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/set-up-thermal-screening-and-sample-testing-booths-at-tourist-destinations-increase-awareness-among-people-on-covid-19-cm/articleshow/78467754.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||Decoy cops to keep watch on Covid-19 norms violators||RAJKOT: Cops would be deployed as decoys to catch those without masks, spitting in public places and those not maintaining social distancing during the unlock-5 declared by the state government, said Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal in a press release on Saturday. “Those caught without masks will be fined Rs 1,000 each, while those caught spitting in public places will be fined Rs 500 each,” said Agrawal. “There will be a complete lockdown enforced in containment zone and micro containment zone 24X7. Only those shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to remain open,” he said. According to the release, the industrial units will be allowed to function with their 100% capacity. However, they will have to enforce the compulsory wearing of masks, the use of sanitizer and maintenance of social distancing among their workers and staff. According to the standard operation procedure (SOP) declared by the central government, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls would be allowed to remain open till 9pm, the release said. The department of higher education, ministry of education would decide on starting colleges and higher education institutes, the release said. Gymnasium, yoga classes and swimming pools would be opened from October 15, according to the SOP issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the Union ministry of sports, said the release. According to the SOP issued by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting, theatres and multiplexes would be opened with 50% occupancy from October 15. Libraries, too, would be allowed to reopen with 60% occupancy. During the unlock-4 in Rajkot city, a total of 1,336 offences were registered for the violation of the notification, 1,757 vehicles were impounded and 23,310 people were fined Rs 12 lakh for not wearing masks and spitting in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/decoy-cops-to-keep-watch-on-covid-19-norms-violators/articleshow/78468651.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Allahabad||Only CJMs of Lucknow, Meerut & Bareilly to hear TJ cases: HC||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed that all matters related to the members of Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) in Uttar Pradesh will now be heard only by the three chief judicial magistrates (CJMs) of Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly. Besides, they will decide these matters within eight weeks. The court directed that cases pending in Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Lucknow zones be transferred to the chief judicial magistrate, Lucknow. Likewise, cases pending in Agra and Meerut zones are transferred to the chief judicial magistrate, Meerut. Lastly, the cases pending in Bareilly zone are transferred to chief judicial magistrate, Bareilly. Disposing of the writ petition named as ‘In Re Maulana Ala Hadarmi and others’, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Shamim Ahmed directed the chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh to transfer the criminal cases pending against the members of Tablighi Jamaat in the manner as provided in the present decision. The court directed the registry of this court to forward a copy of this order to the chief secretary of the state, concerned district judges as well as district magistrates for information and necessary compliance. The court also directed the registrar general of Allahabad High Court to monitor the progress of the aforementioned cases transferred to the chief judicial magistrates of Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly, and submit a report within three months to the Chief Justice. Criminal prosecution was launched against the foreigners, who had come to attend the conference of Tablilghi Jamaat held at New Delhi, for violating the pandemic guidelines and committing penal offences. Subsequently, a petition was filed by Maulana Ala Hadarmi and others before the apex court challenging such criminal prosecutions instituted against the members of Tablighi Jamaat. An interim application was filed by intervenors before the apex court raising two-fold grievances. The petitioner contended that multiple criminal cases are pending against members of Tablighi Jamaat across the state of Uttar Pradesh and concerned courts are granting bails imposing different conditions, and there is no uniformity in that regard. The second grievance was that due to pendency of proceedings in different courts, the accused in the concerned cases are facing logistical difficulties for which reason, as the cases involving the same issue need to proceed for inquiry/trial before one court in the state of Uttar Pradesh. The apex court gave discretion to this court to transfer the cases to one or more courts, as such, it was requested that the cases, which are pending in various districts, be transferred to at least two or three districts so that it could be decided in accordance with the directions passed by the apex court. In addition to the above, the court also directed that all the matters would be heard as far as possible by the concerned courts through video conferencing as the apex court while deciding the matter has categorically recorded the assurance of the parties that complete cooperation will be extended to the trial court for expeditious disposal of pending criminal cases, including to participate in the proceedings through video conferencing. The court gave this decision on September 30 that came to light on October 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/only-cjms-of-lucknow-meerut-bareilly-to-hear-tj-cases-hc/articleshow/78467781.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||91k farmers registered in three days: Jayesh Radadiya||Rajkot: There have been over 91,000 farmers across Gujarat registered in three days for selling groundnut at minimum support price (MSP), said Jayesh Radadiya, the state food, civil supply and consumer affairs minister while addressing media persons in Rajkot on Saturday. Radadiya assured that no farmer would be left without registration. The state government started the online registration for the procurement of groundnut at Rs 1,055 per 20 kg from October 1, which will continue till October 21. The government called the farmers turn by turn to procure their produce at 150 designated centres. Radaiya said: “Last year, the government had procured 5 lakh tonnes of groundnut by paying Rs 2,547 crore to the farmers. Last year 4.70 lakh farmers had registered themselves in 20 days. This year in three days, 91,000 farmers have already registered themselves.” The registration process at village level will continue on holidays as well. The state government is more sensitive in the procurement of groundnut after a procurement scam was exposed two years ago. According to a rough estimate, this year, the groundnut production is expected between 30 to 35 lakh tonnes. According to Radadiya, in Rajkot district, more than 27,000 farmers are registered for the sale of groundnut. “The registration process was slow in Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Porbandar and Banaskatha districts. But the problems have been solved, and from 6am to 11pm, the farmers can register to sell their crop at MSP,” he said. In a reply to a question Radadia denied that teachers were not asked to be involved in the registration process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/91k-farmers-registered-in-three-days-radadiya/articleshow/78468692.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dentist, serial actor held for blackmailing woman||Thiruvananthapuram: City police have arrested an orthodontist under government service for allegedly harassing his cousin through phone for over two years to the extent of the woman nearly abandoned by her husband. Police identified the accused as Dr R Subu, 43, an assistant professor attached to orthodontics department at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital. He is a resident of Varkala. Police have also arrested two of his accomplices — Jaseer Khan, 36, of Valicode near Nedumangad and Sreejith, 26, of Vengavila near Nedumangad. While Khan is a financier for television serials and an actor, Sreejith is an upholstery shop owner who previously used to run a DTP shop, where he also sold SIM cards. The complainant in the case is a 27-year-old woman residing under Ayiroor police station limits outside the city. The trio used a SIM card taken using bogus address to send morphed lewd images of the woman to her husband’s father as well as her close relatives, including her brother. Police said the online harassment was part of Dr Subu’s elaborate plan to drive the complainant, mother of a one-and-a-half-year-old boy, away from her husband and her own family. They also used to contact the woman and mentally harass her. This has been going for two-and-a-half years. Even though she had filed complaints with Ayiroor police and cyber police, the probes did not make any breakthrough, police said. “The accused was obsessed with her. But since he was already married and had kids, he devised a plan to create rifts between her and her close ones. His plan was to tarnish her character so that her husband and her own family would disown her. And, he almost succeeded,’’ said Fort station house officer inspector J Rakesh. He said while woman’s close family members gradually drifted apart from her, Subu had been standing by her as a guardian, feigning support. Three months ago, her husband moved out of home, demanding divorce. This deeply affected her mental health. It was after this, her elder sister, who lives under Fort police station limits, decided to lodge a complaint one more time. “In fact, when the woman’s sister approached us last month to lodge a complaint, the accused dentist too had accompanied her and we had recorded his statements too as a witness in the case,’’ the inspector said. The reason why previous probes failed was because they could not trace the owner of the SIM card, which often was turned off. Fort assistant commissioner R Prathapan, who is a recipient of Badge of Honour for Detective Excellence, encouraged his team to take the case as a challenge and solve it. The probe team found out that the SIM card used by the harasser was taken in the address of a young man residing at Vattappara. Police reached out to him and learned that he was unaware of such a SIM card. Police then contacted the network service provider, who shared the contact details of the agent who sold the SIM card. This was the breakthrough in the case. They took Sreejith into custody. He told police that he had provided a SIM card to Khan, who is a close friend of Subu, using the address of the young man from Vattappara. The youth had visited Sreejith’s shop to take a photocopy of his Aadhar card and Sreejith took an additional copy of it. He later used its details to take new SIM card and handed it over to Jaseer, who in turn morphed the images of the woman and sent it to her family. Police have slapped relevant sections of IT Act along with forgery and cheating under IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dentist-serial-actor-held-for-blackmailing-woman/articleshow/78468700.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Dehradun||Parents’ bodies warn of large scale protests if schools reopen from October 15||DEHRADUN: Parents’ bodies in the state have warned of widespread protests if the state government decides to go ahead with the order of reopening schools from October 15. The parents have said that until a Covid-19 vaccine is available, it is not safe to send children to schools. In this context, several parents have given a letter to the state education minister Arvind Pandey asking him not to reopen the schools. The National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) has said, “The schools are not ready to take the responsibility if the child gets infected with Covid-19 and also, we don’t want a Europe-like situation where thousands of students tested positive for the virus after the school reopened. Ultimately, the schools there had to shut again.” Meanwhile, several schools have stressed on the need to reopen and have stated that certain subjects can’t be taught online. Schools’ body say that they are ready to reopen in a phased manner by calling students of not more than two Classes on each day. However, they have stated clearly that if students are found Covid-19 positive, then the school management shouldn’t be held responsible for that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-associations-warn-of-large-scale-protests-if-schools-reopen-from-oct-15/articleshow/78467886.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 4, 2020||Dehradun||Dine with party workers, have more night stays in constituency: Bhagat tells ministers||DEHRADUN: With just a year left for the assembly polls in Uttarakhand, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president has asked ministers and elected representatives to focus more on visiting their constituencies and having more interaction with ground-level party workers. The ministers were also asked to do frequent night stays in their constituencies. “It is important that MLAs and ministers have more and more interaction with local party workers and remain in touch with locals as well. Hence, the organisation has asked them to do frequent night stays in their constituencies,” said Bhagat. He added that the ministers must dine at the homes of local party workers to “increase brotherhood”. The ministers have also been asked to encourage the locals towards self-employment and inspect the working of growth centres established in every block. The directions were given in a meeting attended by chief minister Trivendra Rawat, BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat, and party’s national general secretary Shiv Prakash. This comes a day before the party’s core committee meeting scheduled for Sunday at Bijapur Guest House. It will be attended by several MLAs, state ministers, and education minister Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dine-with-party-workers-have-more-night-stays-in-constituency-bhagat-tells-ministers/articleshow/78467874.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||Farmers will not lose land under new agri bills, assures Rupala||RAJKOT: Union minister of state for agriculture Parshottam Rupala, on Saturday termed the allegations that by allowing contract farming under the new agriculture bill farmers will be rendered landless, as baseless.Speaking to media persons in Rajkot, the junior minister said, “It is a baseless argument that farmers will lose the right to cultivate on their own land with the passing of the new bill. There is no provision in the bill that forces farmers to sell their land. The bill doesn’t permit investors to take possession of the land.” Rupala also said that many farmers currently engaged in contract farming will get protection under the new law. “The new law makes farmers capable of signing agreements with processors, wholesalers, aggregators, retailers and exporters. This will give farmers opportunity to compete with others in the market,” said the minister. Rupala further said, “The current model of APMCs for auctioning of farm produce will continue to function and the government will continue to procure farm produce at minimum support price. (MSP).” The passage of bills — Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, by both houses of the Parliament has triggered large-scale protest by farmers, who see the bills as anti-farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmers-will-not-lose-land-under-new-agri-bills-assures-rupala/articleshow/78468713.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana witnesses drop in cognizable crimes in 2019||LUDHIANA: There is some good news for Ludhiana on crime front as the number of cases of cognizable crimes under IPC (including murder, attempt to murder, rapes, kidnapping, etc.) in 2019 in Ludhiana commissionerate witnessed a decrease as compared to the previous year. As compared to 2018, the number of such crimes in 2019 witnessed a fall of 14.74%, suggests the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. As per the NCRB report, the number of cases of cognizable crimes under the IPC in Ludhiana commissionareate were 5,230 in 2019. The chief minister’s home district Patiala stood at number two spot with 3,291, whereas SAS Nagar and Sangrur were at third and fourth spot with 2,925 and 2,747 cases, respectively, in 2019. The NCRB data pointed out that the total number of such cases in Ludhiana commissionerate was 5,217 in 2017 as compared to 6,001 cases in 2018, suggesting an increase of 15.02%. Analysis of sub-categories suggests that Ludhiana commissionerate had witnessed 56 murders in 2019 as compared to 53 in 2018. As far as murders are concerned, Ludhiana commissionerate was at number one position among the districts and commissionerates, with Patiala district at number two position. Ludhiana commissionerate was at number one position with regard to the number of cases of culpable homicide not amounting to murder is concerned, with 14 cases in 2019 (which is the same as those in 2018). Amritsar rural police district was at number two with 13 cases. With Amritsar rural district (police district) at number one spot with 75 cases of attempt to murder, Ludhiana was at number three spot with 51 cases, whereas Tarn Taran district was at number two spot with 71 cases reported in 2019. Ludhiana also witnessed the highest number of dowry death cases in the state with 12 such cases reported in 2019, whereas Patiala witnessed nine such cases and was at number two spot. Again Ludhiana commissionerate was at number one spot in connection with the cases of hurt is concerned with 504 count in 2019, whereas Patiala was at number two with 480 such cases. Ludhiana also witnessed a case of acid attack in 2019, whereas Patiala district topped the list with three such cases. Ludhiana also recorded the highest number of theft cases in 2019 at 1,508, whereas Amirtsar had 1,004 such cases. Ludhiana led in the number of robbery cases (12), with Bathinda next at 8. Ludhiana also witnessed the highest number of cases of kidnapping and abduction among the districts and commissionerates of the state in 2019 with 208 such cases, whereas SAS Nagar was at number two with 149 such cases. As the city has witnessed a fall in crime cases in 2019 as compared to the previous year, residents say the police should further improve the scenario and make Ludhiana crime free. “It is good that the crime rate has decreased in Ludhiana in 2019 as compared to previous year, but still the number of cases is on the higher side. I think that there is a shortage of staff in the police and those available are not being able to give their 100%. The crime check scenario will improve further if proactive approach is adopted. Besides, society should also come forward to help police in checking the crime,” said Keemti Rawal, a social activist. Ludhiana police authorities say that they will ensure that crime is further checked. “This is good that cognizable crimes have witness such a fall. We have focused on increased patrolling and have cracked all major cases, which has brought the change. But we need to do more and further ensure that crime remains under check,” said Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal. Boxes: What are the cognizable crimes? The cognizable crimes under IPC include murder, attempt to murder, culpable homicide not amounting to murder, hurt, assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty, kidnapping and abduction, offences against state, offences against public tranquility, offences against property, offences relating to documents and property marks, miscellaneous IPC crimes and other IPC crimes. Year Number of cognizable crimes in Ludhiana||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-witnesses-drop-in-cognizable-crimes-in-2019/articleshow/78468708.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fresh Covid cases cross 1,000 mark for 2nd day||Thiruvananthapuram: There is no reprieve for the capital district with regard to new Covid-19 cases. On Friday and Saturday, fresh cases went past 1,000 mark and as many as 12 deaths were confirmed in two days. A total of 1,049 persons in the district tested positive for the infection on Saturday. Of this, 836 contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection of 177 individuals is not known. As many as 24 people went under quarantine. Four people had come to the district from other states. On Friday, 1,096 persons were tested positive and four deaths were confirmed. As many as eight deaths were confirmed in the district due to Covid-19 on Saturday. Rajan, 47, of Nedumangad; Moosa Kunju, 72, of Kilimanoor; Vatsala, 64, of Kamaleswaram; Raghunandan, 60, of Nelluvila; Vasanthakumari, 73, of Ambalathinkara; Bonifase Albert, 68, of Vallakkadavu; and Moses, 58, of Anchuthengu are the individuals who were confirmed to be infected with the virus following their deaths. Of the total individuals tested positive, 409 are female and 640 are male. As many as 78 are below the age of 15 years and 166 are above the age of 60. An assistant commissioner in the city was tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. According to sources in police, the ACP took the test on Saturday morning after he experienced symptoms of fever from Friday evening. He was on duty till Friday night. On Saturday, he took the test at Government Taluk Hospital at Fort and was tested positive. Following this, a few cops at assistant commissioner’s office, especially the members of the personal staff and driver, have gone under quarantine. He is the second senior officer of city police who has tested positive for the virus. Two weeks ago, another assistant commissioner was tested positive along with a few other cops. They were all part of the riot control force of the police to counter the frequent protests by opposition parties. Though the assistant commissioner has turned negative, he is yet to rejoin on duty as he is still undergoing quarantine. There is a total of 12,361 active Covid cases in the district. As many as 906 individuals tested negative on Saturday. A total number of 28,793 persons are currently under quarantine in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fresh-covid-cases-cross-1000-mark-for-2nd-day/articleshow/78468718.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Families in state draw comfort from ‘new normal’||Sameer and Priyambada Mohanty and their son are enjoying each other’s company in the cool climes of Rayagada. Priyambada, who teaches Chemistry in Guru Nanak Public School in Sambalpur, is relishing every moment of being a ‘housewife’. “From cooking to washing the dishes, this lockdown has given me a chance to get back in touch with the home-maker in me. Earlier, breakfast for me and my son used to be boiled food as we had to rush to school. Now I have ample time to prepare delicacies,” she says. The last time Sameer, 43, was with his family for a long period of time was four years back. He works in a manufacturing unit in Rayagada and would go home only during weekends. His wife and 10-year-old son live in Sambalpur along with Sameer’s mother. With the movement of trains suspended, he thought it wise to bring his family to Rayagada itself. So, since June, they have all been together. “Earlier, I used to spend at least Rs 2,000 a week on the train journey. Now I am saving it up and have started an SIP,” says Sameer. He is happy to be able to give time to his son and help him out with his studies. Aarnav dreads of the time when things will become normal, as he will have to wait till the weekend to meet his father. Samarthya Panigrahi, who has just passed out of school, was among those who could not think of being at home during the weekend. But when restaurants, movie halls and malls shut down, she was left with no choice. Her brother, who is half her age, often found himself at the receiving end of her mood swings. But then things took a turn. “Even before I could fully understand, I started enjoying being at home. My brother and I, we used to fight every day, suddenly found ourselves comfortable with each other. In fact, he enjoys cooking so much that he has treated the family to his recipes quite often during the lockdown,” Samarthya says. Their father, Binay, agrees. “Our son really took the load off my wife. I am also happy that they have cut down on eating out.” Meanwhile, Samarthya says, “Though a lot of places are opening up and my friends are going out, I choose not to. I don’t want to put the lives of my parents and brother at risk through my irresponsible behaviour.” The best gift of the lockdown for many was reduced expenditure. People stopped complaining and started reassessing their lives. Bhubaneswar resident Sagarika Parida, who teaches Odissi, was initially finding it difficult to cope with online classes and her other engagements. But as time went by, the mother of two began to feel happy about getting to celebrate every small and big occasion with the family. Her husband, cricketer Rashmi Ranjan Parida, who works full-time for Air India, has been spending time with wife and children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/families-in-state-draw-comfort-from-new-normal/articleshow/78467989.cms||Rajani Yadav
October 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Will soon launch indefinite ‘rail roko’ programme: Balbir Singh Rajewal||One of the most vocal voices against the recently passed farmers’ laws, national president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Rajewal, Balbir Singh Rajewal has termed these as ‘dark laws’ and said his organisation was part of the farmers’ ongoing struggle. The 77-year-old farmer leader talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the main issues related to the ongoing protests Q: Are political parties trying to join the ‘struggle’ against the recently passed farmers’ laws? There is already a declared programme that anyone (from among them) can come and sit on protest, but they will not be allowed to carry their flags and will not be allowed to share stage with us. We will not let that happen and it’s our stage and we will not call them and we have decided to do so. Q: Do you see political parties competing with each other over farmers’ issues? We have already told them not to get involved in ‘competition politics’ as it will leave pain in our hearts. When SAD said they would hold a 2-hour protest despite our announced programme, which was for full day, I told them that this was not right and farmers didn’t like it. Q: If the central government calls you for a meeting, what will be your main demand? They will have to repeal the laws, only then things will work. We will not step back for anything less than that, nor more than that. These laws are pro-corporate and I haven’t seen such a thing in my life. I don’t even feel that it is written by some government officer and I said this on the first day that it appeared to have been written by some corporate house CEO. There is no provision which gives security to people as per law. Q: Will the government ask private players to pay more than the MSP for various crops? MSP doesn’t apply to other crops which these private players don’t buy. It is about procurement. If there are two mandis, of which is tax free and the other, where crops are sold with tax, private players in tax free mandi will offer more money to farmers. After farmers will stop going to inner mandis, where he has been going, these private players after paying him more money for 1-2 years will have the monopoly after the inner mandis close and then farmers will be exploited. Q: In the next less than two years Punjab will go to elections, do you think that political parties want agitation to continue? We are not pawns in the hands of these political parties as we have started this struggle. We have spent our whole life in such struggles. Q: Are all farm organisations together in this fight? 31 farmers’ organisations are united in the fight for farmers. There may be one or two organisations which are fighting for farmers on their own but majority are together in this struggle. When the chief minister called us for a meeting, we first held our meeting to decide issues and who will raise which issue. After that we analysed where we stood. Q: You have demanded that the chief minister calls a session to pass resolution against these laws. What has happened on that front? Agriculture is a state subject and trade within state is also a state subject. In Essential Commodities Act, once the list is made, neither there can be no addition or removal of essential commodities till the state government concerned doesn’t give consent, but they (central government) didn’t ask anyone. So they have violated the Constitution. Q: Do you think that the chief minister cannot implement it in the state and you have been also asking for the same? We have told him to call an assembly session and pass resolution that we will not implement it and make a parallel Act to it. He told us that Parliament had passed it, so we told him then what the assembly was for. If you cannot watch the interest of Punjab then for what you are sitting here. He told us that the governor would not sign it, we asked him to pass it and we 31 farm organisations will see how he will not sign. It is Punjab and not Bihar. Q: What is your next course of action? We will continue an indefinite ‘rail roko’ programme. We will decide the future course of action on October 7. We will go for social boycott of BJP leaders and stage protest in front of their houses and offices of certain corporate houses. We will close the toll plazas of government of India. If government of India and some corporates will come to loot us, we will ensure they suffer losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/will-soon-launch-indefinite-rail-roko-programme-rajewal/articleshow/78468715.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC discontinues 7-year-old residents’ complaint app||LUDHIANA: After serving people for seven years, the mobile application, Ludhiana Municipal Corporation Citizens Reporting and Mapping Tool (CRAMAT), will no longer be available for complaints registration as the MC has decided to stop it. The civic body officials have already conveyed the developer of this application to close this service. The officials claimed that now there were several other platforms where residents could register their complaints, so they did not require the service. However, sources revealed that it was because the officials were unable to maintain the complaints records through this application, so they wanted to close it down. The monitoring had also become difficult, therefore, it was decided to discontinue the service. The application was automatically uploading complaints on the MC server via internet and the citizen would get complaint number through email or an SMS. The officials were supposed to rectify this problem in the given time period. In 2013, this application was launched by the civic body. Through this application, residents were having the facility to register complaints in 10 categories like streetlights, water supply or sewerage, roads, sanitation, tehbazaari, encroachments, horticulture, unauthorised construction, illegal advertisements/boards/hoardings and city bus service while clicking and uploading pictures and locations related with their problems. Meanwhile, the developer of this application, Jaskirat Singh, said it was nice working with the civic body and serving the residents through this application. However, one of the officials claimed that when this service was launched complaints used to come on phone, but now they have PB Gram, PGRS, M-Sewa, MC website and other mobile applications, while CRAMAT was a private application, so they have decided to close it down. He said the company was informed to close down the application. A resident of Civil Lines, Kunal Sharma, said there were so many applications launched for the complaints’ registration but in the absence of monitoring, people were not getting the benefits. He said the public would get the benefits only when officials would act timely on the complaints, otherwise applications were useless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-discontinues-7-yr-old-residents-complaint-app/articleshow/78468721.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Deesa MLA and folk singer flout norms to take selfies, ride horses||PALANPUR: While people in general have been warned by the state government of following social distancing rules and wearing masks in public, the same rule seems not to applicable to the members of the ruling BJP party. One such incident involving MLA from Deesa Shahikant Pandya came to light when a video of the BJP leader and Gujarat folk singer Kinjal Dave taking selfies while being surrounded by hundreds of people, went viral social media on Saturday.The video shows Dave and Pandya riding horses while being surrounded by hundreds of villagers. Sources said that the video was recorded two days ago when Dave had come to visit Dhedhal temple in Deesa taluka of Banaskantha district, where Pandya had laid the foundation stone of the village road. Riding horses, Dave and Pandya are seen taking turns to click selfies with the crowd while ignoring social distancing norms. “While the BJP government harasses people for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing, the party leaders themselves don’t give a damn about this. They act as if they are above the law,” said Dinesh Gadhvi, president of Banaskantha district Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/deesa-mla-and-folk-singer-flout-norms-to-take-selfies-ride-horses/articleshow/78468733.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt gives spl sanction to regularize some buildings||Thiruvananthapuram: The government gave special sanction to the corporation secretary to issue building numbers to shops that were rebuilt/newly-constructed after being fully and partially demolished as part of Karamana-Pravachambalam road widening works. As per the order– 58 buildings located on plot measuring below 3 cents–will be authorized and allotted building numbers. The order from LSG department has come as a relief to the long-pending demand of the merchant community. Following a meeting convened by LSG minister AC Moideen in 2019, the corporation was asked to submit a list of buildings that were constructed on leftover land after acquisition for road widening. The civic body reported that 105 buildings were built and regularisation was completed for only eight and 97 more were to be regularized and council had decided to regularise them, the corporation secretary had communicated to the government. The government issued an order directing the secretary to give building numbers to 58 buildings lying on plots measuring below 3 cents. "This will be a major boost for road widening works. With numbers being allotted, shopkeepers can get authorized licence and complete procedures like GST registration. They can also avail loans for running business. The government decision is a welcome move. We have been requesting it to take a considerate step on this issue," said district general secretary, Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti S S Manoj. Corporation had earlier begun collection of data from owners whose property was below 3 cents to identify whether variation in setback happened due to widening of road. The buildings – which include commercial and residential – were built by residents whose land had been acquired for road widening as part of Karamana-Kaliyikkavila highway widening project. Following road widening, some of the constructions were altered and others built new constructions and in the process norms were violated. Kerala municipality building rules (KMBR) 1999 chapter 11 includes provisions for allowing relaxations to construction in plots, part of which were surrendered free of cost for road development. However, these provisions could not be applied in this case as land was acquired for road development by paying compensation fixed by district level purchase committee. In 2016, the civic body had served notices to over 100 new constructions along Karamana-Pravachambalam stretch following a report filed by town planning (vigilance) deeming the constructions as illegal. The notices were served as per the decision taken at a meeting convened by the then LSG secretary. The town planning department had submitted a report to the urban affairs ministry regarding constructions that had violated KMBR along Karamana-Pappanamcode road. The 3m distance from the road, which is mandatory for every construction was not maintained by commercial and domestic properties from Karamana. Many shopkeepers and house owners found themselves in a fix following the move as authorized documents could not be availed since they owned ‘unauthorised’ shops/houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-gives-spl-sanction-to-regularize-some-buildings/articleshow/78468740.cms||Aswin J Kumar
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State’s Covid cured moves closer to 2 lakh||Bhubaneswar: The number of Covid cured people inched closer to two lakh after 4,066 more patients recovered on Saturday. This led to the number of active positive cases falling to 30,248, the lowest in more than 20 days. With 3,053 more testing positive, the Covid caseload went up to 2,29,387 even as 17 more succumbed to the virus, raising the toll to 892. With recoveries surpassing new positive cases in more than a week, the total active positive cases have been falling since September 24, when it was 35,039. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra said though the experts are still working on various models for the probable Covid scenario for October, the falling trend shows the worst may be over unless there is resurgence of cases somewhere. “Except for Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, where the number of new cases are still very high, the trend is falling in all other parts of the state. The situation in the twin cities may also change in a few days,” Mohapatra hoped. The total recovered patients in the state has gone up to 1,98,194. In the past one week, around 24,000 people got infected while more than 28,000 got cured. “We are clearly past our peak. The total number of active cases is falling. The number of recoveries is more than the new cases,” said Jayant Panda, government’s technical adviser on Covid-19. “We hope to sustain the number of recoveries beyond 4,000 every day and the new positive cases less than that,” he said. The state’s recovery percentage now stands at 86%. Odisha is on its way to become the eighth among states/UTs with more than two lakh patients cured of Covid after Maharashtra (11.17 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (6.51 lakh), Tamil Nadu (5.58 lakh), Karnataka (4.99 lakh), Uttar Pradesh (3.56 lakh), Delhi (2.57 lakh) and West Bengal (2.31 lakh). More than one lakh patients have recovered in Odisha in the past 25 days. According to the Union health ministry, Odisha’s recovery of 4,048 patients on Friday was seventh highest after Maharashtra (13,294), Andhra (7,485), Karnataka (7,094), Tamil Nadu (5,603), UP (5,107) and Kerala (4,092) for the day. Khurda (561) and Cuttack (256) continue to lead in adding the most of the new cases though a total of nine districts reported more than 100 cases each. On a positive note, recovery in both Khurda (648) and Cuttack (521) are far more than the new infections. Among the deceased include three each from Balasore and Dhenkanal, two each from Khurda, Puri and Jagatsinghpur and one each from Bhadrak, Ganjam, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj and Nayagarh. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/states-covid-cured-moves-closer-to-2-lakh/articleshow/78468003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents want revival of anti- encroachment drive in markets||LUDHIANA: Time has come for Ludhiana police to revive their anti-encroachment drive in the old city areas as the markets there have again become chaotic. The festival season is coming ahead, hosiery season is already on and moreover, the Sunday lockdown is over now. Therefore, the situation will become worse in the markets located in old city areas in the coming days. The old city areas of Ludhiana have been chaotic in every season. It was a long awaited demand of city residents to manage the traffic chaos and remove encroachments in this area. For the first time ever, the Ludhiana police started an anti-encroachment drive in these areas on January 20. Initially, the police served notices to shopkeepers and owners of rehris to remove encroachment. After sending of notices, the police not only removed encroachment, but also booked shopkeepers for violation. After the old city, the drive was implemented in other parts of the city also. However, the drive discontinued due to Covid-19 outbreak. Now, markets are open and so encroachments have returned. The shopkeepers are keeping their stuff outside the shops as usual and blocking the road, resulting in traffic chaos. Further, vehicle parking on narrow roads is making the situation even worse for commuters. The TOI visited a few markets and found the worst chaos on Circular road, which is called zip market, and also the backside of Gaushala road, Gurmandi, Transport Nagar, division number 3 and some parts of Chaura Bazar also. Ankush Arora, a resident of New Madhopuri, said, “There is a zip market on Circular road. The hosiery season has started, due to which the market remains crowded now. On this particular road, first the shopkeepers park their vehicles outside shops and then they keep their stuff outside the shops and on the road. In addition, when a shopkeeper gets some delivery, the vehicle is parked in the middle of the road and this leads to traffic chaos as other vehicles don’t get space to move. This has become a routine scenario here.” A resident of Chawani Mohlla, Pawan Malhotra, said, “When Ludhiana police had started an anti-encroachment drive, our lives became easy. There was no traffic chaos and no congested roads. But now the situation is the same again. It is time for Ludhiana police to revive the drive as again shopkeepers have started doing encroachments outside their shops and the vehicles are parked in a haphazard way. He added, “In Transport Nagar, overloaded carts and pick-up vans can be seen blocking the roads. If you ask them to move the vehicle aside, they start abusing you.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-want-revival-of-anti-encroachment-drive-in-markets/articleshow/78468730.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 4, 2020||Ludhiana||MC meets heads of religious places over waste segregation||LUDHIANA: In order to reach out to the masses MC officials conducted meetings with heads of various religious places on Saturday under an ongoing drive. The civic body has kicked off a campaign for 15 days to educate the public about maintaining cleanliness around their surroundings. The religious heads are being told to start keeping two dust bins on their premises of their religious places and also encourage their followers to do the same. They are also spreading the message for source segregation and reducing the usage of plastic products at the time of langar and other religious activities. The officials claimed that people always follow the teachings of heads of these religious places more than anybody else so they have started holding meetings with these heads. They said that heads had been told to start segregation of waste on these premises and also tell the visitors about the importance of segregation. Mostly langars are organised at religious places and when food is served in disposable utensils it creates a major problem of lifting the same from the places. The heads are being told to serve food in utensils or leaves. Mohd Usman Sani-Ludhianavi, deputy Imam of Jama Masjid, shared that they had already started giving message to devotees during Friday Namaz to segregate the wet and dry waste. He said apart from this, they were actively participating in the sanitation drives near Jama Masjid in Field Gunj. “We are also encouraging the public to always carry a cloth bag while going out for shopping so that they should not take anything in plastic carry bags,” he said. Joint commissioner of MC Swati Tiwana said their employees were approaching various mosques, temples, gurdwaras and churches for convincing the heads about sanitation and through these heads they could spread message among all devotees. She said some councillors were also spreading the message among masses in their respective wards. A BJP councillor from ward number 57, Manju Aggarwal, and her husband Inder Aggarwal have been organising public meetings in the ward, asking people to maintain hygiene in their areas. They said the civic body could run the drives time and again but these would bring results only when public would support the cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-meets-heads-of-religious-places-over-waste-segregation/articleshow/78468725.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Can’t treat Covid patients under Phule scheme: Pvt hosps||Nagpur: Private hospitals in the city have said that it was not feasible for them to treat Covid-19 patients under Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. They expressed their inability to do so citing various reasons during a hearing conducted by a high court-appointed panel headed by mayor Sandip Joshi on Saturday.“During the Covid period, the prices of medicines and oxygen have increased tremendously. Therefore, the rates available to private hospitals under the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana are unaffordable. In addition, bills have to be submitted to the government 15 days after treatment. There were also deductions and delays in the payment of claims,” said the representatives of private hospitals.“Hence, after treatment, the bill should be paid within 48 hours without any deduction,” they demanded.The committee was directed to hold a hearing to find out difficulties faced by private hospitals in treating Covid patients under the scheme. Accordingly, 59 private hospitals were called for the hearing on Saturday. Out of them, representatives of 34 hospitals were present and expressed their views.The state government had made Covid treatment free for all sections in private hospitals under the scheme.On behalf of Vidarbha Hospital Association, 26 hospitals submitted their views. The government has already fixed rates for treatment of Covid patients. There is a difference between this rate and the one being provided under the government health scheme.They also said that the rates in Appendix C of the order should be implemented. The committee members discussed the issue while listening to the representatives of all the hospitals.All the statements were taken in writing and the report will be submitted to the high court on behalf of the committee.Earlier, the committee had held hearings about the problems of private hospitals in treating Covid patients. The impact of the meeting was that many private hospitals started providing beds for the treatment of such patients.IMA president Dr Archana Kothari, representatives from Nagpur Municipal Corporation, divisional commissioner, panel secretary, deputy municipal commissioner Milind Meshram, private doctors’ representative Dr Anil Laddhad and VHA’s Dr Anup Marar attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cant-treat-covid-patients-under-phule-scheme-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78468000.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Bengali films jostle for Puja release as theatres bring down number of shows||Kolkata: Ten years ago, Arindam Ganguly had begun working on a film titled ‘Cholo Potol Tuli’. Based on various short stories by Shibram Chakraborty, Ganguly had originally adapted them for stage. The multi-starrer, which traces the journey of a finicky man living in a beriberi-infected neighbourhood and his idiosyncratic ways of trying to ward off the disease from his house, has been in the making with Sabyasachi Chakraborty in the lead. In a curious twist of fate, Ganguly is now eyeing a Puja release in Covid-infected times. The movie will be among the 12 releases jostling for screen space during Pujas. Going by the numbers, this is perhaps the highest number of Bengali movie releases that any Durga Puja has seen in recent times. In 2019, there were four Puja releases while in 2018, there were six. The year’s releases include Soukarya Ghosal’s ‘Rawkto Rawhoshyo’, Arjunn Dutta’s ‘Guldasta’, Anjan Dutt’s ‘Shaheber Cutlet’, Debaloy Bhattacharya’s ‘Dracula Sir’, Anshuman Pratush’s ‘SOS Kolkata’, Rajiv Kumar’s ‘Love Story’, Manas Basu’s ‘Chobiyal’, Rohan Sen’s ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’ and Indranil Ghosh’s ‘Shironam’. Among the films whose screening was halted due to the pandemic and are expected to release are Aritra Mukherjee’s ‘Brahma Janen Gopon Kommoti’ and Indrasis Acharya’s ‘The Parcel’. Despite the record number, most of the top male stars — such as Prosenjit Chatterjee, Jeet, Dev, Ankush and Abir Chatterjee — do not have a Puja release this year. In spite of movies being ready, no productions of directors like Srijit Mukherji, Kaushik Ganguly, Arindam Sil and Raj Chakrabarty will hit the theatres this Puja. However, all top-rated female actors — such as Rituparna Sengupta, Arpita Chatterjee, Swastika Mukherjee, Koel Mallick, Srabanti, Nusrat Jahan and Mimi Chakraborty — have Puja releases. A still from 'Guldasta'Yet, the competition for showcasing during Pujas is fierce and has exhibitors and makers in a fix. According to exhibitor-distributor Satadeep Saha, “A dozen releases is only adding pressure on exhibitors. Will all of them get space in the cinemas? There are so many weeks in a year. Why is there such a mad rush to release movies during the Pujas?” Last Puja, Navina had screened six shows daily. Owing to the time required for sanitization between shows, its owner Naveen Choukhani has brought the number down to three. “Due to backlog, we are going to see an unprecedented number of releases this Puja. Unfortunately, we won’t be able to accommodate more than three films at Navina. That will include two shows of ‘Dracula Sir’ and one of ‘Brahma Janen Gopon Kommoti’,” said Choukhani. Directors like Arjunn Dutta are aware of the competition. “My film was initially supposed to release on April 24. But the plans got upset due to the pandemic. No one knows what’s in store for future. Under the circumstances we are in, releasing my film seems to be the right decision,” Dutta said. Meanwhile, Arijit Dutta of Priya is worried since he has “heard” that release of all Hindi/English films have been shifted from Diwali. “So, I am now rethinking on my opening date. Even if I open on October 16, I will have to shut down by the first week of November. Shutting down twice will be a disaster.” Last year, Priya had seven shows daily. “This year, it will be four. My choice of films will depend on who the distributor is for the movie and not the film’s title, cast or production house,” Dutta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengali-films-jostle-for-puja-release-as-theatres-bring-down-number-of-shows/articleshow/78468743.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||CLAT results tomorrow, admission process to go online from Tuesday||KOLKATA: The admission process for all law schools in the country under the Consortium of Law Schools will start on Tuesday after CLAT results are declared on Monday. The process will be online this time because of the Covid situation. West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS), which is a member of the Consortium, will follow the same rules with slight modifications as is applicable to it. The process will be completed by October 15. It has been decided that since the admissions will be completely virtual and there will be no physical verification of marks this time, till the situation normalises, all admissions will be provisional. They will be given the final seal of approval when the physical verification is done later. However, online classes will start and provisional admissions will allow students to attend it. At the beginning of the registration process, candidates three times the number of available seats will be invited. Each candidate has been advised to indicate five choices of law schools. The first allotment list will be uploaded on October 9. For the next two days, candidates will have the option to either lock onto the choice or apply for an upgrade. At this stage, they will also be required to upload their documents. There will be three such rounds. “Earlier, candidates would have had to go to respective campuses where they secured their berths for verification of documents, fee payment etc. This time, we made the process online. For the time being, we will go by the documents they upload so that the session is not hampered,” said NUJS vice-chancellor Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty. NUJS has decided that even allotment of hostel seats will be done online. However, no mess charge will be taken because services are not being availed of. The allotment of hostel seats will be done after the admissions are completed because when campuses reopen and students come in, accommodation could become a problem. “The hostels are run by the students through a mess system, which will become operational once the students are on campus. All payments have to be made online this time as opposed to the previous system of paying through demand drafts,” said registrar Sikha Sen. NUJS will hold a series of meetings over the weekend to finalize the process with slight modifications, if required. The students’ body will also be included in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clat-results-tomorrow-admission-process-to-go-online-from-tuesday/articleshow/78468741.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Stigma attached with Covid dying||Nagpur: Finally, the stigma or taboo attached with almost a year-old disease, Covid-19, is dying down slowly as more and more people nowadays making their status of illness public on social networking sites or otherwise too. Asymptomatic and positive patients, who were publicly shamed in early days of the disease, are now getting help like cooked food, names of testing centres, etc, from their acquaintances and best wishes on various sites. Businessman Ashutosh Wakhare, who is asymptomatic and under home isolation, said he does not think that the taboo is completely gone but it is not as bad as earlier. “I had put a video out on social media in which I mentioned about my being positive got thousands of views. In fact, people sent cooked food to our house saying I should take complete rest,” Wakhare said. He further said people have stigmatized government hospitals also but that’s not the case. “I got my testing done at the AIIMS lab. The lab’s employees are very professional and cost is also lesser than any private hospital,” Wakhare said. Another businessman, Manish Swami, went public on networking site of his residential colony when his daughter tested positive. “I immediately put the message so that every other resident can be aware of this and get tested if they had come in contact with any of us. I have not seen any negative reaction from people after putting this information out,” Swami said. Student Shefali Gupta agrees that things are still not completely fine. “I don’t feel any shame in admitting that I tested positive but there are people I know who did not disclose about being tested positive,” said Gupta. Psychiatrist Dr Suleiman Virani feels the gradual change in attitude is due to acceptance. “People have now no hesitation in updating their Covid positive / isolation status in social media because now the fear of death and complication is reduced with early detection and prompt treatment and isolation. They also see almost 90% people are getting cured of the disease which instill confidence and hope in them. Positive mental attitude in this time is very important and that’s reflected in their social media posts when they update their status as positive or isolated or cured or victorious,” Dr Virani said. For those who tested positive in the early stages, things have come a long way. Businessman Goldy Bindra said, “When I had been infected in June, the stigma around it was very much high. Since the NMC had tagged my apartment as the containment zone, house help and sanitation workers feared coming to our complex and even other flatmates had reservations about passing through our house. Even after I recovered, people distanced themselves from me for about 10-15 days. However, the shame surrounding the virus has decreased to some extent. People are taking steps as a precaution rather than alienating the patient.” (With inputs from Manshika Vaikkath)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stigma-attached-with-covid-dying/articleshow/78468895.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Raise issues about state insurance scheme for Covid: HC to pvt hosps||Nagpur: Calling on private hospitals to come forward with difficulties they face while subscribing to ‘Mahatma Phule Jan Aarogya Yojana (MPJAY)’, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court directed their management to raise their problems with the coordination committee led by the mayor.The health insurance scheme launched by Maharashtra government provides 20 various packages to patients for free treatment of Covid-19 in private and government hospitals. So far, about 31 private and nine government hospitals in the district are empanelled under the scheme.“We wanted a response from all private hospitals. We are prepared to consider if there are any difficulties faced by them. Therefore, it’s expected from all of them to express all genuine difficulties in their way in subscribing to the scheme floated by the government,” said a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala.Earlier, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar filed an affidavit in a suo motu PIL based on a TOI report where Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed as amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. He stated that if all private hospitals are prepared to subscribe to the MPJAY scheme, Covid-19 patients can get free treatment even in these hospitals.According to him, the government had issued a notification on August 17 where 20 procedures are prescribed under which Covid-19 patients can be treated free of cost. The government will reimburse the cost to empanelled hospitals.“We, therefore, wanted this issue to be resolved by private hospitals in a coordination committee meeting which we have constituted. We expect it to be held in the mayor’s chamber,” said the judges.In response to another query from court, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) counsel Sudhir Puranik informed that the government is authorized to fix the rate for testing and investigation and the civic body has no role to play in this.According to him, the government through a resolution of September 9 has fixed rates of High Resolution Computerised Tomography (HMCT), which was challenged by Indian Radiologists and Imaging Association, Vidarbha chapter.In response to another query on utilizing railway hospitals for Covid-19 patients, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B clarified that it didn’t have piped oxygen supply facility and their authority is working on it. However, the medical and paramedical staff of railways has been made available to run NMC’s 44-bedded Ayush hospital at Sadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raise-issues-about-state-insurance-scheme-for-covid-hc-to-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78468005.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Vacant general seats wait for takers; Kolkata colleges to reopen admission portals||KOLKATA: Many colleges have decided not to de-reserve seats in the undergraduate courses since there are still some vacancies in the unreserved category. They have instead decided to reopen their admission portals inviting fresh applications to fill up the seats. The authorities will decide on the issue of de-reservation of seats after the admissions in the second phase conclude. In many colleges large number of seats in the reserved categories, including SC, ST, OBC A, and OBC B, have not been filled in several subjects increasing the worries of the principals. They have already issued multiple notices informing the candidates about the vacancies in reserved categories. “In many colleges, seats in the unreserved category are vacant so it does not make sense for those colleges to de-reserve seats. The higher education department has extended the deadline for admissions to the UG courses till October 30 so that colleges can fill up maximum seats,” said an official of the higher education department. Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College is inviting fresh applications in subjects like mathematics, Bengali, communicative English and education. “Some general category seats are vacant in a few subjects along with reserved category seats. The second phase of admission to fill up these seats is underway,” said an official of the college. Basanti Devi College where admissions in the second phase are underway, there are 16 vacant seats in economics, 14 in mathematics, 30 in communicative english, 26 in philosophy and 104 in BA general. All these vacant seats are in the unreserved category. “We are trying to fill up maximum seats as possible in this phase. Decision on the reserved category seats will be taken later,” said an official. According to the West Bengal State Higher Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2013, if reserved category seats aren’t filled up, they can be offered to general category students after consulting the backward class welfare department. The law also provides with a provision where the seats in the reserved category remains vacant after every applicant has admitted, such seats can be opened for the general candidates so that no seat goes unfilled. Colleges like Shyamaprasad, Charuchandra and Vivekananda College have reopened their portals for fresh applications both in the reserved and the unreserved category. Other colleges like Lady Brabourne, Scottish Church College, Bethune and Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College have not reopened their portals but have decided to issue provisional merit lists from the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vacant-general-seats-wait-for-takers-colleges-to-reopen-admission-portals/articleshow/78468735.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Banks, jewellers strike gold as cash crunch leads to borrowing||Nagpur: Financial distress due to Covid, including urgent medical expenses, has led to individuals tapping all sources of funds, from borrowing against jewellery to even emptying their Provident Fund (PF) accounts.The loan size ranges from Rs5,000 to a lakh, which indicates the dire need of small amounts also, say sources in the sector. Some of the urgent loans from moneylenders or NBFCs are said to have been taken to meet Covid treatment expenses.TOI spoke to private moneylenders, banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and the PF office. It was seen that there has been a marked increase in demand for personal finance of all types.The regional PF office at Nagpur, which covers eastern Vidarbha, used to fully settle 14,000 accounts a month till April. From May onwards, the number increased to 22,000 to 23,000 settlements a month. Usually full settlement is done at retirement. It is expected, apart from retirement, accounts are also being settled on account of termination of jobs, which has led to the sharp increase, an official said. The office has also granted cleared partial withdrawal in 42,000 cases.Jewellers, who also operate as moneylenders, say there has been a marked increase in borrowings. This appears to be due to the cash crunch faced by a large section of persons these days. Rajesh Rokde, secretary of Itwari Sarafa Merchants Association, said the number of borrowers may have easily gone up by 40% on year to year basis. Jewellers lend at a rate of up to 18%. The amounts are up to Rs50,000.Rajesh Katkoria of M/s Kantilal Jewellers also at Itwari said apart from pledging gold, a large number of persons are coming for outright sale of gold. “Such persons prefer to avoid the hassle of repayment. As against one odd person coming to sell gold jewellery, it has increased to three or four persons every day,” he said.Dr Sukesh Zanwar, managing director of Buldhana Urban Cooperative Society, which is a leading player in gold loan business said a 20% increase was seen in lending since two months. “Even as the borrower need not specify purpose, in general a number of persons are saying they need the money for medical expenses,” he said.TOI called one private and new generation public sector bank each, and branches of three NBFCs extending gold loans. There was a mixed response.Officials at one NBFC admitted that loans were also being taken for Covid treatment and the number had gone up in last two months. At another, the official said a section of borrowers had topped up their loans after gold rates went up, but no fresh demand was seen. At the third, dull business was reported at the branch.An executive in one of the banks said, “There was a sharp increase in demand for personal loans this month. Individuals with no other liability are borrowing as much as Rs10 lakh, which is the upper limit for those having salaries of Rs50,000 and above. Normally, the borrowers don’t exhaust their entire limit in a single loan. Post-Covid basic income level of a borrower for granting loans has been increased by 20%. This has made a large number of prospective borrowers ineligible at the bank.”A senior official at another bank, however, rejected any such trend in gold or personal loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/banks-jewellers-strike-gold-as-cash-crunch-leads-to-borrowing/articleshow/78468032.cms||Shishir Arya
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||First donation for Ayodhya mosque from Hindu Lucknow University staffer||AYODHYA: India’s secular fabric was once again reinforced when a member of the Hindu community made the first contribution towards construction of the mosque complex in Ayodhya on Saturday. The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) constituted by Sunni Waqf Board to build the mosque, library, museum and community kitchen on 5acre in Ayodhya received the first funds to its corpus from an employee of Lucknow University, law faculty, Rohit Srivastava, who donated Rs 21,000. The Trust accepted the cheque at its Lucknow office in presence of IICF secretary, Athar Husain and trustees Mohammad Rashid and Imran Ahmad. Talking to TOI, Rohit Srivastava, said, “I come from a generation, which is rooted in syncretism, where religious barriers blur. I don’t celebrate Holi or Diwali without my Muslim friends and they too don’t celebrate the festival of Eid without me. This is just not about me. This is the story of crores of Hindus and Muslims in India.” “Our families never taught us to be misguided in the name of religion. And I appeal to members of Hindu community to come forward and donate generously for the mosque to send out a message that Muslims are our brothers,” Rohit Srivastava added. Talking to TOI, mosque Trust secretary Athar Hussain said, “The first contribution for building the mosque came from a Hindu brother and this exemplifies the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb or Indo-Islamic culture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-donation-for-ayodhya-mosque-from-hindu-lu-staffer/articleshow/78470524.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||+ve woman dies in Chanda GMCH, kin say docs failed to provide O2 in time; hospital denies||Chandrapur: Family members of a young woman patient, who died at Chandrapur GMCH’s Covid hospital on Saturday, created ruckus alleging negligence and delay in providing oxygen. Dean Dr Arun Humne refuted the allegations and blamed the family for the death. The family members alleged delay in admitting the patient and charged the doctors with failing to provide oxygen in time. They alleged that no stretcher was available and they had to themselves carry the patient around on a wheelchair.Dr Humne claimed that the patient was brought to GMCH from a private hospital in critical condition with oxygen saturation level (SPO2) level at minus 80. “She was admitted to the Covid ward and doctors were prepared to provide high flow oxygen through bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP), but the family members insisted on putting her on ventilator,” said the dean. “BiPAP therapy is as good as ventilator. But the family objected to it and stopped doctors from doing their duty, leading to the death. The family said the private hospital from where the patient was brought had recommended that she be put on ventilator,” he said. Earlier, Vidarbha Kisan Mazdoor Congress under the guidance of former MP Naresh Puglia staged protests at GMCH and claimed that guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar had failed to build proper Covid treatment facilities at government hospitals. The organization claimed that during his Independence Day speech, the minister had assured to start a 300-bed oxygen and ventilator facility at GMCH and 400-bed facility at Army school, procurement of 40 ambulances and ensuring ample availability of medicines and doctors. “Even over 200 positive cases and around five deaths daily, Wadettiwar has failed to fulfil his promise,” said Puglia who demanded immediate arrangement of 700 oxygen beds at government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ve-woman-dies-in-chanda-gmch-kin-say-docs-failed-to-provide-o2-in-time-hospital-denies/articleshow/78468022.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Private hospitals, admin lock horns over inflated Covid-19 bills||AURANGABAD: Private hospitals in the city and the district administration have been at loggerheads with each other with the former being accused of inflating bills of Covid-19 patients. While the district administration has released a list of 14 private hospitals, including major ones, and accused them of charging excess bills worth Rs 62.3 lakh from 656 patients, the hospital managements concerned have hit back by questioning the rationale behind the proposed action against them in case of non-refund of money. President of Marathwada Hospitals Association, Aurangabad chapter, Himanshu Gupta refuted the allegations of overcharging levied against private hospitals by the district administration. “As per government guidelines, sealing on hospital charges for Covid-19 patients was applicable only for 80% reserved beds. However, the district administration has erroneously considered such sealing limit on remaining 20% beds also. Secondly, the guidelines of the government allowed hospitals to charge 5% extra charges from Covid-19 patients as hospital charges. The district administration failed to pay any attention to this fact,” he said. Gupta said that Covid-19 patients, which were covered under the medical insurance, opted for special rooms and other facilities and such cases were also categorised under “overcharging”. “The auditors appointed by the government were deputed at every private hospital from the very beginning when beds were reserved. When these auditors were present at hospitals on a daily basis as watchdog, it is strange that the district administration is now suddenly coming out with 656 cases of inflated bills,” said Gupta who is also the chief administrator at Seth Nandlal Dhoot Hospital that accounts for maximum 393 complaints of overcharging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-hosps-admin-lock-horns-over-inflated-covid-19-bills/articleshow/78468766.cms||Prasad Joshi
October 4, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Hathras incident triggers ruckus in assembly||Bhubaneswar: The alleged gang rape of a 19-year old in Hathras and manhandling of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi by the Uttar Pradesh Police echoed in the state assembly on Saturday as Congress MLAs staged protest, demanding the resignation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. After Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra raised the issue as soon as the House assembled at 10:30 am, other Congress MLAs rushed to the well and continued shouting slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Adityanath. The Congress MLAs, while trying to climb atop the speaker’s podium, also scuffled with the marshals. Unable to run the House, speaker Surya Narayan Patro adjourned it thrice till 11:30 am and later till 3 pm. Even an all-party meeting convened by the speaker couldn’t help restore normalcy in the House. “What happened in Uttar Pradesh is most unfortunate. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were arrested. They were physically assaulted. Is there democracy in Uttar Pradesh? We condemn the attack on Rahul Gandhi,” said Narasingha, while referring to the Hathras incident. On Friday, the Congress had also protested in different parts of the state over manhandling of Rahul by the Uttar Pradesh Police. Objecting to the protest by Congress MLAs, leader of opposition Pradipta Kumar Naik said the Congress is trying to waste valuable time by raising the Uttar Pradesh incident in the Odisha assembly. “What is the significance of raising the issue in the state assembly. It could be raised in Parliament,” pointed out Naik amid sloganeering by Congress MLAs. Briefing reporters outside, Naik said the Congress and the BJD have no moral right to speak on women’s safety. He also targeted the state government over increasing incidents of crime against women. Though the BJD remained silent in the assembly, its leader and former minister Snehangini Chhuria slammed the Uttar Pradesh government over the incident. “We strongly condemn the gang rape of a Dalit minor. The Uttar Pradesh administration pressurized the family members of the victim to change the statement. They were treated in an inhuman manner by the police and local administration. I strongly condemn the incident and police behaviour,” Chhuria said. She said Dalit women from Odisha will hit the streets until the girl’s family gets justice. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hathras-incident-triggers-ruckus-in-assembly/articleshow/78468027.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Decline in no. of cases in Satara dist||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 371 fresh Covid-19 cases and 27 patients died due to the infection since Friday late night, taking the total number of cases to 38,178. The death toll has now risen to 1,214. The fresh cases indicate a decline in the number of cases reported. Meanwhile, 28,655 patients have recovered and 8,849 cases are active. The number of patients in Satara and Karad tehsils, which have been increasing in the past few weeks, came down considerably. Of the fresh case, Satara tehsil reported 130 cases including 76 from Satara town while Karad tehsil identified 44 patients, of which 10 are from Karad town among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/decline-in-no-of-cases-in-satara-dist/articleshow/78468056.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Poor finances deter NMC from resuming Aapli Bus ops||Nagpur: The spike in Covid-19 cases is acting as a deterrent for the cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to resume Aapli Bus service in the city.Sources in the NMC confirmed that the civic administration is “not so keen” to resume the city bus service. NMC’s debilitating finances are cited as the key reason by sources for non-resumption of city bus service, as its committed monthly expenses will rise by Rs15 crore per month. As of now, the NMC is finding it extremely difficult to meet its monthly committed expenditure of Rs115 crore, and has sought Rs500 crore financial assistance from the state government to meet the same.With its depleted revenue sources, the NMC is entirely dependent on the state government’s grants, which includes Rs100 crore as GST grant per month.The NMC has already taken various corrective measures. Since lockdown, the civic body has discontinued services of over 500 private engineers and officials hired for various civic-related works in the city. It has also stopped development works.Before lockdown, the NMC used to run almost 370 buses — including five electric buses — and spent around Rs14 crore per month. Of this, the civic body used to earn around Rs6 crore from bus fares, while the gap viability fund was around Rs8 crore.Recently, transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar insisted on the resumption of Aapli Bus in a meeting with municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B.Vidarbha region president of Akhil Bharatiya Grahak Panchayat, Gajanan Pande demanded that the NMC resumes Aapli bus operations at the earliest. According to him, like other metros, city bus service should resume. Over 1.8 lakh passengers, including 80,000 students, used to commute daily in Aapli buses. With no city buses, almost 1 lakh passengers — mostly employees in private and industrial sectors — are facing hardships to reach their workplace. “With no buses, people are forced to commute in overcrowded autorickshaws”, Pande pointed out.He also ridiculed the NMC’s move to not resume Aapli Bus service citing financial crisis. He said the pandemic’s impact was felt not just in Nagpur, but across the country. “Public transport is one of the worst-affected sectors, as it will face long-term effect due to Covid-19. Urban and rural public transport is usually a loss-making venture,” said experts. There is hardly any public sector city bus service in India that makes a profit. Covid-19 has aggravated these financial difficulties.Business and industrial activities have restarted in Nagpur rural, and commuters are facing problems. The Aapli Bus control room is receiving enquiries about the resumption of city bus operations. BOXBus operators struggling to pay EMIs Aapli Bus operators are also facing severe financial problems, as their main source of revenue is actual run kilometres of buses, that is, when buses are in use. But due to Covid-19 lockdown, buses have been standing in depots since March 22. All three red bus operators have procured 50 and 15 mini-buses each from bank finance, and are now struggling to pay the instalments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poor-finances-deter-nmc-from-resuming-aapli-bus-ops/articleshow/78468051.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||NMC delays spl camp results, no guidance on self-isolation||Nagpur: People and sanitary workers, whose swab samples are collected at special camps, are getting reports from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) after 3-4 days though government laboratories are giving results within a day. NMC staffers are reportedly not guiding people on self-solation after giving samples. Those who are giving samples at these camps too are guilty of not following self-isolation guidelines till the time they receive reports. All these factors could lead to further spread of Covid-19 in the city. The NMC Laxmi Nagar Zone held a special camp at Sindhi Colony, Khamla, on September 29 and 30 with the help of corporator Prakash Bhoyar and president of Pujya Sindhi Panchayat Khamla Narayan Ahuja. Around 70 people including Bhoyar gave swab samples.Ahuja told TOI, “The zone office sent all 70 reports on Saturday. A man who tested positive continued to work at a grocery shop even after giving samples on September 29. A woman who tested positive had gone to the house of her relatives in North Nagpur. She was supposed to travel with them to another state on Sunday.”“The chances of two persons infecting many cannot be ruled out. NMC’s idea of reaching out to people is appreciable but the very purpose of camps is being defeated,” he said.Ahuja alleged that the NMC seems to be interested in only increasing number of tests. “NMC staffers who collected samples did not guide people on self-isolation. The woman said as reports were not received within two days, she assumed her test was negative. Earlier, NMC was not tracing and testing high-risk contacts of positive patients. It should be blamed for spread of Covid-19,” he said.According to him, NMC is giving results at six testing centres the next day but at special camps on 3rd or 4th day. Bhoyar, also chairman of NMC Laxmi Nagar Zone, said, “I got my results on Friday (3rd day) that too after contacting an official. Fortunately, none of the people who gave samples had severe symptoms. Giving reports within 24 hours is mandatory and will help in isolation, contact tracing, admission of patients and early testing.”TOI on Saturday had reported that the civic body is testing around 7,000 sanitary workers in a phased manner allegedly to increase number of tests. Zonal officials of five of total 10 zones said all sanitary workers reported on duty the next day after giving samples. “Some tests were done through rapid antigen whose results were known the same day. But results of RT-PCR are coming on 3rd or 4th day. Till such time, sanitary workers are coming to work. We are asking them to get admitted to Covid care centre if their reports come positive,” they said.As per guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), all have to be in isolation from the time of giving samples and receiving reports.Sources from NMC said, “Laboratories on October 1 gave reports of samples collected at the Khamla camp but Laxmi Nagar zone issued them late to people.”Admitting that people should be in isolation till reports are received, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Results of one or two zones might have been delayed. I will ensure results come on time and direct staffers to guide people properly about isolation till reports arrive. People too should also cooperate,” he said.RISKING COVID SPREAD* Number of tests in the city declined from third week of September* NMC started special camps in residential areas for high-risk contacts of positive patients, people with comorbidities and senior citizens* Tests reportedly made must for around 7,000 sanitary workers * 70 people gave samples at special camp held at Khamla on September 29 and 30* NMC sent reports on October 3* Man who tested positive continued to work in grocery shop after giving samples* Woman who tested positive was at the house of relatives in North Nagpur and planned to travel to other state* Sanitary workers also reporting on duty before receiving reports||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-delays-spl-camp-results-no-guidance-on-self-isolation/articleshow/78468043.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Dhangar leaders set aside differences for quota fight||Kolhapur: Leaders of Dhangar community met in Kolhapur on Friday and decided to set aside their political differences to push for reservation for the community. They also met Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, who is at the forefront of the agitation for Maratha reservation. Dhangar community leaders Annasaheb Dange of NCP, former minister Ram Shinde and BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar met Sambhajiraje. The meeting is significant as Dhangars had strong resentment against Maratha reservation as they feared that it would cut into their share in the quotas. Recalling his family’s long association with Dhangars, Sambhajiraje assured the leaders that it was his responsibility to take follow-up of reservation for their community. The leaders also explained the necessity of the reservation for Dhangar community. Sambhajiraje told the delegation that Bahujan Samaj, also covers Dhangars. Leaders of both the communities decided to fight for reservation together. The meeting of Dhangar community, which was presided over by Annasaheb Dange, passed resolution asking all the political leaders to bury their differences and come together for the fight of reservation. The meeting passed a resolution asking for a comprehensive policy by the government for the security of the community and their livestock as they are facing lot of problems. The meeting also passed another resolution demanding daily hearing of their petition seeking reservation pending before the high court. Dhangar community has already started statewide agitation to press the demand for reservation. The community, spread across western Maharashtra and parts of Marathwada, is considered politically dominant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dhangar-leaders-set-aside-differences-for-quota-fight/articleshow/78468039.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||Woman resists auto driver’s bid to steal her purse, succeeds||Lucknow: Showing exemplary courage, a woman in her late 30s nabbed an autorickshaw driver red-handed after he stole her purse in Chowk on Saturday. Passenger Deepika Awasthi, who is a homemaker, was going to purchase medicines from a shop on Shahmina Road in an autorickshaw on Saturday around 6pm. She alleged that the driver suddenly stopped the autorickshaw and snatched her purse and tried to flee but the woman put up a brave fight while holding on to her purse. She simultaneously also caught hold of the man and raised an alarm. Hearing her cries, several commuters converged to the scene and held the accused driver. Later, the police were informed and the accused driver, Bhanu Sharma, was arrested. “Bhanu also threatened me with dire consequences but I did not step back and was not scared of his words and held him tightly,” she added in her complaint to the police. Bhanu tried to wriggle himself free but commuters had held him by then. SHO Chowk Vishwajeet Singh said that Bhanu was booked for theft, attacking, and criminal intimidation. “He also confessed that he had stolen the purse out of greed and also sought apologies from the woman passenger,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-resists-auto-drivers-bid-to-steal-her-purse-succeeds/articleshow/78470527.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolhapur||296 new Covid cases & 13 deaths in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 296 fresh Covid-19 patients and 13 deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 45,355. The death toll has risen to 1,479.  The number of daily cases and deaths continue to be low since the pastt one week. On Saturday, 362 patients were discharged from across the district. As many as 35,226 patients have recovered from the contagion so far. The number of patients discharged daily continues to remain more than the fresh cases reported. The officials said the number of patients being discharged will continue to be high. If this trend continues for two weeks, the number of active cases will come down drastically. While the decline in the number of daily cases is attributed to the slowing down of the contagion spread, the decline in the number of tests done also has to be noted. The number of throat swabs tested daily in government labs has come down to half. On Saturday, 961 throat swab samples were tested in government labs, of which 181 tested positive. Throat swabs tested through antigen testing kit were 285, of which 25 tested positive. Five private labs tested 307 swabs, of which 90 tested positive. Meanwhile, Kolhapur civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti on his visit to Hutatma Park found a youth spitting in the open. Kalshetti slapped a fine of Rs 1,000 fine for spitting in a public place. Sangli reports 393 casesSangli district reported 19 Covid deaths and 393 fresh cases on Saturday. The total number of cases in the district has reached to 38,518, of which 1,403 have succumbed to infection, 30,506 patients have recovered and 6,609 cases are active. On Saturday, 689 patients were discharged from across the district. The number of patients discharged is almost the double of the number of fresh cases reported daily.  At present, most cases are found in rural parts of the district. The number of cases reported in Sangli civic area was 63 while 75 cases were traced in municipal towns, as against 255 cases reported in rural areas of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/296-new-cases-13-deaths-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78468071.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||Artists’ virtual music show today to raise funds for zoo||Lucknow: City artists will join hands to perform live for social media on Sunday to raise donations as part of a fundraising campaign for the inmates of zoo. An initiative by city-based disk jockey Ayush Singhal aka DJ Ravetek (27), the event will be hosted in collaboration with Meerut-based NGO Aidmatrix Foundation and Lucknow zoo. The event will be livestreamed on the NGO’s YouTube and Facebook page. The zoo has been reeling under financial crisis due to drastic drop in the number of visitors during coronavirus pandemic. Recently, zoo authorities had also appealed to the people to adopt animals. Through their live performance, the artists will make people aware about wildlife safety and the need to help animals. With hashtag #ZoomintoZoo, the event titled ‘For the Love of Lucknow Zoo’ is being promoted by artists and citizens. “As kids, we all have visited the zoo, loved the animals, and now the same animals need our help during these tough times. Since music, dance or any kind of art form is the best way to create awareness, I, along with other city artists have decided to contribute and perform for the social cause,” DJ Ayush Singhal said. “Since everyone can’t adopt animals, even a small amount of Re 1 or Rs 5 will also make a huge difference. Through the event, we will appeal citizen to contribute in whatever way they can,” he said. Singer Shreya Pandey, Bharatnatyam dancer Surangama Sharma, DJ Nikhil Singh, Sudhir Yadav (DJ Brocode). The event will be hosted by second runner-up of Miss India 2016 Pankhuri Gidwani. “People can donate the amount directly to Lucknow zoo or can do so through the numbers we have provided,” Singhal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/artists-virtual-music-show-today-to-raise-funds-for-zoo/articleshow/78470530.cms||Aditi Singh
October 4, 2020||Aurangabad||ST employee loses Rs 4.89L in online fraud||Aurangabad: An employee of a state transport, who already had an account with a nationalised bank, was cheated of Rs 4.89 lakh when he entertained the call of a suspect who was offering him a new credit card of a private bank. On September 14, Avinash Mitkar (49), a resident of Bansilalnagar, received a call from an unidentified number where the suspect claimed to be a representative of a private bank. Investigation officer and inspector Amol Deokar said, “The suspect informed Mitkar that a new credit card had arrived for him. Under the pretext of cross verifying Mitkar’s credentials and also increasing the credit limit on his new card, the suspect convinced Mitkar to download an application.” Soon after downloading the application, the suspect asked for the unique id number reflecting on the newly installed application on Mitkar’s phone. Mitkar alleged that the suspect hacked his mobile phone via the application that he was asked to install and Rs 4.89 lakh that was kept in his bank account were debited to multiple bank accounts. By the time he realised that he has been cheated, all the money from his bank account had been siphoned Off. Later, Mitkar reached out to the bank, collected details and lodged a complaint with the cyber police station. After carrying out a preliminary probe, the matter was registered to Kranti Chowk police station where a case has been registered against the suspects for cheating and relevant section of the IT Act have also been slapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/st-employee-loses-rs-4-89l-in-online-fraud/articleshow/78468792.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 4, 2020||Kolhapur||1,128 patients discharged in Solapur rural||Kolhapur: A total of 1,128 Covid patients were discharged from across the district on Saturday while 246 people tested positive for coronavirus in Solapur rural. For the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic in April, Solapur rural has shown signs of improvement. According to the officials, 667 men and 461 women from rural Solapur were discharged on Saturday. Malshiras, Pandharpur and Barshi tehsils have also recorded a lower number of cases as compared to the last few days. Solapur rural recorded eight deaths of which five are elderly. Mohol and Pandharpur tehsil reported two deaths each. Of the fresh cases, Barshsi tehsil added 47 cases, 59 patients were traced in Pandharpur tehsil and Malshiras reported 43 cases. Solapur rural has 26,099 Covid cases, of which 707 patients have succumbed, 20,149 patients have recovered and 5,193 cases are active. Meanwhile, Solapur city reported 50 new cases, taking the total number of cases to 8,611. Five deaths due to Covid-19 were recorded on Saturday, taking the death toll to 486.. As many as 56 patients were discharged on Saturday. A total of 7287 patients have recovered so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1128-patients-discharged-in-solapur-rural/articleshow/78468063.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||Man rapes 12-year-old niece, arrested||Chandrapur: Gondpipri police have arrested a man for raping his 12-year-old niece in Yenbothla village. The incident took place on Friday, on the day when father of the accused passed away. The accused was arrested within few hours of filing the complaintOfficial sources informed that the accused had come to his brother’s house to attend the funeral. When the family was having dinner, the accused in an inebriated condition went after the survivor who had gone outside for some work at 9pm. The accused took the girl to a dilapidated bathroom and raped her, said the sources.When survivor’s father came outside to look for his daughter, he heard her cries and rushed to her rescue. The accused managed to flee in the dark. After the girl narrated the incident, the family took her to Gondpipri police station.Cops registered an offence of rape and under relevant sections of POCSO Act. Cops managed to nab the accused who was hiding behind a water tank, around 1km from the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-rapes-12-year-old-niece-arrested/articleshow/78468060.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||Sensitive policing must to strengthen govt: CM||Lucknow: In the midst of a raging controversy over the police’s handling of the murder and alleged rape of a 19-year-old dalit girl in Hathras, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said the government was committed to ensuring that every single person in the state got justice. He said that sensitive policing was a must to strengthen the foundation of the government and ensure better law and order. The chief minister was speaking via video conference at the convocation ceremony for probationary deputy superintendents of police and assistant prosecution officers at Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar Police Academy in Moradabad. He said that at a time when the whole world was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, the police academy was organising training for police personnel which was highly commendable. Addressing the personnel, the CM said that their jobs in the police were not limited to just maintenance of law and order and controlling crime but also ensuring justice for everyone. “There is a great need to be sensitive towards the common man. This is something that needs to be developed during training itself. Simultaneously, there should also be a fear of law,” he said. The chief minister emphasised on the need for the police force to keep itself up to date on changing technology, saying that crime itself was undergoing change and in order to control it, one needed to keep pace with it. For better policing, he said, the government has filled up 1.37 lakh posts in the police department in the past three years. In the academy, training is divided into indoor and outdoor. In indoor training, understanding of the legal framework is strengthened through courses like law and order, laws, human rights, cybercrime, police regulation. In outdoor training, a personnel has to go through physical strengthening, fitness, drills, jungle training, horse riding, swimming etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sensitive-policing-must-to-strengthen-govt-cm/articleshow/78470531.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Industry wants administration nod for more oxygen||KOLHAPUR: Industrialists from Kolhapur district want the administration to remove the cap on oxygen supply to industries. Currently, the oxygen suppliers have to reserve 80% of the oxygen for medical use, while 20% is for industrial purposes. Before the pandemic, the industries used 70% of the oxygen produced and 30% was sent for the medical purpose. A large number of fabrication units in Kolhapur district need oxygen cylinders for their work and have not been able to operate after the authorities reduced the supply for industrial purposes. Sachin Shirgaonkar, president of Gokul-Shirgaon Manufacturers Association, said that since the number of Covid-19 cases have come down in district, the demand for oxygen for medical purposes has also reduced. “Though 20% oxygen is reserved for industrial purposes, many industries are not getting adequate supply and have stopped production. Now, since the Unlock process had begun, the demand for industrial goods is increasing. We have demanded that at least 50% oxygen be made available for industrial purposes,” he said. Since the production has stopped, the workers have been asked to wait. The owners claim that they have not laid off the workers despite suffering financial losses for several months. The industrialists claimed that if the industrial work does not start in full capacity, it will hamper the sector for coming months. District guardian minister Satej Patil too has ordered district authorities to ensure increased supply of oxygen to industries. Currently, 40% of oxygenated beds are vacant in district hospitals. Patil has asked to revise the capping limit mainly anticipating the need for medical purpose in coming days and months. The total need of oxygen if all beds are occupied is around 12 tonnes per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/industry-wants-admin-nod-for-more-oxygen/articleshow/78468088.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Congress vows to step up protests over Mhadei||Panaji: If fighting to restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river counts as breaking the law, Congress will continue to break the law, said state party president Girish Chodankar as the party’s workers vowed to continue their protests. Close to 20 Congress workers, who were were arrested at midnight and held overnight at the Anjuna police station, were released on Saturday after being produced before the divisional magistrate in Panaji. Police arrested the workers for agitating at a city-based resort where Union minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar, was staying. The arrested pary workers included Varad Mardolkar, state party vice-president Sankalp Amonkar, Janardhan Bhandari, Meghshyam Raut, Sudin Naik, Urfan Mulla and others. Congress claimed its workers had gone there to seek an appointment with Javadekar so that they could highlight Goa’s concerns about diversion of water from Mhadei river basin. “Our workers took a delegation to meet Javadekar and when they went there, they raised black flags and asked for the Mhadei to be saved. It is for people to decide whether this is against the law,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. “Javadekar has sold Goa’s Mhadei and every Goan is hurt about it” said the state Congress president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-vows-to-step-up-protests-over-mhadei/articleshow/78469787.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Four held in Delhi, cops suspect terror plot||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police's Special Cell on Saturday claimed that four Kashmiri youths, including the brother of a terrorist killed in the valley in April, came to the capital a few days ago to carry out a terror strike. The group was strangely driving around Delhi Police headquarters when they were arrested, police said. The Special Cell of Delhi Police claimed to have averted a terror attack with the arrests and said four pistols and cartridges have been recovered from them. "They were staying in Paharganj and had plans to conduct a sensational terrorist activity after which they would have been formally inducted in the terrorist organisation Ansar Ghazwat-ul- Hind (AGH)," Delhi Police alleged in a statement. One of the arrested men has been identified as Ishfaq Majeed Koka, the older brother of slain terrorist Burhan Koka. Burhan was the chief of AGH, a Qaeda offshoot in J&K. He was killed by security forces in April this year. The other three have been identified as Altaf Ahmad Dar from Pulwama, Mushtaq Ahmed Gani and Aqib Safi from Shopian. They are in their twenties. Altaf worked as a salesman at a garment shop while Ishfaq is pursuing an engineering degree in computer science from Jammu. Mushtaq worked as a taxi driver in Srinagar. After Koka's encounter, his elder brother Ishfaq Majeed Koka was allegedly approached by the cadres of AGH to work for the outfit. Ishfaq apparently roped in the other three youths and headed to Delhi to collect arms and ammunition and carry out a strike. According to the Delhi Police, the group is "highly radicalised" and had been camping in the capital for the past few days. The Special Cell of Delhi Police had received information that the operatives would be visiting the area around ITO and Daryaganj. A trap was laid and the accused were arrested from the Ring Road near the police headquarters. A Baleno car having J&K registration was seized. The Delhi Police alleged that their handler also transferred money to their bank account, which they used for procuring arms and ammunition. Watch Delhi: Four Kashmiri men held for allegedly planning terror attack||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-held-in-delhi-cops-suspect-terror-plot/articleshow/78471013.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Centre aims to double farmers’ earnings by 2022: Javadekar||Panaji: Referring to the three farmers’ bills passed in Parliament, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Saturday that the Centre’s policy is to double farmers’ incomes by 2022, and that efforts are being made in this direction. He also said that there is no major agitation across the country over the bills, except in Punjab. “In Punjab, the agitation is because of politics,” he said. Javadekar met farmers at Chorao in Mayem constituency to brief them about the advantages of the three bills. The meeting is part of the Centre’s outreach to deploy Union ministers across the country to create awareness. The Union government passed three bills — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The President has already assented to them. Addressing the farmers, Javadekar said the Union government has given 22 crore farmers soil health cards, which inform the farmers about advantages and disadvantages of soil. He also said that ‘Kissan credit cards’ have been given to farmers. Javadekar said that the Centre has allocated Rs 15 lakh crore for loans for farmers. “We have doubled farm loans, and the Modi government’s policy is to double farmers’ income by 2022,” he said. He also said that the minimum support price for food grains has increased in the state. Javadekar said that purchase of rice has started in Punjab. “While selling rice on one hand, they have continued the agitation in Punjab,” he said. Javadekar blamed the Punjab agitation on “Congress, AAP and Akalis”, adding that the bills give farmers choice regarding the sale of their products. The Union minister said that the government has allowed big companies to invest in agriculture, and farmers can benefit (from this) with better crop. He also said that the farmers of the country are strong, and that they should get “justice” for their crop. Javadekar appealed to the farmers to spread the policies of the Modi government that benefit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-aims-to-double-farmers-earnings-by-2022-javadekar/articleshow/78469794.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana breathes easier as positivity rate dips in 10 days||CHANDIGARH: Haryana has witnessed a sudden dip in the cases of Covid-19, recording an average of around 1,400 cases daily in the past 10 days. An examination of cases in the state from September 23 to October 2 revealed that 14,532 were registered during these 10 days — an average of around 1,453 cases every day. However, 10 days prior to that, from September 13 to 22, 21,229 cases were registered in the state — an average of around 2,122 cases per day. The figures reveal a decline of around 800 cases every day, from September 23 to October 2. During this period, even the number of active cases went down from 19,276 on September 23 to 13,247 on October 2 — 6,029 less active cases. As far as deaths are concerned, 192 persons lost their lives in the state during this period. During this period, the number of cases from the five NCR districts, except Gurgaon and Faridabad, also fell. Gurgaon and Faridabad districts are still reporting the highest number of cases in the state. Other top districts with large number of cases in the past few days included Hisar, Panckula and Rohtak. Haryana additional chief secretary (health and home) Rajeev Arora said they are now in stabilisation phase because of decline in the number of cases, but considering the upcoming festival season and government’s plan to open educational institutions, there may be some spike in the future. He said the main challenge was in ensuring that people follow the safety guidelines regarding Covid. “Going by the decline in Covid cases and slight reduction in testing, there is no significant connection between the two. We had reached close to 3,000 cases every day, which has now come down to around 1,400 every day but the testing is between 24-26,000 per day. We have even reduced the rates for testing in the state so that people can come forward for testing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-breathes-easier-as-positivity-rate-dips-in-10-days/articleshow/78468808.cms||Ajay Sura
October 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Staff crunch hits restaurants gearing up for a big opening||PUNE: Restaurants across the city are facing an acute staff crunch as close to 60% employees working in the sector are yet to return from their hometowns after the lockdown. The significant manpower shortage is likely to lead to delays in opening some restaurants and eateries in the city. Although many restaurants are planning to function at just half their original staff strength, restaurateurs stated that very little manpower is available in the city. “The industry employed about 2.5 lakh people for various positions at restaurants but now the requirement is only 1 lakh persons. However, even this staff is unavailable. Restaurateurs are trying to make travel arrangements to bring the staff back. Only those who have staff in place are likely to start from Monday while others will resume operations once they have adequate manpower,” said Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA). Owner of German Bakery and several other eateries in the city Kunal Udane said that transportation has been a major hurdle. “Most restaurants in Pune had staff hailing from states like West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Their transport to Pune is a big hurdle as trains haven’t started running yet. It is not possible for everyone to bring the staff back by flight. Another problem is the apprehension among staff members to return since Pune is a hotspot for Covid-19,” Udane said. Ashish Goyal, owner of 360 Degree restaurant, said that he has booked flight tickets for 10 to 15 core staff members only. “We will have to start functioning with a skeletal staff as we cannot fly everyone out. We are also apprehensive about customer footfall in the beginning so we have decided to start with only 25% staff.” he explained. Restaurateurs stated that other challenges that have cropped up are payment of rent, restaurant timings and payment of excise duty. “There is still no clarity on restaurant timings and we are hoping that we will get permission to cater to customers until midnight. Another huge setback has been the decision to levy excise despite lockdown. We had sought a waiver of excise on pro-rata basis for the months we were closed but the government has only given us an extension in payment deadline till December 31,” Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/staff-crunch-hits-restaurants-gearing-up-for-a-big-opening/articleshow/78468813.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 4, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana breathes easier as positivity rate dips in 10 days||CHANDIGARH: Haryana has witnessed a sudden dip in the cases of Covid-19, recording an average of around 1,400 cases daily in the past 10 days. An examination of cases in the state from September 23 to October 2 revealed that 14,532 were registered during these 10 days — an average of around 1,453 cases every day. However, 10 days prior to that, from September 13 to 22, 21,229 cases were registered in the state — an average of around 2,122 cases per day. The figures reveal a decline of around 800 cases every day, from September 23 to October 2. During this period, even the number of active cases went down from 19,276 on September 23 to 13,247 on October 2 — 6,029 less active cases. As far as deaths are concerned, 192 persons lost their lives in the state during this period. During this period, the number of cases from the five NCR districts, except Gurgaon and Faridabad, also fell. Gurgaon and Faridabad districts are still reporting the highest number of cases in the state. Other top districts with large number of cases in the past few days included Hisar, Panckula and Rohtak. Haryana additional chief secretary (health and home) Rajeev Arora said they are now in stabilisation phase because of decline in the number of cases, but considering the upcoming festival season and government’s plan to open educational institutions, there may be some spike in the future. He said the main challenge was in ensuring that people follow the safety guidelines regarding Covid. “Going by the decline in Covid cases and slight reduction in testing, there is no significant connection between the two. We had reached close to 3,000 cases every day, which has now come down to around 1,400 every day but the testing is between 24-26,000 per day. We have even reduced the rates for testing in the state so that people can come forward for testing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-breathes-easier-as-positivity-rate-dips-in-10-days/articleshow/78471875.cms||Ajay Sura
October 4, 2020||Chandigarh||2,535 test positive, 94 succumb to virus||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Saturday threw up a combined total of 2,535 Covid-19 cases, while 94 patients succumbed to the virus in the region. Highest number of deaths was reported from Punjab, while Haryana surpassed the other two in terms of new cases. Punjab recorded 61 deaths and 1,106 fresh cases and 1,691 recoveries during the day. The state’s death toll now stands at 3,562, total count of positive cases at 117,319—out of which 14,289 are active—and the overall number of cured patients at 97,777. Punjab’s death rate at 3.03% is highest in the country, though the recovery rate has further improved to 84.78%. Haryana added 1,188 Covid cases and recorded 25 deaths due to the virus, taking the state’s count of cases so far to 132,576—of which 128,68 are active cases—and the number of dead to 1,450. With total 118,258 patients discharged after treatment till now, the recovery rate in the state has gone up to 89.20% and the time taken for doubling of cases to 32 days. As many as 250 persons in the state are currently on oxygen support and 40 are on ventilators. Himachal Pradesh on Saturday reported eight deaths and 241 new positive cases, while 197 positive patients also recovered. With this, the state has counted 15,695 cases so far—of which 3,292 are active cases—and 205 patients died, while the number of cured patients has reached 12,173. Three deaths were reported from Shimla, two from Kangra and one each from Bilaspur, Kullu and Sirmour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2535-test-ve-94-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/78468822.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Chandigarh||MEA: Covid protocol will be followed in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: India will decide on opening the Kartarpur corridor that connects Dera Baba Nanak Sahib in India’s Gurdaspur and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur in accordance with the Covid-19 protocol and easing of restrictions. Ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Saturday said, “A decision on the re-opening of the corridor would be taken in accordance with the Covid protocol and easing of restrictions.” Pakistan’s ministry of religious affairs and interfaith harmony on Friday decided to allow Indian devotees for a day long visit to Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara, after the pilgrimage was suspended on March 16, 2020 as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus. Srivastava said they were in touch with all the authorities concerned, including ministries of home affairs and health & family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mea-covid-protocol-will-be-followed/articleshow/78468834.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: One more arrested in Maratkar murder case||PUNE: One more person was arrested on Saturday in connection with the murder of Deepak Vijay Maratkar (36), the deputy chief of Shiv Sena’s youth wing in the city, on Friday. The Faraskhana police have identified the arrested person as Rohit Dattatray Kshirsagar of Bhavani Peth. A total of four persons have been arrested so far in the case. Three persons, including a woman, were arrested on Friday afternoon on the charge of murdering Maratkar over a festering “old rivalry” the woman had with his father on elections and property matters. The trio — Ashwini Kamble, Mahendra Saraf and Niranjan Mhankale — were produced before a city court on Saturday, which remanded them in police custody till October 6. According to the police, Maratkar was brutally stabbed to death by six men near his house in Gavli Aali in Budhwar Peth around 12.30am on Friday. The suspects fled the crime scene on their motorcycles thereafter. “We have registered a murder case against eight persons, including those arrested. We have also identified the role of each person in the crime,” senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Farashkhana police said. Maratkar was the son of former Shiv Sena corporator Vijay Maratkar, who died of Covid-19 infection two months ago. “The investigation so far has revealed that Kamble and two others plotted the murder, while the others aided them. Mhankale was appointed to keep an eye on the deceased,” Kalaskar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-more-arrested-in-maratkar-murder-case/articleshow/78468829.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||BJP condemns ‘hooliganism’ at Panaji hotel||Panaji: BJP on Saturday condemned Congress for protesting and demanding a meeting with Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on the Mhadei issue. Late Friday night, Congress functionaries demanded to meet Javadekar at a Panaji hotel, and BJP has demanded “strict action” against them. “BJP condemn the act of Congress in doing hooliganism and dacoity,” said BJP spokesperson Dattaprasad Naik. “They are setting a wrong example to all politicians in the state. Looking at what they’ve done, others will go to people’s houses and shops.” The spokesperson said that Javadekar isn’t in Goa for a holiday, “like Congress president Sonia Gandhi comes to Goa for holiday”. He said the minister was in the state to address farmers’ issues. Naik said that BJP has never protested at hotels and disturbed Congress leaders when they are in Goa. He also said that Congress has set a wrong example to guests staying in starred hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-condemns-hooliganism-at-panaji-hotel/articleshow/78469792.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Anti-IIT agitation: Melauli locals march to police stn over summons||VALPOI: Melauli-Sattari villagers gathered in large numbers on Saturday at the Valpoi market and took out a protest march against the summons issued by the police to a few villagers for opposing IIT. Raising slogans, villagers congregated at the police station and demanded that cops should not target them individually. A similar protest was staged on Wednesday wherein locals demanded immediate release of two of their protesters and also cautioning the police against sending notices to individual members. They had even dared the cops to arrest all the villagers instead of arresting a few. Villagers had told cops that if they receive any notices individually, then the entire village will protest in front of the Valpoi police station. On Saturday, villagers remained firm on their demand of ‘no to IIT in Melauli’ and threatened to intensify their protest. Convener of the Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shashikant Savordekar told reporters that the villagers assembled at the Valpoi police station as few had received summons for gathering outside the Guleli panchayat on September 3. “We have submitted a letter to the police authorities stating that in the past villagers had organised peaceful protests, and in future too, they will follow suit,” Savordekar said. The villagers met PSI Raghoba Kamat who requested them to cooperate with the police and said not to argue with him as he is not answerable to them on notices. Kamat also advised the villagers to defend themselves in the court. An elderly man from Melauli challenged the officials to come in their village and serve the notices. “Come to our village if you’ll have the guts,” the elderly man warned. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant had assured that he would do no injustice to the villagers. However, issuing notices and transferring a few government servants tantamount to injustice,” the agitating Melauli locals said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-iit-agitation-melauli-locals-march-to-police-stn-over-summons/articleshow/78469814.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Mapusa ryots wave black flags||Saligao: The convoy of the Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar was greeted with black flags at Mapusa. A large number of farmers waved black flags and shouted slogans against the passing of the contract farming bill in Parliament as the Javadekar’s convoy made its way the North Goa BJP office. He was to attend a meeting of BJP office bearers and members of the Kisan Morcha at Mapusa. The protesting farmers were supported by the president of the Bodgeshwar Farmers Association, Sanjay Barde, and president of Camarkhazan Tenants Association John Lobo.  Lobo said that the meeting of the Union minister with a select few farmers was only a “sham”, as he said that “many of the farmers who have krishi cards were not invited for the meeting”. “We also held the protest to draw the attention of the Union minister to the fact that the names of the farmers have been deleted from the Mapusa outline development plan (ODP),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-ryots-wave-black-flags/articleshow/78469828.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Lalitpur drug park, med devices park in YEIDA on anvil||LUCKNOW: As part of its plan to start manufacturing of products which were being imported from China till now, the state government will participate in a central government scheme to set up three bulk drug parks and four medical devices parks in Uttar Pradesh. The government is pitching for drug parks in Lalitpur and has proposed to allocate land under the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) for medical devices parks. Additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar said, “The country is heavily dependent on China for medical equipment. Currently, we do not have enough capacity for bulk manufacturing of drugs. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, India, especially Uttar Pradesh, is trying to attract companies that are shifting base from China. The country is also trying to start manufacturing products that have so far been imported from China,” he said. Kumar added that the Centre would scrutinize proposals from states and allocate marks on pre-determined parameters like subsidy offered by state, municipal facilities, power etc. “The last date for submission of projects is October 15. Our proposals are being finalised but locations have already been decided. The state will give grant-in-aid of up to Rs 1,000 crore for bulk drugs park and Rs 100 crore for medical devices park,” he said. “The government will also offer a special incentive package to companies which will set up units in these parks. The details will be revealed at a later stage,” he said. UP’s proposal will include details of the location of proposed land (about 2,000 acres for drug park and around 350 acres for medical devices park), rate of water and power and subsidies being offered. In July, the cabinet had approved amendments to the Pharmaceutical Policy, 2018, according to which the food safety and drug administration department had been made the nodal authority. Meanwhile, the UP Drugs Manufacturers’ Association is also pushing for a pharma park in Lucknow, saying that the state capital has a huge wholesale market for medicines. As per its estimates, Lucknow has 17% share in the state’s annual consumption of medicines worth Rs 40,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lalitpur-drug-park-med-devices-park-in-yeida-on-anvil/articleshow/78470535.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 4, 2020||Pune||EMI payment woes: MLA’s helpline flooded with calls||PUNE: A helpline set up by Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole has been flooded with desperate calls from many being harassed by recovery agents allegeldy appointed by banks and financial institutions. On September 28, Shirole released a mobile number (9764450568) promising assistance and guidance for those being harassed for payments. He said more than 35 people have called the helpline, alleging that banks were making threatening and abusive calls and even sending recovery agents to their homes.“Calls have come from lower and middle income groups. We explain to them ways to deal with the situation and their rights and tell them not to worry or panic. I have already written to the finance minister, the divisional commissioner and the collector in this regard,” Shirole told TOI. “We tell them to ask for credentials and authorization letters. The Centre has issued regulations against such practices,” an aide to Shirole said. Times ViewThe Covid-induced lockdown and other restrictions have hit the country’s economy big time, leaving many people jobless. Against this backdrop, financial institutions should have a humane approach towards people defaulting on EMIs. They should sensitise the recovery agents about the changed scenario. The administration should take strict action against those harassing people for failing to pay EMIs on time when ensuring two square meals is a challenge for many families. Kailas Autade, a cab driver now selling masks to make a living, said he lodged a complaint against a financial company on Tuesday with the Sinhagad Road police. “I bought a television around a year ago, but haven’t been able to pay the EMI for the past seven months due to the financial crisis. Through the day, I get many threatening calls. Once, I even said I would commit suicide if I was harassed like this, and the caller told me to go ahead. I will call the number given by the MLA,” Autade said. In another recent case, a businesswoman, whose money was frozen in PMC Bank, started to default on her loans. and became a target for aggressive recovery agents. “What can I do if my deposits were locked up?” she said. A former banker, however, rationalized such practice. “Such things are not acceptable, but what can the banks do? The formal procedure is very long-winded ... banks employs means that are not quite in the spirit of the law,” the retired public sector banker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/emi-payment-woes-mlas-helpline-flooded-with-calls/articleshow/78468855.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmer stabs ex-wife over 5-decade long land disput in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: A long-standing dispute over property related matters, spanning more than five decades, between a 78-year-old farmer and his former wife took an ugly turn when he stabbed her to death outside a court in Vaijapur on Saturday morning. While police have arrested Karbhari Kisan Gawli, a resident of Gahygaon in Vaijapur tehsil, a manhunt has been launched for his son from his second wife, his grandson and an unidentified suspect. The deceased woman has been identified as Kesarbai Gawli (72), a resident of Bhimji Borsar village in Vaijapur tehsil. Inspector of Vaijapur police Anant Kulkarni told TOI, “Kesarbai was the accused’s first wife. Their relationship took a turn for the worse after he married another woman in the 1970s, leading to a legal battle for rightful share of his property as well as alimony.” Sometime ago, the court had ruled in favour of Kesarbai and had allotted her about five acres of land. Despite the court orders, her husband and his second wife were reluctant to give her the rightful share. Kesarbai has been staying with her daughter for the past 40 years. On Saturday morning, Kesarbai had come to the court to attend the hearing of her case. She was confident about getting a judgement in her favour regarding the possession of the property in the next few hearings. This further soured the relationship with her husband. “Karbhari and his children from his second wife were upset with the fact that they were losing a case they had been contesting for about five decades. Seething with anger, Karbhari reached the court on Saturday morning and stabbed Kesarbai multiple times just when she was getting down from the bike to enter the court premises,” said Kulkarni adding that Kesarbai’s grandson was an eye witness. A police team reached the spot and rushed Kesarbai to the hospital. She was declared dead on arrival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmer-stabs-ex-wife-over-5-decade-long-land-dispute/articleshow/78468845.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 4, 2020||Pune||Teenager creates special box to sanitize veggies, grocery items||PUNE: Aditya Pachpande is barely 14, but his out-of-the-box idea of combining some common items, such as a cardboard carton, with controlled ultraviolet-C rays is helping people sanitize green vegetables and groceries in the time of Covid-19. ‘Suraksha Box’, as Pachpande has named his creation, naturally sanitize green vegetables, groceries and parcel items. Several vegetable vendors at Dadar in Mumbai are using it to sanitize green groceries before handing the goods to their customers. Inspired by a positive evaluation from the CSIR - Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, a copy of which is with TOI, the Standard IX student is set to launch his company, NextGen Innov8, on October 2 to market the product. Pachpande said, “I saw my family struggle with disinfecting green vegetables, groceries and other parcels reaching home. I wanted to do something about this, as the methods opted for by most people to sanitize vegetables or grocery items were either unhygienic or led to wastage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teenager-creates-special-box-to-sanitize-veggies-grocery-items/articleshow/78468872.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Most banks not accepting restructuring applications despite RBI guidelines||Jaipur: In its systemic risk survey, RBI said tourism and hospitality, construction and real estate, and aviation have been affected the most by the pandemic and announced a SME loan restructuring scheme. Just before the moratorium on EMI payments ended in September, many SME enterprises in the hospitality sector approached lenders to restructure their loans as recovery in tourism and travel is yet to take place. But many said that banks are not forthcoming to restructure the loans and some said lender still don’t have clarity at their branch level to offer relief window to hotel units that were standard assets before March 2020, but have no cash flows now to serve the debt. Rajendra Pachar, who runs a group of hotels, said his units were standard assets before the lockdown, but since travel and tourism has been hit hard, they don’t have enough cash flows to meet all financial obligations, including paying the staff and meeting the operational cost. "Some institutional lenders are still wary of offering the restructuring window. Our businesses do not generate enough cash as of now as people are by and large wary of travel," Pachar said. The hotel industry in Rajasthan is dependent on tourism which drives their business. Most of them are affected by the pandemic. That’s why many pin hopes on the restructuring facility. Harimohan Dangayach, another promoter of a group of hotels, said, "Many hotels will use the facility given it will take at least two years to reach pre-Covid levels. We expect the banks to be proactive if the cases are eligible, not restrictive." Even the Kamath Committee report on restructuring was accepted by RBI and announced on September 7, many banks and lending institutions are yet to implement the scheme at the branch level. Entrepreneurs in the sector said these branches are not accepting the request for restructuring. Surendra Singh Shahpura said, "The moratorium period has expired and now EMIs have started hitting bank accounts of borrowers. The sooner the banks start accepting the proposals, the better it will be for the industry which is under tremendous pressure now." Shahpura said the industry is asking to delay the payments and not forego as the pandemic is not their creation, it is a calamity. "We are a key part of the economy. We invest money, create jobs and livelihood opportunities for lakhs of people and generate tax revenue for the government. This is not about an individual; this is about lakhs of people supporting their families. Unless we are alive, it will impact many who are engaged in the sector," added Shahpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-banks-not-accepting-restructuring-applications-despite-rbi-guidelines/articleshow/78469844.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||New fire station at Jagatpura apparel park||Jaipur: A new fire station has been set up at Apparel Park in Jagatpura taking the count of such stations in Jaipur to 11. The station will cover the industrial areas of the city which was till now dependent on Malviya Nagar fire station. The station has already started functioning with staff and vehicles, although its formal inauguration is still pending. Chief fire officer Jagdish Phulwari said, “It is a long-awaited project of ours as there was lot of burden on Malviya Nagar fire station. With the fire station at Apparel Park, we will be able to cover Sitapura, RIICO industrial area. We have deployed two fire tenders and seven staff at the station.” Now in the Municipal Corporation, Heritage, there are three stations, whereas at Greater has eight stations. Next step for the department is to improve the strength of the employees and get better equipment. According to sources, nearly 50% of the department is functioning with the help of contractual employees. Many a times, files have been sent to the headquarters for more recruitment, but nothing has been done. “On one vehicle, we need at least six people, but have only two. The workload is more in the department and we have appointed contractual employees who are not as efficient,” said an official. Similarly, another issue is getting fire suits that help in dousing fire in close proximity and with an oxygen cylinder attached to it. Last year, it was finalised to get fire suits, but the plan wasn’t executed. “A few months ago, there was a big fire at an industrial area and we were finding it very difficult to control it. The file on our requirements has been forwarded and the department will issue tenders for the suits soon,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-fire-station-at-jagatpura-apparel-park/articleshow/78469833.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||Opposition should not indulge in dalit politics: Union minister Ramdas Athawale||LUCKNOW: Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Saturday said political parties should refrain from indulging in dalit politics on the Hathras incident as the community has always been at the receiving end under every regime. He has also sought action against the Hathras district magistrate, saying that he should be adequately punished for the cremation of the victim’s body without her parents’ consent. Lashing out against the Opposition, Athawale said that crimes against dalits take place under all governments, including Mayawati and Mulayam Singh Yadav, and this one incident did not mean that Yogi Adityanath was running a casteist government. “People are casteist which is why such crime happens. The Opposition should play a constructive role instead of playing politics. Why hasn’t Congress’ Rahul Gandhi gone to Rajasthan from where a rape has been reported recently?” Athawale asked. In Lucknow on Saturday so that he could travel to Hathras and meet the family of the victim, Athawale said that he had to drop the plan as the administration had requested him to postpone his visit for next week. “I met Governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday morning and will hand over a memorandum to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath before I leave for Mumbai on Sunday. I will return to visit Hathras next week as the police has put curbs there and the administration requested me to not to go there right now,” he said. Athawale told TOI that the body of the victim was cremated in haste by the district administration without any apparent reason and that action should be initiated against the DM. “The government has taken action against the police but the DM was equally responsible. He should have made sure that even if a late night cremation was required to maintain law and order, her parents should have been present,” the minister said, adding that the government should take care to bring down crime rate, especially against dalits. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-should-not-indulge-in-dalit-politicsathawale/articleshow/78470545.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Cops book 3 on charge of abducting woman||PUNE: The Loni Kalbhor police on Saturday afternoon registered a kidnapping and assault case against the three men, who allegedly abducted a 19-year-old woman in Dive Ghat earlier in the day. According to police, the incident happened when the woman, a resident of a village in Purandar taluka, was riding pillion on a motorcycle ridden by her 20-year-old cousin. The cousin has lodged a complaint with the police. The three suspects are from the same village as the woman, police said. As per the complaint, the two cousins were headed from Wakdi village for their village. Around 7.30am, their motorcycle reached an isolated spot in the Dive Ghat area, when a speeding car intercepted them. The cousin applied sudden brakes to avoid hitting the car, which had stopped in the motorcycle’s path. Police said a motorcyclist armed with a sharp weapon then came to the spot. He hit the woman’s cousin on with the blunt side of the weapon, causing him to fall, while the other suspects pushed her into the car and sped away. The complainant then informed the police, who rushed to the spot. The police have identified the three men. The suspects and the kidnapped woman knew each other, police said. “Our investigation is on,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-book-3-on-charge-of-abductingwoman/articleshow/78468887.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Surat||Top bizmen, spouses grilled in high-profile drug case||SURAT: A number of top-notch businessmen and their spouses have come under the radar of the crime branch for their suspected role in the sensational Rs1 crore mephedrone drug racket in Surat and are being probed by the cops. These businessmen were found to be in regular touch with Aadil Nurani, 41, owner of popular Gujarati thali restaurant Kansar, who has been arrested earlier this week. According to cops, these businessmen not only consumed drugs but also promoted it in high profile parties thus generating illicit business for Nurani. Police have questioned Hitesh and Shailesh, two top coal traders, Kapil who owns an indoor game zone on Dumas Road and an employee of a textile firm besides Mrinal, a textile businessman. Cops are also gathering evidence against these businessmen for further actions. During interrogation, Nurani revealed the names of these businessmen who he met at parties. Cops claim the ‘friends’ promoted drugs in parties organised in farmhouses and weekend homes on Dumas road and on National Highway 48. According to the police, the wives of a majority of those in this group are drug addicts who promote consumption of drugs among young girls. Nurani, who would party in Mumbai as well had developed contacts with a few Bollywood celebrities as well. He was a frequent visitor to such high-end parties and police are trying to find out if he supplied drugs in these parties as well. Nurani used to get one gram mephedrone free upon sale of 10 grams of the contraband. He used to sell the drug at Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,000 for each gram. Nurani, who too was addicted to drugs, took some quantity for personal use. Chemical consultant turned prohibited drugs maker During investigation cops found that Pragnesh Thummar, 31, the main accused is a successful chemical consultant who specialises in providing various mixtures of chemicals. Thummar completed his Master of Pharmacy from a city college and developed his identity as a consultant. He used to visit client’s chemical unit on demand and prepare chemical compositions out of raw materials. Thummar taught Sanket Aslaliya, 22, another accused in the racket on how to prepare mephedrone. Aslaliya made the drug at a one room rented place in Kadodara. Police are investigating the roles of both Thummar and Aslaliya who are currently in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/top-bizmen-spouses-grilled-in-high-profile-drug-case/articleshow/78468193.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Stray menace rising but JMC doesn’t have vehicles to catch them||Jaipur: Following relaxations in lockdown rules, number of stray cattle has increased in the city due to lack of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) vehicles that catch sych strays. At present, JMC has just two vehicles to catch stray cattle from the city instead of 15. Residents have been filing complaints, but no step has been taken. Devendra Shunty, a resident of Raja Park, said there has been a rise of stray cattle in the area. “Since lockdown, stray cattle can be seen everywhere. I understand that in complete lockdown it was difficult to take care of this problem but now it should be done efficiently,” said Shunty. According to JMC officials, it has been more than a year when the contract to catch stray cattle expired. “There was no tender invited neither any one is temporarily working. We have appointed JMC sanitation workers. They do their work as much as they can with limited resources,” said a JMC official. Vehicles needed to catch stray cattle usually have lifts and ramps. JMC has four vehicles but two are not functioning properly. “Sometimes, we get many calls from different parts of the city but due to lack of vehicles we are not able to resolve the problem. Recently, JMC hired four vehicles on contract for this work and when their contract got over, we are back to the same condition. We have written it to higher authorities to either procure more vehicles or get more on contract,” said an official anonymously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stray-menace-rising-but-jmc-doesnt-have-vehicles-to-catch-them/articleshow/78469842.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Goa: Overhead reservoirs in Salcete lie unused||COLVA: Overhead reservoirs constructed in Varca, Orlim and Betalbatim in Salcete are yet to be connected to the main water pipeline and commissioned. The main purpose of constructing these tanks along the coastal villages of Salcete was to provide continuous supply in the event of a shutdown or pipe burst. “These overhead tanks were built in 2018, but till date, they only have monumental value. The purpose they were constructed for is defeated,” a Varca resident said. When contacted, PWD’s assistant engineer Subodh Shirodkar told TOI that the overhead tanks would be commissioned by the end of the year as the earlier contractor had been terminated and the work tender recently awarded to a new contractor. “Only minor jobs such as connecting the main pipeline to the overhead reservoirs, finishing, hydro-tests and water-tightness are pending,” Shirodkar said. Sources said that while all the tanks, which were built with funds from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica), were ready by 2018, in February last year, the contractor abandoned the works for non-payment of dues. Two tanks, each with a capacity of 10 lakh litre, were built in Betalbatim and Varca, while a five lakh litre tank was contructed in Orlim. Tanks which were supposed to be built in Benaulim, Carmona and Cavelossim hit a road block following opposition from villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overhead-reservoirs-in-salcete-lie-unused/articleshow/78469845.cms||Nisser Dias
October 4, 2020||Pune||Drop in juvenile crimes in Pune last year, shows NCRB report||PUNE: Pune ranked third in the state in juvenile crime last year after Nagpur and Mumbai, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data stated. Mumbai recorded 611 cases, followed by Nagpur (369) and Pune (299),NCRB’s ‘Crime in India 2019’ report released on Wednesday stated. However, the report revealed juvenile crime declined in the city over the past three years. Pune city recorded 483 cases of juvenile crimes in 2018 and 715 in 2017. The city ranks eighth among 19 metropolitan cities and six union territories in respect of offences registered against juveniles. The overall percentage of the cases in the city is 4.4%. Delhi recorded highest with 2,760 cases, followed by Chennai with 647 cases and Gujarat with 516 cases in 2019, said the NCRB report. The juvenile delinquents in conflict with law are below 12 years and between 12 and 16 years. The NCRB report findings stated minors are involved in serious crimes like murder, attempt to commit murder, theft, burglary, rash driving, dacoity and cheating, among others. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “We have taken a lot of efforts to counsel and rehabilitate children in conflict with the law over the past two years. We have formed a special team headed by an inspector, sub-inspector and other police officials for counselling and rehabilitating repeat offenders involved in body offences, first time and petty offenders and troublemakers.” “We have identified over 1,600 children to undergo counselling sessions. We have identified and selected over 40 children for undergoing skill development programme. This is because we want to boost their morale, encourage them to do good work and deter them from committing crimes,” he said. “In addition, we are also referring their parents to counselling sessions to deter their children from committing wrong.,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drop-in-juvenile-crimes-in-pune-last-year-shows-ncrb-report/articleshow/78468880.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 4, 2020||Goa||‘With people against coal, but won’t support stir’||Colva: Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao on Saturday said that although he is with the people against coal transportation through Goa, he will not support the month-long protest. He, however, said he will attend the meetings. Addressing the first press briefing after recovering from Covid-19, he blamed all the three MPs for not objecting to the double tracking of the railway line to facilitate coal transportation through Goa. “It is a central project and the state government does not have much say in the matter. All the three MPs should have raised the issue in Parliament and objected to it,” said Alemao. Stating that he has led many agitations and “even faced lathis from police'', Alemao said, “In this case, I do not want people to get hurt or police cases filed against them. It has been imposed upon us by the Centre, but I cannot guarantee that coal transportation through Goa will stop.” When asked whether he is happy with the Goa government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, the NCP MLA said “the government has done what it can, but much needs to be done”. Ventilators and oxygen need to be purchased as there is a shortage, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-people-against-coal-but-wont-support-stir/articleshow/78469841.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Rescued leopard flees from cage at RNP||Jaipur: Panic triggered in the surrounding areas of Ranthambore National Park on Saturday morning after a leopard rescued a night ago escaped from a cage. After rescuing the feline from a 70-feet-deep well, it was brought to chief conservator of forest (CCF) office premises in a vehicle having a cage. As forest guards allegedly forgot to bolt the cage, the wild cat escaped. On Saturday morning, teams were deployed to track the animal in nearby colonies. A source said, “A frantic search operation was launched by the forest officials as soon as the news of its escape was received in the morning.” The forest department rescued the animal using a cot. “The forest staff tranquilised the animal and brought it to CCF office. The cage was not latched properly. As the wild cat was tranquilised it did not move. However, after its effect faded away, it fled,” said a source. Taking a serious note of the incident, the department is planning to serve notice to staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rescued-leopard-flees-from-cage-at-rnp/articleshow/78469848.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||Oppn plotting to instigate riots: Minister||Lucknow: Attacking opposition parties for their sustained campaign against the government in the Hathras incident, cabinet minister Ramapati Shastri on Saturday alleged that there was a conspiracy by the Opposition to instigate riots in UP and Hathras was being used as an excuse. Condemning the opposition for its irresponsible behaviour, Shastri asked why it was running away from a Narco and polygraph test and said: “Their tweets, audio tapes and earlier situations prove that there was an attempt to instigate riots in UP. UP mein dange ki saazish hai, Hathras to sirf ek bahana hai.” He said that all reports so far, from the medical report to post mortem report and the FSL report had revealed that there had been no gang rape with the 19-year-old victim but despite that, BSP chief Mayawati had been making “irresponsible statements” on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-plotting-to-instigate-riots-minister/articleshow/78470550.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu final-yr exam to begin from Oct 9||Aurangabad: The final-year examinations for graduate courses of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) will now start from October 9 and go on till October 29, as per the official announcement on Saturday. It will be conducted as per the pattern announced earlier. While these examinations were supposed to start from October 1, the recent strike by non-teaching staffers of the university had forced Bamu to postpone the scheduled examinations. The university is expected to declare the revised timetable for postgraduate examinations by early next week. A release issued by Bamu said, “The meeting of all competent authorities took place on Saturday to chart out the revised timetable for the final year examinations. Accordingly, the examinations for BA, B.Sc and B.Com courses are slotted from October 9 to October 29. These examinations will be conducted by taking all necessary precautions in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19.” The university has appealed to the students to follow the website for the detailed timetable of examinations and related updates if any. As regards to the mock tests, Bamu authorities said such practice test would be mandatory. “The necessary portal has been activated and students can appear for the mock test by logging in with their credentials,” said the authorities. As announced earlier, each examination would be of 50 marks and students will have to solve 50 MCQs out of 60 questions within an hour. Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU), Nanded, another state-university from the region, had also deferred its final year examinations and is expected to announce the revised timetable soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-final-yr-exam-to-begin-from-oct-9/articleshow/78468897.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Teen wins nat’l level painting competition||Panaji: A Class VIII student of Dr K B Hedgewar High School, Cujira has won the first place at a national level online painting competition organised by the ministry of education, department of school education and literacy. Thirteen-year-old Vedang Vishnu Gaunkar’s painting on the competition theme ‘Gandagi Mukt Mera Gaon’ won him the first place in the competition. The second and third prizes were won by students from West Bengal and Bihar respectively. Gaunkar will be felicitated by the minister, ministry of jal shakti, New Delhi via a virtual programme on October 2, that is Swachh Bharat Diwas. He was guided by his school’s drawing teacher Pravin Naik. School manager Subhash Desai, headmaster Vilas Satarkar and the school parent teachers’ association have congratulated both the student and teacher for the achievement. The online painting competition was held on August 13. Gaunkar painted a village scene, where a gents and ladies public toilet can be seen along with a compost pit nearby. A lady is also depicted collecting dry waste in the painting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teen-wins-natl-level-painting-competition/articleshow/78469849.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||In bid to boost catch, 50k fresh water fish seedlings released in Curtorim’s Mai Tollem||PANAJI: Nearly 50,000 fish seedlings have been released into the Mai Tollem in Curtorim by the Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB). The initiative, a part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, was carried out with the help of the fisheries department, the Curtorim Farmers’ Club and anganwadi workers. The seedlings are of three fresh water fish varieties - common carp, rohu and mrigal. “The tenants’ association auctions the rights for fishing seasonally and locals earn from the fish catch from this waterbody. The fish seedlings have been released so it results in an even better catch, further boosting their income” an official said. Curtorim, with a population of nearly 21,000, was traditionally known as the ‘granary of Salcete’ as it was the only village where extensive cultivation of arable land was carried out. The waterbodies in Curtorim play an important role in the socio-economic life of the locals. They help in raising paddy saplings and are a perennial source for wallowing for livestock. They are also host to hundreds of migratory birds. A biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) formed by the GSBB has helped meticulously document the plant and animal life in Curtorim. It is well-recognised that an important part of biodiversity conservation is making local communities realise the link between conservation and livelihood enhancement. “With active participation and collection action, we can create a platform for knowledge sharing, good practices to build need-based skills and systems. This can help in effective biodiversity conservation, food security and the revival of local economy amidst Covid-19 challenges,” GSBB secretary Pradip Sarmokadam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-bid-to-boost-catch-50k-fresh-water-fish-seedlings-released-in-curtorims-mai-tollem/articleshow/78469852.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Problems aplenty for Govind Marg elevated road||Jaipur: Construction of the proposed elevated road at Govind Marg might not be easy for Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). Other than shifting a long stretch of Bisalpur line, the JDA might have to acquire some land on the narrow passage. A senior official said, “As per preliminarily discussions, it was found that JDA has to acquire land at a few points. In 2013, the proposal was shelved as JDA had to acquire land. Acquisition and shifting of pipeline might increase the cost of the project, which JDA is already not willing to initiate due to shortage of funds.” Sources said all aspects were revealed during the pre-feasibility survey carried out by a private firm. A senior official said, “Shifting of water pipeline from the area is another herculean task. Digging and piling in the area will not be possible as it could damage the pipeline.” As the elevated corridor is proposed on a narrow stretch, the possibility to changing the alignment also looks bleak. "The appointed firm is likely to submit its pre-feasibility report in October end. After examining the report, a decision will be taken whether to take a step forward and prepare the detailed project report (DPR) of the project or not. There are many houses and commercial establishments, diversion of alignment at present looks difficult," added the official. An official claimed, construction of elevated road at Govind Marg was proposed as previous studies stated that increasing traffic load can cause major problems in the near future. Currently, on this stretch, traffic is multiple times than the carrying capacity of the road during peak hours. Due to this, the speed of the vehicles here is between 10 and 30 kmph on average. "Traffic is being operated on this road more than two and a half times the capacity. The JDA has counted around 10,000 PCUs (passenger car units) in the busiest hours despite the fact that the capacity of one lane is estimated at 1,100 PCUs," added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/problems-aplenty-for-govind-marg-elevated-road/articleshow/78469851.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Neonatal care at GMCH gets Rs 10lakh boost||Aurangabad: The paediatric department of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here has received equipment worth Rs 10 lakh for neonatal care. In June this year, NCP MLC Satish Chavan had sanctioned the money thorough his official fund. The equipment handed over to the GMCH on Saturday included baby trolley, baby transporter, incubator, radiant warmer, pulse oximeter, syringe pump, photo therapy device, infra-red thermometer, digital infant webbing scale, self-inflating bag and oxygen hood among others. Chavan said the new equipment provided to the paediatric department would improve the neonatal care offered at GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/neonatal-care-at-gmch-gets-rs-10lakh-boost/articleshow/78468890.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Delhi||Daily fresh Covid cases under 3,000 for second day||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 2,258 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to over 2.87 lakh, while 34 more fatalities took the death toll to 5,472. This is the second day in a trot that the city reported less than 3,000 new cases. Authorities reported 2,920 new cases on Friday. Delhi reported 34 deaths on Saturday, the lowest since September 25 when 24 fatalities were recorded. Forty-eight deaths were reported on September 29, the highest in a day since July 16 when the city reported 58 deaths. The cumulative Covid-19 case count rose to 2,87,930, according to the Delhi government’s latest health bulletin. Earlier, the capital had reported 3,037 new cases on Thursday, 3,390 on Wednesday, 3,227 on Tuesday and 1,984 on Monday. Of the total cases reported in Delhi so far, 2,57,224 have either recovered, been discharged or migrated out. One of the reasons for sudden fall in new cases could be reduced testing. In the last 24 hours, data shows, 39,306 tests were conducted to detect Covid-19 infection on Friday, of which 8,844 tests were done using RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 30,462 were rapid antigen tests. On Thursday and Friday, Delhi government said 55,423 and 56,258 tests were carried out, respectively. “The positivity rate stood at 5.48% and 5.19% on Thursday and Friday. On Saturday, it went up to 5.74%,” said an official. In September, Delhi recorded more than one lakh Covid-19 cases, the highest in a month since March when the city saw its first Covid case. The major reason behind this spike is the record number of tests being carried out last month — 15.2 lakh, around 50,000 a day. Deaths recorded in September stood at 917. This does not include patients who came to Delhi from other states and died during treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daily-fresh-covid-cases-under-3000-for-second-day/articleshow/78471019.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras case 12th proposal from state for CBI probe since Mar ’17||LUCKNOW: To come clean on the Hathras case, the Yogi Adityanath government has recommended a CBI probe into the Hathras case, making it the 12th case to be recommended to the central agency since it stormed to power in March 2017. “The handing over of the probe to the central agency shows the government’s intention to have a transparent probe,” said a retired police officer. A government spokesperson said unlike previous regimes, we always want a fair probe. “If it requires a CBI probe, so be it,” he added. Right after taking over, the Yogi Government recommended a CBI inquiry into the alleged Rs 1,590-crore scam in Gomti Riverfront project, developed during SP government. The CM himself inspected the project and then ordered the inquiry. Next, a CBI probe was recommended in the mysterious death of Karnataka-cadre IAS officer Anurag Tiwari, whose body was found outside the guest house on May 17. In the same year, the government also recommended a CBI probe into the irregularities in Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission appointments made between 2012 and 2017. In 2018, it sought CBI probe into alleged irregularities in the sale of 21 state-owned sugar mills during tenure of Mayawati. The same year, police officer Rajesh Sahni shot himself and the case was recommended to CBI, but the agency did not take it. Then came the high-profile Unnao rape case, involving BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar. A CBI probe was recommended soon after the survivor attempted self-immolation outside the CM’s residence in Lucknow. The CBI probe had led to the conviction of the MLA and he has been sacked both from the party and the state assembly. The state government also recommended a CBI probe into the sale, purchase and transfer of properties done by UP Shia Central Waqf Board and UP Sunni Central Waqf Board in October 2019. In the same year, the state government recommended a CBI probe in the death of the 16-year-old girl on premises of JNV on September 26. Next, the Yogi government sought a CBI probe into Rs 2,268 crore provident fund investment scam of UPPCL. Later, after the role of cops surfaced in the kidnapping of lab technician in Kanpur Sanjeet Yadav, the government recommended a CBI probe in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-case-12th-proposal-from-state-for-cbi-probe-since-mar-17/articleshow/78470553.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 4, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 12 minors among 195 new Covid cases in city, count nears 19,000||BHOPAL: With 195 fresh cases reported in the city on Saturday, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the city reached 18,728. Among those tested positive includes two doctors. Of the total people who tested positive in the city on Saturday, there are 12 minors who are aged below 11 years. These minors also include three children aged below 5 years. Among others who were tested positive on Saturday includes four members of a family from Shankaracharya Nagar and one positive case from Parika society in Chunabhatti area whose seven members had tested positive on Friday. Overall, nine people from Chunabhatti area tested positive on Saturday, along with seven others from Kolar. Apart from it, nine people from Arera colony also tested positive. These include three members of a family. One person from Char Imli also tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Nine people from Shivaji Nagar of the city also tested positive, it also included three members of a family. Two police personnel from the CSP office, TT Nagar also tested positive. Five people from Piplani area, which has off late turned into a hotspot, also tested positive. The list of positive persons also includes one person from Katara Hills and two from Bairagarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/12-minors-among-195-new-covid-cases-in-city-count-nears-19k/articleshow/78468907.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Surat||Bodybuilder kills self with steroid overdose in Surat||SURAT: Police recovered the body of a 34-year-old owner of a gymnasium from his car in Adajan on Friday night. Preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased had committed suicide while the exact reason behind the drastic step are being probed, police said. Locals found Mejal Keriwala lying dead in his car near Sneh Sankul Wadi in Adajan at around 11 pm and alerted the police. Cops recovered some syringes and liquid from the car. It is suspected that Keriwala had been taking injection as marks were found on his hand. Police said that he injected himself with steroids daily and died from overdose. “On Friday he took an overdose of the injection which killed him. It is clear that he injected himself with the intention to take his own life,” said an officer of Adajan police station. Samples were collected during post mortem for further forensic tests. Attempts are being made to find out what type of steroid was injected by the deceased. Keriwala was a bodybuilder and after a promising start by winning a few bodybuilding competitions he started his own gymnasium in Udhna around two years ago. His family members and friends informed police that Keriwala was under depression and cops are trying to dig out the reasons that led him to extreme mental stress. “We are trying to find out the reasons for his depression and will question the family after the last rites are performed,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bodybuilder-and-owner-of-a-gym-kills-self-with-steroid-overdose/articleshow/78468224.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||After 15 days of daily record, Covid cases dip||Jaipur: After setting daily records of biggest single-day jump for 15 days on the trot, the state registered a negative growth rate in Covid-19 cases on Saturday, recording 2,150 ndew infections, 61 less than Friday’s count of 2,211. The cumulative count currently stands at 1,41,846. Since September 1, the state has reported a dip only thrice — September 5, September 7 and September 17. This indicates that the virus has not shown any signs of letting up and it is spreading rapidly especially in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. Even though the state reported a dip in daily cases, the active cases touched a new high of 21,075, up from 20,942 on Friday. Jaipur’s active cases too touched a new high of 8,249, is highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,689) and Kota (1,307). Jaipur and Jodhpur, the worst-hit districts, collectively reported 771 new infections, accounting for 36% of cases reported from different parts of the state. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (424), Jodhpur (347), Bikaner (171), Alwar (169), Bhilwara (155), Udaipur (89), Bharatpur (76), Kota (74), Pali (67), Ajmer (60), Churu (57), Chittorgarh (52), Dholpur (40), Jalore (37), Sikar (35), Sriganaganagar (35), Dungarpur (31), Jhunjhunu (29), Sirohi (24), Tonk (21), Hanumangarh (21), Rajsamand (20), Banswara (19), Pratapgarh (18), Dausa (15), Nagaur (14), Jaisalmer (13), Sawai Madhopur (11), Baran (7), Karauli (7), Bundi (7), Jhalawar (4) and Barmer (1). In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died taking the toll to 1,530. With two more deaths, Jaipur toll rose to 325, two persons died in Jalore taking its toll to 22 while Jodhpur reported its 147th, Bikaner 115th, Ajmer 108th, Kota 103rd, Pali 65th, Nagaur 48th, Barmer 30th, Bhilwara 22nd, Banwara 21st and Sriganganagar reported its 17th Covid-19 casualty. BOX: Today’s positive: 2,150 Cumulative positive: 1,41,846 Today’s death: 14 Cumulative death: 1,530 Today’s recovered: 2,003 Cumulative recovered: 1,19,241 Active cases: 21,075 Daily Covid-19 cases in state October 3 2150 October 2 2211 October 1 2193 September 30 2173 September 29 2148 September 28 2112 September 27 2084 September 26 2045 September 25 2010 September 24 1981 Septmeber 23 1946 September 22 1912 September 21 1892 September 20 1865 September 19 1834 September 18 1817 September 17 1782 September 16 1793 September 15 1760 September 14 1730 September 13 1703 September 12 1669 September 11 1660 September 10 1640 September 9 1610 September 8 1590 September 7 1580 September 6 1593 September 5 1566 Spetember 4 1570 September 3 1553 September 2 1511 September 1 1470||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-15-days-of-daily-record-covid-cases-dip/articleshow/78469857.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Chest CT scan effective tool to fight Covid||Jaipur: Apart from RT-PCR test, the state government is using high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) widely because it has emerged as a key d iagnostic tool for Covid-19. In government hospitals, it is provided free of cost and in private hospitals, the government has put a price cap on it. The health department officials claimed that HRCT is quite useful for treatment of Covid-19 patients and to prevent mortality. “This test shows the severity of Covid-19 infection, while RT-PCR test can only reveal if a person is negative or positive for the virus,” said Dr B L Meena, chief medical health officer (Bikaner). He said in government-run PBM Hospital, the HRCT is provided free of cost to the patients. The health department is using the test for preventing deaths due to Covid-19. In rural areas too, the suspected Covid-19 patients, having difficulty in breathing, will get free HRCT test if the treating doctors find it relevant. The patient will get free transportation. If the doctors find ground glass opacity along with other typical Covid-19 symptoms in CT scan report, they start treating the patients immediately without waiting for the RT-PCR report, to find out if the patient is negative or positive for the virus. The HRCT becomes even more important as a diagnostic tool as the sensitivity of RT-PCR is 70% and it could show false negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chest-ct-scan-effective-tool-to-fight-covid/articleshow/78469859.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||India & S Africa seek waiver of patents on Covid-19 drugs, vaccines||India and South Africa have sought waiver of patents and intellectual property under provisions of Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) from the World Trade Organisation for the prevention, containment and treatment of Covid-19. The proposal submitted to the TRIPS Council on October 2, if accepted by WTO members, would facilitate technology transfer for effective Covid-19 related vaccines, therapeutics or diagnostic tests. The development is important to ensure the availability, accessibility and affordability of life-saving drugs and vaccines used for Covid-19 in developing countries like India, without protracted negotiations, legal issues and inordinate delays. The next session of the TRIPS Council will take place on October 15-16. It remains to be seen how WTO members including Canada, the European Union, Japan, Switzerland, UK, and US respond to the submission. This could be one of the ways of ensuring accessibility and affordability of life-saving drugs, and to prevent instances of shortages of potential medicines, and going forward, to ensure accessibility of life-saving vaccines, experts say. A case in point is the shortage and consequent price gouging which was witnessed in potential Covid-19 drugs, Gilead’s Remdesivir and Roche’s Tocilizumab. The WTO has cautioned that the “pandemic represents an unprecedented disruption to the global economy and world trade, as production and consumption are scaled back across the globe”. We have witnessed a breakdown in global supply chains coupled with growing supply-demand gaps, the submission, a copy of which is available with TOI, says. Given this present context of global emergency, it is important for WTO members to work together to ensure that intellectual property rights such as patents, industrial designs, copyright and protection of undisclosed information do not create barriers to the timely access to affordable vaccines and medicines or to scaling-up of research, development, manufacturing and supply of medical products essential to combat Covid-19, it adds. As new diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines for Covid-19 are developed, there are concerns on how these will be made available promptly, in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices. Similar measures are also being taken up by a wide swathe of countries such as those in the European Union, and Germany, Chile and South Africa. Welcoming the move, Leena Menghaney of international medical humanitarian agency MSF told TOI: “It is crucial that other member governments of the WTO support this as we need to ensure that vaccines, drugs, and other medical tools needed for Covid-19 can be scaled up by countries and their manufacturers without facing protracted negotiations for licences. The South African and Indian proposal is the need of the hour.” The countries have asked for waiver of Sections 1, 4, 5 and 7 of Part II of the TRIPS Agreement, or from enforcement of these Sections under Part III of the TRIPS Agreement. Section 1 of part II of the TRIPS Agreement pertains to copyright and related rights; section 4 deals with industrial design. Section 5 of part II of the TRIPS Agreement pertains to patents; section 7 deals with the protection of undisclosed information. The waiver should continue until widespread vaccination is in place globally, and majority of the world’s population has developed immunity, the proposal says. The duration of the waiver will be negotiated in the session. India is a special case, patent experts say, because of its huge population and its responsibility as the ‘pharmacy of the developing world’. It is important that it be able to meet the needs of its own population to access safe and effective Covid-19 medicines and vaccines. But it also needs legal freedom to produce massive surpluses that can be exported to other countries, especially lower- and middle-income countries. There are several reports about intellectual property rights preventing or potentially hindering timely provisioning of affordable medical products to patients. Further, developing countries may face institutional and legal difficulties when using flexibilities available in the TRIPS Agreement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/india-s-africa-seek-waiver-of-patents-on-covid-19-drugs-vaccines/articleshow/78470552.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 4, 2020||Goa||NGO: Goa dragged feet on SC’s police reforms orders||Panaji: Even after 14 years, the state government has not complied with most of the directives issued by the Supreme Court (SC) relating to police reforms, including passing of the Goa police bill. As per the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), an independent non-governmental organisation, which is working on police accountability and police reforms for nearly two decades, the state government has not implemented four of the six directions, while one direction is implemented partially. Aditi Datta, senior programme officer at CHRI said, “Goa has passed government orders which have diluted the directives of the court on paper. This is surely not an earnest approach to implement the directives. It is therefore important that the Goa government reviews all the government orders in force that go towards implementing any of the directives and also amend the government orders to bring them in compliance with the SC directives.” 14 years ago, SC delivered its judgement in Prakash Singh and others vs Union of India and others, 2006 (8) SCC 1, instructing central and state governments to comply with a set of seven directives laying down practical mechanisms to kick-start police reforms. CHRI said that state has not complied with the SC directives to constitute a state security commission (SSC) to ensure no undue influence is exercised by the state on the police, and neither has the government laid down guidelines to evaluate police performance. Similarly, the state has not complied with separation of the investigation and law and order functions of the police, CHRI said. Other directives deal with appointment of director general of police (DGP), tenure, and service related matters of police officers. CHRI said that state has partially complied with the directives on setting up a police complaints authority (PCA) at the state level to inquire into public complaints against police officers of and above the rank of deputy superintendent of police (DySP) in cases of serious misconduct, including custodial death, grievous hurt, or rape in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngo-goa-dragged-feet-on-scs-police-reforms-orders/articleshow/78469855.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Varsity yet to give students certificates||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has failed to hand over the degree certificates to the fina- year students of engineering despite giving assurance. The students who are approaching the university for the desired documents are made to return empty handed from the examination department. A large section of engineering students, who have passed out in May-June 2018, has not received their degree certificates till date despite paying the fees. Vishal Lavhale, who had topped the examination at the engineering level in May-June 2018, said the university authorities were giving evasive answers when inquired for the degree certificates. “The deputy-registrar level authorities and the head of the examination department are coming out with contrary replies when asked for degree certificates. While the lower-level authorities said the documents are ready, the head of the department said he has not signed any degree certificates yet,” said Lavhale, who is preparing for UPSC examination. Yogesh Patil, the head of the examination department did not respond to calls. When contacted, P P Kalawant, the Bamu deputy registrar (examination), said, “The technical issues have been addressed and students will get their degrees shortly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/varsity-yet-to-give-students-certificates/articleshow/78468908.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||ICU beds up 44% in last 15 days in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The number of beds in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for treatment of Covid-19 patients has gone up by 44% in the last 15 days in Jaipur. The number of beds has increased after more private hospitals started treating Covid-19 patients following the strict orders issued by the health department to keep 30% of overall beds for such purpose. The order was applicable for those private hospitals which are having 80 or more beds in divisional headquarters and 60 or more beds in districts. “We are getting the support of private hospitals in Covid-19 treatment. We have enhanced our facilities for Covid-19 treatment by focusing on preventing deaths due to Covid-19. There is a significant increase in number of beds in ICUs and ventilators,” said a health department official. On September 17, the city had 384 ICU beds which increased to 682 on October 1. It is a major jump in number of beds with intensive care. Besides, the city has also added 71 more beds with ventilator support in the past 15 days (from September 17 to October 1), which is 31% increase in beds with ventilator. While the doctors have found high-flow oxygen therapy as quite useful in Covid-19 treatment, the city has witnessed a significant number of beds with oxygen support. In the last 15 days, the number of beds with oxygen support has increased from 1,100 to 1869, which is 41% increase. Apart from private hospitals, the government hospitals have also increased the beds strength for Covid-19 patients with 102 more beds with oxygen support, 82 beds in ICUs and 20 beds with ventilator support. While ICU beds, beds with oxygen support and beds with ventilators are playing key role in saving life of Covid-19 patients, most of the hospitals are running with full capacity. The health department is taking measures to add more beds, including in government-run Jaipuria Hospital and ESI Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/icu-beds-up-44-in-last-15-days-in-city/articleshow/78469854.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Humidity levels fall, winter nort far away: Met||Jaipur: There’s a nip in the air and humidity levels are falling in the early hours while days are warmer in the afternoon. Many districts are witnessing scorching heat conditions even in October. Churu remained hottest logging 40.9 degrees Celsius, Met said on Saturday. Weathermen said winter was on way as minimum temperatures were continuously falling. "For the last one week, there is a continuous dip in minimum temperatures. However, many places in the state are witnessing maximum temperatures above 39 degrees," said a senior officer of Met office. People in Jaipur woke up to a comparatively chilly morning with a minimum temperature of 22 degrees. It was followed by a scorching afternoon as the maximum temperature rose to 36.6 degrees. Churu was followed by Barmer where a maximum temperature of 39.2 degrees was recorded, Pilani and Jaisalmer logged 39 degrees each, Sriganganagar 38.4, Vanasthali 37.8, Kota 37, Sikar 36.2 and Ajmer 35.7. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office said mercury will continue to dip during morning hours while there would be rise in the temperatures during afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/humidity-levels-fall-winter-nort-far-away-met/articleshow/78469861.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Nagpur||‘Official character is fleeting entity, individual creativity is forever’||Sunil Ramanand, Additional DG (Prisons), is a chemical engineer-turned-top cop who has authored his first novel, ‘Cops In A Quagmire’, based on his experience as police chief of a district in western Maharashtra. An IITian in processing engineering and design, Ramanand is an IPS of 1994-batch. He loves to describe himself as an ‘archetypal Kolhapuri’, Ramanand also served in UN peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and earned ‘UN medal for peace’. Having served twice tackling Left Wing Terrorism (LWT), it is not surprising Ramanand’s next novel revolves around encounter of a woman Maoist. Here, Ramanand speaks about what it takes for a high-profile cop to turn to penning novels. Excerpts from an interview... Q. What was the trigger to write the novel? A. I had a passing desire to write a book on Naxalism while posted as DIG Gadchiroli against the backdrop of Maoist resurgence and had made a feeble attempt before giving it up. Completely inclined to science, mathematics and engineering, my only brush with literature was writing an editorial piece on significance of January 26 in my school magazine. The book was the result of an attempt to overcome the ennui of a long sabbatical post spine surgery. My wife Seema had taken me to Pune Club library where I chanced upon Upamanyu Chatterjee’s ‘English, August’ which rekindled this passion to write a book. But I consider Ruskin Bond, whose works I had started reading, to be my virtual mentor. He strings beautiful sentences with basic words that I started following. To be a good writer, one must be able to express most profound feelings in simple words. After reading Bond, I realized that to be a writer one does not need a humongous vocabulary. Q. Why did it take seven years to complete the book? A. I started writing seriously in December 2013 while on medical leave post spine surgery and wrote vigorously until I was posted as Joint CP in Pune in the middle of 2014. Thereafter, I slowed down a bit. But I resumed after joining as IGP in State Intelligence Department (SID). Three times election duty gave me ample opportunity to continue with my novel. Many times, I would run out of ideas, have sudden lack of motivation and wanted to withdraw. These bleak phases remained temporary as I went ahead to complete the book towards the end of 2018. Then, I tried to find a publisher until Vishwakarma Publications, Pune, agreed to publish it. Q. Many cops before you have turned to writing. Is it because the real-life drama you all are exposed to? A. Most cops fell to the temptation of penning autobiographies but then ended resorting to self-eulogizing or self-deprecating. I chose fiction where one had to fall back upon real life incidents for inspiration. Also, fiction offers more liberty for creative pursuits. In real life, every single police office is enriched with vast gamut of unique experiences that he or she need not look into another’s plate for ideas. Even former Nagpur CP BK Upadhyay feels every cop should write books of their experiences and insights. Q. How does a strict officer garner sensitivity of a writer? A. One may enact various emotional identities in life. Just because one is a cop and needs to be strict and emotionless in professional arena does not mean he lacks the softer side of life. I have seen officers who were very strict between 10 am and 6 pm but completely different person outside the purview of their professional duties. I never had that conflict within me. When required, the inner-self comes to fore. Q. Were you able to freely express your thoughts in the book? A. The times have changed. It reflects in more liberal service culture. Lot of colleagues from my department and other services too encouraged me to write this book. There is no reason to be apologetic or embarrassed about writing in personal capacity as the work culture is changing. The self-imposed suffocation is unwarranted in today’s society. As one grows in any service, the person starts yearning to follow that one hobby that one could not. When one grows within, he or she realizes that it is the chair one occupies that demands official discipline. The official character is a fleeting entity, the individual creativity is forever. Q. Being in a demanding and taxing job, how did you muster energy to write a book? A. It’s the magic of motivation that helps when one is following one’s passion. If you enjoy doing it, it will never be a burden, appear cumbersome, or lead to exhaustion. Even a draining task cannot prevent one from doing something close to one’s heart. Q. Has the experience of writing the book transformed you in anyway? A. Yes. I was exposed to the world of literature. I could imbibe the pleasure literature provided. As a student, I was inclined towards mathematics and science. When I started reading literature, it dawned upon me that art is the mother of science and not the other way around. In the hierarchy of the self-actualization, art is at the pinnacle. Those who have ignored art have missed something very important in life. Once you are smitten with literature and the writing bug, you no more feel like chasing a posting but feel stronger to be able to read more books and get opportunities to write more. Q. Were there any conflicts at any point between the police officer and the writer? A. Yes. I had to labour over these conflicting thoughts and emotions. Had to take tough decisions at times of not including some aspects. Then there were issues that I mustered courage to include, albeit in a veiled manner. The whole idea is to be least offensive without compromising on the essence of the subject or theme around which your literary efforts are revolving. The conflicts were balanced with conscientious expressions and sublime thoughts. Q. How did you avoid legal complications while writing a book on a real life drama? A. I am not pioneering this genre of recreating a real-life drama creatively. There have been umpteen books, including by top government officials that are bolder by theme and language even to the extent of having sensualities in them. Q. Are you a spicy ‘archetypal Kolhapuri’ as a writer too? A. It’s restricted to my love for the ‘tambda (red) and pandhra (white) rassa (gravy)’ cuisine of my native land. In literature, I steer clear of any sensual elements but remain clean and modest in depicting nuances of human emotions. Yes, my first novel has a couple of cuss words but they were situational elements, but that’s it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/official-character-is-fleeting-entity-individual-creativity-is-forever/articleshow/78468936.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 4, 2020||Goa||‘CM’s 100% household tap water claim is false’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s claim that every household in Goa gets piped water is false, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte on Saturday. He said though many houses have taps, water often comes once a day or three times a week to these homes. Khaunte said Sawant is making false statements and has asked residents of Porvorim to speak out about the availability of water. “Agreed that there are taps in every household but does water flow through these taps, and if so, at what frequency?” said Khaunte. He said since Sawant’s return from his meet with BJP brass at the Centre, Sawant is in election mode and making false statements. “First it was zero mortality, now its availability of tap water. It’s time the people of Goa took it upon themselves to expose Sawant’s repeated tall claims ,” said Khaunte. He also reacted to Goa Lokayukta’s order which said BJP minister Michael Lobo is “unfit to hold his post”. “This very Lokayukta had earlier observed that only God can save Goa from this government. To reiterate that this government is beyond redemption, the Lokayukta has added in this instance that it’s futile to make a declaration about the minister being unfit for the post because it’s up to the chief minister to decide whether Lobo should continue as minister,” said Khaunte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cms-100-household-tap-water-claim-is-false/articleshow/78469865.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Mapusa PTAs want e-classes to continue||Saligao: The parents teacher associations (PTAs) of schools from Mapusa have stated that the schools should not be reopened as the Covid-19 cases are still spiralling, and that the government should continue with the online classes till the end of the academic year or till the ongoing pandemic ends. Members of the PTAs said after a survey was conducted, it has been noted that many parents were of the opinion that the schools should not be reopened on account of the pandemic and also as there was no proper transport and also compulsorily wearing masks in school would make the students uncomfortable. They said that most of the toilets in the school were unhygienic, which could make the students susceptible to getting infected. The vice-chairman of G S Amonkar High School, Mahesh Swar, said, that the government had enough time to put the right infrastructure in place in schools for teachers to conduct online classes. “All the schools can be fitted with cameras for teachers to conduct online classes for students.” Umesh Kolwalkar, a teacher, stated that free wi-fi services could also be provided to the students in every village to enable them to get proper internet connectivity. “We don’t want more teachers to get infected with Covid-19. Let the online classes continue,” Kolwalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-ptas-want-e-classes-to-continue/articleshow/78469875.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bhopal||Recoveries outnumber fresh Covid cases in MP: Government data||BHOPAL: For the second consecutive day on Saturday the number of people recovered in a single day outnumbered the number of fresh cases reported. While 2101 people recovered from the disease, 1811 new people tested positive for covid-19. On Friday also while 2332 people had recovered, only 2019 had tested positive for the disease. With these new people recovering the total count of people who have recovered from the disease reached 111712 on Saturday. Thus the overall recovery rate in the state as on October 3, stood at 83.4% which has improved in past one month as it was only 76% as on August 31. With these fresh cases, tally of positive cases in the state reached 133918. Apart from the new cases, 27 deaths were also reported, says the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. With these new casualties death toll due to covid-19 in the state reached 2399. On Saturday fresh cases were reported from 51 out of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Agar Malwa district where no new cases were reported on Saturday. Among the district where these cases were reported, maximum number of cases were reported from Indore 481 fresh cases, followed by Bhopal where 248 new cases were reported, Jabalpur where 166 new cases were reported and Gwalior where 66 new cases were reported. On Saturday when 1811 new cases were reported a total of 24530 samples were tested. Thus overall 7.3% of the people whose samples were tested were found positive. Overall positivity rate in the state remained at 6.3% on October 3, it was only 4.6% on August 31. Positivity rate—number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested—has been rising since past one month in the state and has always remained above 5% during this period. Overall as on October 3, there were a total of 19807 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recoveries-outnumber-fresh-covid-cases-in-mp-govt-data/articleshow/78468920.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Lucknow||UP: In a first, Covid hospital turns into exam centre for virus-hit student||LUCKNOW: In a first such initiative in Uttar Pradesh and perhaps in India, a Level-1 Covid-19 hospital was turned into an examination centre on Saturday to enable a corona positive patient take his Class 12 Board compartment test.The student from Sant Kabir Nagar district was afflicted by the virus on September 29 and was quarantined at the Covid care wing of the district’s combined hospital. The boy’s father Hari Om Mishra, resident of Nathnagar area, gathered the courage to put up a unique request to district magistrate Divya Mittal during a Gandhi Jayanti programme. He urged the DM to facilitate the October 3 Board examination for his Covid positive son, Anant, a commerce student who had to appear for the mathematics exam. “The father requested us to save the academic career of his son, who doesn't want to lose a year,” the district magistrate told TOI. The DM swiftly took up the matter with the state secondary education department and apprised additional chief secretary Aradhana Shukla. Soon, the option to turn the hospital into an examination centre was hammered out and infrastructure gaps like unavailability of CCTV cameras were considered. While the nod was awaited, steps to turn a room in the Covid-19 hospital into an exam centre with requisite infrastructure, including seating arrangement, CCTV cameras, place for an invigilator were put in place along with pandemic protocols. The boy was also medically examined to evaluate if he was fit to take the test. After Anant was found to be largely asymptomatic, the health team gave the go-ahead. “In the evening, the secondary education department gave the green signal to the district administration and the boy appeared for the test on Saturday. We hope he comes out with flying colours,” said Divya Mittal, who is known to go the extra mile to improve education opportunities. During her previous posting at Gonda, she took out time to teach science to senior secondary students. Thanking the local administration and DM in particular, Hari Om Mishra, a farmer who works with a private company said: “Anant was studying hard when he contracted Covid. We want our children to become graduates. We cannot derail our dream.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-a-first-covid-hosp-turns-into-exam-centre-for-virus-hit-student/articleshow/78470559.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 4, 2020||Goa||Cyclists give thumbs-up for pop-up cycle lanes||Panaji: Though close to 70% of the cyclists sit on the saddle for exercise, over 50% of the respondents survey conducted in Panaji said that they will cycle for work and other purposes if a public bike sharing system is implemented in the state capital. Cyclists said that basic improvement of roads and repairs of potholes can encourage the culture of cycling not just in Panaji, but in Goa too. Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd (IPSCDL) conducted a survey to gauge the interest in cycling with close to 200 people giving their response. Over 80% of the respondents said that if the city had dedicated cycles lanes they would cycle more often. They said that speeding vehicles, potholes and open drains and stray dogs are the biggest barriers for cyclists. The survey was conducted as a precursor to the first ever pop-up cycle lane in the state capital, which received a good response with close to 150 cyclists participating. Cyclists from Porvorim, Bambolim and other neighbouring areas joined in and suggested that such initiatives can help improve safety of cyclists. Cyclists said that the Goa government should encourage cycling tracks so that the culture of cycling as a means of transport catches on. “Cycling culture, which can be seen in other states should also start in a tourist destination like Goa. When we see more cyclists on the road is when we will see better infrastructure,” said one of the cyclists Shashank Bhosle. Just 4% of the survey respondents said that they cycle to work. Many cyclists said that if the basic condition of the roads are improved more people will take up cycling. IPSCDL chief executive officer and managing director Swayandipta Pal Chaudhuri said that the city would continue to encourage cycling in the run up to the India cycles4change challenge. “We would like to carry it forward. We are talking about equitable streets, safe streets and the only way to ensure it is to make sure that it is open,” said Chaudhuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyclists-give-thumbs-up-for-pop-up-cycle-lanes/articleshow/78469862.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Thousands of antiques to be discarded from Albert Hall in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Thousands of antiques kept in Albert Hall will be discarded by the state government once the assessment is completed. A three-member team from Indira Gandhi National Centre of Arts, New Delhi visited Albert Hall museum and will soon decide what are the relevant things to be kept in the museum. There are thousands of objects in the museum’s basement that does not have any archaeological importance. Many of such items were damaged in rainwater which flooded the basement on August 14. Prakash Sharma, director of the state archaeology department, said, “We will soon sign an MoU with India Gandhi Centre of Arts (IGCA) that will start working in the museum to assess the damage done. Many objects do not have archaeological significance. There are many stones, wooden pieces, thermocol objects are kept. The IGCA will categories them and then we will take a decision to send them away to other places – universities or other museums.” It will take around a year to complete the assessment after which department will discard them. In the basement of the museum, more than 18,000 antiques are present that were underwater for three days before the water was pumped out of them. Items included – paintings, photographs, ceramic pots and statues. They were chronically arranged but due to flood their position is now being disrupted and it would take months to assess the damage caused to them. Most precious item in the basement was 2,300-year-old mummy named Tutu. Authorities on the last minute took the mummy out after breaking its case. Last week authorities shifted the place of mummy from basement to first floor. The mummy was kept in the basement with proper lightings that used to give a feeling of walking inside a cave. But to prevent any such incident to happen it was found necessary to shift the mummy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thousands-of-antiques-to-be-discarded-from-albert-hall/articleshow/78469864.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Hang all 4 Hathras rape accused: RPI||Saligao: The Goa block of the Republican Party of India (RPI) has demanded that all four accused involved in the recent rape of a Dalit girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh (UP), should be hanged for committing the heinous crime. Calling the incident a disgrace to humanity, RPI’s Goa block president Satish Korgaonkar said that a special fast track court should be set up to take up the case. Korgaonkar said the Union minister for social justice and RPI leader Ramdas Athawale will meet the family of the victim. He said Athawale will also meet UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel and demand that substantial financial assistance be given to the victim’s family. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hang-all-4-hathras-rape-accused-rpi/articleshow/78469870.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Goa||Thunderstorms, rain may continue for 1 week||PANAJI: With the withdrawal of monsoon at the end of a record-shattering season likely to take some time, the sky was overcast on Saturday and India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, forecast heavy rainfall over isolated places till Sunday. A circulation present in the Arabian Sea between 1.5 and 3.1km above mean sea level has triggered chances of light to moderate rain accompanied by lightning and thunder. “Light rain and thunder showers will continue for about a week. On Saturday and Sunday, comparatively higher distribution of rainfall is likely due to cyclonic circulation over east central Arabian Sea,” Rahul M, scientist at IMD, Panaji, said. Due to the cyclonic circulation, squally weather is also likely along and off Goa coast over the next 48 hours. “Fishermen are advised not to venture along and off the south Maharashtra coast during the period,” the IMD bulletin stated. During the past 24 hours till Saturday morning, a few places recorded light rainfall, the highest of 7mm being at Panaji. In Sanguem, 5mm and Mormugao 4.4mm were recorded while three other centres recorded lesser quantum. By Saturday evening, some places had recorded light rainfall. After chances of heavy rainfall in isolated places for two days, rain activity may be on a lesser scale from Monday to Wednesday, but lightning and thunderstorms are likely from Saturday in isolated places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/thunderstorms-rain-may-continue-for-1-wk/articleshow/78469872.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress, BJP in race to don Opposition mantle?||HYDERABAD: With the race between Congress and BJP intensifying to emerge as the main opposition party in Telangana, the grand old party has in a strategic move decided that its top guns will hit the campaign trail in Dubbak assembly constituency, where by-poll is scheduled on November 3. The Dubbak seat fell vacant following the death of TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy. Top leaders, including N Uttam Kumar Reddy, A Revanth Reddy, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, T Jeevan Reddy, all of whom won elections against TRS in 2019 after the party’s rout in the assembly elections in 2018, will tour villages in Dubbak constituency to connect with the people. There are 146 villages and party leaders are being made in charge of each village. The strategy is aimed at regaining the lost vote share of Congress and also showing BJP its place. Also, Congress is making a serious bid to win the by-poll although a victory is seldom against the ruling party in a by-poll because of the sympathy factor on its side AICC general secretary in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore has asked party leaders to send a clear message to the people of Telangana that Congress is the only party which can defeat TRS and fulfil their aspirations, which have remained unfulfilled in Telangana under chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government. “We are contesting to win Dubbak by-poll. Even the candidate selection will be done based on the recommendation of local leaders,” Tagore said. Congress had won Dubbak in 2009 in the undivided state with a vote share of 37.18%. From 37.18% vote share in 2009 to 16.31% in 2018, the vote share of Congress fell by more than 50% in Dubbak constituency. Congress could garner 28.75% vote share in the 2014 Assembly polls in Dubbak constituency. Though BJP was in fourth place in 2009 and third in 2014 and 2018 assembly polls respectively, its vote share increased from a mere 4.19% in 2009 to 13.75% in 2018. On its part, BJP is leaving no stone unturned to turn the tables not only against Congress but also the ruling party in this constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-bjp-in-race-to-don-oppn-mantle/articleshow/78468962.cms||Roushan Ali
October 4, 2020||Jaipur||Poor affiliation process leaves scope for corruption in edu hubs||Jaipur: The scandal related to the affiliation of colleges in Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati University in Ajmer has highlighted the loopholes in the affiliation process. Experts have demanded reforms in the process from giving annual temporary affiliation maximum for 3 years, online feedback from students and surprise inspections from other universities to curb corruption. The state has 28 universities which provide affiliation to over 6,000 colleges. Affiliation is granted course-wise and on an average, every college pays between Rs 10-15 lakh annually. Every university is bound to follow UGC norms but the responsibility of inspection of colleges lies with respective university which leaves the scope for corruption. “The incident in Ajmer university is just the tip of an iceberg. Some universities have made the process so tedious that the applicant easily falls in their trap. In the age of advanced technology, the use of old means that unquestionable physical verification is rotting the system,” said Puneet Sharma, a technical education expert. He added that surprise inspections should be adopted while keeping a high cost for error to keep the system healthy. “I have suggested that surprise inspections physically along with inspections through online platforms. It will keep the institutes on toes and once they are ready with everything written on the book, the scope for corruption will fade away,” said Sharma. Once the institute receives approval from the UGC, AICTE, MCI, BCI to start courses, the college seeks affiliation from the university. Every university is under the obligation to grant affiliation to the college on the basis of the infrastructure and faculty strength. Ecucationist KB Kothari said feedback from students should be formed the basis for inspections. “First, the baseline survey report should be made on the feedback from students as they are in a position to give feedback on several parameters,” said Kothari. “I am running an engineering college for the last six years but the authorities are yet to give us permanent affiliation. Initially, they said it cannot be granted for five years, later they added that not before NAAC grading. They actually create a window for corruption,” said a director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poor-affiliation-process-leaves-scope-for-corruption-in-edu-hubs/articleshow/78469867.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro district gets its 4th blood bank||BOKARO: The sadar hospital on Saturday got its first blood bank nearly seven years after its establishment. With this, the number of blood banks in the entire district stands at four, the other three being in Bokaro General Hospital, K M Memorial Hospital and Red Cross Society building. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak, after inaugurating the blood bank, said, “Now the patients in sadar hospital don’t have to depend on other blood banks for their requirements.” Hospital’s deputy superintendent Renu Bharti said they desperately needed a blood bank. “We require 3-4 units of blood on a daily basis, especially for the pregnant women with low haemoglobin, and the thalassemia patients who require blood every month. There are more than 54 thalassemia patients in the district and most of them belong to the poorer sections of the society. With the blood bank becoming functional here, it will prove to be a boon for such patients.” On Saturday, three staff members from the district health department donated blood at the bank. The health department is currently holding a blood donation camp from October 1 to 15 and they are trying to encourage more and more people for donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-dist-gets-its-4th-blood-bank/articleshow/78469556.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||BJP to contest both seats, Ajsu-P to aid||RANCHI: Unlike last year’s assembly election, both BJP and Ajsu Party will fight the bypolls in Dumka and Bermo jointly, slated to be held on November 3. Following an understanding between the two camps, the saffron party will field candidates on both the seats and Ajsu Party will support both of them, Ajsu Party said on Saturday. The party’s central spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat said, “Our party president Sudesh Mahto has decided to support BJP on both the seats. We will extend full cooperation to ensure NDA’s victory in the upcoming bypolls. Both the parties will soon sit together to chalk out campaign modalities to outsmart the ruling dispensation.” On Friday, BJP’s top brass in the state, including state party president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash, met Sudesh at his residence to strike a deal. “Ajsu Party has always been our natural ally and both the parties have always worked jointly for the betterment of this state, which was created by late Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The upcoming polls will mark the downfall of the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance in Jharkhand,” Prakash said. BJP’s state election committee also held an extensive meeting on Friday on finalising the candidates on both the seats. The committee has authorised a three-member team, comprising Prakash, BJP’s leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi and general secretary Dhrampal Singh, to recommend names to the national leadership which will give its final approval. While the party remained tight-lipped on the potential candidates, the buzz among the BJP rank and file indicates that former minister and ex Dumka MLA Lois Marandi is likely to be fielded in Dumka while in Bermo, former MP Ravindra Kumar Pandey and former Bermo MLA Yogeshwar Mahto Batul are said to be the frontrunners. “The party will announce its candidates on time,” said Prakash, adding, “We will take the ruling coalition to task regarding the growing lawlessness in the state in the forthcoming polls.” JMM, on the other hand, has already announced chief minister Hemant Soren’s brother Basant as its candidate in Dumka. Basant will file his nomination on October 12, JMM spokesperson and general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee had said last week. JMM’s ally, Congress, will field its candidate in Bermo and his/her name is expected to be announced next week. Nominations for both the seats will take place from October 9 to 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-to-contest-both-seats-ajsu-p-to-aid/articleshow/78469362.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||Haji Hussain Ansari dies of cardiac arrest hrs after ‘recovering’ from Covid||RANCHI: State minority welfare and registration department minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest at a private hospital hospital on Saturday afternoon, hours after he “recovered” from Covid-19 but before he was discharged. He was also the sitting chairman of Jharkhand Haj Committee. The Hemant Soren government has announced a two-day state mourning from October 4 to October 5 . It has also declared Monday as a holiday. The 73-year-old JMM veteran, who became the first Muslim minister in Jharkhand in 2010 during the Arjun Munda regime, was admitted to Medanta on the outskirts of Ranchi after he tested positive for Covid two weeks ago. His Covid report test report returned negative on Friday night and he was shifted to general ICU on Saturday. He was, however, put on a ventilator again after he complained of breathlessness and he suffered a cardiac arrest at 3.40pm, hospital sources said, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni, told TOI. A Medanta spokesperson confirmed that Ansari suffered a post-recovery heart attack. “He had recovered from the infection, and his death is attributed to comorbidities, not to coronavirus. His lungs were infected, which led to breathlessness,” said the official. Ansari also had a history hyper-tension, diabetes and had undergone a bypass surgery recently. Ansari’s last rites will be carried out as per Covid norms in his home in Madhepur with full state honours on Sunday. “The time will be announced after consultation with his family,” JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. In March, Ansari and his family were put in home quarantine following unsubstantiated reports that his son Tanveer had attended the Tablighi Jamaat markaz in Delhi. Ansari and Taveer duo had rejected the charges. Chief minister Hemant Soren said Ansari’s demise was a personal loss to him and JMM. Soren said, “It is a big loss for JMM and the state. He was a father figure to me and had closely worked with guruji Shibu Soren for two decades, playing an active role in the Jharkhand movement.” Ansari began his political career with Congress in the 1980s, but joined JMM in the early 90s, representing Madhupur constituency in Deoghar district, a part of Santhal Pargana, and went on to represent the seat four times since his electoral debut in 1995. Congress, JMM’s ally in the ruling dispensation, said the death was a loss for state politics. Health minister and Jamshedpur West MLA, Banna Gupta tweeted: “I am shocked by the news. Your departure is a great loss to the state. Prayers for the bereaved family.” Three former chief ministers from BJP — Babulal Marandi (Dhanwar MLA), Raghubar Das and Arjun Munda (Union tribal affairs minister) — also expressed grief over the death of the “mass leader who chose to keep a low profile”. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, several ministers MLAs have so far been infected by the virus. While Banna Gupta (health minister), Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) have recovered and returned to work, Jagarnnath Mahto (education) is on 100% oxygen support at another private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/min-ansari-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-hrs-after-recovering-from-covid/articleshow/78469535.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||Principal, teacher take edu to students at remote hamlet||DALTONGANJ: In the remote hamlet of Kewal Tola Rajwadih, of the 200-odd people who live there, only two have smartphones which made taking online classes for the teachers at the government school difficult. With Covid restrictions in place, schools were shut, but headmaster of Rajwadih Middle School Parshuram Tiwary and para-teacher Vijay Kumar Thakur ensured education does not stop for the 22 students of the school who live in the hamlet. “There was practically no way to send digital content to the students during the pandemic. Thus Thakur and I decided to visit the hamlet at least twice a week on a bike to teach the students,” said Tiwary. 28km “For the remaining days of the week, we send digital notes for students of Classes VI, VII and VIII on one of the two smartphones owned by Dilip Bhuiyan and request him to pass it on to Sarwan Bhuiyan, a student of Class VII who then shares it to others offline,” Tiwary said. He said, “Throughout the pandemic we have been visiting them. There are no chairs there, but we sit on a clean mud-smeared floor and the hamlet of the Bhuiyans ensured we felt no discomfort,” he said. “The villagers place mats for us, which we sanitize before sitting on them and all our students wear masks, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/principal-teacher-take-edu-to-students-at-remote-hamlet/articleshow/78469239.cms||M F AHMED
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||5 Covid deaths, active cases fall below 11k||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded five Covid casualties, 877 new cases and 1,176 recoveries on Saturday, taking the cure rate to 86.47%, higher than the national figure of 83.80%. The state’s total caseload stood at 86,277, of which 10,939 are active cases, 74,604 have recovered and 729 have died. This is the first time in more than a month wwehen the number of active cases are below 11,000-mark. Among the deaths, Ranchi recorded two while East Singbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and West Singbhum recorded one each. Ranchi recorded the highest number of new infections (384) while East Singhbhum registered 61 cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-covid-deaths-active-cases-fall-below-11k/articleshow/78469222.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||World||Trump, from hospital, says he feels 'much better' after Covid-19 treatment||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said in a video from his hospital room on Saturday that he felt "much better" and hoped to be "back soon," after a day of contradictory messages from the White House about his condition following his Covid-19 diagnosis. In a four-minute video posted on Twitter, Trump, looking tired and wearing a jacket and open-necked shirt, said he "wasn't feeling so well" when he first arrived at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and that the next few days would be crucial in his fight against the coronavirus. https://t.co/gvIPuYtTZG— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1601765518000"Over the next period of a few days, I guess that's the real test, so we'll be seeing what happens over those next couple of days," Trump said, seated at a round table in front of an American flag. The address came hours after differing assessments of his health from administration officials left it unclear how ill the president had become since he tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday night. A White House team of doctors said on Saturday morning that Trump's condition was improving and that he was already talking about returning to the White House. One doctor said Trump had told them "'I feel like I could walk out of here today.'" Within minutes, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows gave reporters a less rosy assessment, telling reporters, "The president's vitals over the last 24 hours were very concerning and the next 48 hours will be critical in terms of his care. We're still not on a clear path to a full recovery." Meadows, whose initial comments were delivered on condition that he not be identified, altering his tone hours later, telling Reuters that Trump was doing "very well" and that "doctors are very pleased with his vital signs". Watch Doctors say Trump doing 'very well' at hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-from-hospital-says-he-feels-much-better-after-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/78471030.cms||---
October 4, 2020||World||Trump, from hospital, says he feels 'much better' after Covid-19 treatment||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said in a video from his hospital room on Saturday that he felt "much better" and hoped to be "back soon," after a day of contradictory messages from the White House about his condition following his Covid-19 diagnosis. In a four-minute video posted on Twitter, Trump, looking tired and wearing a jacket and open-necked shirt, said he "wasn't feeling so well" when he first arrived at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center and that the next few days would be crucial in his fight against the coronavirus. https://t.co/gvIPuYtTZG— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1601765518000"Over the next period of a few days, I guess that's the real test, so we'll be seeing what happens over those next couple of days," Trump said, seated at a round table in front of an American flag. The address came hours after differing assessments of his health from administration officials left it unclear how ill the president had become since he tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday night. A White House team of doctors said on Saturday morning that Trump's condition was improving and that he was already talking about returning to the White House. One doctor said Trump had told them "'I feel like I could walk out of here today.'" Within minutes, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows gave reporters a less rosy assessment, telling reporters, "The president's vitals over the last 24 hours were very concerning and the next 48 hours will be critical in terms of his care. We're still not on a clear path to a full recovery." Meadows, whose initial comments were delivered on condition that he not be identified, altering his tone hours later, telling Reuters that Trump was doing "very well" and that "doctors are very pleased with his vital signs". Watch Doctors say Trump doing 'very well' at hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-from-hospital-says-he-feels-much-better-after-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/78471045.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||NCB harassed me into implicating actors Ranbir Kapoor, Dino Morea, Arjun Rampal in drugs case: Kshitij Prasad||MUMBAI: Retracting his statements made to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), executive producer Kshitij Prasad submitted before the NDPS court on Saturday that the investigating agency repeatedly harassed him into falsely implicating actors Ranbir Kapoor, Dino Morea and Arjun Rampal in the drugs case. The NCB called his claims “false and baseless”. Prasad (30) was arrested on September 26 in the drugs case the NCB is probing in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. He was produced before the court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody until Tuesday. “I have been repeatedly harassed and coerced into falsely implicating Dino Morea, Arjun Rampal and Ranbir Kapoor in the present proceedings despite me repeatedly stating that I do not know the persons and have no knowledge of such allegations,” Prasad said in his plea. He also said as he refused to write false statements, the NCB had been preparing them as per their wish and attempted to force him to sign them. “I say that in this manner I am being mentally, emotionally and psychologically harassed and abused by the complainant (NCB) into making false statements,” he added. Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande denied the allegations and said they were pre planned. “The court was shown his statements and none of these names are even mentioned there. He had refused to sign the statements,” Sarpande said. Sarpande told the court that while in custody Prasad was totally “non-cooperative, adamant and arrogant and refused to sign statements given by him.” The NCB claimed that he was trying to bargain hard by seeking removal of the stringent Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act’s Section 27A in exchange for his signatures on the statements. The charge of illicit trafficking and harbouring of offenders under Section 27A of the NDPS Act attracts a minimum sentence of 10 years’ imprisonment and a maximum of 20 years in jail. Prasad is a former employee of filmmaker Karan Johar owned Dharmatic Entertainment, a sister concern of Dharma Productions. At his remand hearing, Special Judge G B Gurao said the police was given sufficient time to investigate the crime and there were no justifiable reasons to extend his police custody. Last week, during his first remand hearing, Prasad’s defence advocate Satish Maneshinde had submitted another statement alleging that the NCB had been consistently threatening him to make statements against Johar and other senior officers of Dharma productions and that in the event he refused, they would falsely implicate his wife and other family members. The NCB had denied these allegations. In his plea retracting his statements, Prasad said at the NCB office he was surrounded by several officers and made a statement containing several confessions which were dictated by the officers of the department. The plea also said that upon reading the statement he realised that many false parts were unilaterally included without his consent. “In view of the fact that he was under pressure of the concerned officers, the accused had to make the statement under duress, threat and coercion. The statement is totally involuntary and not recorded in accordance with law,” the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-harassed-me-into-implicating-actors-ranbir-kapoor-dino-morea-arjun-rampal-in-drugs-case-kshitij-prasad/articleshow/78471062.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 4, 2020||India||Rahul, Priyanka meet Hathras victim’s family, say they stand by them||HATHRAS: On their second attempt, after a stand-off with cops along the state border, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and her brother Rahul Gandhi were finally allowed to pass and meet the Hathras girl’s family on Saturday evening. “I am a mother, I know your pain. I have nothing else to say,” Priyanka told the mother of the 19-year-old who had been allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village a fortnight before she died in a Delhi hospital. The mother broke down. Then, the doors were shut as Priyanka, Rahul and three other Congress leaders spoke to the family for about an hour. After stepping out, Congress MP Rahul said, “If anyone thinks they can stop us from standing for justice and truth, they are wrong. We will stand by you, no one can silence us.” The last time they had attempted to visit the family, on Thursday, they had been detained, released and later booked for breach of Covid control measures. On Saturday, when news reached the village that the two had been allowed to cross the Delhi-UP border after police lathicharged Congress workers who had gathered on the DND Flyway, there was a flurry of action in Hathras. Instructions were shot across to control the crowds expected. In Mathura, where the Congress representatives had taken a break on their way to Hathras, Priyanka told the media, “I don’t understand why the government is not supporting the family. It is their duty … I have spoken to her father over the phone. I feel his pain.” When they reached Hathras, however, it was only a small group that was allowed up to the girl’s house. When they left, the girl’s brother told the media that they had spoken about the behaviour of the local administration. “We told them about the attitude of the DM,” he said, referring to a thinly veiled “threat” reminding the family that the media would leave at some point in a video that went viral. After that, the SIT probing the case visited the family to record the statement of the victim’s father. Samajwadi Party, meanwhile, said it will also make a second attempt to meet the family — the first had been cut short on Thursday — with party chief Akhilesh Yadav expected to visit on Sunday. RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary has planned to do the same. Workers aligned with the upper caste community to which the accused belong, meanwhile, staged a counter-protest near the point of entry to the village. They complained they were not being allowed to meet the families of the accused. “A panchayat was held in favour of the four accused who are in police custody,” a worker said. “We demand an unbiased probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-priyanka-meet-hathras-victims-family-say-they-stand-by-them/articleshow/78471068.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 4, 2020||India||Didi walks 4km in protest, Sena seeks Yogi’s resignation||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Saturday led a protest march over a 4km stretch in central Kolkata against the Yogi Adityanath government’s “muzzling of democracy” in UP’s Hathras. Banerjee called BJP the “greatest pandemic” from whom everyone else was under threat, and feared that the country was heading towards a “presidential form of government”. In Mumbai, Shiv Sena organised its own protest at Shivaji Park, condemning the Hathras incident. The party held UP CM Adityanath responsible for it, and demanded his resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/didi-walks-4km-in-protest-sena-seeks-yogis-resignation/articleshow/78471075.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka’s RT-PCR test price lowest among major states||BENGALURU: The RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at private labs in Karnataka costs less than what diagnostic centres in some other big states charge. The Karnataka government is likely to lower the price further to encourage more people to get checked for Covid-19. Currently, the private RT-PCR test costs Rs 1,600 in the state. In Delhi, the price is Rs 2,400, West Bengal Rs 2,250, and Kerala 2,750. The rate varies across the country as the central government has not fixed a cap. In Tamil Nadu, the test price is Rs 1,500 for people who come under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, and Rs 2,000 for others. In Maharashtra, it varies from Rs 1,200 to Rs 2,000, depending on where the sample was taken (a collection site, a kiosk or the person’s residence). In Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, it costs 1,900 and Rs 2,200, respectively. Testing has become relatively affordable largely because of a sharp drop in the cost of reagents used in RT-PCR kits, say experts. With the demand for tests growing exponentially, some Indian companies have started producing the kits. Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey told STOI that the testing cost would become more reasonable in the coming days. “We want to bring it down further and are working on it,” he said. Already, more people are seeking tests at private labs. “RT-PCR kits that we buy from Germany, France and the US have become cheaper. Business works on volumes. At the end of the day, state governments will decide on the rate and there is no uniformity there. Our labs have different rates in different states,” said the pathology head of a prominent diagnostic chain in the country. People with suspected coronavirus infection are paying up to Rs 1,200 extra to have their nasal and throat swab samples collected from their homes. Private labs and hospitals call this the swab collection fee, which is not approved by the government. “The government order issued on September 26 clearly states that swab collection charges cannot exceed Rs 200. If any hospital or lab is charging more, it is illegal and the public can report it to us,” Pandey said. The association of private hospitals and nursing homes is upset with the state government’s decision to reduce the price of the RT-PCR test, saying the fixed rate doesn’t even cover their costs of conducting the process. While the RT-PCR testing has become relatively cheaper, the prices of cartridge-based detection processes have not been cut. Cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) and True-NAT, which were earlier used to check for drug-resistant tuberculosis, are now helping doctors quickly catch traces of coronavirus. TrueNAT detects genetic material of the virus. CB-NAAT costs Rs 1,800 and True-NAT Rs 2,000. The rates are not regulated by the government. A number of private hospitals use these tests, which apparently produce faster and accurate results. “This issue should be addressed as the government has revised only the price of RT-PCR testing, and not of other modalities. This should not lead to confusion,” said Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson of the state Covid-19 expert committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnatakas-rt-pcr-test-price-lowest-among-major-states/articleshow/78470820.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 4, 2020||Mysuru||60 teachers contract Covid in Mysuru district||MYSURU: Sixty teachers of government primary and high schools have tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru district in the past one week, raising concerns at a time when authorities are considering reopening schools in a phased manner. The infections were picked up by rapid antigen tests initiated by the health and education departments. The positive cases include six staff members of the office of the deputy director of public instruction (DDPI). The teachers’ fraternity in the district is worried and a section believes coronavirus cases among staff may delay reopening of schools. The government has ordered free Covid-19 tests for all teachers, including those from private, aided and minority educational institutions. More infections may come to light as officials plan to step up screening in all education blocks. Teachers testing positive may also affect Vidyagama sessions. Some teachers who attended training programmes and visited villages contracted the infection. There are 2,767 primary schools and more than 800 high schools in Mysuru district. Over 3.9 lakh children are enrolled in classes 1 to 5. According to the in-charge deputy director of public instruction, Udaykumar, 2,000 teachers have undergone Covid-19 tests. There are 8,500 primary and high school teachers. Mysuru north education block has reported 17 cases, south 16, KR Nagar 16, Hunsur six, and Nanjangud five, according to preliminary reports. “Cases may increase once the test process is completed and the results of all teachers are known. The government has provided only 80 rapid antigen test kits to every education block, so the process may require a month,” said Udaykumar. He added that as per the government’s guidelines, Covid positive teachers would be recommended home isolation for 15 days. Those with severe infection will be hospitalised. Revanna, director of the State Government Employees’ Association, urged authorities to safeguard the health of school staff and stop conducting classes under the ‘Vidyagama’ scheme, in which teachers visit students’ homes to address their doubts. “Though it’s a good initiative, teachers and students face risks,” he said. Chamundeshwari legislator GT Devegowda said the government should defer plan to reopen schools from October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/60-teachers-contract-covid-in-mysuru-district/articleshow/78470822.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Probe, autopsy vindicated, say Mumbai police||MUMBAI: The city police said they stood vindicated after an AIIMS panel ruled out foul play in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. A Bandra police officer who was part of the original probe told TOI, “There was strong speculation and theories were floated. But, the AIIMS report has backed our probe and also the autopsy done by five doctors at Cooper Hospital.” Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh told TOI, “We are waiting for the official version. Mumbai police, as well as doctors at the Cooper hospital, are highly professional and competent. Truth will prevail.” The police had faced criticism for not registering an FIR, and Sushant’s family had alleged they had not taken his father’s complaint in February. Mumbai police had registered an accidental death report (ADR) after Sushant’s death on June 14. Mumbai cops say they were sure their probe had no flawThe city police on Saturday said they stood vindicated as reports emerged that an AIIMS panel had ruled out foul play in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and said that it was a case of suicide. After an inquiry to ascertain the cause of actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the Mumbai police had maintained it was a case of suicide and had quoted the actor’s health reports to highlight the fact that he had been under depression. The case was in August ordered to be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) by the Supreme Court. The apex court had, while giving its order, recorded a finding that the Mumbai police had not even registered an FIR and was “stretching” its inquiry on the basis of an accidental death report. Another police officer from Bandra said, “We had no problem when the case was handed over to the CBI because we knew our probe had no flaws.” The post-mortem carried out at Cooper Hospital showed the cause of death as asphyxia due to hanging. The Bandra police officer said the report submitted by Cooper Hospital confirmed it was a case of suicide and had ruled out foul play. There were no struggle marks or external injuries on the actor’s body, the report had stated. Doctors at Cooper Hospital had preserved the viscera and sent it to the Forensic Science Laboratory, police said. The report submitted to Bandra police on July 27 showed no drugs or poison in the drinks—pomegranate juice, red bull and orange juice—that the actor had had on June 13 and 14. There was nothing found on his nails, and the tensile strength of the kurta that Sushant had used to hang himself was analysed, police said. The FSL report on Sushant’s gadgets—his laptop and mobile phone—showed that he had Googled a couple of times to check details on “painless death”, information related to his ailments and his name in articles on the death of former celebrity manager Disha Salian, who had ended her life by jumping from a Malad highrise on June 9. Sushant had also discussed this with his lawyer, his domestic help and staff then, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sushant-singh-rajput-case-probe-autopsy-vindicated-say-mumbai-police/articleshow/78471086.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh saw 106% rise in environmental violations in 2019: NCRB data||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh saw a 106% rise in environmental violations in 2019 compared to 2018, according to the latest ‘Crime in India-2019’ report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). However, when compared to 2017, the state saw a 39% increase in environmental violations. Out of the 188 cases recorded in 2019, 75% pertain to the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2013. Following that, 23% cases were booked under Forest Act and the Forest Conservation Act. The remaining cases were registered under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. This trend hardly comes as a surprise as Andhra Pradesh continues to remain a major target of red sandalwood smugglers. Despite the increase in cases, the overall rate of environmental offences in state stands at 0.4% against the national average 2.6%. This is because of a low, 0.5%, share of violations that AP shares with rest of India. The more concerning aspect of the report is that police disposal of environment-related cases has a 67.2% pendency rate. Around 193 cases from 2018 were pending for investigation in 2019. At the end of 2019, the overall cases pending for investigation stood at 381 putting AP at the seventh place in India. Out of 188 cases, police produced charge-sheets in only 93. The total cases charge-sheeted stands at 120. Police arrested 893 persons, all male, in 2019, of which 316 were charge-sheeted. In terms of cases being disposed by courts, the pendency rate is worse at 86.6%. At the end of 2019, 265 cases remained awaiting a verdict. The courts disposed only 41 cases in 2019. There was conviction in 14 cases and acquittal in another 14 putting the conviction rate at 50%. The rest were disposed through out-of-court settlements||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/106-rise-in-environmental-violations-in-19-ncrb-data/articleshow/78468047.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 4, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh saw 106% rise in environmental violations in 2019: NCRB data||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh saw a 106% rise in environmental violations in 2019 compared to 2018, according to the latest ‘Crime in India-2019’ report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). However, when compared to 2017, the state saw a 39% increase in environmental violations. Out of the 188 cases recorded in 2019, 75% pertain to the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2013. Following that, 23% cases were booked under Forest Act and the Forest Conservation Act. The remaining cases were registered under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. This trend hardly comes as a surprise as Andhra Pradesh continues to remain a major target of red sandalwood smugglers. Despite the increase in cases, the overall rate of environmental offences in state stands at 0.4% against the national average 2.6%. This is because of a low, 0.5%, share of violations that AP shares with rest of India. The more concerning aspect of the report is that police disposal of environment-related cases has a 67.2% pendency rate. Around 193 cases from 2018 were pending for investigation in 2019. At the end of 2019, the overall cases pending for investigation stood at 381 putting AP at the seventh place in India. Out of 188 cases, police produced charge-sheets in only 93. The total cases charge-sheeted stands at 120. Police arrested 893 persons, all male, in 2019, of which 316 were charge-sheeted. In terms of cases being disposed by courts, the pendency rate is worse at 86.6%. At the end of 2019, 265 cases remained awaiting a verdict. The courts disposed only 41 cases in 2019. There was conviction in 14 cases and acquittal in another 14 putting the conviction rate at 50%. The rest were disposed through out-of-court settlements||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/106-rise-in-environmental-violations-in-19-ncrb-data/articleshow/78471998.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||India-Bangladesh naval exercise commences||VISAKHAPATNAM: The second edition of ‘Exercise Bongosagar’— a bilateral naval exercise between the Indian Navy (IN) and the Bangladesh Navy (BN) commenced on Saturday in the Bay of Bengal. The naval exercise will be followed by the third edition of IN-BN coordinated patrol (Corpat) in northern Bay of Bengal on October 4 and 5. Exercise Bongosagar is aimed at developing interoperability and joint operation skills through a wide spectrum of maritime operations. The navies will participate in surface warfare drills, seamanship evolutions and helicopter operations. The exercise will be followed by Corpat where the two navies will undertake joint patrolling along the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL). Ships of Eastern Naval Command (ENC), INS Kiltan, an indigenously built anti-submarine warfare corvette, and INS Khukri, an indigenously built guided missile corvette are participating in the exercise with Bangladesh Naval Ship (BNS) Abu Bakr, a guided missile frigate, and BNS Prottoy, a guided missile corvette.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/india-bdesh-naval-exercise-commences/articleshow/78468072.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 recovery rate in Andhra Pradesh over 91%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,224 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,13,014. The Covid-19 toll increased to 5,941 as 41 more people succumbed to the pandemic virus. The state has crossed the six-million tests for Covid-19, achieving yet another milestone in its fight against the virus. It has thus far tested 60.21 lakh samples. AP leads the country in the number of tests per million population, with 1,12,760 tests. As many as 7,798 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged from various hospitals across the state. There are currently 55,282 active cases with 6,51,791 cumulative recoveries. This translates to a recovery rate of over 91%. Andhra Pradesh conducted the latest one million tests in just 14 days, the lowest time taken to complete any one million tests so far. The state is currently testing about 70,000 samples a day with the highest single-day test total of 77,492 on September 17. The state took 124 days to conduct the first one million tests. Starting with zero testing facilities in February, the state government ramped up its health infrastructure and established 77 testing laboratories in the government setup alone till date. The first lab was established only on March 7. West Godavari reported 890 new cases on Saturday, followed by Chittoor 827 and East Godavari 824. Srikakulam recorded the lowest case count of the day with 175 infections. Of the 41 deaths reported on Saturday, six are from Krishna, five each from Chittoor and East Godavari, four each from Guntur, Prakasam and Visakhapatnam, three from Nellore, two from Anantapur, Kadapa, Kurnool and Srikakulam, and one each from Vizianagaram and West Godavari. The mortality rate in the state is 0.83 per cent as against the national average of 1.56 per cent. However, the case positivity rate is on a higher side with 11.84 per cent, against India’s average of 8.32 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-ap-over-91/articleshow/78468087.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||BJP’s Bihar poll gambit has backfired: MVA||MUMBAI: Partners in the state’s three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government said the BJP’s “attempt to gain political mileage” out of the Sushant Singh Rajput death case for the Bihar assembly elections had boomeranged after the AIIMS panel ruled out foul play. The MVA said efforts were even made to drag the family of CM Uddhav Thackeray into the episode. NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik said the BJP had made attempts to “defame the state government” and politicise a high -profile case of suicide in view of the Bihar polls, but it had not helped. Shiv Sena spokesperson Pratap Sarnaik said the opposition stood exposed. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said it has now been established Mumbai police’s probe was honest and proceeding in the right direction. “But BJP leaders kept defaming Maharashtra and CBI, while central agencies kept leaking information selectively,” he alleged. SIT must probe social media accounts used to defame CM & his family: CongThe Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, partners in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, on Saturday said the BJP had failed in its attempt to politicize the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. NCP’s Nawab Malik said, “The stand taken by Mumbai police has been vindicated by the AIIMS report. Certain issues are not to be politicised, they should be left to professional agencies.” State home minister Anil Deshmukh of the NCP said he had absolutely no doubt in his mind about the competence and professionalism of the Mumbai police. “I am told that the AIIMS in its report has ruled out the possibility of murder. But at this juncture, I would not like to comment on the matter as AIIMS is yet to officially submit its report to the CBI. In my opinion, in view of the sensitive nature of the case, the CBI must make the report public as early as possible and let people know the truth. Our government is eagerly waiting for the CBI report,” Deshmukh said. Congress’s Sachin Sawant alleged that the BJP and its IT cell had, “overnight, created thousands of fake accounts on social media.” He urged CM Thackeray to set up a high-level special investigation team to nab the conspirators behind the alleged slander campaign and their mastermind. “The SIT must identify the source of messages on social media which were used to defame the entire Thackeray family and Mumbai police,” he said. Sena’s Pratap Sarnaik said, “Opposition parties should henceforth not drag Mumbai police into politics and let the cops do their job in a professional manner.” The state BJP did not issue any statement on the AIIMS report. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has raised questions about the Mumbai police’s investigations in the case, was not available for comment. He did not respond to TOI’s text messages and his office said he was in the midst of meetings in Patna, Bihar. (With inputs from Sujit Mahamulkar & Clara Lewis)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjps-bihar-poll-gambit-has-backfired-mva/articleshow/78471097.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Paderu gets ready for tribal medical college||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) will go for tenders for Dr YSR Tribal Medical College at Paderu, 120 kilometres away from Visakhapatnam, by the end of October. Speaking to TOI, APMSIDC executive engineer A Umesh Kumar said, “We have sent the tender documents for judicial review and expect to get clearances within the next 10 days. We will go for the tenders for the project then.” New Delhi-based M/S Arcop Associates Pvt Ltd has been entrusted the task of architectural and engineering consultancy for the college which will enrol 100 MBBS students and 60 nursing students every year. The medical college, with all modern amenities, will come up in the lush green hills at an estimated cost of Rs 500crore. The central government’s contribution to the project is Rs 195crore, in accordance with Medical Council of India (MCI) standards. “Initially, the project was proposed at an estimated cost of Rs 325crore. Later, the estimated cost was raised to Rs 500crore. As per MCI norms, a 500-bedded hospital is enough for this college, but we are developing 732 beds,” Umesh Kumar added. Visakhapatnam district malaria officer Y Mani said that the tribal medical college will surely come as a boon for people of the region, a region prone to dengue and malaria-like ailments as well as sickle cell anaemia. “Visakhapatnam district registered 1,186 malaria cases this year, of which 1,112 were from tribal areas. Seven dengue cases and two chikungunya cases were registered,” Mani informed. Currently, residents of Visakhapatnam Agency depend on the 150-bedded hospital nearly 1.5km away from the proposed college. For emergencies, residents have to visit hospitals in Vizag. The college is being set up in a 1.4lakh square meter built-up area within a 35 acres campus. A national highway connecting Rajahmundry and Visakhapatnam via Paderu is also in progress. Tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said, “Once the college is operational, from 2024, there will be no worries for the people living here.” The college will comprise a teaching hospital, nursing college, nurse hostel, and residential quarters for staff and hostels for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/paderu-gets-ready-for-tribal-medical-college/articleshow/78468106.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Restaurants go the extra mile, deliver packed meals to patients||VISAKHAPATNAM: Hotels and restaurants in the state have started to package and home deliver quarantine meals for Covid-19 patients and their families after the government allowed home quarantine for those testing positive. A number of restaurants have also prepared menus that help boost the immunity of patients. “At the time of lockdown we were supplying meals to few hospitals and guests at our hotel who were in institutional quarantine as they came from high-risk states or from abroad. During that time we carried out research to select menus that would boost immunity. We are now delivering meals containing these dishes to people who are in home quarantine,” Sanjib Karmakar, general manager of Dasapalla Executive Court, told STOI. Three meals—breakfast, lunch and dinner—will be delivered for seven to 14 days. The meals are packed in containers with separate compartments before being dropped off at the doorsteps of clients. No-contact delivery is ensured. “Normally it becomes painful for patients and their family members in quarantine to stock meats and vegetables for at least a week and then to prepare them at home. So we got a huge response by selling these quarantine meals. There were days in September when we had actually supplied more than 100 meals a day,” said G Raja Sekhar, general manager of Rockdale. Hotels and restaurants are offering vegetarian as well as non-vegetarian options. Lunch in most hotels comprises a six-course menu while dinner includes three courses. For home delivery, most, including star hotels, are preparing local Andhra cuisine, with fewer spices to ensure clients get the taste of home-cooked food. “Keeping the same menu we customised some items for our customers. Like people who were suffering from diabetes ordered for sugar-free meals and phulkas instead of rice. We did just that,” added Raja Sekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/restaurants-go-the-extra-mile-deliver-packed-meals-to-patients/articleshow/78468119.cms||Arpit Basu
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 72% of children covered in deworming campaign||BENGALURU: Karnataka claims to have covered 72% of children and adolescents up to 19 years it targeted under its deworming campaign in the past month. The annual campaign aims to prevent intestinal worms or Soil-Transmitted Helminth (STH), a common cause of infection among children worldwide. Albendazole 400 mg, a chewable tablet, would be distributed to students after lunch in all government schools and colleges in pre-pandemic times. However, with schools and colleges closed, the tablets were sent to children’s houses through Asha and anganwadi workers. Officials. claim the drive covered 72% of targeted children across the state and 63% in Bengaluru. An STH surveillance study in 2015 by the central government said the prevalence in Karnataka was 49%. Worm infections are known to interfere with nutrient uptake, lead to anemia, increase risk of malnourishment and impair mental and physical development. They also pose a serious threat to children’s health, education, and productivity. Infected children are often too sick or tired to concentrate at school or to even attend classes. “This year the community-based round was challenging, but efforts by ground-level workers helped us,” said Dr Veena V, deputy director, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram. (RBSK), state health and family welfare department. Several anganwadi workers from rural areas said they went to children’s homes and convinced their elders about the need to take the medicine. “Many parents are aware as it’s given every year in school,” said an anganwadi worker. In Bangalore, there are 1,200 Asha workers and not all areas could be covered. One Asha worker covers not more than 2,500 persons, but this went up to 4,000 persons in Bengaluru and urban areas. “We were not able to cover the entire Bengaluru. In most apartments on the outskirts, we were not even allowed inside. Many households said they will take the medicine on their own,” said an Asha worker. Bengaluru Urban DHO Dr GA Srinivasa said many apartment dwellers insisted they would take the medicine on their own. Dr Madhusadhan K, president, Indian Medical Association, Karnataka said many college students up to 19 years, usually missed out, were covered this year as they were at home. “Asha workers have efficiently distributed tablets to households. This year, from institutional coverage, it has moved to community coverage,” he said. Some pediatricians wonder if data reflect ground reality. “It’s highly appreciable if the state has achieved 72% of coverage. Indian Academy of Pediatrics, Bengaluru, was not engaged in the drive. We’re not sure about the data,” said Dr Srinivasa S, past president, IAP-B. Those who missed tablets in the recent drive can visit health centres in their neighbourhood and procure them. A similar drive will be held in February 2021. Asha workers say educated and urban households see them as potential carriers of the virus and hesitate to even open their doors and speak to them. “They know we’re also engaged in Covid work. We’re sent to check oxygen saturation level and blood pressure of senior citizens and for TB surveillance work. Many homemakers are scared to even interact with us,” said an Asha worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-72-of-children-covered-in-deworming-campaign/articleshow/78470830.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||1,500 kilos of stale sheep meat seized in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Acting on a tip-off, officials of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) seized 1,500 kg of stale meat being imported into city from Kolkata and some places in Odisha. Fourteen boxes stuffed with the heads and legs of sheep were seized at the railway parcel counter. Officials noted that the meat become stale in the absence of preservatives. Veterinary surgeon of VMC, Dr A Ravi Chand, rushed to Vijayawada railway station with his team after receiving an anonymous call. The meat boxes, booked in the name of one Khaja who did not turn up to receive the consignment, were unloaded from an express train from Howrah. Officials waited for over an hour for Khaja, after which they broke open the boxes with the help of railway authorities. Only some of the boxes contained ice to preserve the meat. Ravi Chand said the sheep were likely slaughtered at least six days ago. “We are suspecting that the perpetrators are trying to encash the demand for sheep head and legs in Andhra Pradesh and other places. Sheep head curry and bone soup is a highly sought-after delicacy in this region and the perpetrators are procuring them for a very cheap price in north India,” he said. Ravi Chand added that their investigation revealed that meat procured from other states is being sold at markets in Machilipatnam, Tiruvuru, Nandigama and other towns in Krishna district. “We are in the process of tracing the receiver and further criminal proceedings will be initiated against those involved in the illegal trade,” he said. Sheep heads from northern Indian states are larger in size compared to those in the south, Ravi Chand said, cautioning the public to be careful and observe the size of the head while purchasing sheep or goat meat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/1500-kilos-of-stale-sheep-meat-seized/articleshow/78468165.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Vijayawada||12 fall ill in East Godavari after eating stale sweets||RAJAHMUNDRY: Twelve people fell ill after eating sweets, allegedly stale, from a local kirana shop on Thursday at Pulusu Mamidi village of VR Puram mandal in East Godavari. Eleven of them were admitted to Rekhapalli primary health centre while one person, a five-year-old girl, had to be admitted to Bhadrachalem area hospital. A medical camp was set up at Pulusu Mamidi village. State health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Alla Nani) responded to the incident and directed East Godavari district collector Muralidhar Reddy to take action against the owner of the kirana shop who allegedly sold stale sweets. The minister directed the food inspector to inspect all kirana shops in Pulusu Mamidi village. The health minister further directed the district medical and health officer to conduct a door-to-door survey to check the households that purchased the old stock of sweets. The drugs control IG has been directed to inspect all sweet shops in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-fall-ill-in-eg-after-eating-stale-sweets/articleshow/78468213.cms||Samson Raj
October 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vidyapith university looking for new vice-chancellor||AHMEDABAD: The World’s only university set up by Mahatma Gandhi is now in search for a new vice-chancellor with the term of the current vice-chancellor, Anamik Shah, coming to an end in December. For the first time, the call for applications, for the coveted post, has most of qualifying conditions set, according to the University Grants Commission (UGC). A threemember search committee, which includes members like Arvind Desai and professor Indira Hirve has been appointed. The Vidyapith officials were tight-lipped about the chancellor Ela Bhatt’s recommendation for the third member of selection committee. Shah may not get the third extension as per the UGC norms. Bapu was the first chancellor (kulpati) of the Vidyapith and he had held the office between 1920 and 1948. This time because of the university has adopted UGC qualifying conditions, the race for the post will be narrower. The vice-chancellor should have both academic and administrative experience, should have been on the faculty or board of studies and should have been a member of an academic council or part of professional bodies. “The candidate, according to the UGC criteria, should also be involved in academic action and research programmes, should have international academic exposure, should have publications in academic journals of international repute and authored books, and even published articles in popular magazines over the past five years, and should also have consulting experience apart from having read books on Gandhi,” says a senior official at the Gujarat Vidyapith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vidyapith-university-looking-for-new-vice-chancellor/articleshow/78471101.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Political row over removal of structure on government land||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tension prevailed at the residence of former MP and ex-Vizag mayor Sabbam Hari when GVMC officials demolished a toilet block and boundary wall constructed adjacent to his house on Saturday morning. GVMC officials said the structures were built on encroached space of a park located next to the residence of Hari. There were heated arguments between the TDP leader’s followers and civic body officials for a while before GVMC, with the help of police, took the ‘encroached’ land into their possession and installed a fence around it. A livid Hari wondered why the state government has suddenly developed so much grudge against him. “It might be due to the fact that I am regularly pointing out the failures of the government. It is very unfortunate to see GVMC officials demolishing these structures without issuing any prior notice,” he said. However, GVMC commissioner G Srijana said in a statement that residents of APSEB colony had submitted a representation on September 5 complaining about the encroachment. “It was clearly established that Sabbam Hari encroached the park site of about 212 square yards. A notice was issued on October 2 to remove the encroachments. But security did not allow the officials enter the house to serve the notice. The notice was then pasted on the wall of the building and recorded accordingly. Since the building owner has not complied with the notice given, demolition was taken up on Saturday,” said Srijana. Former TDP ministers Ch Ayyanna Patrudu and Bandaru Satyanarayana alleged that the ruling YSRC is trying to stifle the opposition party through its demolition culture which it started in Amaravati soon after coming to power. Reacting to the allegations, tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said the government would not spare any encroachments, even if they are done by ruling party leaders. “The chief minister has made it very clear that all are equal before law. TDP is making an issue out of nothing to gain some political mileage,” he said. The minister further said that Sabbam Hari used filthy language against civic staff when they went to remove the wall built on encroached government land. “The TDP has been flaring up the issue though it was Hari who was at fault by not only encroaching government land but by also abusing GVMC staff,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/political-row-over-removal-of-structure-on-govt-land/articleshow/78468227.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Volunteer enrolment for Covishield begins||VISAKHAPATNAM: The human trial of Oxford-Astra Zeneca Covishield vaccine has got the green signal from the state government, following which volunteer enrolment process has commenced at King George Hospital. It may be recalled that clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin at KGH, being developed by Bharat Biotech, did not get the government’s approval. Conducted by Serum Institute of India at 17 sites across India, the phase three human clinical trial of the vaccine at KGH will require at least 100 volunteers and will continue for six months. “We enrolled 10 volunteers on Friday. We have taken their blood samples and both RT-PCR and antibody test would be done. As per rule, volunteers should be above 18 years of age and should not have been infected by the virus, nor should there be development of antibodies in the blood. Only then can they qualify for human clinical trial,” KGH superintendent Dr P V Sudhakar, who is also the Covid-19 special officer for north-coastal AP, told TOI. The clinical trial of Oxford vaccine has not shown any adverse side-effects on volunteers in India so far. “Recruited volunteers would be given the first shot on day one and another shot on the 29th day,” he added. Meanwhile, KGH has completed drug trials on nine patient volunteers for 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (C6H12O5) or 2-DG glucose molecule without any side-effects. Earlier, 2-DG had been successfully used in certain types of cancer treatment by inhibiting glucose supply to the cells. Like cancer cells, viruses like SARS-CoV-2 cannot live and multiply if glucose supply to the cells is interrupted. KGH has submitted its report and subjects’ blood samples to DRDO, which developed the drug. The final report on the outcome of the trial is yet to be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/volunteer-enrolment-for-covishield-begins/articleshow/78468237.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||Is rapid test Reliance slowing Jharkhand’s fight against covid||RANCHI: While Jharkhand has ramped up Covid diagnosis facilities significantly over the last few months — from 8,837 tests per million in August 2 to more than 64,000 now — health experts are concerned with the state’s over-reliance on rapid antigen kits that don’t necessarily require full-fledged laboratories or trained technicians. These tests can often be misleading, throwing up false negatives, like with health minister Banna Gupta last month and the Amitabh Bachchan’s family in Mumbai. They had tested negative on rapid kits hoyrs before their RT-PCR reports, considered the gold standard in Covid testing, returned positive. Though Gupta and Bachchan are profile cases, several similar instances are slipping below the radar in Jharkhand and across the country even as the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research have said while positive result on RATs are 100% accurate, 40% of the negatives are dubious. According to the guidelines, all symptomatic negative cases on RAT should be compulsorily retested on RT-PCR machines while positive cases can immediately be isolated and treated. Recently, Delhi HC had directed the Arvind Kejriwal government to scale up RT-PCR tests in the national capital on priority saying RAT was dubious at best. Though the Integrated Disease Survillance Programme (IDSP)’s state unit does not have updated figure the method used to test 23,28,266 persons (as on October 2), records maintained by them reveal that until September 17, more than 52% (8.36 lakh) of the 16 lakhs tests were conducted using RAT kits, 34% (5.42 lakh) on RT-PCR machines – including 41,000 in six private labs -- and 12% (1.86 lakh) on TrueNat machines at 25 government facilities. Sources said the percentage for RATs is likely to much higher now as the state has been conducting 30,000-odd tests every day and a large chunk of these are quick result tests. On August 31 the state created a record of sorts by conducting 1,63,113 tests in one day, but the test figures have recently come down despite a robust infrastructure now in place — 0n Friday, 32,692 samples were tested while the figure for Thursday stood at 28,100. As of date, there are 40 Covid testing facilities in the state -- 33 government and seven private labs. Of the government institutions, seven use RT-PCR, 25 Trunat machines, and one is equipped to test samples using the CB-NAAT method. Experts believe that RAT tests are not foolproof and may lead to confusion and carelessness among those infected. “If the accuracy of RAT tests is 60%, we have to accept that 40% results thrown up by these are dubious and an infected person can very well test negative, go about living a mormal life, mingling with people and become a super-spreader,” an epidmiologist with the state government said, unwilling to be named. Former Jharkhand IDSP director Dr Ramesh Prasad also admitted that RAT method is not 100% accurate. “But when it comes to public health management during a pandemic of this proportion, we have to go with the best option available to test the masses. RT-PCR tests involve high-end machines, technical experts and results can be delayed. So when it comes to testing more and more people, using RAT kits is a far better alternative than not testing at all,” he said. The convenience of RAT is hard to overlook given the size and spread of the state’s population. “Be it an airport, marketplace or bus stand, the antigen test facility is available everywhere. If any person looks ill but has tested negative in RAT, the sample is sent for an RT-PCR test ,” he told TOI. Dr Pradeep Kumar Bhattacharya, head of trauma and critical care at Rims and also heading the state Covid centre chief, said the need to be careful with RATs is all the more important considering that there is ambiguity about the disease’s symptoms. “No system is 100% accurate. We have seen patients remaining asymptomatic and still testing positive for the virus and also patients with fever and strong Covid testing negative on RT-PCR. The best way is to deal with individual on a per case basis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/is-rapid-test-reliance-slowing-jharkhands-fight-against-covid/articleshow/78469100.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Villagers stall inauguration of unfinished road||MIDNAPORE: Trinamool’s Debra MLA and the block development officer had to beat a hasty retreat from a village here on Saturday following protests over the inauguration of an incomplete rural road under Pathashree Prakalpa. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had launched the road scheme from north Bengal on October 1. Villagers of Chaklahana under Amodpur II block came out on the streets when MLA Selima Khatun (Bibi), accompanied by BDO Pintu Gharami, arrived to inaugurate the 2km road. They refused to allow the inauguration since a 300-metre stretch was unfinished. The local administration was looking to inaugurate roads ahead of Banerjee’s visit to West Midnapore on October 6. “I went to the village with the BDO and the gram pradhan. I found a problem plaguing a 200-300-metre stretch. Shopkeepers there are yet to move out. The administration has served notices to them,” the MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/villagers-stall-inauguration-of-unfinished-road/articleshow/78470560.cms||Sujoy Khanra
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Visva-Bharati unveils fence sample for Pous Mela ground||SANTINIKETAN: Visva-Bharati on Saturday unveiled a sample grille-mounted brick wall — complete with plaster and paint — to allow local residents to understand what the proposed boundary around its Pous Mela ground would look like once it is finished. Kala Bhavan officials said the boundary design could be further tweaked for aesthetic appeal and to ensure that the structure was “in sync with local environment”. Detractors, however, believe that fencing off the ground will never be in sync with the quintessential open classroom concept that Rabindranath Tagore had envisioned and implemented. The varsity authorities contended that the wall would be quite similar to those constructed on the campus in the past. “If anybody has suggestions on how to improve the design or aesthetics, we will welcome it,” an official said. Sushobhan Banerjee, a former member of Visva-Bharati’s executive committee, said he found the sample boundary “decent” because it offered a clear view of the fair venue. He felt the arched iron grille was “a nice touch” and the design, being similar to Kanch Mandir, did not go against Santiniketan’s essence. But, Supriyo Thakur, a former headmaster of Patha Bhavan and veteran ashramik, begged to differ. Although Thakur did not see the sample wall in person, he felt that the varsity’s decision to go ahead with the project despite vehement opposition was not correct. He had been invited to speak to the four-member committee that Calcutta High Court had formed to resolve the boundary issue. Meanwhile, the ongoing peaceful agitation against the fencing ended on Friday. Subrata Bhakat, an official of Bolpur Byabsayi Samiti, said he didn’t have anything against the design of the boundary, but was opposed to the fair venue becoming inaccessible. “The Pous Mela ground should remain open as always,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vb-unveils-fence-sample-for-pous-mela-ground/articleshow/78470637.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Man held for raping brick kiln co-worker in Habra||HABRA: A youth was arrested from Jagatballavpur, Howrah, on Saturday for allegedly raping a 35-year-old co-worker at a brick kiln in Ichhapur, Habra, on Wednesday. According to police, the woman’s husband was away in Bongaon to meet his parents that day. She was standing in front of her house, near the kiln, when accused Bhola Oraon approached her. He allegedly dragged her inside the kiln and raped her when she snubbed his indecent overtures. An FIR was lodged on Saturday morning after which police tracked Bhola down to Jagatballavpur.  He was produced in court and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-held-for-raping-brick-kiln-co-worker/articleshow/78470551.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Feminist and Dalit groups in UK write to UN||KOLKATA: British MP Apsana Begum along with over 30 feminist groups and all Dalit organizations in the UK, Ambedkar International Missions from various parts of the world and other diaspora organizations have written to UN Human Rights Commissioner Michelle Bachelet on the Hathras incident. British MPs John McDonnell, Kim Johnson, Bell Ribeiro-Addy and Paula Barker are also signatories to the letter. They have asked Bachelet to urge PM Narendra Modi to dismiss UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and set up an international inquiry into the Hathras rape case as well as other crimes against women — particularly Dalits — since his government came to power. According to the signatories, Hathras should not be seen as an isolated crime but as “part of a systematic attack on women and oppressed castes”. “Three other sexual assaults and deaths of women and girls took place in UP hardly 24 hours after the Hathras victim’s remains had been consigned to flames by the UP police. In Balrampur, a 22-year-old Dalit woman was raped and murdered. In Bhadohi, a 14-year-old Dalit girl was found dead, her face disfigured and head battered. Rape is suspected. In Azamgarh, an eight-year-old girl was raped,” the letter said. London-based Bengali writer Amrit Wilson is part of South Asia Solidarity Group (SASG), which together with Caste Watch UK, initiated the letter. An activist on issues of race and gender in Britain and South Asian politics, Wilson was in Kolkata in February. “This brings utter shame to India internationally. Those who care about women’s rights and Dalit rights all over the world are outraged by the horrors being enacted in Hathras by the Yogi government. Hence, this letter to the UN. Yogi must go but ultimately it is the Modi regime who must be held accountable,” Wilson told TOI from London on Saturday. Adrija Dey, a post-doctoral research fellow at SOAS University of London and part of SOAS India Society, said the Hathras crime was not a case of gendered violence alone but also of caste. On being asked why the letter specifically mentioned UP when rapes were taking place in other states, Dey pointed out that according to NCRB figures, UP had reported the highest number of atrocities against Dalits from 2016. “It was about 26%,” she said, adding, “Since Adityanath came to power, we have seen how he has tried to establish a Hindu supremacist government and the way Muslims and Dalits have had to bear the brunt of the violence propagated by the government. It is time we call out the violence and the complete impunity with which this government has been able to target people from minority backgrounds.” London-based architect Sofia Karim, who initiated Turbine Bagh as a joint artists’ movement against fascism in India, is another signatory. She told TOI that there have been efforts in the UK for a while to raise awareness about the “terrifying reality of India today”. “News of the Hathras rape case is having a noticeable and profound impact on anyone who hears about it. They are repulsed. It has also brought to attention issues of caste oppression which many were not aware of. India’s international image is being eroded,” Karim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/feminist-and-dalit-groups-in-uk-write-to-un/articleshow/78470541.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Mukul Roy not named in SIT’s chargesheet filed in Alipore on 2019 fraud||KOLKATA: The special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2019 financial fraud, hasn’t mentioned BJP leader Mukul Roy in its chargesheet, which was submitted in Alipore court on Saturday. The chargesheet though names Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh state president Baban Ghosh and three others of whom Kamal Hussain Ansari is a fresh inclusion. “I have never done anything immoral,” Roy said following the development. In his FIR in January 2019, one Santu Ganguly had alleged that Rs 70 lakh was taken from him between September 2015 and May 2016 to facilitate his inclusion as a member of the Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee. Ganguly had accused Roy and the others of the fraud. Following the complaint, investigators had sent call records to the Central Forensic Laboratory, Chandigarh, to decipher who called whom and also the details of each conversation. The SIT may file a supplementary chargesheet once it receives these details. As of now, the SIT has slapped “fraud, criminal conspiracy and showing fake documents as original” charges under sections 420, 468, 471, 120(B) and 506 of the criminal procedure code against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mukul-not-named-in-sits-chargesheet-on-2019-fraud/articleshow/78470547.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 8 accused in Ponzi scheme get life term||KOLKATA: A special court in Tamluk on Thursday sentenced eight accused in the Pincon Ponzi scheme case for life. This is the first conviction under the West Bengal Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, 2013. The Directorate of Economic Offences was set up to probe Ponzi cases after the Rose Valley-Saradha scams. The life term was given to eight of the company’s senior officials on Saturday by the third additional district judge of Tamluk in East Midnapore, Mou Chattopadhyay. Of the 20 accused in the case, two died during trial while 10 were acquitted by the court. Among those sentenced to life is Mousumi Roy, wife of kingpin Manoranjan Roy, who is absconding. The court has also ordered the refund of money to all investors by selling Pincon’s assets. The special PP in the case, Bivas Chatterjee, said he had used electronic evidence to show that the total scheme was worth Rs 864 crore. “It was our direct projection of two servers which stored investors’ details of Pincon that established the money trail,” he said. The case was registered first in 2017 in Khejuri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/8-accused-in-ponzi-scheme-get-life-term/articleshow/78470528.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||Woman dies after consuming poison along with 2 kids||HAZARIBAG: A 33-year-old woman died on Saturday evening after consuming poison and forcibly feeding it to two of her minor daughters at Tutki village near here on Friday night. The two girls, aged five and seven years, were saved after their 16-year-old eldest sister made them vomit. Bishnugarh SDPO Om Prakash said the deceased, Kito Devi, was in depression after being unable to contact her husband Churaman Mahto, who works as a labourer in a Malaysia-based company, for more than a year. “Despite putting in every effort, she failed to get any information about her husband and it perhaps made her took the extreme step,” Prakash said. The woman belonged to Kimo panchayat of Ango police station area in the Maoist-hit Churchu block. The SDPO said she also had no money to maintain her family of four children, all daughters. When she consumed the poison and forcibly fed her daughters, her eldest daughter raised an alarm. Upon hearing her cries, the neighbours rushed to help them. Though the two children were saved, Kito Devi died during treatment at HMCH. Police said the body has been sent for post mortem and they will be able to identify the toxic material consumed only after getting the report. Prakash added that the minor children did not know anything about their father but they have informed the district administration to locate Mahto through the Indian embassy for his return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-dies-after-consuming-poison-along-with-2-kids/articleshow/78469052.cms||Abhijit Sen
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||2 Congress MLAs from state to meet Hathras ‘gangrape’ victim’s family||RANCHI: A team of two Congress MLAs, Irfan Ansari (Jamtara) and Purnima Singh (Jharia), will visit Hathras in Uttar Pradesh this month to meet the family members of the ‘gang-rape’ victim and extend financial assistance to them, office bearers of the Jharkhand Congress unit announced on Saturday. The date of the visit will be announced soon. Ansari, who is also one of the co-working presidents of the state unit of the party, said, “We will go to Hathras to meet the family members of the victim. The incident was gruesome and the way the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has handled it so far is equally unapologetic. It seems their focus is to save the culprits.” “We shall announce the date soon, but the team will go this month. Purnima originally hails from UP so she volunteered to be a part of the team. The purpose of the visit will be to find out the requirements of the family to provide assistance. Congress is behind the poor family,” said Ansari. He said that the way UP Police tried to prevent Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra from meeting the family speaks about UP government’s nervousness. “Congress and the state government is firmly behind all the downtrodden of society,” Ansari said. On Saturday, Ansari visited the residence of a Dalit in Posta village in his constituency to extend financial assistance after a 28-year -old youth of the family died after drowning on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-cong-mlas-from-state-to-meet-hathras-gangrape-victims-family/articleshow/78469116.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 4, 2020||Ranchi||14 Latehar girls rescued at Ranchi station||RANCHI: Railway Protection Force (RPF) rescued 14 girls, including eight minors, while they were being taken from Latehar to Hyderabad on Dharbhanga-Secundrabad train around 7:45pm on Friday. In a statement issued on Saturday morning, the Railways said that a lady constable checking the train at PM spotted a group girls entering the Ranchi railway station. She informed officials and a sub-inspector questioned the girls, who revealed that all of them were from various parts of Latehar, and a local woman Meena Devi was taking them to Hyderabad for a sewing training programme. When interrogated, Devi could not tell the officials the name of the training organisation and failed to produce documents for the programme. Police also contacted the parents of the girls, but they had little information about the training. The girls were forwarded to Kotwali police station and Ranchi district Child Welfare Committee (CWC) chairperson Rupa Verma said she has directed the police to register a case with the anti-human trafficking cell. “The rescued girls will undergo Covid test before being sent to shelter homes. I will meet them on Monday and ascertain various facts, including their age and purpose of trvael. If all of them are found to be from Latehar, their file will be transferred to the concerned CWC for action.” Verma said all stakeholders, including government and the non-government agencies, must take up the rehabilitation of the girls seriously as re-trafficking is more intense and harmful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/14-latehar-girls-rescued-at-ranchi-station/articleshow/78469110.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||4 held in Siliguri with gold biscuits worth Rs 17 crore||SILIGURI: The regional unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) here has arrested four persons with 202 gold biscuits, together weighing over 33kg and estimated to be worth more than Rs 17 crore. The accused — identified as Nishan Kumar (21), Deepak Kumar (25), Raju Ram (35) and Sunil Kumar (32), all residents of Rajasthan — were produced in a local court on Saturday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Sources in DRI said the Siliguri unit acted on a tip-off and intercepted a truck at Goaltuli More along Ghoshpukur-Fulbari road on Friday night. The stash of gold biscuits, weighing precisely 33.53kg, was found in the men’s luggage. The four were arrested under Section 104 of the Customs Act. They said the gold had been smuggled in through Myanmar-Manipur border and they were carrying the consignment to Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan. DRI officials said the haul was worth Rs 17.51 crore. In the financial year 2019-20, the DRI had seized around 300kg gold from Bengal and Sikkim, together valued at more than Rs 115 crore. In the current fiscal, the seizure is around 98kg, valued at around Rs 52 crore, and this despite movement restrictions amid the pandemic. The DRI remains committed to combating all types of cross-border crime involving gold, narcotics, wild life articles, fake Indian currency notes and counterfeit goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-held-in-siliguri-with-gold-biscuits-worth-rs-17cr/articleshow/78470532.cms||Roshan Gupta
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Left-Congress rally in Kolkata on crime against women||KOLKATA: ‘Inquilab zindabad’ and ‘Bande Mataram’ slogans gave a variety to the joint Left-Congress protest rally in the city over the gang rape of a Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. Left-Congress activists made the difference with Trinamool by voicing protests on crime against women in Uttar Pradesh and also in Bengal. Supporters of both parties marched the streets from Moulali to Esplanade on Saturday afternoon while chief minister Mamata Banerjee led the protest march from Birla Planetarium. A few participants sustained injuries after police lathicharged the frontrunners, some of whom tried to break the barricade police had put up at Esplanade. Left Front chairman Biman Bose and Congress leader Abdul Mannan in a joint appeal urged Left mass organisations to continue with the protests on crime against women at Hathras and also against the “torture and killing” of women in Debra and Ghatal in Midnapore. Left and Congress will take out a rally from Metro Channel in Esplanade to Lady Brabourne College on October 6 when CM goes on a visit to Paschim Midnapore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/left-cong-rally-in-city-on-crime-against-women/articleshow/78470529.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Jamshedpur||Fear of testing +ve keep East Singhbhum people away from RAT||JAMSHEDPUR: Despite the district administration’s efforts to curb Covid from spreading by conducting rapid antigen tests (RAT) across East Singhbhum, people are unwilling to submit their swab samples in fear of testing positive. The reluctance to undergo a test was evident on Thursday when they blocked Mango area to prevent officials from conducting tests. The situation went out of control and the administration had to use mild force to bring the unruly crowd under control. “People need to change their attitude and volunteer for the antigen testing drive,” civil surgeon Dr R N Jha said. President of Association of Physicians of India (Jharkhand) Dr Umesh Khan said, “There can be many who are not aware that they are asymptomatic patients and by roaming around, they can spread the virus, especially among the vulnerable section like senior citizens.” The number of tests being carried out ranges from 1,500 to 1,800 per day on an average, including 1,050 antigen tests, 450 tests on the RT-PCR machine and 300 on the TrueNat. In the last two weeks, the district conducted 20,2184 tests. “With a recovery rate of 84%, the district is doing well, but people should realise timely treatment of the disease will improve the mortality rate which stands at 2.10%. People should join the drive and get themselves tested,” city-based physician Dr Vinod Sharma said. As of Saturday morning, East Singhbhum had 14,498 cases, of which 2,150 are still active. As many as 305 patients died and 12,043 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/fear-of-testing-ve-keeps-e-sbhum-people-away-from-rat/articleshow/78469087.cms||B Sridhar
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic income loss forces Kolkata doctors to switch hospitals||KOLKATA: Sharp pay-cuts and a sudden drop in earnings due to a fall in number of patients and surgeries during the pandemic has set off a churn in the payrolls of Kolkata’s leading private hospitals with several doctors switching jobs to shore up their income. While many have moved to rival establishments with fatter pay cheques, some others are in the process of finalising a better deal. While for medics the switchover means a return to their pre-Covid earnings or even more, the appointment of star doctors is expected to translate into more business for the recruiter hospitals at a time when the pandemic has dragged down their revenues. In some hospitals, pay-cuts for doctors have been as sharp as 30%-50%. “For many, especially surgeons and consultants not treating Covid patients, income has dropped below Rs 50,000 a month, which is less than one-tenth of their pre-Covid earnings. So, this switching will continue,” said a hospital chief. Three ENT specialists have moved from Medica Superspecialty Hospital to CMRI Hospital in August. Two neurologists quit AMRI Hospitals last month since they didn’t have enough patients. “They felt they would be better off working in a hospital that specializes in neurology. Doctors who are not handling Covid patients have been left with fewer patients, affecting their earnings,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. At most leading hospitals, doctors receive a variable pay depending on the number of patients they attend to although a few seniors have an additional fixed component. Some junior consultants receive a fixed salary; they can opt to turn consultants with a variable pay when they believe they can earn more. A sharp slide in the number of non-Covid patients and surgeries has affected the variable component of doctors’ pay. For hospitals, having a renowned doctor on their rolls means more business. An oncologist and his team have joined a private hospital last month, without severing ties with their former employer. According to the oncologist, many of his patients can’t afford treatment at the hospital he has been associated with so far. “They will find it easier to afford treatment and travel now that I am associated with another facility,” he said. A leading private hospital doctor, who is now at the frontline of Covid treatment, is ready to shift to another hospital along with his team. Even though he didn’t have a pay cut, he said he is unhappy with the functioning of his workplace. “This is purely a career move and I would have made it even without the pandemic,” said the doctor. According to sources at the hospital he is set to join, the medic in question has been generating business to the tune of Rs 9 crore a month, which makes him a “star attraction” for most hospitals. “He will join once the terms are finalized, which is expected very soon,” said the source. At Peerless Hospital, a team of doctors dedicated to Covid treatment are now being given a fixed salary. The rest has suffered a sharp drop in income. While the hospital spent Rs 3 crore per month on doctors’ fees pre-Covid, it has now come down to less than Rs 1.5 crore. “Doctors’ who receive only a variable pay have suffered drop in earnings by more than 50% due to a sharp decline in the number of surgeries, non-Covid admissions and outdoor consultations that provide the bulk of our patients. Unless the pandemic recedes, this will not change,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. He added that while leading consultants have a fixed component other than a variable one, others only receive a variable amount depending on the number of patients they attend to. Doctors are frustrated at the way things have unfolded since the pandemic began, said Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “While many have had pay-cuts, others have suffered due to a drop in non-Covid patients and surgeries. They have been working hard, risking their lives and have been forced to settle for a smaller earning which can be frustrating,” said Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-income-loss-forces-city-doctors-to-switch-hospitals/articleshow/78470734.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||Maratha youth’s suicide letter on social media ‘fake’, FIR filed||MUMBAI: Three days after a teenager from Beed district allegedly committed suicide, the police said that a suicide note doing the rounds on social media is fake. The police said the fake note on social media has been written by someone although its content is similar to that found in a note recovered from the teenager’s house. Vivekh Rahade (19), a resident of Katura village, committed suicide fearing that he might not get admission to a medical course after the Supreme Court stayed reservation for Marathas. A high-level probe with assistance from handwriting experts was conducted, said a high-ranking police official. “Handwriting experts compared Rahade’s handwriting with that on the note on social media. They have found massive discrepancies, leading them to conclude that the note circulating on social media was not written by Rahade,” the official told TOI. “We have registered a criminal case and launched a search for the person who wrote the fake suicide note.” In the note found at Rahade’s house, it was mentioned that he was ending his life since he may not get admission for medical studies on grounds that reservation for Marathas has been stayed. Following the suicide note, NCP leader Ajit Pawar’s son, Parth tweeted that for the cause of Maratha youths, he would personally file an intervention application in the Supreme Court, which is seized of the Maratha reservation cases. Parth said in his tweet: “I was devastated to hear of the tragic death of Vivek who committed suicide when he came to know that he may not be able to secure admission in medical course since the reservations for the Marathas have been stayed by the Supreme Court.” After “Rahade’s suicide note” was found circulating on social media, doubts were raised over its authenticity. This note was sent to handwriting experts who compared it with his answer sheets in school. “Experts have given the opinion that the handwriting in the suicide note and answer sheets does not match and that the suicide note appears to be fake,” the police official said. The official added that while the suicide note was fake, politicians and so-called social media had taken advantage of it in order to settle their own political goals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maratha-youths-suicide-letter-on-social-media-fake-fir-filed/articleshow/78471127.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||Many can’t appear for Mumbai University online exam after glitches||MUMBAI: Chaos reigned on the first day of final year online exams for Mumbai University’s distance education students on Saturday. Many did not get a question paper on the link provided, and the official website would not open at 1pm for some others. Worried about losing an academic year, many students went to the university campus for help, negating the purpose of holding exams online. IDOL rescheduled exams for students who missed it on Saturday to October 9 (TYBCom) and 14 (TYBA). Around 8,000 students were to give the exam, work for which was outsourced to Singapore-based LittleMore Innovation Labs. A TYBA student said the university never conducted a mock test. “They only sent us the link for the mobile application and gave general questions for us to get accustomed to the format. The app was generally slow. When I logged in at 12.45pm on Saturday, no papers were uploaded on the site. All I could see was the ‘schedule’ and ‘status’ tabs on screen and it mentioned that “exam details not available or no exams scheduled” for long,” said the student, adding that he would try the exam on a computer from Monday. But many students who tried the exam on computer too were not successful on Saturday. Parshuram Tapase, a TYBA Sociology student, from Institute of Distance and Open Learning (IDOL), said he got the university’s link for exam papers on Friday. “But it did not open even for checking sample questions. I went to IDOL office at Kalina campus an hour before the examinations and tried downloading the paper on a computer there. The link did not work there too. Imagine the plight of students giving it from remote areas!” said Tapase. Many students tried contacting the service provider’s helpline too. Activist Santosh Gangurde said the university could have conducted mock tests first. “The server crashed on the day of exam and caused tremendous stress to students. It is a serious lapse. The university could have given autonomy to IDOL to decide on a software,” he said, claiming that almost 50% students did not give the test on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/many-cant-appear-for-mumbai-university-online-exam-after-glitches/articleshow/78471136.cms||Yogita Rao
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Critic, teacher, theatre lover and activist Pushpa Bhave dead at 81||MUMBAI: Noted critic and scholar Pushpa Bhave passed away after a protracted illness early on Saturday. Bhave was 81. She is survived by her husband, the writer and broadcaster Anant Bhave, countless friends and students. The final rites were performed at the Shivaji Park electric crematorium. A Dadar resident for decades, Bhave embodied the spirit of the city: dissent and debate, courage and compassion, proletariat and politics. She drew ideological sustenance from the smouldering 1960s, when the experimental theatre of Vijaya Mehta, Vijay Tendulkar and Satyadeo Dube, the rustic tamasha of Lalbaug, S A Dange’s trade union, the paintings of Hussain and Gaitonde, and the Dalit uprising coalesced into a robust cultural narrative transcending class and community, said old-timers. “Back then, my generation was keen to step out of the shadow of colonialism and re-discover our Indianness. We were young and raring to go, and we wanted to understand our past without accepting its bondage. New times were ahead of us. We were influenced by the British and the Parsi culture to an extent. Many women would follow ‘Femina’ on how to do the interiors of their homes. Soft pastel colours — muted green and pista — were much in vogue,” Bhave told Medha Kulkarni in a longish interview for ‘Sadhana’, a socialist weekly, in 2015. Bhave taught Marathi literature in several city colleges, her longest stint having been at Ruia. She shunned politics, but was closely linked with the movement to rename Marathwada University after Babasaheb Ambedkar in the 1970s, and with Narendra Dabholkar’s activism against bigotry and superstition. For the working women of the city, Bhave, Mrinal Gore, Ahilya Rangnekar of the CPM and Pramila Dandawate of the Praja Socialist Party were the archetypical Bombay girls: feisty, fearless and, if need arose, ferocious. In 1997, Bhave took, unintentionally though, political centre stage when her nextdoor neighbour Ramesh Kini was found dead in a Pune cinema hall on a rainy night. She took on the Shiv Sena, which then ruled the state with the BJP. Raj Thackeray, then the youth leader of the Shiv Sena, found his name cropping up in the case and Balasaheb Thackeray launched a tirade against Bhave in the columns of party organ Saamna. Writer Suniti Jain, a close friend of Bhave’s, spoke of her brave nature. “She would not buckle under pressure of any kind. However, underneath the tough exterior lurked a soft heart,” Jain said. Marathi theatre was Bhave’s first love. “Pushpatai chronicled the post-1970 era of Marathi plays with sensitivity, integrity and undisputed scholarship,” playwright Mahesh Elkunchwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-critic-teacher-theatre-lover-and-activist-pushpa-bhave-dead-at-81/articleshow/78471147.cms||Ambarish Mishra
October 4, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Daily cases drop to 14,348, death count to 278 in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: New cases dipped to 14,348 and deaths to 278 in the state on Saturday, but the city continued its rising trend, seeing a one-day case count of 2,402 and 46 deaths. The new cases in the state on Friday were 15,591 and deaths, 424. After August 31, when 11,852 cases and 184 deaths were reported, the state Covid numbers kept rising and on some days even crossed 24,000, but authorities again started noticing a drop about two weeks ago. After September 17, when 24,619 cases were recorded, the daily count has been decreasing. The total caseload in the state stands at 14,30,861 and the death toll at 37,758. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said the recovery rate had been constantly improving, reaching 79.03% on Saturday. On September 21, the recovery rate was below 75%. The city continued to add over 2,000 cases daily, with the tally at 2,12,465 cases and death toll at 9,060. The Mumbai circle, comprising municipal corporation areas in the MMR, accounted for 42% of the state’s total caseload with 4,657 cases and 94 deaths on Saturday. The other hot spot, Pune circle, was tamer at 3,198 new cases and 79 deaths. “The problem in Mumbai is the galloping number, possibly due to rise in asymptomatic patients who roam in the open without a mask,” Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid, said. “Mumbai seems to be in a big super-spreader mode, and if people don’t adopt Covid-appropriate behavior the hit to the economy will be severe,” he said. The doubling rate dropped to 64 days from 66 . Kalyan-Dombivli reported 277 Covid-19 cases and six deaths, taking the tally to 43,392 and the death toll to 844. On Saturday, 459 patients were discharged and 3,671 were still taking treatment. In Thane, 402 positive cases and eight deaths were reported. Navi Mumbai recorded 399 positive cases and seven deaths, taking the Covid count to 37,817 and the death toll to 770. Panvel reported 222 cases and 11 deaths, taking the tally to 19,973 and the death toll to 447.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-daily-cases-drop-to-14348-death-count-to-278-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78471172.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
October 4, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Daily cases drop to 14,348, death count to 278 in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: New cases dipped to 14,348 and deaths to 278 in the state on Saturday, but the city continued its rising trend, seeing a one-day case count of 2,402 and 46 deaths. The new cases in the state on Friday were 15,591 and deaths, 424. After August 31, when 11,852 cases and 184 deaths were reported, the state Covid numbers kept rising and on some days even crossed 24,000, but authorities again started noticing a drop about two weeks ago. After September 17, when 24,619 cases were recorded, the daily count has been decreasing. The total caseload in the state stands at 14,30,861 and the death toll at 37,758. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said the recovery rate had been constantly improving, reaching 79.03% on Saturday. On September 21, the recovery rate was below 75%. The city continued to add over 2,000 cases daily, with the tally at 2,12,465 cases and death toll at 9,060. The Mumbai circle, comprising municipal corporation areas in the MMR, accounted for 42% of the state’s total caseload with 4,657 cases and 94 deaths on Saturday. The other hot spot, Pune circle, was tamer at 3,198 new cases and 79 deaths. “The problem in Mumbai is the galloping number, possibly due to rise in asymptomatic patients who roam in the open without a mask,” Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid, said. “Mumbai seems to be in a big super-spreader mode, and if people don’t adopt Covid-appropriate behavior the hit to the economy will be severe,” he said. The doubling rate dropped to 64 days from 66 . Kalyan-Dombivli reported 277 Covid-19 cases and six deaths, taking the tally to 43,392 and the death toll to 844. On Saturday, 459 patients were discharged and 3,671 were still taking treatment. In Thane, 402 positive cases and eight deaths were reported. Navi Mumbai recorded 399 positive cases and seven deaths, taking the Covid count to 37,817 and the death toll to 770. Panvel reported 222 cases and 11 deaths, taking the tally to 19,973 and the death toll to 447.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-daily-cases-drop-to-14348-death-count-to-278-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78471173.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
October 4, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Daily cases drop to 14,348, death count to 278 in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: New cases dipped to 14,348 and deaths to 278 in the state on Saturday, but the city continued its rising trend, seeing a one-day case count of 2,402 and 46 deaths. The new cases in the state on Friday were 15,591 and deaths, 424. After August 31, when 11,852 cases and 184 deaths were reported, the state Covid numbers kept rising and on some days even crossed 24,000, but authorities again started noticing a drop about two weeks ago. After September 17, when 24,619 cases were recorded, the daily count has been decreasing. The total caseload in the state stands at 14,30,861 and the death toll at 37,758. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said the recovery rate had been constantly improving, reaching 79.03% on Saturday. On September 21, the recovery rate was below 75%. The city continued to add over 2,000 cases daily, with the tally at 2,12,465 cases and death toll at 9,060. The Mumbai circle, comprising municipal corporation areas in the MMR, accounted for 42% of the state’s total caseload with 4,657 cases and 94 deaths on Saturday. The other hot spot, Pune circle, was tamer at 3,198 new cases and 79 deaths. “The problem in Mumbai is the galloping number, possibly due to rise in asymptomatic patients who roam in the open without a mask,” Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid, said. “Mumbai seems to be in a big super-spreader mode, and if people don’t adopt Covid-appropriate behavior the hit to the economy will be severe,” he said. The doubling rate dropped to 64 days from 66 . Kalyan-Dombivli reported 277 Covid-19 cases and six deaths, taking the tally to 43,392 and the death toll to 844. On Saturday, 459 patients were discharged and 3,671 were still taking treatment. In Thane, 402 positive cases and eight deaths were reported. Navi Mumbai recorded 399 positive cases and seven deaths, taking the Covid count to 37,817 and the death toll to 770. Panvel reported 222 cases and 11 deaths, taking the tally to 19,973 and the death toll to 447.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-daily-cases-drop-to-14348-death-count-to-278-in-maharashtra/articleshow/78471168.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka marks 5 lakh recoveries in 6.3 lakh tally||Karnataka reported 9,886 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday while crossing the 5-lakh mark in recoveries. A total of 100 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 9,219.  Bengaluru reported 3,945 of the new cases, taking its active caseload to 53,292. The capital city also reported 21 deaths, including three patients brought dead to hospital and two patients who died at their residence. There are 841 patients in ICUs, including 291 from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-karnataka-marks-5-lakh-recoveries-in-6-3-lakh-tally/articleshow/78471234.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||Delhi-Mumbai e-way to have India’s 1st 5 ‘animal bridges’||India will see the first five animal overpasses on the under construction Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, which will be on the lines of “animal bridges” in Netherlands for safe passage of wildlife. These have been planned to ensure there are no disturbances to the Ranthambore Wildlife Corridor connecting Ranthambhore and Mukundra (Darrah) wildlife sanctuaries in Rajasthan. Sources said the plan has been approved and forwarded by the Rajasthan government to the central wildlife board and is likely to be taken up next week. The NHAI has given the work to an infrastructure major and the agreement would be signed next week. These will be natural-looking structures over the corridor and will provide safe passage for wildlife across the expressway. “There will be no chance of any conflict as the wild animals will get such passage at every 500 metres interval. The passages will be developed as part of a forest corridor with trees so that animals find it natural,” said a source. As per the plan, there will be five underground stretches with combined length of 2.5 km. Officials said a boundary wall of 8 metre with noise barriers will also be installed. Work would start in the next two months and would take two years to be completed. Sources said the NHAI is keen to showcase it as a sustainable model of development and for mitigation of the wildlife-traffic conflict where it’s necessary to build a road through such corridors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-mumbai-e-way-to-have-indias-1st-5-animal-bridges/articleshow/78471249.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||No lapses in CLAT: Consortium||BENGALURU: The Consortium of National Law Universities denied lapses in the way CLAT 2020 was held. The development comes after an expert committee, which randomly examined the audit log of a number of candidates, said it did not find any discrepancy between clicks made by the candidate as recorded in the audit log and the response sheet. The audit trail will be made available to the court in case of a dispute. On Saturday, the consortium said the instructions in mock tests and CLAT were same for ‘Mark for Review’ options. As for the ‘Marked for Review’ option, the committee clarified it will not be considered for evaluation and candidates will not receive positive or negative marks for such questions. “The committee concluded that any change in policy will adversely affect the merit and rank of candidates who have correctly followed the instructions,” the press release read. CLAT 2020 was held on September 28. According to sources, around 40,000 objections were received for technical issues and answer keys. However, the consortium did not confirm the number. “We received thousands of objections. I do not have the numbers off-hand. It can be given later,” said CLAT convener Balaji Chauhan told STOI. As per the committee’s recommendation, the consortium will impose a fee for filing of objections from next year as it noted that many unnecessary objections had been filed. CLAT 2020 had made filing of objections free of cost. Students vent anger onlineMany students tweeted their angst. Ema wrote: “Very interesting how the consortium resorted to a defensive argument regarding the conduct of CLAT. Where do they get this elitist mentality from where they freely just say that we should’ve charged a hefty amount for objections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-lapses-in-clat-consortium/articleshow/78471254.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||NMC: Online MedEd classes valid during pandemic only||CHENNAI: The National Medical Commission which has replaced Medical Council of India (MCI) has clarified that online classes conducted for medical courses in view of the pandemic are valid and approved by the commission. The commission made the clarification in response to media reports that MCI has informed a group of medical students that such classes are not valid. “It is clarified that in view of the pandemic, medical colleges are conducting online theory classes for MBBS students. Online classes are valid and are approved for teaching during the pandemic only,” a statement released by the commission said. It further clarified that the media reports appeared to have relied upon reply given by the erstwhile MCI in response to a RTI query regarding medical courses conducted online by foreign universities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nmc-online-meded-classes-valid-during-pandemic-only/articleshow/78471257.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||Covid-19 has made Indians kinder, more generous: Survey||An outcome of the pandemic has been that it has made us more giving in nature, a countrywide survey has found. The survey conducted on 500 individuals by GiveIndia, a Bengaluru based NGO, found that 85% of all respondents admitted that Covid had “increased their appetite for philanthropy” and that they planned to give more. Roughly, 74% were more inclined to contribute to local communities; 71.5% said they will not reduce support for an existing cause even if it did not directly help those affected by Covid 19. Respondents said the pandemic has changed their outlook towards philanthropy. A substantial 30.92% said they will continue to support their older causes; 23.67% in fact said they plan to give more. And 25.12% said they hope to give for newer causes. Ashok Kumar E R, president of GiveIndia, said the NGO was spurred to conduct the survey after they succeeded in raising Rs 230 crore in six months (March-August) for Covid relief. “With this money we have been able to impact the lives of 50 lakh people through healthcare, livelihood, humanitarian and preventive measures. This money was more than four times the total collection we raised in the last financial year,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-has-made-indians-kinder-more-generous-survey/articleshow/78471261.cms||Shobita Dhar
October 4, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee leads Hathras protest in central Kolkata, calls BJP the greatest pandemic||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday led a protest march over a four-km stretch in central Kolkata — the first time during the pandemic — against the Yogi Adityanath government’s “muzzling of democracy” at Hathras. With the victim’s family off limits to the media and politicians on Thursday and Friday, Banerjee called BJP the “greatest pandemic” and feared that the country was heading towards a “presidential form of government”. “No one is being allowed to speak, not even the officers. BJP is the greatest pandemic. All others are under threat. Members of the Trinamool MP delegation to Hathras were stopped and woman member Pratima Mondal was manhandled a kilometre ahead of the victim’s house. There is no justice. The talk is about one nation-one leader-one party. The country is heading towards a presidential form of government, a dictatorial government, a government of agencies (central investigating agencies),” the CM said in front of the Gandhi Statue on Mayo Road. Saying that she would stand by Dalits and minorities whenever they face torture, Banerjee said: “You can’t stop me by raising the appeasement chorus. I have come here to uphold the Dalit cause. I am a Dalit today, an Adivasi tomorrow. You don’t ask my surname when I speak for Hindus. You have been saying that the Bengal government doesn’t allow Durga Puja and Saraswati Puja. Why did the Yogi government try to stop Durga Puja celebrations in Uttar Pradesh?” she asked. The Trinamool chief pointed out how Dalits have got a raw deal under BJP rule. “Before elections, they eat with members of a Dalit family and torture them after elections are over,” she said. Holding a torch light and donning a black towel on her shoulders, Banerjee reminded her supporters of the 26-day hunger strike she had launched during Left Front rule in 2006 against the gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl (Tapasi Malik) from Singur. The TMC chief wanted the party’s women and student-youth wings to continue with the demonstration against Dalit torture till October 17 — the onset of “Devipaksha”. “Reach out to SC villages, tell them about the plight of Dalits under BJP rule. Namasudras are the most oppressed,” she said, in a bid to redo a Singur-type movement against BJP. Banerjee’s Dalit-Muslim equation suffered in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when many SC seats, including those dominated by Matuas and Namasudras in North 24 Parganas, slipped away from TMC. The Bengal CM also told the gathering how the BJP government forcibly passed three farm bills in Parliament, taking away rice, pulses and potato from the list of essential commodities. “BJP is a shame for the country,” she said, trying to revive the Dalit-Muslim-farmer strategy that paid her rich dividends against Left Front rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-leads-hathras-protest-calls-bjp-the-greatest-pandemic/articleshow/78470526.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||US universities to waive SAT, take in students on past scores||MUMBAI: At a time when students planning to go abroad are undecided between whether to take a gap year or study online by paying the full rack rate, America’s finest universities have opened their gates wider. They have turned testblind, not asking for SAT or ACT scores for the class of 2025; not at Harvard, Stanford, MIT or at UPenn, not at Cornell, Princeton, UCLA or Georgia Tech. SAT (scholastic assessment test) scores are usually used by most US universities to evaluate students for undergraduate admission. Aspirants to almost all American universities will now be considered purely based on their past academic performance in secondary and high school. With SAT exams getting cancelled around the world because of the pandemic, India being no exception to it, the announcement that they will admit students on the “entirety” of their background has come as a huge relief. In May, TOI had reported that several elite institutions including Oxford, Imperial, Insead and some top B-schools such as Wharton, Kellogg and Carnegie Mellon had similarly waived standardised testing requirements. “Most US universities, including the Ivy League colleges have waived standardised testing requirements for the 2021 intake. This move was done to help students who have faced difficulties in taking the tests due to the pandemic. As a result, we now have more students applying to US universities. Those who were considering taking a gap year are now applying because they don’t need anything additional except their school grades and essays,” said education counsellor Karan Gupta. At Harvard University, predicted scores by schools or actual results of national exams will be accepted as part of the international candidate’s admission application docket. Harvard University, in its statement, said, “Students who do not submit standardized testing this coming year will not be disadvantaged in the application process. Their applications will be considered on the basis of what they have presented...” Standardized tests like the SAT were already under the scanner with many American university presidents of the view that test scores were not pivotal predictors of a student’s success. In reviewing applications for 2021, Stanford has said, “If you are not able to take the ACT or SAT, your application will not be at a disadvantage. If you have already taken the ACT or SAT, and you feel that your scores are a positive reflection of your academic preparedness, then you are welcome to self-report them. Your application will not be at a disadvantage if you choose not to report your scores...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-universities-to-waive-sat-take-in-students-on-past-scores/articleshow/78471266.cms||Hemali Chhapia
October 4, 2020||Hubballi||Kannada lyricist files complaint over ‘missing wife’||BELAGAVI: Noted Kannada lyricist K Kalyan has filed a police complaint, saying his wife Ashwini is missing. Following the complaint filed on September 30, Malamaruti police summoned Ashwini for queries on Saturday. Incidentally, she is staying with her parents in Belagavi. According to preliminary probe, Ashwini was not missing. She is said to have told police: “I have been staying with my parents. Fed up with his harassment for 14 years, I applied for divorce at a family court on June 26.” BR Gaddikar, CPI of Malamaruti station, said: “Prima facie, it seems to be a family dispute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kannada-lyricist-files-complaint-over-missing-wife/articleshow/78471269.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||21-kg unclaimed gold worth 25 crore seized at Hyderabad airport||HYDERABAD: Customs officials seized a 21-kg unclaimed consignment of gold and diamond jewellery worth over Rs 25 crore from the cargo section of the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) on Saturday morning. This is being touted as one of the biggest seizure by customs department in recent times. Of the 21 kg of gold, officials said, two kg are gold biscuits while the remaining are ornaments. "The consignment came from the Middle East and it was scheduled to reach Mumbai via Hyderabad airport. It had no supporting documents as is mandatory for transporting such high-value packages,'' a source from the customs department told TOI. The consignment, officials said, was found during checking at the RGIA. ‘Mumbai address on consignment fake’When we tried to reach out to the Mumbai address that was mentioned on the consignment, it was found to be fake,” the source said. “Since the address is fake, there are no requisite documents along with consignment and no one has come forward to claim it till now. We suspect that the consignment could belong to a gang involved in smuggling of gold,” they added. Officials are still investigating the case. This is being touted as one of the biggest seizure by customs department in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-kg-unclaimed-gold-worth-25-crore-seized-at-hyderabad-airport/articleshow/78471273.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||1st contribution for Ayodhya mosque comes from a Hindu||AYODHYA: he first contribution towards the construction of the mosque complex in Ayodhya was made on Saturday by Lucknow University law faculty employee Rohit Srivastava, who donated Rs 21,000, reports Arshad Afzaal Khan. Talking to TOI, mosque trust secretary Athar Hussain said, “The first contribution for building the mosque came from a Hindu brother and this exemplifies the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb, or Indo-Islamic culture.” The corpus will be used by the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) constituted by the Sunni Waqf Board to build the mosque, library, museum and community kitchen on five acres in Ayodhya. Talking to TOI, Srivastava, said, “I come from a generation which is rooted in syncretism, where religious barriers blur. I don’t celebrate Holi or Diwali without my Muslim friends and they don’t celebrate Eid without me. This is the story of crores of Hindus and Muslims in India. I appeal to members of the Hindu community to come forward and donate for the mosque to send out a message that Muslims are our brothers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1st-contribution-for-ayodhya-mosque-comes-from-a-hindu/articleshow/78471275.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 4, 2020||India||Govt open to more steps to help cut Covid impact: Finance minister||NEW DELHI: The finance ministry on Saturday said that the government has taken every possible measure to address the concerns of stakeholders and citizens hit Covid-19 and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is not averse to taking further steps to ameliorate suffering of people. The ministry is open to all possibilities to minimise the impact on the economy. Several presentations were made to PM Narendra Modi over two months ago on possible steps to revive the economy. The finance ministry listed out the measures taken in the past and argued that the steps taken by the government and the Reserve Bank of India was helping the economy emerge from the crisis, pointing to recent numbers such as the increase in GST collections. “Earnest efforts made by the government in (the) last few months during (the) Coronavirus period have now started showing the green shoots and the month of September has exhibited credible signs of economic growth towards normalcy,” it said in a statement. The ministry has said that it has “swiftly prepared and effectively implemented” two major stimulus packages. “Ministry of finance has taken proactive and prompt action both in policy and in implementation to serve the people in a holistic manner, especially providing support to those who need it the most,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-open-to-more-steps-to-help-cut-covid-impact-finance-minister/articleshow/78471295.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Kalaburagi couple found murdered||KALABURAGI: Just two months after their 16-year-old daughter was allegedly raped by two youths of their tanda, the parents of the minor girl were found murdered in Kamalapur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Saturday morning. Maruthi Devala Jadhav, 45, and Sharadabai Maruthi Jadhav, 35, who was seven months pregnant, were found lying in a pool of blood. They had six daughters and a son. Sharadabai was Maruthi’s second wife. Two months ago, Maruthi had filed a complaint against Tobu and Dinesh, of the same tanda, alleging they had raped his oldest daughter. Kamalapur police had filed a case under Pocso Act against the two. While Tobu was arrested and is in jail, Dinesh is on the run. The couple’s brutal murder was witnessed by their 10-yearold son. In his statement to police, the boy, who is in shock, said that he saw masked men entering the house and killing his parents with sharp weapons. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-kalaburagi-couple-found-murdered/articleshow/78471296.cms||---
October 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to courts: Fast track trial in cases against legislators||HYDERABAD: In a move likely to raise political temperature in the two Telugu states, the Telangana high court on Saturday directed three courts dealing with cases of current and former legislators to commence day-to-day hearing and complete their trial in an expeditious manner. To review trials stayed by the high court, Telangana high court chief justice would form a bench to dispose of all such cases to enable trial courts-CBI, ACB principal judge court and the special court in Hyderabad - to complete trial quickly. This development was the result of the Supreme Court direction on September 16, ordering that cases against legislators (both current and former) should be tried on priority. In all likelihood, the new quick disposal mechanism might commence from October 5. In Telangana, 118 cases, registered against present and former legislators, were being tried by a special court in Hyderabad. Also, most of them were booked under IPC and violation of the Railway Act etc. Several cases were registered against Telangana leaders for participating in rail roko and separate statehood agitations. The TRS government, which was a product of these agitations, was dithering not only in pursuing them but also their closure. Jagan, Sabitha, Revanth cases may generate political heatHOWEVER, with the direction from the apex court, the state government might now quickly move to withdraw those cases through a GO, sources said. Scores of Telangana leaders, several of them now ministers in the KCR cabinet, have been named accused in many of these cases. Similarly, 25 cases were registered by CBI and ACB against legislators. CBI cases against AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, ACB case against MP Revanth Reddy and others in the note-for-vote case, scholarship funds embezzlement case against AP minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, Penna Cements case in which Telangana education minister Sabita Indra Reddy is an accused, illegal mining case against former Karnataka minister Gali Janardhan Reddy etc, might generate political heat if the trial is hastened. In fact, the high court had issued stay orders in 14 of these cases. And, this resulted in sluggish progress at trial courts. Of these 25 cases, 17 were under trial in CBI, six in ACB courts, one at metropolitan sessions judge court at Hyderabad. As they have to follow the Supreme Court directive, the chief justice of the Telangana high court might soon preside over a bench to hear matters stayed in these cases to make things easy for trial courts to go ahead with their task. Though there are cases like a TRS legislator involved in the physical attack on a woman forest officer, that case did not figure in the list ostensibly on the ground that a charge sheet has not yet been filed in that case, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-hc-to-courts-fast-track-trial-in-cases-against-legislators/articleshow/78471304.cms||Sagarkumar Mutha
October 4, 2020||Bhopal||Government to approach insurance firms over farmers’ claims: CM||BHOPAL: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said the state government will approach insurance firms and take up the cause of farmers, who have not received crop insurance claims or got too little. “Justice will be provided to every farmer from crop insurance companies. If needed, it will be taken up with the Union government. The entire claim amount of the insured crop will be provided to them,” the CM said, adding that relief will also be given to every flood victim at the earliest. At a review meeting, the CM said that there have been complaints from many districts that some farmers have either not received the claim amount or got far less than the loss they suffered. It must be re-examined in every district. Collectors should send lists, based on which fresh insurance claims will be submitted to the insurance company,” Chouhan said. Seeing that monsoon was good this year, farmers will get adequate urea in time so that they can sow their crops early, the CM assured. He met Union minister for fertilizers Sadanand Gowda and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and urged that MP’s urea allocation be increased from 18 lakh metric tonne (with 1 lakh metric tonne in reserve) to 22 lakh metric tonne. Due to adequate rain, the sowing area of wheat is expected to increase by 10 lakh hectare. In Kharif 2020, over 45 lakh farmers were insured till October 1, out of which 38.6 lakh are debtors. In Kharif 2019, 37 lakh farmers were insured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/government-to-approach-insurance-firms-over-farmers-claims-cm/articleshow/78471298.cms||---
October 4, 2020||India||38% of health staff infected with Covid in India are women||NEW DELHI: Over 38% of healthcare workers infected with Covid-19 in India till October 1 are women, even as the proportion of female workers in the country are lower — comprising only a third of the total health workforce as compared to 70% globally. In India, 79,772 women workers tested positive for Covid-19 till October 1. Cumulatively, over 20.2 lakh healthcare workers have been tested for the infection so far. Of this around 40% were women, official data show. Though a lower percentage share of women workers were impacted by Covid-19 in India as compared to men, it does show up the skewed ratio of male-female healthcare workers in India. In India, the male-female ratio among healthcare workers is estimated at 1.6. According to WHO estimates, of all health workers in India, 38% were female. This includes doctors, nurses, midwives and ancillary healthcare workers. The share of female doctors is particularly low at only around 17% of all allopathic doctors in the country. The UN Women report, which has analysed data from five developed European countries with focus on female health workers, notes that globally women are more than two-thirds of the workforce. “Women represent 70% of the world’s healthcare workers and they are on the front lines of the pandemic and at increased risk of exposure to the virus. Emerging data from the Dominican Republic, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain have confirmed that among infected health-care workers, 72% are women,” the report ‘Progress on the Sustainable Development Goals: The Gender Snapshot 2020’ says. While healthcare workers form a crucial resource in the fight against Covid-19, women professionals in particular have a key role as they are often more acceptable to female patients in traditional societies, especially in rural settings. Out of a total of 40,957 confirmed cases of Covid-19 among healthcare workers in Spain, 77% were women. Italy has reported 30,927 infections among healthcare workers, of which 70% are women. Out of 13,941 health workers infected in Germany, 73% were women. In Ireland, out of 8,691 cases of infections among healthcare workers 74% were women. Of the total health-care workers infected in the Dominican Republic, 66% (256) were women, the reports shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/38-of-health-staff-infected-with-covid-in-india-are-women/articleshow/78471302.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Cinemas look at reopening with old hits to test waters||BENGALURU: Cinema halls and multiplexes in Karnataka are gearing up to reopen with stringent safety protocols from October 15 but the major concerns for exhibitors are the lack of new film releases and uncertainty over whether moviegoers will return. To start with, theatres may run old blockbusters to draw fans, they said. “The exhibitors are mulling re-release of old hit films for 2-3 weeks to test the waters before going ahead with the release of new movies,’’ said Sa Ra Govindu, senior producer and former president of Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. “This will give us an idea about whether people are ready to come to theatres to watch movies or not. A discussion is going on in this regard. Whatever revenue comes from these releases can be shared between the producers and theatre owners.” Some exhibitors are in two minds on reopening cinema halls, considering the reluctance of producers to release their films. According to the film chamber, more than 50 films are ready for release, including Darshan starrer “Robert” and Duniya Vijay’s directorial debut “Salaga”. Theatre staff asked to resume workBut only one or two small films are Bready for release at this point of time, it said. “Everyone wants to wait and watch how the situation turns out after October 15,” Govindu said, adding that the 50% occupancy rider to reopen is another reason for producers’ reluctance. “At least 5-6 new films should be released for the majority of theatres to open. Looking at the situation, such a possibility appears bleak as of now. But we are keeping our fingers crossed and preparing to reopen theatres,” said KC Chandrashekhar, president of Karnataka Film Theatre Owners Association. Despite the uncertainty, cinema halls have asked employees to resume work from Monday to prepare for the reopening. A meeting of producers, actors, distributors and exhibitors will soon be held to discuss issues regarding reopening of halls. “We are waiting for SOPs from the state. Once we receive them, we will call a meeting of producers to check how many films are ready for release and how many of them will release their movies on October 15,” said DR Jairaj, president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cinemas-look-at-reopening-with-old-hits-to-test-waters/articleshow/78471310.cms||Anil Gejji
October 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Charge only Rs 1,200 for RT-PCR test, Haryana tells Delhi private labs||GURUGRAM: A day after Haryana reduced the price of RT-PCR tests from Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,200, the state on Saturday asked Delhi private labs to charge Rs 1,200 from Haryana residents. Earlier, private labs in Haryana used to charge over Rs 4,500 for an RT-PCR test but on June 19, it put a cap on it and asked all private labs to not charge more than Rs 2,400. On September 1, this was further reduced to Rs 1,600. Orders were also issued to all private labs in the city to follow the new notification and charge accordingly. “All Delhi private labs that have collection centres in Gurugram are directed to charge Rs 1,200 from Haryana residents. We have also issued an order to all private labs in the city,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav. He added that action will be taken if labs are found violating the order. Meanwhile, health officials said that the revision is likely to bring down testing in the coming days. “Several labs have reached out to us expressing their concern over the slashed RT-PCR rate more so when several patients are opting for home testing,” said a senior official from the health department. Anand K, CEO of SRL Diagnostics, said, “There are associated costs which are not factored in the recent revision such as cost of sample collection, viral transport media, logistics, biomedical waste management, staffing costs, data entry and 24X7 operational cost. All this makes home collection unviable in the current scenario, unless there’s an additional charge for home visit approved by the state. Having said that, we are working closely with the government and we will raise our concern.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/charge-only-rs-1200-for-rt-pcr-test-haryana-tells-delhi-private-labs/articleshow/78469876.cms||Ipsita Pati
