October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Abandoned husky pup’s death puts spotlight on breeder atrocities||A week ago, a young Siberian Husky puppy, believed to have been tortured, was abandoned on a busy street in Bengaluru. Called Nanuk, the pup later succumbed to its injuries, despite the best efforts of animal shelter volunteers and doctors. The incident yet again pushed to the fore the need to regulate pet ownership, with focus on adoption and not sale, with a campaign called #AdoptDon’tShop. People buy dogs without considering the needs of the animalAccording to animal activists, ever since dog breeds that are not indigenous to India became a big business opportunity for breeders, the demand for such ‘pricey’ dogs has caused breeding – mostly illegal – to boom. The problem, they add, is that status-conscious Bengalureans willing to pay mega bucks for ‘pedigree’, buy dogs without really giving thought to the needs of the animal. From registration, vaccinations, routine grooming and, most importantly, quality and quantity time to be devoted to a dog, being a pet parent is no easy task, a realisation that strikes many only after bringing the pet home. The result – an increasing number of such dogs being abandoned, which, in turn, got activists to push the cause of adoption and not sale of pets to ensure that only genuine animal lovers become pet parents. Call to stop abuse and illegal breedingIn the past few days, #AdoptDon’tShop has been gathering steam with several thousand signatures in its favour. The petition says, “That Husky, Lab, Shih-Tzu, Maltese pedigree pup we buy? Adorable. Meet the products that don’t reach you, as quality checks have cut them off. That is Nanuk, or Polar Bear, (a place she should have been) who lay suffering near a drain, born at the wrong place and time. So, what shall we do for her? And what about the 1000 Nanuks you never see? How do we protect them? The laws are tight, but we don't enforce them. The mind and heart is tight, and we don't open them. This ridiculous cycle of abuse and breeding has to stop.” Animal lovers demand regulationEntrepreneur and animal lover and activist Priya Chetty-Rajagopal, who is one of the people behind the petition, states, “There are many breeders in the city, some of whom don't even have proper education. These breeders’ rear dogs like livestock, by the number. The truth is that dogs are companion animals. We need to regulate these breeders. Most pups are unhealthy and need protection. Some aren't even vaccinated. Similarly, people wanting dogs need to be sure. They are often confused between a dog and a doll. Often pets are abandoned. One needs to put any prospective pet parent through a process of acclimatization before they adopt, be it by working at a shelter or by being around a community dog to understand if they really want one.” Authorities promise actionWhen Bangalore Times contacted H Basavarajendra, commissioner, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences and member of Karnataka’s Animal Welfare Board, he said, “There has been a delay in the setting up of the office of the board owing to the pandemic. We are in the process of setting up various sub-committees. We should have the office ready and running by the end of October. We will have a veterinary doctor in the inspector cadre, who will be in-charge of handling the complaints. The board functions by acting on the complaints. We understand the problem and want to help. But the process does take time." Agenda of the #AdoptDon’tShop campaign Prominently and forcefully promote #AdoptDon’tShop Empty all animal shelters. Stop sale of dogs till shelters are empty Provide alternate employment to those in unlicensed breeding and pet sales industry either at shelters, animal welfare boards, etc., so that they do not go back to their lucrative, but blood-soaked business Get schools and offices to sign pledge to commit to follow the #AdoptDon’tShop agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/abandoned-husky-pups-death-puts-spotlight-on-breeder-atrocities/articleshow/78479572.cms||Sunayana Suresh
October 5, 2020||World||Indian American Trump supporters outside hospital call for prayers as Trump is being treated||WASHINGTON: A prayer vigil was held on Sunday evening for President Trump and First Lady Melania Tump by the Indian American community to wish them a speedy recovery. His supporters not only gathered outside the hospital but also showed support virtually from cities across the United States. "I would like to thank the people of our community who are there at the Walter Reed hospital, praying for our President Trump and the First Lady. Despite being diagnosed with COVID-19, our President and his supporters have done more than what Biden has done in 47 years," said Nisha Sharma, Congressional candidate from California District 11. "President Trump is the best Commander-in-Chief who cares for all Americans - All their good wishes and prayers will help Potus and the first lady recover swiftly from this China virus. No virus or anyone can knock POTUS down," Al Mason, co-chair of ' Trump Victory Indian-American Finance Committee' told ANI. The community members chanted mantras and echoed the sound of the conch shell or Shankha for the speedy recovery of President Trump and the First Lady. Sentinels of Dharma, a Hindu American organization hosted the event. During the prayer meeting, Indian Americans also endorsed President Trump in his re-election bid and reached out to other community members all over the country to campaign in his favour. President Trump could be released from the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center as soon as Monday, his medical team said in an update on Sunday to members of the White House press pool, as the president continues his treatment on dexamethasone and Remdesivir to fight coronavirus. Dr. Sean Conley said Trump has experienced two episodes of transient drops in oxygen levels. From Thursday into Friday morning, Conley said Trump was doing well with mild symptoms and oxygen levels in the high 90s. By later Friday morning, the president had a high fever and his oxygen levels began dipping below 94 per cent. President Trump was admitted to Walter Reed on Friday after he announced that he and the First Lady had tested positive for the coronavirus. Dozens of people stood outside the hospital waving Trump 2020 flags and holding signs since President Trump was admitted. American flags and flowers were piling up on the sign outside the hospital facility. Trump thanked his supporters Sunday morning on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/indian-american-trump-supporters-outside-hospital-call-for-prayers-as-trump-is-being-treated/articleshow/78484146.cms||---
October 5, 2020||India||Covid may have peaked in September, economic recovery on: Finance ministry report||NEW DELHI: India may have crossed the Covid-19 peak, caseload data for the 14-day period from September 17 to 30 suggests, the finance ministry said in a report while cautioning that the disease was far from over and urging all stakeholders to push for economic recovery as positivity rate improves. The report said that during this period, the seven-day moving average of daily positive cases had steadily declined from about 93,000 to 83,000 while the seven-day moving average of daily tests rose from about 1,15,000 to 1,24,000. “Yet, the declining positivity rate at all-India level sets the stage to further push up the frontiers of economic recovery. For this, all stakeholders need to get into the act as remaining restrictions on access and mobility are further eased. More than “social distancing” it is “self-protection with due precautions” that better fits into the context of “jaan bhi aur jahaan bhi”,” the monthly report of the finance ministry for September said. It also said that a raft of economic data in September points to a steady recovery in almost all sectors, while asserting that with India unlocking every day, demand resurgence is palpable across segments. “Economic indicators allude to a steady recovery in almost all sectors, with some sectors shooting above their previous-year levels as well. This is despite headwinds of increasing Covid cases in non-metro cities and rural areas and rising food prices. Positive results from the implementation of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat (AB) package and unlocking of the economy are evident in India’s high-frequency real sector indicators of September,” according to the finance ministry’s monthly economic review for September. The Indian economy has been hit hard by the Covid-19 induced lockdown, with the GDP falling by nearly 24% in the June quarter pointing to sharp contraction for the full year. But the unlocking of economic and other activities which is underway has led to improvement in a majority of economic indicators with most displaying a narrowing of sharp contractions seen in the previous months. The report said that the implementation of Aatmanirbhar Bharat package and unlocking of the economy have ensured that economic recovery in India has gained momentum. This is seen in agriculture with production of kharif foodgrains in 2020-21 estimated to go past the previous year’s level. It said the growth of demand in the rural sector was reflected in the registration of two wheelers/three wheelers/passenger vehicles along with tractor sales reaching/surpassing previous year levels in August. Other high-frequency indicators have also improved in sync with global activity. Increase in global demand has led to expansion of India’s export at 5.3% in September on a year-on-year basis. The recovery in rail freight enabled revenue earnings clocking positive year-on-year growth for the first time since March in the months of August and early September, the report said. It said that easing of inter-state movement restrictions, quarantine policy and unlocking were accompanied with recovery in rail passenger earnings as well. Cargo traffic volumes continued to inch up towards previous year levels reporting a still lower year-on-year contraction in August. With domestic aviation traffic also increasing, the upcoming festive months are expected to further boost growth. “The sustained spread of the virus poses a downside risk to short-term and medium-term growth rate. To combat these risks, the government has strategically undertaken various important structural reforms encompassing various sectors. These will strengthen the fundamentals of the economy towards a strong and sustainable long-term growth,” said the report prepared by the economic division in the department of economic affairs“The enabling policy environment and initiatives taken by all stakeholders to seize the available opportunities will actualise the growth potential of the Indian economy. In its latest review, S&P Global Ratings have retained India’s investment grade (BBB-) credit rating with stable outlook as it expects the country’s economy and fiscal position to stabilise and begin to recover from 2021 onwards. India’s probable growth path is visible in this assessment,” said the report. Watch India may have passed Covid peak in September, suggests Finance ministry report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-may-have-passed-covid-peak-in-september-finance-minister/articleshow/78483466.cms||---
October 5, 2020||India||Covid effect: Even those ‘better off’ opt for PDS||Incomes plummeted during the lockdown. Many returned home after factories downed shutters. Jobs dried up while agricultural activity ebbed. It was in these times of despair that demand for subsidised ration shot up across the country, with people below the poverty line (BPL) flocking to PDS shops. But, it was not just BPL families. Statistics show there was a surge in subsidised ration being availed of by even those in the “above poverty line (APL)” category under various state schemes. To be eligible for an APL ration card in rural areas, the beneficiary’s annual income has to be between Rs 44,000 and Rs 1 lakh per year. In urban areas, the range is Rs 59,000 to Rs 1 lakh per year. This means that in urban areas, an APL card holder’s monthly income averages between Rs 4,916 and Rs 8,333. In May and June, 2.6 crore APL beneficiaries in Maharashtra purchased ration grains, indicating the severe income stress in the state at the time. The state added 15.5 lakh ration cards in April alone, accounting for inclusion of over 66 lakh BPL beneficiaries in its regular ration scheme. A comparison between April and the pre-lockdown month of February shows that the number of ration cards issued under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) rose from over 1.4 crore to nearly 1.6 crore. The number of beneficiaries rose from a little over 6 crore to close to 6.7 crore over this period. Ration distributed under this scheme rose by 1.5 lakh quintals. Bengal witnessed an extraordinary surge in demand for ration cards during the lockdown. As many as 67 lakh ration cards have been added so far since April. Both NFSA and non-NFSA categories of ration card-holders now get 2kg of wheat and 3kg of rice per month at no cost. A little over 3.3 crore APL card-holders availed of ration between April and August this year, with 14 lakh quintal being distributed. The number of APL card-holders availing of ration shot up to 1.7 lakh in August in Karnataka, while this number stood at 80,000 in February. From 72,000 MT of foodgrain distributed in April in Kerala to APL card-holders, the quantity distributed spiked to 1.20 lakh MT in Kerala. Goa saw a sudden spike in APL card-holders availing of foodgrain through PDS in April, which officials said was due to panic stocking of food. In many states, migrants returning home became beneficiaries, leading to a spike in demand. The UP government issued nearly 12 lakh more ration cards in the last five months of the pandemic, which included cards to migrants who came back following the lockdown. Himachal Pradesh saw a surge of migrants returning between May and July. In May alone, over 1.4 lakh migrants were provided 10,803 quintal free ration under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme. Till July end, over 2.3 lakh migrants were provided 18,700 quintals of ration. Not just migrants, UP has covered over 94% of the targeted population by distributing 3.6 crore cards. Odisha has added around 1.7 lakh new ration cards covering around 5 lakh population since March under the State Food Security Scheme. These beneficiaries were left out of the NFSA that covers around 92 lakh families in the state. The demand rose so high in Jharkhand that the state cabinet last month decided to roll out a new food security scheme for 15 lakh people who are not NFSA beneficiaries. The new scheme was rolled out due to a high number of ration card applications. Madhya Pradesh added more than 30 lakh beneficiaries of subsidised foodgrain by increasing the number of ration cards. More than 12 lakh new ration cards were issued. Rajasthan, too, saw a spike in demand for wheat distributed through PDS in April and May, with close to one lakh MT wheat being distributed in April. The quantity went up later. When Tamil Nadu extended cash support of Rs 1,000 each to card-holders and free supply of certain foodgrain to every card-holder in April, the demand for new cards began rising. There were 2.4 lakh card holders and 6.9 lakh beneficiaries joining PDS since April 1. Similarly, the Bihar government’s decision to provide free rice and wheat to ration card-holders led to a surge in card-seekers. Till July, about 24 lakh families had been added to the list of 1.4 crore families getting foodgrain from PDS. Gujarat saw a marginal rise of 7% in foodgrain distribution through PDS outlets during the lockdown and in the following months till August. (With inputs from Mumbai, Lucknow, Shimla, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Bhubaneshwar, Ranchi, Kochi, Bhopal, Chennai, Patna, Goa and Ahmedabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-effect-even-those-better-off-opt-for-pds/articleshow/78483521.cms||---
October 5, 2020||India||Indians sleep for about 9 hours a day, finds NSO||How much time do Indians spend sleeping, eating, drinking, engaging in personal hygiene, and in religious and social activities? A first of its kind survey answers these questions and many more on how people spend their time in a typical 24-hour day. The aim is to assess the time spent on paid and unpaid activities both in rural and urban areas and the results are expected to provide key inputs for policymaking across various departments and ministries, reports Surojit Gupta. In rural areas, males 6 years and above spent an average of 554 minutes (9.2 hours) in sleep and “related activities”, the survey showed, while females spent a tad extra at 557 minutes. However, the proportion of time spent on similar activities in urban areas is marginally less — where males spent 534 minutes in sleep and related activities and females 552 minutes, closer to their rural counterparts. The survey also showed that when it comes to eating and drinking, males in rural areas spent about 10 minutes more than an average female — 103 minutes and 94 minutes respectively. Men in cities too averaged higher than women in this category — 101 minutes for males and 97 minutes for females. The Time Use Survey (TUS) is the first of its kind assessment conducted by the National Statistical office (NSO). It was undertaken between January and December of 2019. The survey was spread over 5,947 villages and 3,998 urban blocks and covered 138,799 households (rural: 82,897 and urban: 55,902). According to the NSO, information on time use was collected from each member of 6 years and above of the selected households. A total of 447,250 persons (rural: 273,195 and urban 174,055) were surveyed. It covered the entire country except the villages in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, which are difficult to access, according to the NSO. The survey has measured participation and time spent by people in paid activities, unpaid caregiving activities, unpaid volunteer work, unpaid domestic service producing activities, learning, socializing, leisure and self-care activities among others. The results show that women spent more time for unpaid domestic services for household members. In rural areas, it was estimated at 301 minutes for females while it was 98 minutes for males. In urban areas, females on an average spent 293 minutes while males put in 94 minutes. The average time spent in a day per participant for culture, mass media and sports practices across the country was 165 minutes. In rural areas, males spent on an average 162 minutes while females spent 157 minutes. In urban areas, it was 171 minutes for males and 181 minutes for females. The average time spent per participant 6 years and above in socializing and communication, community participation and religious practice was estimated at 143 minutes at the national level. In rural areas, males spent 151 minutes on such activities while females spent 139 minutes. Overall, both males and females spent 138 minutes on such activities. When it comes to unpaid caregiving for household members, females spent 132 minutes in rural areas on such activity while males spent 77 minutes and in urban areas it was 138 minutes for females and 75 minutes for males. The average time spent in a day per participant at the national level was 114 minutes, the survey results showed. “This is largely an attempt to measure unpaid work. The GDP data measures paid work and this survey makes sure that unpaid work and how people spend their time is captured. It will be very vital for policy making,” Pronab Sen, former chief statistician of India told TOI, adding that a pilot project for the survey was carried out in six states before it was attempted at the national level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indians-sleep-for-about-9-hours-a-day-finds-nso/articleshow/78483532.cms||---
October 5, 2020||India||7-day Covid-19 cases count lowest in 5 weeks||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections in India continued to fall for the third straight week, adding to the growing evidence that the pandemic may now be past its peak in the country, at least for now. India recorded just over 5.5 fresh cases during the September 28-October 4 period, the lowest tally in five weeks. The weekly death toll from the virus followed a similar trend. The country recorded 7,143 fatalities in the last seven days, the lowest in four weeks, as per data collated from state governments. This was the second straight week of fall after fatalities had peaked at 8,175 during the September 14-20 week.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The highest number of new cases recorded in India during a week was 6,45,014 in the September 7-13 period. This week’s tally, at 5,50,545, was a 15% drop from the peak and 6.8% lower than the previous week. In absolute numbers, some 39,000 less cases were reported this week as compared with the previous one. Last week (September 21-27), the fall was higher at nearly 50,000.Similarly, this week’s death toll was lower by 511 (6.6%) as compared with the last. The drop was similar in the previous week at 521 (6.4%). Overall, deaths were down nearly 13% this week from the peak seen two weeks earlier.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Sunday, 77,100 new infections were registered in the country, a slight rise from 75,186 recorded on the previous day. These are the lowest daily numbers reported on any day except Mondays in the end of August. While the long weekend — Friday, Gandhi Jayanti, was a public holiday — may have played a role in keeping the numbers low, a clearer picture on the scale of the decrease in infections could emerge from Tuesday onwards.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Maharashtra reported 13,702 fresh cases and 326 deaths on Sunday. This was the eighth consecutive day that the state had recorded less than 20,000 cases. There were 14,348 infections reported on Saturday. The toll, however, had risen from the previous day’s count of 278. Mumbai continued to record more than 2,000 daily cases, with 2,109 on Sunday, along with 48 fatalities.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); However, the virus continued to surge in several parts of the country despite the overall dip. Karnataka logged 10,145 fresh cases on Sunday, the third time in a week that the daily tally had exceeded the 10,000-mark. Kerala added as many as 8,553 cases to its overall case count, taking the number of active cases to 84,497 and the test positivity rate to 14.56%. The day also saw the highest single-day recoveries of 4,851. Among the infected were 99 healthcare workers.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Tamil Nadu recorded 5,489 new Covid-19 cases and 66 deaths on Sunday, taking the case tally to 6,19,996 and cumulative toll to 9,784. There are 46,120 people still under treatment for the viral infection. While all districts recorded new cases, five of them had more than 200 cases each. With 1,348 cases, Chennai continued to top the table, followed by Coimbatore (474).  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The Covid pandemic has not shown any signs of letting up in Rajasthan’s capital, Jaipur. The city has reported more than 400 cases for the past seven days in a row. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 2,184 cases taking the overall tally to 1,44,030.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-day-covid-19-cases-count-lowest-in-5-weeks/articleshow/78483540.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
October 5, 2020||India||To block farm laws, Congress states to call special sessions||NEW DELHI: The Congress-ruled states are likely to call a special assembly session to pass a law to override the three central farm Acts that have triggered an opposition from farmers in some states as well as the anti-BJP parties. The principal opposition party has drafted a model Act to neutralise the farm laws passed by Parliament recently, with provisions that a crop cannot be purchased at a price lower than MSP. The claim of farmers as well as the political opposition is that the new laws will end the regime of minimum support price (MSP) and put the farmers at the mercy of corporates. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had asked the party-ruled states to explore ways to block the central laws. Sources said the Congress states may call a special session of the assembly to pass the model law. While this state legislation to block the central laws is likely to be rejected by the Centre whose assent is mandatory for them to come into force, Congress believes it will make a political point by doing so as it will further entrench BJP on the side of the central laws and Congress against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/to-block-farm-laws-congress-states-to-call-special-sessions/articleshow/78483566.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: JD(U) and BJP likely to share equal seats||PATNA: The perception that the NDA was on course got a rude shock on Sunday when the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan virtually walked out of the alliance even as he maintained that his party would form government with the BJP in the post-poll scenario. The move forced the top brass of the BJP and JD(U) to go into a huddle to discuss the possible new formulas regarding seat sharing and reach at an amicable solution, sources said. The BJP and JD(U) are now likely to announce the number of their seats on Monday. Two formulas, sources added, are under active consideration. First: the JD(U) and BJP share the 243 seats on the basis of 50:50 formula, giving a symbolic edge to Nitish. In accordance with the same, the JD(U) will have 122 seats to contest and the BJP 121. It would be a reminder of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L K Advani days when the JD(U) and BJP enjoyed a natural chemistry down to the lower rung cadres and general supporters. The JD(U) is likely dole out seven seats to the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi to field his candidates who will contest on the JD(U) symbol. As per the second formula, the JD(U) would like to have 132 seats, as it would have to share seven seats with Manjhi’s party and leave the remaining 111 seats for the BJP. Sources said 132:111 formula actually is reflective of the JD(U)’s annoyance and intransigence to claim substantially more seats than the BJP for the latter’s handling of Chirag, Kushwaha and Sahni with kid gloves, when the three have been most vocal critics of CM Nitish Kumar and are seemingly posing as warriors on behalf of the BJP. On Sunday, the central BJP brass held their first round of high-level meeting in Delhi. Those present at the meeting included J P Nadda, Union minister Amit Shah, Bhupender Yadav and Devendra Fadnavis, as well as the party’s leaders from the state – deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Union minister Nityanand Rai, state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal and state minister Mangal Pandey. Similarly, Nitish was in a huddle with senior JD(U) leaders in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-and-bjp-likely-to-share-equal-seats/articleshow/78487454.cms||Abhay Singh
October 5, 2020||Rajkot||Boy killed for seeing mother in compromising position||PALANPUR: A six-year-old boy was abducted and killed after he saw his mother in a compromising position with her paramour. Her mother’s paramour who had allegedly killed the boy was detained on Sunday. According to police, Jagdish Thakor (6) was abducted on Saturday in Mehmdpur village under the jurisdiction of Santhal police station and later his body was found from a field. According to a complaint lodged by the boy’s father, Lalit Thakor, on Sunday with Santhal police station, his wife Rajul (26), the mother of son Jagdish and daughter Anjli Thakor (3), had an extra marital relationship with Sanjay Thakor. “On Friday, Jagdish told me he had seen his mother in a compromising position with Sanjay in a field, and Sanjay had threatened him with dire consequences, if he revealed this to anyone. I had already suspected my wife of having been into a relationship with Sanjay. On Saturday, a large crowd of women had gathered outside my house, expressing condolences for my son’s death,” said Lalit in his complaint. “When I went in search of Jagdish, I found his dead body in Vituji Thakor’s field behind Shitla temple on Balsasan Road. He appeared to have been badly thrashed and was soaked in blood,” added Lalit. “We rounded up Sanjay on the complaint of Lalit after booking him under sections 302 and 363 of Indian Penal Code. We have detained the accused at present. He will be formally arrested after he undergoes Covid-19 test,” said Y H Rajput, sub-inspector with Santhal police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/boy-killed-for-seeing-mother-in-compromising-position/articleshow/78482398.cms||---
October 5, 2020||---||Bihar elections: RJD goes hi-tech to reach out to masses||PATNA: The team of 50 in the RJD’s digital war room works extensively on creating trends in favour of the party with an eye on people from all walks of people in the society. The IT cell team, party functionaries, workers and MLAs have created thousands of WhatsApp groups at state, district, block and panchayat levels to reach out to maximum electors before the assembly elections. The main motto of the party’s social media groups and pages is to refute the development work claims of the Nitish-led NDA government. While keeping tabs on social media for constant updates on news developments across the state, the cell has also been working actively to raise local issues. Three separate war rooms of RJD have been set up – one each at the residences of Rabri Devi and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and another at the party’s office on Beerchand Patel Marg. RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav has also created three separate war rooms, including one at his residence here. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari, who heads the IT cell team of the party, said, “We have 30 different cells and each cell deals with different issues, such as farmers, youth, infrastructure, education, health and unemployment. The idea is to cover all issues which impact the voters. The present government has failed on all fronts,” he said. Tiwari added the IT cell team and party workers also handle the pages on social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. “Social media is a good way to reach out to the masses in rural areas as well,” he added. Arka Mrigank, strategy maker of ‘Bihar Tejneeti’, who is managing Tej Pratap’s war room, said voters from rural areas are in touch with the IT cell team through a toll free number. “On an average, the team receives 600-700 calls from rural as well as urban areas per day. Most calls come from Hasanpur constituency, where we have set up a small team of IT cell. These people raise important issues related to road network, primary health care, education, farming and unemployment,” Mrigank said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/rjd-goes-hi-tech-to-reach-out-to-masses/articleshow/78490386.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: RJD goes hi-tech to reach out to masses||PATNA: The team of 50 in the RJD’s digital war room works extensively on creating trends in favour of the party with an eye on people from all walks of people in the society. The IT cell team, party functionaries, workers and MLAs have created thousands of WhatsApp groups at state, district, block and panchayat levels to reach out to maximum electors before the assembly elections. The main motto of the party’s social media groups and pages is to refute the development work claims of the Nitish-led NDA government. While keeping tabs on social media for constant updates on news developments across the state, the cell has also been working actively to raise local issues. Three separate war rooms of RJD have been set up – one each at the residences of Rabri Devi and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and another at the party’s office on Beerchand Patel Marg. RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav has also created three separate war rooms, including one at his residence here. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari, who heads the IT cell team of the party, said, “We have 30 different cells and each cell deals with different issues, such as farmers, youth, infrastructure, education, health and unemployment. The idea is to cover all issues which impact the voters. The present government has failed on all fronts,” he said. Tiwari added the IT cell team and party workers also handle the pages on social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. “Social media is a good way to reach out to the masses in rural areas as well,” he added. Arka Mrigank, strategy maker of ‘Bihar Tejneeti’, who is managing Tej Pratap’s war room, said voters from rural areas are in touch with the IT cell team through a toll free number. “On an average, the team receives 600-700 calls from rural as well as urban areas per day. Most calls come from Hasanpur constituency, where we have set up a small team of IT cell. These people raise important issues related to road network, primary health care, education, farming and unemployment,” Mrigank said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-goes-hi-tech-to-reach-out-to-masses/articleshow/78480371.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 5, 2020||---||Bihar: 15 trains to bring in 20,000 para forces for poll duty||PATNA: At least 20,000 central armed police force (CAPF) personnel are scheduled to reach poll-bound Bihar on 15 special trains for deployment within the next few days. Altogether 300 companies are to be deployed in Bihar at the initial stage for area domination, as per a letter issued by the MHA on August 29. Sources said at least two trains have already reached carrying more than 2,000 personnel in Katihar and Jamalpur till Saturday morning. “The special trains are scheduled to come from across the country bringing these CAPF men to Bihar. They would be further taken to different locations in vehicles arranged by the district administration concerned,” a senior police officer said. He said the schedule of 10 trains has already been fixed while a decision on the timing of the rest five would also be taken soon. “Decision of arrangement of more trains as per requirement for force movement would be taken by the Election Commission,” he said. When asked, East Central Railway CPRO Rajesh Kumar said he won’t be able to disclose any details about the trains carrying CAPF personnel for poll-bound Bihar due to security reasons. “All arrangements for trains for the security personnel are being done as per the directions of the ECI,” he added. Sources said a large number of forces would be deployed in the 16 Maoist-affected districts for area domination to deter them from attempting any violence and build confidence among electors. The force deployment would be higher than what was required in the 2015 assembly polls. Altogether 726 companies of paramilitary and reserved forces from various states had reached Bihar in 2015 to conduct free and fair polls held in five different phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/15-trains-to-bring-in-20k-para-forces-for-poll-duty/articleshow/78490403.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 15 trains to bring in 20,000 para forces for poll duty||PATNA: At least 20,000 central armed police force (CAPF) personnel are scheduled to reach poll-bound Bihar on 15 special trains for deployment within the next few days. Altogether 300 companies are to be deployed in Bihar at the initial stage for area domination, as per a letter issued by the MHA on August 29. Sources said at least two trains have already reached carrying more than 2,000 personnel in Katihar and Jamalpur till Saturday morning. “The special trains are scheduled to come from across the country bringing these CAPF men to Bihar. They would be further taken to different locations in vehicles arranged by the district administration concerned,” a senior police officer said. He said the schedule of 10 trains has already been fixed while a decision on the timing of the rest five would also be taken soon. “Decision of arrangement of more trains as per requirement for force movement would be taken by the Election Commission,” he said. When asked, East Central Railway CPRO Rajesh Kumar said he won’t be able to disclose any details about the trains carrying CAPF personnel for poll-bound Bihar due to security reasons. “All arrangements for trains for the security personnel are being done as per the directions of the ECI,” he added. Sources said a large number of forces would be deployed in the 16 Maoist-affected districts for area domination to deter them from attempting any violence and build confidence among electors. The force deployment would be higher than what was required in the 2015 assembly polls. Altogether 726 companies of paramilitary and reserved forces from various states had reached Bihar in 2015 to conduct free and fair polls held in five different phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/15-trains-to-bring-in-20k-para-forces-for-poll-duty/articleshow/78479992.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 5, 2020||Rajkot||Woman raped in front of minor son in ‘traffic’ chowky||RAJKOT: In a macabre crime, a woman was raped by a 20-year-old man in front of her young son, inside a dilapidated traffic police chowky in Halvad town of Morbi district. While the 20-year-old accused Mahendra Rathod raped the woman, another voyeur Haresh Jadav (28) audaciously shot the entire video of the crime even as the boy kept sitting there clueless. They later uploaded the crime on Whatsapp and other social media platforms. “The woman has been living a vagabond life for the last 15 years when she got separated from her husband. We suspect that she was raped earlier too as the boy seen in the video is about 4-5 years old,” said V B Jadeja, inspector with Morbi local crime branch (LCB). After the video went viral on WhatsApp and social media, the local crime branch (LCB) sleuths traced Jadav first. “Jadav somehow managed to peek inside the police chowky and saw a man raping the woman. He shot the entire video. During questioning, Jadav told us that he did not know the sexual predator but had often seen him in Dalit Vaas (locality). We nabbed Rathod also within hours on Sunday,” Jadeja said. The police also traced the woman’s brother and made him the complainant in the case. He also does odd jobs like cleaning trucks, casual labourer and even begging to make two ends meet. “The woman seems to have learning disabilities. She used to beg and live on the footpaths in Chotila, Wankaner and other towns nearby. She has seven sisters but we don’t have much details about them,” the investigating officer added. After the crime, the police demolished the chowky. “The traffic chowky had been lying unused and in a dilapidated condition since the beginning of the lockdown. Hence, we have decided to remove it,” SS Odedara, Morbi superintendent of police, told reporters in Morbi on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-raped-in-front-of-minor-son-in-traffic-chowky/articleshow/78482359.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Patna||Assembly elections: Smaller parties’ bid to form third front in Bihar||PATNA: Amid cracks in both the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan, there are strong signs of a third front taking shape with a group of smaller parties trying to stitch together an alliance in the state. Mukesh Sahni-led VIP, which snapped ties with RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, on Sunday hinted at joining hands with a new political combination. “We are in touch with both RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha and JAP led by Pappu Yadav among others to forge an alliance. If talks don’t materialise, we will contest on all the 243 seats alone,” Sahni said on Sunday. Kushwaha, on the other hand, told this newspaper over the phone that hectic parleys were on to bring smaller and like-minded parties together to take on the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan. Pappu Yadav has already formed United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA) with parties like AIMIM led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, Azad Samaj Party led by Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, Social Democratic Party led by M K Faizi and the Bahujan Mukti Morcha led by BPL Matang. Prakash Ambedkar, the grandson of late Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar, also announced a tie-up with the UDSA in the upcoming assembly polls. Prakash's Bahujan Vanchit Aghadi (BVA) will be contesting elections in Bihar for the first time. “Yes, we talked to Prakash Ambedkar ji during his visit to Patna last week,” Yadav said. RLSP chief Kushwaha entered into an alliance with Mayawati’s BSP soon after he left the Mahagathbandhan. All these smaller parties have their limited electoral presence in the state. The BSP, for instance, managed to get only 2.07% votes in the 2015 assembly polls, but have some presence in the areas like Sasaram, Buxar, Aurangabad Gopalganj, Siwan and West Champaran. The RLSP is banking on the calculation that the Kushwaha (Koeri) population has a sizable presence in many of the reserved constituencies. Koeris are estimated to constitute around 8% of the state’s population. VIP’s Mukesh Sahni belongs to the Nishad community, which also has a sizable presence in the state. Pappu Yadav's JAP, too, had cornered around 1.35% votes in the previous assembly polls. The AIMIM opened its account in the state assembly by winning the Kishanganj bypoll last year. The party has already announced that it would contest in alliance with Devendra Prasad Yadav's Samajwadi Janata Dal (Democratic). Devendra Yadav is the convener of NDSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/smaller-parties-bid-to-form-third-front-in-state/articleshow/78490516.cms||Ramashankar
October 5, 2020||Patna||VIP to field candidates on all 243 seats: Mukesh Sahni||PATNA: Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) would contest all the 243 assembly seats in Bihar, its president Mukesh Sahni said on Sunday. Sahni quit the Mahagathbandhan on Saturday after RJD, while announcing seat-sharing among the constituents, did not mention how many seats VIP would contest. Accusing RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of backstabbing him, Sahni said he could consider working with Tej Pratap Yadav (elder son of Lalu Prasad) if he heads RJD in future, but not with Tejashwi. The Bollywood set designer-turned-politician said he would announce on Monday the 71 candidates of VIP for the first phase of elections to be held on October 28. Sahni said he was still in talks with some other political parties for future course of action. Sources said he was in touch with RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, who had also quit the Mahagathbandhan recently, and JAP chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, who is trying to form a strong alliance. Sahni alleged that Tejashwi had ditched him in last Lok Sabha polls as well and forced the VIP to contest the seat which it did not want to. “He wants to run the alliance at his will. If he cannot keep the alliance intact how can he run the state? I always tried to make alliance stronger but it was because of Tejashwi that Kushwaha and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi quit the Mahagathbandhan,” he said. Claiming that he was offered the post of deputy CM by Tejashwi, Sahni said, “He asked me which seat I wanted to contest. He also said if I don’t fight then how I will become deputy CM. He promised me 25 seats but stabbed me in the back and kept me in the dark,” he alleged. Sahni said how a person, who didn’t want to see his elder brother (Tej) grow, would support the youth. “Tejashwi strongly opposed alliance with CPI in the last Lok Sabha election because of Kanhaiya Kumar, who contested from Begusarai. Tejashwi considered Kanhaiya as a threat in politics. Now he accepted CPI as his ally because Kanhaiya is not going to fight assembly polls,” he said. The VIP chief said Tejashwi has sidelined his elder brother in political matters. Sahni revealed that Tej fell unconscious at his residence on Saturday and his mother Rabri Devi and Tejashwi rushed to see him. “I was present at Rabri’s residence. I know Tej was actually very frustrated after being denied a couple of assembly seats he had been demanding for his supporters. Tejashwi, in lust of power, can ditch anybody, be it his brother or any relative,” Sahni alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vip-to-field-candidates-on-all-243-seats-sahni/articleshow/78490679.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 5, 2020||---||VIP to field candidates on all 243 seats: Mukesh Sahni||PATNA: Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) would contest all the 243 assembly seats in Bihar, its president Mukesh Sahni said on Sunday. Sahni quit the Mahagathbandhan on Saturday after RJD, while announcing seat-sharing among the constituents, did not mention how many seats VIP would contest. Accusing RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of backstabbing him, Sahni said he could consider working with Tej Pratap Yadav (elder son of Lalu Prasad) if he heads RJD in future, but not with Tejashwi. The Bollywood set designer-turned-politician said he would announce on Monday the 71 candidates of VIP for the first phase of elections to be held on October 28. Sahni said he was still in talks with some other political parties for future course of action. Sources said he was in touch with RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha, who had also quit the Mahagathbandhan recently, and JAP chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, who is trying to form a strong alliance. Sahni alleged that Tejashwi had ditched him in last Lok Sabha polls as well and forced the VIP to contest the seat which it did not want to. “He wants to run the alliance at his will. If he cannot keep the alliance intact how can he run the state? I always tried to make alliance stronger but it was because of Tejashwi that Kushwaha and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi quit the Mahagathbandhan,” he said. Claiming that he was offered the post of deputy CM by Tejashwi, Sahni said, “He asked me which seat I wanted to contest. He also said if I don’t fight then how I will become deputy CM. He promised me 25 seats but stabbed me in the back and kept me in the dark,” he alleged. Sahni said how a person, who didn’t want to see his elder brother (Tej) grow, would support the youth. “Tejashwi strongly opposed alliance with CPI in the last Lok Sabha election because of Kanhaiya Kumar, who contested from Begusarai. Tejashwi considered Kanhaiya as a threat in politics. Now he accepted CPI as his ally because Kanhaiya is not going to fight assembly polls,” he said. The VIP chief said Tejashwi has sidelined his elder brother in political matters. Sahni revealed that Tej fell unconscious at his residence on Saturday and his mother Rabri Devi and Tejashwi rushed to see him. “I was present at Rabri’s residence. I know Tej was actually very frustrated after being denied a couple of assembly seats he had been demanding for his supporters. Tejashwi, in lust of power, can ditch anybody, be it his brother or any relative,” Sahni alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/vip-to-field-candidates-on-all-243-seats-sahni/articleshow/78480279.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 5, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi is youngest CM face in country||PATNA: With the Grand Alliance (GA) partners unanimously declaring RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav (30) as the opposition’s chief ministerial face in Bihar assembly polls, the younger son of Lalu Prasad has turned out as the ‘youngest CM candidate’ in any Indian state. Tejashwi, who is leading the opposition’s front in the state election in the absence of his father and RJD boss Lalu, who is serving jail term in fodder scam cases, would turn 31 on November 9 this year, a day before the election results are to be declared. If voted to power, Tejashwi will become the youngest CM in India. Earlier, Prafulla Kumar Mohanta became the CM of Assam at the age of 33 in 1985. Expressing happiness over his leader becoming the youngest-ever CM candidate in the country, RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said, “Tejashwi has already announced his commitment to working for the betterment of youth. If voted to power, he has promised to provide government jobs to 10 lakh youths in Bihar. It shows his commitment for youths.” Tejashwi was also the youngest leader of opposition in any assembly in the country in 2017. He still holds the post. Born on November 10, 1989 in the family of then Janata Dal MP Lalu and Rabri Devi, (both later became the chief ministers of Bihar), Tejashwi was first elected to the Bihar assembly from Raghopur on the RJD symbol in November 2015. RJD, JD(U) and Congress had jointly contested the 2015 election under the Mahagathbandhan. As Nitish Kumar was unanimously elected the CM of the Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi, at the age of 26, became the deputy CM. He served as the deputy CM of Bihar from November 2015 to July 2017. His elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav was also a minister in the same cabinet, holding important portfolios like health, environment and forest. Prior to joining active electoral politics, Tejashwi played cricket as a middle-order batsman. He was a part of the Delhi Daredevils team in the Indian Premier League (IPL). As he could not do very well in cricket, his father suggested him to join politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-is-youngest-cm-face-in-country/articleshow/78480241.cms||Madan Kumar
October 5, 2020||Patna||Citylights||Central Varsity Status Still A Far Cry For PU The age-old demand for central takeover of Patna University (PU) cropped up once again at its virtual 104th foundation day celebrations the other day. This time, the demand was raised by none other than its former vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh. While addressing the university people as the chief guest, he requested the present VC, G K Choudhary, to take up the matter with the authorities concerned so that this seventh oldest university of the Indian sub-continent may get its due. On the occasion of PU’s centenary celebrations held at Patna Science College grounds on October 14, 2017, chief minister Nitish Kumar had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi with folded hands to fulfil the long-cherished desire of the people of the state by converting PU into a central university. But the PM turned down his request very tactfully. Unfortunately, even the university’s legitimate claim for getting heritage grants from the central government and the UGC has not been fulfilled as yet. PU had applied for the same during its centenary celebrations, but it was not considered on the plea that the university was not accredited by NAAC. Since the university was accredited in 2019, will its demand for central university status and heritage grants be considered favourably now, ask the academics. Railways’ Initiative Amid Covid-19 pandemic, railways has put special emphasis on cleanliness to protect passengers from the virus. It has launched ‘Swacch Rail, Swacch Bharat’ mission at the Patna Junction and other major stations of Danapur division. Under the mission, a dedicated team of railway workers has been formed to carry out cleanliness drive and hygienic work round the clock at the Patna Junction and Rajendra Nagar Terminal, the two main railway stations of the state capital. The focus is on sanitising water booths, drains, washrooms, waiting halls and booking counter areas of all the major stations, said senior divisional commercial manager of Danapur Adhar Raj. Cyclothon A Success A cyclothon was organised by the National Service Scheme unit of St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology (SXCMT), Patna, to promote cleanliness and healthy environment on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on October 2. The cyclothon, organised in collaboration with Xavier Green Riders and Xavier Sports Club, was flagged off by Manoj Kumar, sub-inspector from Digha police station. About 45 people, including 10 girls, participated in the cyclothon that passed through Raj Bhavan, Eco Park, Bihar Museum and Golghar before culminating at Gandhi Sanghralay, where the SXCMT students staged a ‘nukkad naatak’. (Contributed by B K Mishra and Kumod Verma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/citylights/articleshow/78480024.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Photographer bludgeoned to death near Daund||Pune: A 46-year-old photographer was found bludgeoned to death near a canal at Limboli village near Daund about 90km from here on Sunday morning. The reason behind Kedar Bhagwat’s murder was not known, an officer from the Daund police said. The officer said Bhagwat’s body was found around 9.30am on Sunday. “We also have found a broken bottle near the body,” the officer said. “We have registered an offence of murder,” he said. Rag picker found dead in Chakan A 48-year-old rag picker on Saturday found bludgeoned to death in a vegetable market near Chakan along the Pune-Nashik highway. The Chakan police have identified the victim as Ramdas Ghumbare hailed from Ahmednagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/photographer-bludgeoned-to-death-near-daund/articleshow/78481751.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt middle schools likely to be upgraded to high schools||Coimbatore: Legislators from the district have proposed that a total of 12 government middle schools be upgraded to government high schools.The schools which have been proposed for upgradation are located at Pollachi, Thondamuthur, Sulur, Mettupalayam, and Valparai assembly constituencies.The state department of school education has sought details pertaining to these schools from the district school education department. The department has asked information such as the school’s assembly constituency, the strength of students studying in Class VIII, contribution from the public of the area to upgrade the school, the presence of any other government middle schools within a 5km radius, and whether the district school education department has already recommended for upgradation of the schools.Across the state, government middle schools from a total of 101 assembly constituencies have been proposed for being upgraded to high schools by legislators of those constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-middle-schools-likely-to-be-upgraded-to-high-schools/articleshow/78481752.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||At Phoolbagan, city gets its first underground station after 25 yrs||Kolkata: The city got its first underground Metro station in 25 years on Sunday when East-West Metro’s Phoolbagan station was inaugurated. While virtually flagging off the extension, railway minister Piyush Goyal announced that the entire 16.5km East-West Metro line may be completed by December, 2021. Commercial services till Phoolbagan will commence from Monday, following the existing timetable of the elevated corridor, enabling commuters to travel nearly 7km from Sector V to Phoolbagan in 16 minutes flat for just Rs 20. The first trains will leave either terminals at 8am and the last trains will leave at 7.30pm. East-West Metro’s 5km stretch till Salt Lake stadium is elevated. From here, a ramp at Subhas Sarovar leads the tracks down to Phoolbagan station. Twenty-five years ago, the Mahatma Gandhi Road station on the north-south corridor was the last underground station to be unveiled. All the other stations on the north-south line, and later on the East-West corridor, that came up after 1995 are elevated. On February 13 this year, Goyal had launched the truncated 5km elevated Sector V-Salt Lake Stadium stretch. “I think this is a Durga Puja gift to the people of Kolkata,” the minister said on Sunday. The Phoolbagan extension would have happened in May, but it was delayed by the pandemic. East-West Metro will eventually run till Howrah Maidan. “I am told that by the end of next year, the entire East-West corridor project of 16.5km is expected to be completed, hopefully with no further hiccups coming up due to the Covid pandemic,” Goyal said. He added that the project, which has already suffered delays, has been fast-tracked since 2015 because of personal intervention by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Covid times, the unveiling event was a short, 45-minute, low-key affair with Goyal swaying the green flag from his Delhi chamber. Joining him for the e-function were Metro Railway’s general manager Manoj Joshi, additional GM Sharad Srivastava and Manas Sarkar, the MD of Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation, the implementing agency of East-West Metro, from Metro Bhavan on Park Street. Also participating from their respective places were BJP’s central ministers from Bengal Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chowdhury and local MLA and state consumer affairs minister Sadhan Pandey. After Goyal unveiled the plaque and flagged off the first train at 3.42pm, it rolled out of Phoolbagan at 3.44pm, with Deepak Kumar in the driver’s seat. Kumar had also piloted the first train from Sector V station in February this year. “It is a momentous occasion for all of us involved in the project,” said Rupak Sarkar, vice-president of ITD Cementation, which has built the state-of-the-art Phoolbagan station along with the ramp at Subhas Sarobar and the extension till the Sealdah crossover. Joshi said, “Because of its proximity to Sealdah station, the Phoolbagan link with Sector V will allow passengers to reach the IT hub in Sector V, the mela ground in Karunamoyee, important government offices around Central Park and the Salt Lake stadium.”  The route usually takes around an hour since there are no direct buses or autos to connect the spots. This will now be a 16-minute commute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-phoolbagan-city-gets-its-first-underground-station-after-25-yrs/articleshow/78482451.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 5, 2020||Rajkot||Teen drugged, gangraped by four in Jamnagar||Rajkot: Amid nation-wide fury over Hathras horror, a teenage girl was allegedly gangraped by four persons including her boyfriend, in Jamnagar city.The 17-year-old girl was drugged by the trio who then took turns to rape her in the house of one of them on September 28. The girl lodged a complaint on October 2 after she started suffering from severe pain in the abdomen. The crime was committed in the house of Mohit Ambalia, who lives in Yadavnagar locality on Khodiyar Colony main road. While Ambalia is yet to be arrested, police nabbed Budha alias Darshan Bhatia, Milan Bhatia (21) and Devkaran Gadhvi (20) on Sunday. “While Budha Milan were arrested from Khambhalia, while Gadhvi was nabbed from Sihan village of Khambhalia taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district,” said R B Gadhvi, inspector with Jamnagar mahila police station. The survivor and Budha were in a relationship, said RB Gadhvi, inspector, Jamnagar Mahila police station. According to the complaint lodged by the survivor, Budha had called her at Ambalia’s house on September 28 where their two other friends were also present. “He offered a glass of soft drink that was spiked and the girl fell unconscious soon after drinking it. Later, all the four too turns to rape her,” said Gadhvi. The survivor had lodged the complaint with Jamnagar C-division police station, which transferred the case to the mahila police station. “Teams of special operation group (SOG), local crime branch (LCB) and mahila police station cops have been formed to track down Ambalia,” added Gadhvi. The survivor is under treatment at Jamnagar GG Hospital and her condition is said to be stable. CRIME DECLARED AFTER 40 HRS Rajkot: The police allegedly sat on the complaint for nearly 40 hours after the crime. It was only after the three accused were arrested that the police declared the crime and the complaint before the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teen-drugged-gangraped-by-four-in-jamnagar/articleshow/78482390.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Business||Markets to keep an eye on interest call||Mumbai: A sharply lower close on Nasdaq on Friday, after US President Donald Trump got infected with the coronavirus may not have much impact on trading on Dalal Street this week. Market players said the government’s assurance to support the most vulnerable borrowers in the economy by taking on their interest burdens for the March-August period of the lockdown, has come as a big booster. The decision is expected to help lenders from facing huge financial hardships for the coming months and hence banking and financial stocks are expected to rally, analysts said. The continuation of a rally in these stocks, however, would depend upon the decision by the Supreme Court in the case relating to charging interest on interest for borrowers during the six months of moratorium, which was announced by the government in March this year, soon after the lockdown was imposed. The week’s trading on Dalal Street will also depend on a series of data — domestic and international — expected during the week. The start of the Q2 results season with TCS announcing its numbers on October 7, will also have some impact on trading trend, market players said. Manufacturing and services PMI data, which give economists and analysts some idea about the health of the economy, are expected for India, US and China, among others. Minutes of central banks’ meetings during the previous weeks will also hit the market. All these high frequency data are closely watched by investors and traders and are crucial to decide the market’s trend during the week, dealers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/markets-to-keep-an-eye-on-interest-call/articleshow/78482663.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Codissia industrial parks bustling with activity||Coimbatore: Giving further impetus to the district’s industrial growth, activities have gained momentum at the industrial parks set up by the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) at Mopperipalayam and Kallapalayam.A new industrial unit has started operations at the Kallapalayam park and another one is being set up at Mopperipalayam.Codissia expects the directorate of town & country planning (DTCP) to approve 15 more units at both the parks, president R Ramamurthy said. “We have handed over land to the units and expect 40 to 50 of them start operations in this financial year,” he said.The Codissia Industrial Park Limited (CIPL) has developed common infrastructure such as roads and water supply, said Ramamurthy. Space has also been given for sub-stations. “As and when the units start functioning, sewage treatment plants will be operational.”The 235-acre Mopperipalayam park and the 140-acre Kallapalayam park have been sanctioned Rs 10 crore each by the Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited (Sidco).CIPL recently entered into an agreement with the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) under the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) for developing the parks in a green and self-sustainable manner.In addition to the units, a defence innovation and incubation centre will come up at Kallapalayam and a skill development centre at Mopperipalayam, said Ramamurthy. The parks, which were inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in February 2019, will accommodate more than 300 units and are expected to bring around 10,000 direct jobs and 30,000 indirect jobs.“It will have a huge impact to the district when all the units start manufacturing operations in three years. We also expect the presence of the parks to lure in big industries,” Ramamurthy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/codissia-industrial-parks-bustling-with-activity/articleshow/78481757.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Women ahead of men in assembly poll success rate||PATNA: The thorny issue of women’s representation in Parliament and state legislatures receives lip service from most parties, but when it comes to acting on their promises, the needle doesn’t move much. So those working towards increased women’s participation in electoral politics and governance will be keenly watching to see if the count of woman MLAs in the Bihar assembly rises from the existing 12% in the outgoing House after the poll results are out on November 10. In the outgoing 243-member state assembly there are just 28 woman legislators, and yet their representation was higher than the national average of 7.3%, among the best in the country. In 2010 state elections, their number was 34. What the numbers would be next month is a matter of speculation dependent purely on how many women the political parties field this time. “The results of the 2020 assembly elections, as far as women’s representation in the Bihar assembly is concerned, will be keenly watched,” Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) director PP Ghosh said on Saturday. Women candidates fielded in 2015 had given a spectacular performance, especially those fielded by the grand alliance then comprising the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U), RJD led by the inimitable Lalu Prasad and Congress. “In 2015, RJD fielded ten women candidates, and all of them won. Our party had a strike rate of 100%,” the RJD’s MLA from Katoria (ST) seat Sweety Seema Hembrom said. Similarly, Nitish had fielded ten woman candidates of whom nine were elected, while Congress’s woman candidates won four of the five seats they contested. In sharp contrast, BJP had fielded 14 women, but only four could win. In July 2017, Nitish returned to the NDA and BJP again, and the question on the minds of observers is will he be able to muster the support of the special constituency of women that he assiduously created in his two terms – 2005-10 and 2010-15 – by the dint of several schemes for them, including prohibition? In 2016, as part of the grand alliance, Nitish imposed total prohibition, like in Gujarat, citing the wish of Mahatma Gandhi and insisted that he complied with the demands of women. Then, he allowed 50% reservation for women in Panchayati Raj institutions and local urban bodies, besides 35% reservation for women in government jobs, had a transformative effect on women and society in Bihar. “It empowered women and also threw up local women leadership,” Ghosh said, adding, “But higher we go – that is, to the state legislature, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha – their number becomes low.” “It is also due to criminalization of politics, and the overall atmosphere of criminality where criminals are in the fray. Women can, of course, also muster money, but in all other matters, they are no match for their male counterparts in the fray,” Ghosh said, adding that still, their representation has increased. When Jharkhand was with Bihar, the highest number of women MLAs elected was 30 in 1957 and 25 in 1962, but it crashed to six in 1967 and four in 1969. It remained below 20 till 2000, when Jharkhand separated. In February 2005, only three women could get elected to the assembly, but the figure rose to 25 when women rooted for Nitish and continued to do till 2015. “Political parties should have included issues that concern women in their poll manifestoes and respective governments, over the decades, should have also addressed those issues. Ram Manohar Lohia, in whom CM Nitish Kumar also believes, had grouped Dalits, Muslims, backward castes and women as one oppressed and depressed category. But there is also the separate category of poor women. Our leader Nitish raised this issue in Lok Sabha when the issue of 33% reservation for women in Parliament and legislature was debated,” said JD (U)’s national secretary general KC Tyagi. RJD’s Katoria MLA Hembrom expressed her wish list for the party. “The social, economic and physical security of women is very important for their actual empowerment. The occurrence of rape and incidents of domestic violence has become a matter of serious concern. Our party should and will include a commitment to address women’s issues in its poll manifesto,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/women-ahead-of-men-in-assembly-poll-success-rate/articleshow/78485497.cms||Abhay Singh
October 5, 2020||Varanasi||Cops seize Rs 60 lakh property of Mukhtar aide Rajan in Mau||VARANASI: Continuing action against jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and his henchmen as part of crackdown on organized crime, police confiscated property worth Rs 60 lakh of gangster Rajesh Singh alias Rajan in Mau district on Sunday. The two-storied building at Pardaha muhalla in Sarai Lakhansi police station area was confiscated on the order of the district magistrate under section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act. Heavy police force was deployed as a precautionary measure to maintain law and order. Earlier, on September 17, Rajan’s 766 sqmt land worth Rs 35.23 lakh was confiscated at Khargajepur village in Mau district. Mau SP Ghule Sushil Chandrabhan said Rajan is one of the close associates of Mukhtar and eight criminal cases are lodged against him in different districts. He was also booked under the Gangsters Act. He had amassed property through illegally earned money and so it is being confiscated. Police had also seized moveable and immoveable properties worth over Rs 6.5 crore of his business partner and coal mafia Umesh Singh on August 11. Police said Umesh and Rajan — the owners of Tridev Group — had been funding the Mukhtar gang for over two decades, and provided shelter to the gang members. Both were co-accused with Mukhtar in the Manna Singh murder that took place in 2009. In 2010, the key witnesses of the murder case Ram Singh Maurya and police constable Satish deployed for his security were shot dead. Rajan was named as accused with Mukhtar in this double murder case also. Umesh and Rajan used Mukhtar’s terror and clout to establish their monopoly at the coal depot of Indara Kopaganj. Due to their terror no other coal trader could enter this depot. In return, they funded the Mukhtar gang and provided shelter to the gang members. Later, they started many firms with the wealth generated through illegal means and monopolistic trade and also entered real estate business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-seize-rs-60-lakh-property-of-mukhtar-aide-rajan-in-mau/articleshow/78481331.cms||---
October 5, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: JD(U) and BJP likely to share equal seats||PATNA: The perception that the NDA was on course got a rude shock on Sunday when the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan virtually walked out of the alliance even as he maintained that his party would form government with the BJP in the post-poll scenario. The move forced the top brass of the BJP and JD(U) to go into a huddle to discuss the possible new formulas regarding seat sharing and reach at an amicable solution, sources said. The BJP and JD(U) are now likely to announce the number of their seats on Monday. Two formulas, sources added, are under active consideration. First: the JD(U) and BJP share the 243 seats on the basis of 50:50 formula, giving a symbolic edge to Nitish. In accordance with the same, the JD(U) will have 122 seats to contest and the BJP 121. It would be a reminder of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L K Advani days when the JD(U) and BJP enjoyed a natural chemistry down to the lower rung cadres and general supporters. The JD(U) is likely dole out seven seats to the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi to field his candidates who will contest on the JD(U) symbol. As per the second formula, the JD(U) would like to have 132 seats, as it would have to share seven seats with Manjhi’s party and leave the remaining 111 seats for the BJP. Sources said 132:111 formula actually is reflective of the JD(U)’s annoyance and intransigence to claim substantially more seats than the BJP for the latter’s handling of Chirag, Kushwaha and Sahni with kid gloves, when the three have been most vocal critics of CM Nitish Kumar and are seemingly posing as warriors on behalf of the BJP. On Sunday, the central BJP brass held their first round of high-level meeting in Delhi. Those present at the meeting included J P Nadda, Union minister Amit Shah, Bhupender Yadav and Devendra Fadnavis, as well as the party’s leaders from the state – deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Union minister Nityanand Rai, state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal and state minister Mangal Pandey. Similarly, Nitish was in a huddle with senior JD(U) leaders in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/jdu-and-bjp-likely-to-share-equal-seats/articleshow/78480354.cms||Abhay Singh
October 5, 2020||Business||TCS to provide for damages in US Epic company case||MUMBAI: TCS, the country’s largest IT services company, said late on Sunday evening that it would be providing Rs 1,218 crore as an exceptional item in its Q2 numbers for fiscal 2021. The company will announce the financial results on October 7. The exceptional item relates to the compensatory damages TCS has to pay with regard to the intellectual property lawsuit filed by Epic Systems. A US appeals court in August had held a compensatory damage award of $140 million against TCS. The company said that it has filed a petition seeking a re-hearing on the compensatory damages in September. On October 7, the company will also consider a proposal to repurchase its own stock at its board meeting, it said. The company, however, did not reveal any details on the share buyback proposal. In the past, TCS had disclosed that it plans to return at least 80% of its free reserves to shareholders. In 2018, it spent Rs 16,000 crore to buy back its stock from shareholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcs-to-provide-for-damages-in-us-epic-co-case/articleshow/78482706.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Rajkot||One more arrested in remdesivir black marketing||RAJKOT: One more person was arrested on Sunday, while a medical representative (MR), who was nabbed earlier, was booked for illegally selling remdesivir injections. Police said the accused, Paresh Zalavadia (35), a medical store owner, and MR Rajnikant Faldu (29) had purchased 24 injections worth Rs 46,473 by producing fake bills in the name of Dr Anand Chauhan of Anand Clinic. “When Chauhan came to know that the injections were purchased in his name from New Ideal Agencies, he approached us with a complaint. We arrested Zalavadia and booked Faldu who was arrested on September 27,” said VK Gadhvi, sub-inspector with Rajkot crime branch. Faldu and Sachin Patel, promoter of a pharma company, had produced forged bills of various hospitals to different drug companies to purchase large quantities of the injections and sell them into black market. On September 29, an Ayurvedic doctor, Dr Deepak Gadhia, was arrested for illegally procuring three remdesivir injections to administer to a Covid-19 patient, Dhiraj Bhensdalia, near on Kalavad Road. Also detained were the medical store staffer, Pankaj Domadia, who supplied the injections to Mukesh Rathod, the medical supervisor at Neelkanth Covid hospital, who in turn, gave the injections to Dr Gadhia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-more-arrested-in-remdesivir-black-marketing/articleshow/78482541.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Patna||Patna University to prepare road map for academic devpt: VC||PATNA: Patna University (PU) will prepare a road map of its academic development soon so that it may compete with the top institutions of the country and regain its old glory, its vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary said on Sunday. The VC told the newspaper that sincere efforts would be made for improving its grade (B+) awarded by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) last year and also for getting a satisfactory place in National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF). PU is also planning to strengthen its information technology cell and modernize the working of all its units as early as possible. To start with, at least 20 well-equipped smart classrooms would be set up in its postgraduate departments with a view to imparting quality education to students. “I have asked the heads of PG departments to identify suitable space in their departments for creation of smart classrooms. Gradually, all the PG departments and colleges would be provided with the facility of smart classes along with all other modern facilities, he said. Choudhary said the university libraries as well as departments would be modernized to provide online access to various research journals and books to the students and research scholars. The libraries would also procure soft copies of textbooks and reference books for the benefit of scholars. The VC expressed shock that not a single major research project has been in progress in any PG department. A university is known by its research activities and, hence, the teachers must apply for individual as well as departmental research projects. The university would grant some seed money to the faculty or the department undertaking any research project. Departments should seek research grants from UGC under special assistance programme (SAP), department of science and technology and other funding agencies to promote research activities in the university. Choudhary further pointed that a hostel management committee with student representatives would be constituted in each hostel before the regular admissions are over so that the affairs of the hostels could be managed fairly and without any grievance to students. Hostel authorities have been advised to take proper care of students’ genuine problems and try to provide them with all the basic necessities in hostels. The university would be made student-centric as it is primarily meant for students, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-to-prepare-road-map-for-academic-devpt-vc/articleshow/78480118.cms||B K Mishra
October 5, 2020||Business||Indian companies plan alliance against US tech giants||BENGALURU: India’s leading internet firms and startups from across sectors are coming together to form an alliance with “Indian companies only” as they take on US tech giants like Google, which has faced the heat from the local entrepreneurial ecosystem over its recent billing policy. This development comes after the government held a meeting with the country’s top entrepreuners on Saturday evening with the latter accusing Google of having monopolistic policies in India. Last week, Google had “clarified” that education, gaming, dating and other content apps must use its billing system in India for in-app purchases as long as the apps are distributed through its Play Store. This triggered another debate over Google’s influence, whose Android operating system controls over 95% of smartphones in the country, after it took down the Paytm app for several hours last month for violation of its policies. The entrepreuners are preparing a draft of recommendations to be sent to the government within two weeks. Read AlsoGoogle extends timeline for Indian developers till March 2022 to integrate with Play billingAlphabet Inc's Google has extended the timeline for apps on alternative payment systems to comply with its play billing system to March 31, 2022. Google had deferred the enforcement of 30% commission on in-app purchases of digital goods from its Play Store in India to April 2022 in the face ofBusiness-to-business e-commerce platform Indiamart’s co-founder Dinesh Agarwal confirmed to TOI that an alliance, in the form of an association or an organisation, is in the works as many existing internet associations have overseas companies like Google and Amazon as their members, with their executives as key office bearers. “I think we have all come together on the issue and are of the view that we should form an alliance in the form of an organisation/association with Indian companies only,” said Agarwal, adding the formalities of the new group are still being finalised. Founders of Paytm, GOQii and Indiamart, among others, were present at the meeting. Several of them, later in the evening, spoke to IT ministry officials, where the government wanted to hear out the current concerns. According to half a dozen sources, startups are of the view that large app stores should be regulated, which may include ombudsman-like-authority where grievances can be mediated, in case of issues like Google’s 30% commission clarification for in-app purchases. “All the options are being considered and the government has been apprised of the same. Some of them include taking the issue to relevant authorities like the Competition Commission of India or the courts,” a person aware of the matter said. Meanwhile, Paytm on Sunday said it is starting a service where other apps can be listed on its payments app and one can use them within Paytm, similar to a super app. It said it has been testing the mini-app store with select users and it will be free of charge. Decathlon, Ola, Park+, Rapido, Netmeds, 1mg, Domino’s Pizza, FreshMenu and NoBroker are among the 300 companies that have joined its app-in-app programme. Paytm, which said it has 150 million monthly active users, added it saw over 12 million visits on these mini-apps in September when it was on a trial run. This is different from a Play Store-like app store but developers can build mobile websites that give an app-like experience to users on Paytm, without having to download them. “Paytm mini app store empowers our young Indian developers to leverage our reach and payments to build new innovative services. For Paytm users, it will be a seamless experience that doesn’t require any separate download and enables them to use their preferred payment option,” said Paytm founder and CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma. He has been the leading voice among Indian entrepreneurs criticising Google’s policies as his company competes with Google Pay. Watch Startups vs Google: Paytm and others vow to fight Silicon Valley giant||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-cos-plan-alliance-against-us-tech-giants/articleshow/78482719.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 5, 2020||Surat||90 cases filed against Veer Narmad South Gujarat University||SURAT: While it can’t boast of any noteworthy academic achievements, Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has created a record of sorts when the highest number of court cases were filed against it in its history in the span of last three years. A total of 90 cases were filed against the VNSGU at various courts by students, teachers, college trusts and others. The VNSGU had to shell out Rs 21 lakh in fees to the lawyers. Meanwhile, the university officials have started addressing hundreds of complaints filed in the past few months to prevent the filing of more court cases. The complaints and court cases were filed by aggrieved parties during the tenure of Shivendra Gupta as the vice-chancellor (VC). Gupta’s three-year term as the VC ended in August. Senior most dean Hemali Desai has been given charge till the new VC is appointed. The details of the court cases and expenditure for them were sought by the university syndicate member, Sanjay Desai, after the details of spending in lakhs for the court cases were brought to the notice of top office bearers. “University is the top higher education body of the region. In the past, students and teachers had the option that university VC would address their problems or at least the government could find a solution. However, for the past few years we have lost all hopes. The victims have no option but to approach the court,” said a teacher who has challenged a decision of the university in the court. At least 14 teachers have approached courts separately challenging the extension of their probation periods citing various reasons. These teachers were appointed in 2017, but their probation period was extended multiple times. Two petitions were filed in Gujarat high court challenging the appointment of Gupta, who allegedly did not have required qualification, experience and had a tainted service record while working with road and building department. “In the history of the VNSGU, the highest number of cases were filed during the last three years tenure of Gupta. Earlier 10 to 15 court cases were filed in three years and the university top officials found solutions to most issues amicably,” said Desai. “University VC and other office bearers violated statute, ordinance, act, rules and UGC guidelines in most decisions hence many of them were challenged in the court,” Desai added. It is likely that some university officials may also face actions in the near future who were party to the decisions that led to the court cases. The university officials are now making efforts to reach out of court settlement with the petitioners and in a few cases the demands of the petitioners were accepted recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/90-cases-filed-against-vnsgu/articleshow/78481018.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||Managing temperature inside Covid ICUs biggest challenge||VADODARA: When it comes to managing a hospital that has the highest number of Covid intensive care units (ICU) beds in Gujarat, it is not just about the constant flow of critically ill patients requiring utmost attention or healthcare workers sweating inside their personal protection equipment kits. Even managing temperature inside the ICU is a challenge. Very few know that unlike a conventional ICU, managing Covid ICU is all together a different game. In the conventional ICUs, the temperature is kept below 23-degree Celsius, whereas the temperature in Covid ICU has to be regulated between 26 and 32 degree Celsius. Interestingly, the government run hospitals have taken a lead in Gujarat when it comes to transforming their ICUs with latest air-handling units (AHUs) to create negative pressure inside the ICUs. The dome-structure at the GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri, which houses five Covid ICUs, has the capacity of 115-120 beds, making it the largest Covid ICU facility in Gujarat. As much as Rs 2.9 crore is spent just as rent to run the AHUs for three months here. “The premises spread on 35,000 square feet area required AHUs with 400 tonnes load capacity. You can’t run Covid ICUs on split ACs. Also, if the room temperature is low in a closed environment, the virus spreads rapidly and the rate of infection increases,” said Dr Minoo Patel, advisor for Covid-19 at Gotri and state-run SSG Hospital. While the compressor with AC units keep drawing fresh air inside, the air inside the ICUs is pushed out using negative section. “The change in air happens 12 times in an hour. This process completely changes air inside the ICUs. The air that is sucked is disposed in the atmosphere after it is filtered using ultra-violet lights and heaters that kill all bacteria and virus. This is done so that nobody else suffers from infection,” said Patel. ICUs at Gotri and SSG Hospital – two major Covid designated hospitals in Vadodara — and civil hospital in Ahmedabad are equipped with such AHUs. But there are many private hospitals which are not equipped with such units, said sources, adding that a major reason is the cost of the AHUs. A majority of private hospitals in the state use exhaust fans to suck out the air from inside the ICUs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/managing-temperature-inside-covid-icus-biggest-challenge/articleshow/78480524.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 5, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: HAM(S) hopes to get seven seats||PATNA: Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi would contest either from Maoist-hit Imamganj constituency in Gaya or Makhdumpur constituency in Jehanabad district on JD(U) symbol in the upcoming assembly polls, party’s national general secretary and MLC Santosh Suman Manjhi said on Sunday. At its parliamentary board meeting held here on Sunday under the leadership of Manjhi, the party held discussions on its probable candidates for seven seats which it is expecting to get from JD(U) quota. The party, according to Manjhi’s son Santosh, has set sights on seven seats – Imamganj, Tekari and Barachatti in Gaya, Kasba in Purnia, Sikandra in Jamui, Kutumba in Aurangabad and Makhdumpur in Jehanabad. “We will release the list of candidates after a final decision is taken by the JD(U),” Santosh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/hams-hopes-to-get-seven-seats/articleshow/78480338.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Cousins lured with jobs, sold for Rs1.90 lakh as ‘brides’, rescued by city police||Nagpur: Two cousins, aged 20 and 24 years, were lured with promise of good jobs to Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh, and ‘sold’ into marriage to two persons, who almost turned them into sex slaves, with most male members of the families savaging them for around two months. The two women were rescued by city police after they alerted a family member about the torture. A city-based trafficker had sold one woman for Rs90,000 while the other was taken away against payment of Rs1 lakh. Family sources said the two women were looking for jobs and had met Maya, wife of one Akash Shrivas, who had promised them jobs in an event management company with good salaries. Maya and Shrivas had taken the women, in connivance with other accused, to MP and sold them off to two different persons around two months ago. The families said they had been surprised after their mobile phones had been switched off some time later. They claim to have tried to search for the women, but did not approach the police for unknown reasons, until one of the victims contacted her mother. One of the cousins, who managed to steal a mobile phone, had called her mother asking her to rescue them. She could not even reveal the name of the place where they were being held. City police cyber experts managed to extract the location details from the call made by the woman to her mother on September 30. After this, the rescue was planned and executed with the help of Jatara police of Madhya Pradesh. After being rescued, the women told police they were made to work in the farmlands, with their days beginning as early as 4am. After they finished their domestic chores late in the evening, their sexual exploitation would start. The women would be thrashed whenever they protested. Family sources said the women had been married off to elderly persons at a temple, but even the sons from earlier marriages and other male members of the families would force themselves upon these women. City police chief Amitesh Kumar, who visited Gittikhadan police station after the women were rescued and brought back, handed over the probe to crime branch, to ensure closer supervision. “We also conducted some searches at Ajni,” he said. Gittikhadan police have arrested Shrivas for trafficking the women from the city to Tikamgarh. Shrivas too is learnt to have forced himself upon the women from time to time. Police have also slapped charges of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes (Prevention of Atrocity) Act. ACP, crime, Sudhir Nandanwar has procured custody remand of the accused till October 9. Apart from Shrivas, his wife too is under the scanner. She has an earlier offence against her at Ajni police station on similar charges of trafficking and rape. Police have also booked Sushil Paisadeli, Tripal Goshi, Mansaram Yadav and Ashok Yadav. One of the women, limping due to torture and exhaustion, said they were told to work and do whatever was asked of them since the families had spent substantial money to purchase them. “They would wake us up early in the day and thrash us every time we pleaded for leniency. We were told brazenly that much money was spent to purchase us and hence there was no escape from work,” said one of the victims appearing pale and ailing. “Our cell phones had been snatched away and strict vigil was kept on us,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cousins-lured-with-jobs-sold-for-rs1-90-lakh-as-brides-rescued-by-city-police/articleshow/78482735.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 5, 2020||Patna||Scanning, sanitising machines at Patna Jn, 3 other stations||PATNA: Railways has installed baggage scanning cum sanitising devices at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patliputra Junction and Danapur station to ensure foolproof safety to passengers during journey. According to Danapur senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj, each luggage is being scanned through ultraviolet lights on the pattern of airports. The new device also sanitises the passenger baggage at the entrance of railway premises to board trains, he said. Besides, railways has also started luggage bag wrapping facility at these four stations. Passengers, after getting down from trains at these stations, can get their baggage wrapped and sanitised prior to leaving for their homes in the city. This facility is likely to keep passengers safe from coronavirus, Raj said, adding railways is charging Rs10 to Rs40 per luggage bag (depending on its size) only for wrapping it in cellophane papers. Railways has also ensured availability of trolleys and wheelchairs at these four stations. Passengers can pick and drag trolleys at the entrance under self-service scheme. Senior citizens and sick persons are provided wheelchairs at the entrance of these stations, he said, adding railway porters are hardly available or passengers are also reluctant to engage them to carry luggage due to Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, railways has recently installed Covid-19 related AVMs at Patna Junction to dispense hand gloves, caps, masks and sanitisers. Five more portable beverage dispensers have been installed at Patna Junction to serve passengers with tea, coffee and soups, Raj said, adding railways has installed a separate dispenser to serve nutrition supplements to passengers at Patna Junction and Danapur. Railways has also installed three contactless dispensers to provide juice, cold drinks and ‘samosa’ through AVMs under ‘self-service scheme’ to serve passengers in the Covid situation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/scanning-sanitising-machines-at-patna-jn-3-other-stations/articleshow/78480165.cms||Kumod Verma
October 5, 2020||Pune||Police raid illegal casino, detain 30 men||Pune: The Pune rural police raided a place near Saswad, which was in operation as a casino, late on Saturday night. Police detained 30 men and seized valuables, including cash and gambling equipment, totally worth Rs33 lakh from the spot. A team headed by inspector Padmakar Ghanwat and assistant inspector Arjun Mohite raided the casino after receiving a tip-off. Police rounded up 30 men from Pune, Mumbai, Konkan, Satara and Gujarat. Police said they were found to be involved in gambling. Police said it used to be a regular hotel but was recently converted into a casino illegally. The hotel owner does not have any legal permission for the casino. Police are probing how the men from different parts of Maharshtra and Gujarat managed to gather at the spot solely to gamble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-raid-illegal-casino-detain-30-men/articleshow/78481756.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Over 50% candidates appear for UPSC exam||Coimbatore: Of 8,669 candidates who had applied for the Civil Services (Preliminary) this year from the district, only 4,661 (53%) appeared for the exam on Sunday. A release from the district administration said the exam was held at 21 centres across the district. Each centre was supervised by an official of the tahsildar level, and there were 32 exam centre deputy supervisors in deputy tahsildar level. “In addition, the district administration had deputed a total of 746 hall invigilators,” said a release.At all exam centres, all government guidelines pertaining to Covid-19 were followed. To ensure candidates reached the exam centres easily, additional buses were pressed into service on Sunday.Collector K Rajamani and special secretary of public department T N Venkatesh inspected the exam centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/over-50-candidates-appear-for-upsc-exam/articleshow/78481754.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Chief minister inaugurates 90 remodelled schools||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated 90 public schools that have been upgraded into centres of excellence by spending crores of rupees as part of strengthening the public education system. Among the schools that have been launched, Rs 5 crore each was spent on four schools and Rs 3 crore each on 20 buildings. While 62 schools got the facelift using plan funds, four buildings were set up using funds from Nabard. “Till a few years ago, we were sharing our anxieties about the closure of public schools. With this government putting focus back to the public education system, facilities in government and aided schools have improved tremendously and students have started flocking to such schools. In the last few years, over 5 lakh students have joined public schools,” the chief minister said. He said the government was implementing changes in the field of school education keeping in mind the next generation. Pinarayi said the government would take appropriate decisions at the right time regarding reopening of schools that remain shut following the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. He said the government was able to fill the void by broadcasting classes for students on Victers education channel and said the task wouldn’t have been translated into action had it been not for the boundless support from students, teachers, local self-government institutions, people’s representatives and alumni. New centres of excellence inaugurated by the CM are in Pathanamthitta (2), Kasaragod (2), Kottayam (3), Ernakulam (3), Wayanad (4), Idukki (5), Kollam (6), Palakkad (6), Kozhikode (7), Malappuram (9), Thiruvananthapuram (10), Alappuzha (10), Thrissur (11), and Kannur (12). Chief minister also inaugurated the work of 54 new school buildings as part of the public education protection mission. As many as 34 of these buildings would get Rs 3 crore each from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board and the rest 20 buildings would get plan funds of Rs 40 core for the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chief-minister-inaugurates-90-remodelled-schools/articleshow/78480748.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jailed additional collector booked in DA case||HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths registered a disproportionate assets (DA) case against jailed additional collector G Nagesh after conducting simultaneous searches at various places in the state on Sunday. The bureau officials unearthed Rs 3.5 crore worth disproportionate assets belonging to the officer. Searches were conducted at the houses of Nagesh’s relatives and family members in Medchal, Medak, Nizamabad and Hyderabad. As per the government value so far Rs 3.26 crore worth disproportionate assets, including a duplex villa at Kompally, several plots in and around Hyderabad, agricultural land in Masaipet mandal of Medak district and over Rs 2 lakh bank balance was unearthed. “The market value of the properties would be much higher. Searches are still in progress. The agricultural land of over seven acres in Masaipet was in the names of Nagesh’s in-laws. We are verifying details of more such properties Nagesh had obtained through corrupt practices and dubious means during his service,” an ACB official. Nagesh is currently in judicial remand in a bribery case registered by ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jailed-addl-collector-booked-in-da-case/articleshow/78482655.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Patna||Covid tally in Bihar jumps to 1.87 lakh, toll touches 915||PATNA: With 1,261 more people testing positive on Sunday, the state’s Covid tally has touched 1,87,951. As per the state health department’s daily bulletin, three more people succumbed to the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, thereby taking the state’s Covid toll to 915. With total 1,75,109 recoveries so far, active cases in the state stand at 11,927. The state’s recovery rate, on the other hand, has reached to 93.17%, nine per cent higher than the national average of 84.13%. The three fresh victims were from Patna, Gopalganj and Nalanda districts. With this, Covid toll in Patna has touched 215, followed by 41 in Nalanda and three in Gopalganj. Altogether 1,08,194 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours through RT- PCR, truenat machine and rapid antigen kits. So far, 77,01,839 samples have been tested in the state since March. Of 1,75,109 recovered patients, 1,314 were discharged in the last 24 hours. Unofficially, seven Covid deaths were reported at AIIMS-Patna on Sunday. Five of the victims were from Patna, including a doctor. According to AIIMS-Patna Covid nodal officer Dr Sanjiv Kumar, a 65-year-old doctor from Dariyapur, Dr Arun Murari, succumbed to Covid on Sunday. The other deceased included an 85-year-old woman from Kadamkuan, three men (49, 59 and 60) from Hartali Mor, Jakkanpur and Rajeev Nagar, respectively, a 20-year-old youth from Madhubani and a 65-year-old man from Nalanda. Two more people from Patna died at NMCH on Sunday, including a 57-year-old man from Jagdeopath and a 72-year-old man from Dhanarua. Hospital’s Covid nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh has confirmed the deaths. Of 1,261 new cases registered on Sunday, 265 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 28,857. However, with 26,495 recoveries, there are 2,147 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Araria recorded 67 fresh cases, Muzaffarpur 64, Rohtas 59, East Champaran 52 and Saran (49). Rest of the districts registered less than 40 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-in-state-jumps-to-1-87l-toll-touches-915/articleshow/78480008.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 5, 2020||---||Assembly elections: Smaller parties’ bid to form third front in Bihar||PATNA: Amid cracks in both the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan, there are strong signs of a third front taking shape with a group of smaller parties trying to stitch together an alliance in the state. Mukesh Sahni-led VIP, which snapped ties with RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, on Sunday hinted at joining hands with a new political combination. “We are in touch with both RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha and JAP led by Pappu Yadav among others to forge an alliance. If talks don’t materialise, we will contest on all the 243 seats alone,” Sahni said on Sunday. Kushwaha, on the other hand, told this newspaper over the phone that hectic parleys were on to bring smaller and like-minded parties together to take on the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan. Pappu Yadav has already formed United Democratic Secular Alliance (UDSA) with parties like AIMIM led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, Azad Samaj Party led by Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, Social Democratic Party led by M K Faizi and the Bahujan Mukti Morcha led by BPL Matang. Prakash Ambedkar, the grandson of late Baba Saheb Bhim Rao Ambedkar, also announced a tie-up with the UDSA in the upcoming assembly polls. Prakash's Bahujan Vanchit Aghadi (BVA) will be contesting elections in Bihar for the first time. “Yes, we talked to Prakash Ambedkar ji during his visit to Patna last week,” Yadav said. RLSP chief Kushwaha entered into an alliance with Mayawati’s BSP soon after he left the Mahagathbandhan. All these smaller parties have their limited electoral presence in the state. The BSP, for instance, managed to get only 2.07% votes in the 2015 assembly polls, but have some presence in the areas like Sasaram, Buxar, Aurangabad Gopalganj, Siwan and West Champaran. The RLSP is banking on the calculation that the Kushwaha (Koeri) population has a sizable presence in many of the reserved constituencies. Koeris are estimated to constitute around 8% of the state’s population. VIP’s Mukesh Sahni belongs to the Nishad community, which also has a sizable presence in the state. Pappu Yadav's JAP, too, had cornered around 1.35% votes in the previous assembly polls. The AIMIM opened its account in the state assembly by winning the Kishanganj bypoll last year. The party has already announced that it would contest in alliance with Devendra Prasad Yadav's Samajwadi Janata Dal (Democratic). Devendra Yadav is the convener of NDSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/smaller-parties-bid-to-form-third-front-in-state/articleshow/78480318.cms||Ramashankar
October 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: HAM(S) hopes to get seven seats||PATNA: Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi would contest either from Maoist-hit Imamganj constituency in Gaya or Makhdumpur constituency in Jehanabad district on JD(U) symbol in the upcoming assembly polls, party’s national general secretary and MLC Santosh Suman Manjhi said on Sunday. At its parliamentary board meeting held here on Sunday under the leadership of Manjhi, the party held discussions on its probable candidates for seven seats which it is expecting to get from JD(U) quota. The party, according to Manjhi’s son Santosh, has set sights on seven seats – Imamganj, Tekari and Barachatti in Gaya, Kasba in Purnia, Sikandra in Jamui, Kutumba in Aurangabad and Makhdumpur in Jehanabad. “We will release the list of candidates after a final decision is taken by the JD(U),” Santosh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-hopes-to-get-seven-seats/articleshow/78490822.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 5, 2020||Business||Tatas in talks to buy AirAsia’s 49% in JV||MUMBAI: Tata Sons is reviewing its budget airline joint venture with Malaysia’s AirAsia as the latter faces financial challenges exacerbated by the pandemic. The evaluation follows the Malaysian company’s reluctance to inject fresh equity into AirAsia India. The holding company of the Tata Group, which owns 51% in the six-year-old low-cost carrier, is in discussions to buy out the remaining 49% held by AirAsia, said a source in the know. Tata Sons has the first right of refusal for the minority stake owned by AirAsia in the India venture. AirAsia, which announced its biggest quarterly loss in August, plans to raise $600 million through debt and equity to weather the pandemic even as it evaluates some of its operations outside Malaysia. In recent months, AirAsia’s founder and CEO Tony Fernandes has said that India is a peripheral market, which it could exit one day. In July, AirAsia’s auditor EY had flagged going concern doubts on the company’s operations after its current liabilities exceeded assets. “AirAsia, because of its financial difficulties, is not keen on infusing capital into the India JV. It wants the JV to take on debt to run the operations. Tata Sons is forced to consider buying out AirAsia,” said the source. Tata Sons declined to comment on the report. AirAsia India has been unprofitable since its launch in 2014. Tata Sons in its FY20 report said that the airline’s net worth was completely eroded and its auditor voiced worry about the JV’s ability to continue as a going concern. Tata Sons invested Rs 490 crore in AirAsia India in FY20, while the JV posted a loss of Rs 317 crore in the same period. Another source said that “The environment (Fernandes’ financial scenario) will influence Tata Sons’ decision on the JV and determine the exit price for AirAsia”. Just before the pandemic, Fernandes had reportedly asked for a lucrative deal from Tata Sons against his waiver of the non-compete clause so that the latter could bid for Air India and its budget unit Air India Express when the government finalises the divestment date. According to the agreement between the two partners, Tata Sons cannot invest more than 10% in another budget airline. And if it wishes to do, it will need AirAsia’s approval. The launch of AirAsia India had marked Tata Group’s return to aviation, a business it pioneered in India through Air India before the carrier was nationalised. Tata Sons also operates Vistara, a full-service airline, in partnership with Singapore Airlines. AirAsia India has had a turbulent history from the beginning — the share-sale by businessman Arun Bhatia after he aired his unhappiness over the JV being run by the foreign partner in alleged contravention of norms, former Tata Sons chairman alleging corporate governance lapses between the two partners, Fernandes and others being named in criminal conspiracy and money laundering cases. AirAsia India, like other airlines, is currently seeing subdued demand after the country restricted travel due to the rising Covid cases. Watch Tatas in talks to buy AirAsia’s 49% in JV||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-in-talks-to-buy-airasias-49-in-jv/articleshow/78482682.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||350 return to Kolkata on 4 international flights, highest 1-day count in 3 months||Kolkata: The upcoming festive season appears to have led to the sudden rise in international flights on Sunday. Four flights carried home more than 350 passengers, the largest single-day count at Kolkata airport in three months. The last time the airport had four international arrivals in a day was on June 30, days before the ban on international flights kicked in at Kolkata. In mid-August, international flights were again allowed, but only in the form of charters carrying passengers who tested Covid-negative. Between May 18 and July 5, the city airport had received 55 international flights. On Sunday, an Air India flight arrived from London around 1.30am with 76 passengers. Two others followed in quick succession: a SpiceJet flight from Dubai and a Qatar Airways flight from Doha carrying 68 and 60 passengers respectively. Around 5am, an IndiGo charter flight carrying 155 passengers from Dubai reached the city airport. All passengers had undergone RT-PCR tests less than four days prior to departure and had boarded the flights after furnishing the Covid-negative reports. They all went to mandatory 14 days of home quarantine from the airport. Two-thirds of the AI flight was empty while the SpiceJet and Qatar flights were half full. And while AI passengers did not have to shell out more as it is a regular flight, those who took the charter flights operated by SpiceJet and Qatar had to pay twice the usual amount. But that didn’t deter passengers desperate to return to their loved ones during Durga Puja. Airline sources said several more charter flights — mostly from the Gulf — are planned over the next couple of weeks, but they are subject to approvals from the state. “There is another charter flight lined up on Tuesday. We have been notified of more flights in the coming week, but will get a confirmation only two days in advance once all the passengers provide Covid-negative reports and the airline gets an NOC from the state. But there is rising demand for flights to Kolkata and the spike in the number of flights in a day is a good sign for the sector,” said an IndiGo official. The travel trade fraternity said the spike in air traffic showed how passengers are slowly getting their confidence in air travel back. “It is very good news for people stranded abroad, as well as for the economy dependent on the aviation sector. The current rush is driven by home-bound passengers before the Pujas,” said Anil Punjabi, the chairman (east) Travel Agents Federation of India. Airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee felt the growth could signal a revival of international traffic as the aviation sector slowly opens up across the world. “There is always an added rush during the festive season. But we hope this trend will continue,” he said. Sunday also had two international departures. At 3.38am, the Qatar Airways flight to Doha left with 36 passengers while an Air India flight to London took off around 6.30am with 75 on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/350-return-to-kolkata-on-4-international-flights-highest-1-day-count-in-3-months/articleshow/78482487.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Over 200 fake news cases filed in 5 months||Thiruvananthapuram: While government has decided to intensify police scrutiny over fake information and misinformation being propagated through social media, the cyber cells of police have analyzed various such social media posts and registered 200-odd cases since April this year. In August alone, police registered 31 cases across the state in this category. The charges include Sections 66D of the Information Technology Act, 120 (O) of the Kerala Police Act, Section 153 of the IPC, 294 (b) of the IPC and 153 A of the IPC. The cases registered by police also include charges under the Pandemic Act, for circulating false information about Covid-19 and also urging the public to break Covid-19 protocol imposed by the government. Cases have also been registered for urging groups to resort to violence in the wake of the Attingal double murder. The government has announced that a team of police would function under ADGP (administration) Manoj Abraham to take action against those spreading fake news. Even though there are no laws that enable the police to take action against false information and misinformation, the police have been using Sections in IT Act, Kerala Police Act and IPC for booking such cases. The police have been using the Sections 66D and 67 to book many cases of using the social media against women. The Section 66D says that whoever, by means for any communication device or computer resource cheats by personating, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fine which may extend to one lakh rupees. Also, Section 67 of the Act says that whoever publishes or transmits or causes to be published in the electronic form, any material which is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest or if its effect is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt persons who are likely, having regard to all relevant circumstances, to read, see or hear the matter contained or embodied in it, shall be punished on first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees. The government had on June 22 this year constituted a fact check division under the information and public relations department to find out the fake news relating to the government and clarify the real matter through the government’s official websites. The division had also decided to refer such fake news which are “serious in nature” to the Cyberdome in police for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/over-200-fake-news-cases-filed-in-5-months/articleshow/78480765.cms||KP Saikiran
October 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chief minister inaugurates 90 remodelled schools||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated 90 public schools that have been upgraded into centres of excellence by spending crores of rupees as part of strengthening the public education system. Among the schools that have been launched, Rs 5 crore each was spent on four schools and Rs 3 crore each on 20 buildings. While 62 schools got the facelift using plan funds, four buildings were set up using funds from Nabard. “Till a few years ago, we were sharing our anxieties about the closure of public schools. With this government putting focus back to the public education system, facilities in government and aided schools have improved tremendously and students have started flocking to such schools. In the last few years, over 5 lakh students have joined public schools,” the chief minister said. He said the government was implementing changes in the field of school education keeping in mind the next generation. Pinarayi said the government would take appropriate decisions at the right time regarding reopening of schools that remain shut following the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. He said the government was able to fill the void by broadcasting classes for students on Victers education channel and said the task wouldn’t have been translated into action had it been not for the boundless support from students, teachers, local self-government institutions, people’s representatives and alumni. New centres of excellence inaugurated by the CM are in Pathanamthitta (2), Kasaragod (2), Kottayam (3), Ernakulam (3), Wayanad (4), Idukki (5), Kollam (6), Palakkad (6), Kozhikode (7), Malappuram (9), Thiruvananthapuram (10), Alappuzha (10), Thrissur (11), and Kannur (12). Chief minister also inaugurated the work of 54 new school buildings as part of the public education protection mission. As many as 34 of these buildings would get Rs 3 crore each from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board and the rest 20 buildings would get plan funds of Rs 40 core for the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chief-minister-inaugurates-90-remodelled-schools/articleshow/78484980.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Business||Sebi bans IIFL dealer, 5 others for equity fraud||MUMBAI: Combining advanced data analytics tools along with CCTV footages from ATMs and other related trails, markets regulator Sebi has caught six people for front-running equity trades for clients of IIFL Wealth & Asset Management. The six people used what is known as ‘mule accounts’ — which involves utilising accounts of people who could not otherwise be proved to be related to each other through KYC or banking operations data. The six people have been banned from the market, pending investigation. In a 73-page order by Sebi whole-time member Madhabi Puri Buch, it said that Santosh Brijraj Singh, a dealer with IIFL Wealth, used to pass on information about trades by his employer’s clients to Virendra Pratap Singh, his wife Neha Virendra Singh and another person named Adil G Suthar, who also in constant touch with the Singhs and one Gulammohammed Gulamabbas Shaikh. “The trades of front-running entities were intra-day trades and are mostly on common scrips days with the IIFL Group entities,” the report noted. The people who were front-running IIFL’s trades earned about Rs 60 lakh between December 2019 and August 2020 compared to minuscule profits or loss during the period preceding those months. According to KYC, the income levels of these entities are in the range of Rs 1-5 lakh, however, their trading activities were running into crores of rupees, Sebi noted. To blind out audit trails, the people whose bank accounts were used to get the profits from insider trades, were not the same people who withdrew money from these accounts using ATMs of various banks. On Sunday, IIFL Wealth suspended Santosh Singh and also started an internal enquiry into the matter. It said that the systems, processes and controls which are in place are according to regulatory requirements. It will ensure full cooperation to Sebi in the investigation in this case, a company release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-bans-iifl-dealer-5-others-for-equity-fraud/articleshow/78482697.cms||---
October 5, 2020||---||Bihar: Women ahead of men in assembly poll success rate||PATNA: The thorny issue of women’s representation in Parliament and state legislatures receives lip service from most parties, but when it comes to acting on their promises, the needle doesn’t move much. So those working towards increased women’s participation in electoral politics and governance will be keenly watching to see if the count of woman MLAs in the Bihar assembly rises from the existing 12% in the outgoing House after the poll results are out on November 10. In the outgoing 243-member state assembly there are just 28 woman legislators, and yet their representation was higher than the national average of 7.3%, among the best in the country. In 2010 state elections, their number was 34. What the numbers would be next month is a matter of speculation dependent purely on how many women the political parties field this time. “The results of the 2020 assembly elections, as far as women’s representation in the Bihar assembly is concerned, will be keenly watched,” Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) director PP Ghosh said on Saturday. Women candidates fielded in 2015 had given a spectacular performance, especially those fielded by the grand alliance then comprising the Nitish Kumar-led JD(U), RJD led by the inimitable Lalu Prasad and Congress. “In 2015, RJD fielded ten women candidates, and all of them won. Our party had a strike rate of 100%,” the RJD’s MLA from Katoria (ST) seat Sweety Seema Hembrom said. Similarly, Nitish had fielded ten woman candidates of whom nine were elected, while Congress’s woman candidates won four of the five seats they contested. In sharp contrast, BJP had fielded 14 women, but only four could win. In July 2017, Nitish returned to the NDA and BJP again, and the question on the minds of observers is will he be able to muster the support of the special constituency of women that he assiduously created in his two terms – 2005-10 and 2010-15 – by the dint of several schemes for them, including prohibition? In 2016, as part of the grand alliance, Nitish imposed total prohibition, like in Gujarat, citing the wish of Mahatma Gandhi and insisted that he complied with the demands of women. Then, he allowed 50% reservation for women in Panchayati Raj institutions and local urban bodies, besides 35% reservation for women in government jobs, had a transformative effect on women and society in Bihar. “It empowered women and also threw up local women leadership,” Ghosh said, adding, “But higher we go – that is, to the state legislature, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha – their number becomes low.” “It is also due to criminalization of politics, and the overall atmosphere of criminality where criminals are in the fray. Women can, of course, also muster money, but in all other matters, they are no match for their male counterparts in the fray,” Ghosh said, adding that still, their representation has increased. When Jharkhand was with Bihar, the highest number of women MLAs elected was 30 in 1957 and 25 in 1962, but it crashed to six in 1967 and four in 1969. It remained below 20 till 2000, when Jharkhand separated. In February 2005, only three women could get elected to the assembly, but the figure rose to 25 when women rooted for Nitish and continued to do till 2015. “Political parties should have included issues that concern women in their poll manifestoes and respective governments, over the decades, should have also addressed those issues. Ram Manohar Lohia, in whom CM Nitish Kumar also believes, had grouped Dalits, Muslims, backward castes and women as one oppressed and depressed category. But there is also the separate category of poor women. Our leader Nitish raised this issue in Lok Sabha when the issue of 33% reservation for women in Parliament and legislature was debated,” said JD (U)’s national secretary general KC Tyagi. RJD’s Katoria MLA Hembrom expressed her wish list for the party. “The social, economic and physical security of women is very important for their actual empowerment. The occurrence of rape and incidents of domestic violence has become a matter of serious concern. Our party should and will include a commitment to address women’s issues in its poll manifesto,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/women-ahead-of-men-in-assembly-poll-success-rate/articleshow/78480221.cms||Abhay Singh
October 5, 2020||Pune||Pune techie gives away Rs 9.7 lakh to social media ‘friend’||PUNE: A 27-year-old software engineer from Pimple Saudagar was duped of Rs 9.7 lakh by a man she had befriended through a social media platform. Between October and December 2019, the fraudster took money from the techie under the pretext of clearing some material that was stuck at airports in India, America and Malaysia. When the woman realized that she had been duped, the latter tried to pursue her ‘friend’. When she did not get any response, the woman lodged an FIR with the Sangvi police on Saturday. Vivek Kumatkar, sub-inspector of the Sangvi police station said that the complainant works with a prominent IT company at Hinjewadi and stays as paying guest in Pimple Saudagar. “Last year, a foreign national befriended her through a social media platform. He identified himself as Li Wang,” Kumatkar said. He added that the techie and the suspect would regularly chat over social media platforms. The person had also told the techie that he owned a business and operated in different countries, “In the first week of October last year, the suspect contacted the woman and told her that some of his material had been stuck at the airport in Malaysia. He requested her to transfer some money to his bank account as he needed it urgently,” Kumatkar said. The woman transferred the money. After a few days, he contacted the techie again and told her the material had arrived at New Delhi and was stuck at the airport due to some issues with the customs department. “The woman again transferred an amount to the given account number,” Kumatkar said. In December 2019, the fraudster again sought money for clearance from the American authorities. “Over three months, the woman transferred Rs9.7 lakh via eight transactions,” Kumatkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-gives-away-rs-9-7l-to-social-media-friend/articleshow/78481761.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Two killed as naval glider crashes||Kochi: Two Navy personnel died after their glider crashed on the Kundannur-Willingdon Island Road near Thoppumpady BOT Bridge on Sunday morning during a routine training exercise. Both the crew members of the glider, officer Lt Rajeev Jha (39) and petty officer (electrical air) Sunil Kumar (29) were rushed to INHS Sanjivani immediately but were declared brought dead. The reason for the accident is unclear and a board of inquiry has been ordered by the Southern Naval Command into the incident. Both officers suffered serious injuries due to the impact of the crash that shattered the light aircraft into pieces. Naval sources said Sunil Kumar, an experienced glider pilot, was conducting an instructional sortie for Lt Rajeev Jha. The power hang glider that took off from naval air station INS Garuda around 6.20am lost control and crashed onto the road along the walkway while returning to land at the base. Morning walkers and joggers had a narrow escape as the glider crashed on to the road near the motor vehicle department’s driving test ground instead of the walkway. Movement of vehicles was thin on the road. “Possible material or structural damage of the glider could have led to the crash or the engine might have stalled while descending, leading to loss of altitude and control. But all these could be validated only after detailed inspection,” said a naval source. The wreckage was removed by naval technical team after inspecting the crash site. Senior naval and police officers, including G D Vijayakumar, Mattancherry assistant commissioner, along with fire and rescue personnel have reached the crash site and secured the area. “Police have registered a case of unnatural death under 174 of CrPC. The bodies of the officers will be released to relatives after the postmortem. A probe has been launched into the case. The Navy’s technical team too is inquiring,” said ACP Vijayakumar. Lt Jha was from Dehradun, Uttarakhand, and he is survived by wife and two children. Sunil Kumar was from Bhoj in Bihar and he is unmarried. The accident occurred two day after a Navy captain died in a motor glider mishap at Karwar, in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-killed-as-naval-glider-crashes/articleshow/78481796.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Goa||Ragpicker stabbed to death over Rs 1k||Margao: A quarrel between two scrap collectors at Khareband, Margao, on Saturday night, led to one stabbing the other to death with a knife. Margao town police, following an extensive manhunt, arrested the accused Yellappa Karbal, who was trying to flee the city, within three hours of the incident. Police said the incident occurred at around 11.30 on Saturday on the footpath near a bar. Before succumbing to his stab injuries, the deceased had told the bar owner that he was stabbed by Karbal, who had by then fled from the site. After an extensive search, a team of Margao town police led by PI Sachin Narvekar traced the accused near a railway track trying to flee the city. Investigation revealed the quarrel broke out between the two friends over repayment of a loan of Rs 1,000. Further investigation is in progress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ragpicker-stabbed-to-death-over-rs-1k/articleshow/78482684.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Agra||Nirbhaya’s lawyer to fight Hathras girl’s case||AGRA: Supreme Court lawyer Samridhi Kushwaha, who was legal counsel for the victim’s family in the Nirbhaya gang-rape in 2012, met the Hathras victim’s family on Sunday and said she would represent them in ther legal battle. “I met the family and offered my services. They have accepted my offer and signed the vakalatnama,” she told TOI, adding that she would appeal for a transfer of the hearing to Delhi once the investigation is over and the case goes to court. “The family is scared and they don’t expect justice for their dead daughter in UP,” she said. The 19-year-old Dalit girl had been allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men in her village. She died a fortnight later at a Delhi hospital. Kushwaha said the atmosphere in the village is not conducive to the mental well-being of the family. “The upper caste community, to which the four accused belong, are exerting pressure and organising panchayats to defend the suspects arrested in the case … Our case is solid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nirbhayas-lawyer-to-fight-hathras-girls-case/articleshow/78481768.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 5, 2020||Meerut||Pamphlets, boards to spread govt’s ‘e-pathshala’ initiative||Meerut: To spread awareness about the ‘e-pathshala’ initiative of the Uttar Pradesh government, the authorities have instructed to print pamphlets and boards to inform the locals about the various platforms via which online classes are on. The government authorities have also released funds for the purpose. “In order to spread awareness about UP government's e-pathshala initiative, the basic shiksha adhikari of each district has been asked to print pamphlets and flex boards to inform the locals about the various platforms via which online classes are on,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director general, school education, UP. This is being done to ensure that the students and their parents are aware of the various initiatives being adopted by the state-run schools. It also aims at increasing the reach of the online initiatives. “A budget in this regard is being released to each district and it should be used in promoting the initiative,” read the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pamphlets-boards-to-spread-govts-e-pathshala-initiative/articleshow/78480757.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 5, 2020||Pune||Chains snatched in Sahakarnagar, Baner||Pune: Two chain snatching incidents took place on Saturday morning in Sahakarnagar and Baner. Two unidentified motorcycle riders snatched the gold chain of a 29-year-woman in Baner, worth Rs36,000, early on Saturday morning. The woman lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police later the same day. According to the police, the woman was walking by herself along a road at around 6am when the suspects reached the spot on a motorcycle. The pillion rider snatched her gold chain, following which, the duo sped away. A similar incident took place in Sahakarnagar around 9am on Saturday when a man snatched the gold chain of a 28-year-old woman when she was walking back to her residence. The chain was valued at Rs17,000. However, the woman raised an alarm and local residents caught the man. The woman lodged a complaint with the police and later they arrested the man identified as Manoj of Dhankawadi, alias Ashish Bhondwe (26). The gold chain was recovered from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chains-snatched-in-sahakarnagar-baner/articleshow/78481765.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Patna||NMCH doctor arrested for dowry||Patna: A doctor posted at NMCH was arrested on Sunday for allegedly demanding dowry from his wife and indulging in domestic violence. Vijay Laxmi Jaiswal had lodged the FIR against her husband Dr Ashish Kumar Jaiswal and his family members with the Women’s police station in Patna on September 3. SHO Arti Kumari Jaiswal said Ashish had been served notice several times to appear before the police, but he did not. “He was finally arrested today,” she said. Six other family members of the doctor have also been made accused. “Laxmi alleged that Ashish and his family used to pressurise her for bringing money and jewellery as dowry from her parents. She also accused Ashish and his family members of domestic violence against her,” Arti said. “Laxmi also alleged that Ashish had an illicit relationship with a female staff of NMCH with whom she had caught him at his rented accommodation in August,” the SHO said. “They had got married on September 15, 2015 and have a two-and-a-half years old son,” she said. The SHO said Laxmi is a housewife and a native of Doriganj in Chhapra while the accused doctor belongs to Narainpur at Bagaha in West Champaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nmch-doctor-arrested-for-dowry/articleshow/78481767.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Drinking on roads: Easing of lockdown brings back familiar woes on Doon streets||Dehradun: Unpredictable outbursts by impatient tipplers would often interrupt the calm of several localities like Old Mussoorie Road, Johri-Jakhan Road and Jogiwala — where vehicles could be seen lined up with people drinking inside. For about four months starting with the lockdown, there was reprieve. But with the reopening of liquor stores and generous exemptions by the state government to promote alcohol sales, residents of many areas say that the drinking spree on the roads of the state capital as well as brawls outside liquor stores have resumed. Sanjay Kandpal, a resident of Johri village, said, “The lockdown provided some respite but once again, it has become common for tipplers to park their cars in dark corners and to consume liquor openly. This causes many problems for local residents, especially women, to venture out during night time. The police must patrol these spots to curb the menace.” City-based hotelier Rakesh Chugh added, “Not only is drinking on the streets a public menace, it is also leading to rampant littering. There are piles of garbage that get accumulated every night because of this rampant drinking on the roads.” The sight of alcohol consumption in public has become a regular occurrence at Jogiwala also. Locals in the area say that tipplers often do not follow social distancing norms and drunken brawls on the roads are also becoming common. Pankaj Singh Dhanai, a resident of Nathanpur, said, “I recently went out to buy liquor but couldn't make the purchase as two groups had started fighting over some petty issue. I noticed more than 50 people moving around without a face mask there. Cops do challan people outside these liquor vends but more stringent action is required to keep them under control.” When queried on what police is doing about the matter, SP (city) Shweta Choubey told TOI, “We organise special drives every weekend to curb the menace of drunk driving. We have also identified some pockets where our teams and patrol units make regular rounds and catch the offenders. During the week days also, anti-social elements who commit offences under the influence of alcohol are being booked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/drinking-on-roads-easing-of-lockdown-brings-back-familiar-woes-on-doon-streets/articleshow/78480766.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP's SC/ST panel without chief for 11 months||LUCKNOW: Even as the Hathras case, in which a dalit girl was allegedly raped and brutalised, has triggered an outrage, the SC/ST Commission is without a chairman for 11 months. The last chairman, former DGP Brijlal, retired in November, 2019. A senior officer in the chief minister's office said that names of chairpersons of these commissions are generally recommended by the party organisation and as the party has not forwarded any name, the government cannot do much in this regard. Earlier, BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh had stated that the party would finalise names after the constitution of a new state executive of the party. Now, nearly a month has passed to the setting up of the executive, but there has been no initiative to fill the vacant posts. Besides the SC/ST commission, the backward commission and the minority commission, too, are functioning without heads. The chairman's post of the backward panel has been lying vacant after its chief Phagu Chauhan was appointed as the governor of Bihar in July 2019. Minority Commission head Tanveer Haider Usmani passed away about a year back. The state government is yet to fill the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/states-sc/st-panel-without-chief-for-11-mnths/articleshow/78483137.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 5, 2020||Varanasi||Congress puts up ‘missing’ posters of Smriti Irani, Swati Singh in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: The Gorakhpur Congress committee issued ‘missing’ posters of union minister Smriti Irani and state minister Swati Singh, and also staged a sit-in demonstration at Indira Crossing against the alleged high-handedness of police and administration in the handling of Hathras rape and murder case. the committee also submitted a memorandum addressed to the governor of the state. The poster issued carried photos of Smriti Irani and Swati Singh with the message, “Gumshuda ki Talash (search on for the missing); Hathras ki beti ko nayay kab dilayengi? (when will you provide justice to the daughter of Hathras); Durson ki betiyon ko apni beti kab samjhengi? (When will you consider the daughters of others as your own?).” The former general secretary Anwar Hussain said, “When Irani and Singh were in opposition, they used to raise their voice for the safety of women. Why are they quiet now? They are women leaders, and hence, they must keep politics aside and speak up for the Hathras victim.” Sabiha Sabzposh, a young Congress leader, resonated a similar opinion. “As women, it’s our responsibility to assert the rights of other women.” District president Nirmala Paswan also expressed concern over the handling of the case, and demanded resignation of CM Yogi. She condemned the hurried cremation of the Hathras victim’s body without the consent of presence of her family. Ashutosh Tiwari, Taukeer Alam and other Congress workers were also part of the demonstration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/congress-puts-up-missing-posters-of-irani-swati-singh/articleshow/78481339.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Smart City road work gathers steam with workers’ return||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Smart City road development project is gradually gaining momentum in Pimple Saudagar and Pimple Gurav of Pimpri Chinchwad with almost the entire strength of its dedicated work force having returned post lockdown. According to civic officials, work is underway in full swing in a module-like pattern across various places in the nearly 10sqkm twin-township. Currently, the roads under development comprise a 22km network plan across both the areas which would cater to over 1 lakh people in the township, which has a population of roughly 24 lakh. The project will likely be replicated in other areas of the township if the current one is a success. However, land acquisition continues to pose a challenge to the project and could potentially affect the November 2021 deadline. For example, the last stretch of the seven star lane is tangled in a land dispute thus restricting work in that area. Similarly, land was just acquired in PK Chowk in Pimple Saudagar while and 1km of road is yet to be acquired of the 2.5km stretch from Spot 18 to Kate Wasti. Some of these roads are crucial as alternatives when work on parallel roads begins. Meanwhile, there are also some structures along the proposed roads that await removal for smooth execution of the project. Laxman Jagtap, a member of legislative assembly, said, “We have been following up on the process of land acquisition but the responsibility of it ultimately lies with the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). In certain cases, elected representatives are holding back the land.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/smart-city-road-work-gathers-steam-with-workers-return/articleshow/78481777.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 5, 2020||Pune||20 PMPML buses to run on bio-CNG from mid-October||PUNE: Twenty buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will run on fuel made from food waste collected from different hotels from October 20. Called bio-CNG or CBG (compressed bio-gas), Indian Oil will supply it to the transport body, PMPML chairman- cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI, adding that the trials have been completed. “There is a refuelling station in Talegaon, and buses from the Bhosari depot of the PMPML moving towards Talegaon area will be running on this fuel. Another fuelling station at Nigdi will be ready within three months. More than 50 buses in the PMPML fleet will run on bio-CNG. We are keen on use of alternative and eco-friendly fuel,”Jagtap said. In 2014, the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation got into an agreement with Noble Exchange Environment Solutions Private Limited to collect hotel food waste and convert it into bio-fuel. “The PMPML buses have undergone trials twice. We want more than 100 buses to use this alternative fuel by next January. The buses, instead of the normal CNG, have been fuelled by bio-CNG. Permissions and approvals have been obtained from Central Institute of Road Transport and Automotive Research Association of India,” the CMD added. There are more than 1,500 CNG run buses in the fleet.“The costs for CNG and bio-CNG are almost the same. Work on construction of the fuel station at the Nigdi depot is going on. It has been approved by the board of directors,” a PMPML official said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-pmpml-buses-to-run-on-bio-cng-from-mid-october/articleshow/78481781.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Two of IPL betting racket nabbed in KPHB||HYDERABAD: Two persons who were allegedly involved in Cricket betting were nabbed by police in KPHB on Saturday. The police seized Rs 84,000 in cash and three mobile phone from the accused. Using an app, the accused were putting their bets while the IPL match was in progress. Both the accused were taken to police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-of-ipl-betting-racket-nabbed/articleshow/78482658.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KSEB yet to get arrears of Rs 900cr||Thiruvananthapuram: For the first time, the outstanding energy bill arrears of Kerala state electricity board limited, incurred by consumers across the board, has crossed over Rs 900 crore. The low consumption rate and the outstanding arrears have taken a toll on the board, forcing it to borrow Rs 1,000 crore from power financing corporation and Kerala State Financial Corporation. KSEB was the only power utility in the country that came out with various schemes and subsidies to address complaints that cropped up following unprecedented spike in electricity usage by domestic consumers and significant slump in average consumption by commercial and industrial consumers during the lockdown. According to sources, the tariff revenue of the board plummeted by Rs 450 crore in the last few months, following the overall dip in energy demand. The poor realization of bills added to its woes. “Energy demand has started to rise and it is a good signal for the board. From the expected average consumption level of 70 mu and above, the same power demand had gone down drastically during the lockdown period. The board has doled out over Rs 175 crore to consumers across the board as part of giving all consumers a financial reprieve during lockdown. However, many consumers have stopped paying electricity bill, causing financial threat to the board. The board had earlier sanctioned time till December for consumers to pay the bills generated during lockdown. However, many are not paying bills generated after the lockdown,” said a senior board official. “It would be wrong to say that the board is on the cusp of a financial breakdown. We expect the bill payments to pick up very soon. The borrowings the board has made of late are for capital expenditure. With the government expected to pay another tranche of Rs 300 crore on account of KWA dues and a possible sunny season ahead, KSEB would definitely circumvent this phase soon,” said N S Pillai, KSEB chairman and managing director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kseb-yet-to-get-arrears-of-rs-900cr/articleshow/78480791.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 5, 2020||Kanpur||Kin of Unnao rape victim missing, 3 cops suspended||Kanpur: Three cops deployed to secure the family members of the Unnao rape victim, who had died after being set ablaze by upper caste men last year, were suspended after her six-year-old nephew went missing late Friday in Bihar police station area of Unnao district. The rape victim was allegedly set ablaze on December 5, 2019. Inspector General (Lucknow range) Lakshmi Singh went to investigate the case on Saturday on receiving information about the case. She ordered suspension of three cops, including gunner Narendra Kumar Yadav, constable Rajesh Kumar and lady constable Anuj. “The three cops were deloyed to provide security to the family members of the rape survivor, who was allegedly set ablaze on December 5, 2019,” police sources said. On the basis of the kin's complaint, , police have registered a case against five people. Investigations and search operations to locate the child are underway. Police said, “A six-year-old child was reported missing in Bhatankheda in Bihar police station area on Friday night. The family of the child has lodged a complaint against five people, Captain Bajpai, Saroj Trivedi, Anita, Sundara Lodh and Harshit Bajpai, all of the same village and related to the accused Shubham and Shivam Trivedi, Harishankar, Umesh and Ramkishore, who had allegedly poured petrol on the rape survivor and set her ablaze to prevent her from going to Baiswara railway station where she was supposed to board a train for Rae Bareli for meeting her advocate.” Superintendent of police, Unnao, Anand Kulkarni said, “Three police staffers hve been suspended, besides a case under section 364 of IPC has been registered at the Bihar police station and teams from five police stations including Bihar, Barasagwar, Purwa, Maurawan and Bighapur have been roped in to recover the missing child.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kin-of-unnao-rape-victim-missing-3-cops-suspended/articleshow/78483138.cms||---
October 5, 2020||---||JD(U) may seek LJP’s ouster at national level||NEW DELHI/ PATNA: Citing ideological differences with chief minister Nitish Kumar, LJP on Sunday walked out of NDA in Bihar, clearing the way for JD(U) and BJP to apportion the 243 seats for the upcoming state election. The decision of the Dalit outfit caused few surprises because it had already snapped ties with JD(U), rendering its presence in the Bihar alliance untenable. Though party chief Chirag Paswan consistently took pains to emphasise their faith in PM Narendra Modi, BJP, which has already declared Nitish to be its CM choice, found it impossible to meet his demand for 30 seats solely at its expense. In his parting statement on Sunday, Chirag directed his fire-power at Nitish, stressing once again LJP’s “strong ties” with BJP and that it would remain part of NDA at the national level. “There is no bitterness between LJP and BJP. After the poll results, all winning LJP candidates will join the development model of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and form the BJP-LJP government. LJP believes that there should be a BJP-led government in Bihar,” the party said in a statement. LJP’s Bihar parliamentary board chairman and MLA, Raju Tiwari, said, “LJP will accept a BJP chief minister.” Earlier in the day, party sources said they would adopt the Manipur model where the party had gone to polls alone, but after the results, it supported BJP to form government there. However, JD(U) may ask BJP to consider removing LJP from the alliance nationally, saying their presence at any level will send a wrong signal among the electorate. “Wining Bihar is politically crucial not only for JD(U) but also for BJP, which has lost 11 assembly polls since 2014. It can’t happen that LJP remains part of alliance at any level,” a JD(U) functionary said. If pursued, the demand can put BJP in a quandary because of its need, especially at this juncture, to have a Dalit ally. In the immediate run, LJP's exist is likely to clear the way for a 50:50 split of seats between JD(U) and BJP but also has the potential to inject a new complexity in the power-sharing dynamics between the two. As per the understanding the two sides had hammered out, JD(U) is expected to contest 122 seats, leaving the rest 121 for BJP. However, there are indications to suggest that JD(U) agreed to the suggestion for parity between partners on the assumption that BJP's actual share would come down to 100 because it would have had to leave a score of seats for LJP, a scenario which would have left no ambiguity as to who is the big brother in the alliance. In the changed situation, however, it is BJP which may end up contesting more seats than JD(U), considering that Nitish Kumar has to accommodate 6-7 candidates belonging to HAM headed by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. Nitish weaned Manjhi, a Dalit, away from the RJD-led rival alliance with a view to buffering himself against any adverse fallout of the feud from Chirag. Many in JD(U) seem uneasy at the prospect of having to settle for 115-116 seats. Nitish has fortified his status as the "first" in NDA by incrementally getting BJP to concede more seats. His experience during the ill-fated partnership with Lalu Prasad in 2015-2016 when the RJD boss leveraged his superior numbers to play the boss, would have only reinforced his belief in the strategic wisdom to keep an edge. As it happens, BJP in 2010 stunned him, even itself, with a strike rate significantly better than JD(U)’s. JD(U) managers must be wary of the possibility of a repeat because of Modi's popularity as also Chirag's decision to target JD(U) candidates. LJP is seething with resentment against Bihar CM and will try to mobilize Paswans, a politically conscious community who have a good presence in many constituencies, against JD(U). Although not entirely a monolithic block, a majority of Paswans continue to take their cue from LJP's founder, Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan. Its strategy is encapsulated in the slogan “Modi se koi bair nahin, Nitish Tumhari Khair Nahin” (We don’t have any grudge against Modi, but we will certainly teach Nitish a lesson), already being raised by the faithfuls. That explains the suggestion, put forward by certain quarters in JD(U) on Sunday evening that BJP should cede at least 7 more seats for JD(U) so that the latter could accommodate Manjhi. JD(U) sources, however, agreed that its alliance with the BJP is sealed and the party will not seek any changes in the agreed arrangements. In any case, BJP was not likely to agree to alter any change in the seat-sharing formula, considering that former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is in -charge of poll preparations, and party general secretary Bhupender Yadav firmly batted aside JD(U)'s insistence to sacrifice seats from the "saffron quota" for 5 sitting RJD MLAs who had recently crossed over. Though almost all members of the LJP central parliamentary board said they were in favour of the party contesting on 143 seats, the decision will be taken by Chirag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/jdu-may-seek-ljps-ouster-at-national-level/articleshow/78483577.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Man killed by wife and her lover in East Godavari||KAKINADA: A woman along with her paramour killed her husband and portrayed it an electrocution in Polavaram mandal in East Godavari district. However, her attempts to hide the murder failed to deceive the police who arrested the woman along with her paramour and his associate. The woman, Durga, married the victim Subba Rao who had lost his first wife 15 years back. She was having an illicit affair with Mattaparthi Durga Prasad for last three years. Upon finding out, Subba Rao reprimanded her and told her to end the relationship. When this failed, Subba Rao filed a police complaint. After this, Durga started to mix sleeping pills in her husband’s food while she continued her affair with Durga Prasad. They then planned to kill Subba Rao. Durga Prasad, with the help of his friend Konda Babu smothered Subba Rao in his sleep after Durga mixed three sleeping pills in his drink. They then placed his body next to some electrical equipment to portray it as an electrocution. Police had initially registered a case of mysterious death but after investigation arrested the three under murder charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-killed-by-wife-and-her-lover-in-eg/articleshow/78482662.cms||Samson Raj
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Registrations for polytechnic courses lowest in a decade||LUCKNOW: The number of registrations for admission to engineering, the flagship programme at polytechnics, and other related courses was lowest in a decade this year. Thanks to Covid-19 pandemic, the Council for Joint Entrance Exam for 2020 received 3.9 lakh registrations, a decline of about 50,000 from last year’s 4.4 lakh. From 2010 till now, the highest number of registrations of 5.6 lakh came in 2013. In 2018, close to 4.5 lakh candidates had registered for the test. Data accessed by TOI shows that since 2001, the number of applicants have increased every year except in 2010 when it went down to 3.6 lakh as against 3.9 lakh in 2009. In 2001, the registrations were 1.6 lakh, which rose to 1.7 lakh in 2005 and 5.2 lakh in 2015. Talking to TOI, secretary, Joint Entrance Exam Council (UP) SK Vaishya said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has caused damage. Students who appear for the polytechnic entrance exam are comparatively young as our eligibility for most courses is high school. Not only did fewer candidates register, but absenteeism too was high this year.” Change in examination date thrice, said Vaishya, was also a reason for low turnout of candidates for the exam. This year, the exam for non-engineering courses was held online in 23 districts. The process will go completely online from next year. A quick comparison with last year shows that in 2019, 82% of the registered candidates had appeared for the exam. In numbers, 3.6 lakh were present out of 4.4 lakh who had registered. This year, only 61%—2.4 lakh of the 3.9 lakh registered candidates—took the exam. This was after the authorities decided to hold exams in an online and offline blended mode. While the exam for engineering was held offline, those of other courses were conducted online. The number of applicants for engineering courses recorded a sharp decline. Figures show that 2.8 lakh candidates registered for group A (engineering) as against 3.3 lakh registrations last year. While 84% took the test last year, it dropped this year to 66%. The test is a gateway for admissions to engineering and other courses in 1,382 polytechnics in the state. Of this, 150 are government-run, 19 are aided and 1,213 are private polytechnics. There are 53 diploma courses and 15 PG diploma offered by these polytechnics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/registrations-for-polytechnic-courses-lowest-in-a-decade/articleshow/78483142.cms||Isha Jain
October 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb, Hry, Himachal records 64 Covid deaths, 2,195 new cases||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Sunday posted a combined total of 2,195 Covid-19 cases, while as many as 64 patients in the region succumbed to the virus. Punjab recorded a total of 42 Covid-19 deaths and 857 new cases, the lowest single day count since August 4 when total 488 patients had tested positive. Now, the state’s death toll stands at 3,603 and the overall case tally at 118,157, out of which 13,577 are active cases. Total 1,509 patients discharged during the day took the total of cured patients to 100,977. The districts that reported over 100 cases during the day included Ludhiana (169), followed by Jalandhar (147) and Amritsar (138). Maximum 10 deaths took place in Ludhiana, followed by nine in Patiala. Haryana saw 1,302 fresh cases and 20 deaths on Sunday. With this, the total number of Covid cases in the state has reached 133,878—of which 12,067 cases are active—and casualty count is up to 1,470. After the discharge of 120,341 after treatment so far, the state’s recovery rate stands at 89.89% and the time taken for doubling of cases at 32 days. As many as 258 critical patients in the state are on oxygen support and 40 on ventilators. A total of 1,881,421 persons have been tested to date. During the day, the hill state of Himachal Pradesh reported two Covid deaths and 36 new cases, taking the count of cases so far to 15,731, of which 3,172 cases are active, and the number of people succumbing to the virus to 207. With 154 patients declared cured on the day, the number of recovered patients till has now reached 12,327. While one death each was reported from Kullu and Una districts, the latest cases were reported from Mandi (11), Chamba (9), Kangra (7), Hamirpur (4), Kullu (3) and Shimla (2). Those recovered included 38 in Shimla, 25 in Una, 23 each in Kangra and Bilaspur, 21 in Mandi, 11 in Hamirpur, eight in Chamba and five in Lahaul-Spiti district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/region-records-64-covid-deaths-2195-new-cases/articleshow/78482660.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Agra||Valmiki community protest on; safai workers pelt stones||AGRA: The protest of Agra sanitation workers against the alleged gang rape and murder of the Hathras Dalit girl entered fifth day on Sunday even as the municipal corporation, in its attempt to tame the protesters, dismissed five contractual employees. For the second consecutive day, protesters indulged in stone-pelting at an AMC workshop near Kothi Meena Bazaar, causing damage to some garbage collection vehicles. Later, provincial armed constabulary (PAC) was deployed in the vicinity of the workshop. They also dumped garbage on major road crossings in the city. Additional municipal commissioner KB Singh said, “Five outsourced sanitation workers have been dismissed from service for disrupting cleanliness works. Besides, a contractual worker at Jal Sansthan has also been suspended. Complaints have been received against 15 other sanitation workers for trying to disrupt the cleanliness work. Following investigation, suitable action will be taken against them if they are found guilty.” Superintendent of police (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said, “A few men came on bikes and indulged in stone-pelting at the garbage collection vehicles on Sunday morning. We are trying to identify them. On the basis of the complaint received from the civic body administration, an FIR will be registered against those who tried to disturb the law and order situation.” “To prevent further repetition of stone-pelting on the AMC workshop, PAC has been deployed in the Kothi Meena Bazaar locality. Security has been increased in the densely populated localities. Station officers have been directed to ensure foot patrolling in marketplaces. Local intelligence unit is on alert to prevent any untoward incident,” he said. Uttar Pradesh Safai Kamgar Sanghthan president Shyam Kumar Karunesh said, “Stone-pelting on municipal corporation vehicles is an act of anti-social elements. No sanitation worker was involved in it. After discussing with senior officials, we are asking sanitation staffers to resume their regular work in public interest. We will decide our further course of action after the SIT constituted by the state government to probe the Hathras case completes its work.” Meanwhile, Majority of sanitation workers at the SN Medical College (SNMC) continued to strike work. Most government hospital premises remained littered with hazardous medical waste. Cleanliness work at private hospitals also remained affected. Pramod Kumar, president of SNMC class IV employees’ association, said, “Following a meeting on Monday, further strategy will be determined. Services at the emergency ward and Covid care centre will not be affected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/valmiki-community-protest-on-safai-workers-pelt-stones-dump-garbage-in-agra-streets/articleshow/78481790.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 5, 2020||---||LJP quits NDA in Bihar, to go it alone in election||PATNA: The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan on Sunday finally decided not to be part of the NDA in Bihar. It will contest the state assembly polls on its own and not under NDA’s CM face and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar. But LJP clarified that it would not field candidates against BJP and the decision to go solo was taken “due to ideological differences with another NDA ally JD(U) in Bihar”. In a press release after the LJP parliamentary board meeting in Delhi, party’s general secretary Abdul Khaliq stated, “BJP and LJP will form the government in Bihar on the pattern of the Centre. The people will decide who to support in the larger interest of the state. LJP wanted to implement the ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ vision document, which couldn’t materialise leading to the split in the alliance.” He clarified that LJP may field its candidates against JD(U) on several seats in the election to be held from October 28 to November 7. Khaliq said there was no bitterness between BJP and LJP. Both the parties fought the parliamentary polls together and won. “We wanted to contest the state assembly polls in the same manner. But it couldn’t be possible,” he said. Reiterating that LJP’s ties with BJP is very strong and unbreakable, he said all the LJP legislators would strengthen the hands of PM Narendra Modi on his development agenda after the poll results. The LJP MLAs will leave no stone unturned to make Bihar first under the BJP leadership. Many key leaders of the party, including Veena Devi, Chandan Singh, Surajbhan Singh, Raju Tiwari, Prince Raj and Kali Pandey were present at the meeting. LJP MPs Pashupati Kumar Paras and Choudhary Mahboob Ali Kaiser attended the meeting virtually.  The party had earlier decided to contest in 143 out of the 243 assembly constituencies. LJP leaders had expressed displeasure over 27 seats being offered to it by BJP and reportedly told Chirag to contest on 143 seats. The parliamentary board meeting, which was earlier scheduled for Saturday, had to be deferred as the health of LJP’s founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan deteriorated and he had to undergo heart surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ljp-quits-nda-in-bihar-to-go-it-alone-in-election/articleshow/78481792.cms||Ramashankar
October 5, 2020||Meerut||Nagar palika chairman declared ‘fugitive’||Bijnor: Nagar palika chairman Abdul Mannan, accused of cow slaughter and carrying a bounty of Rs 25,000, was declared a "fugitive" by Bijnor police on Sunday. On Saturday, police had pasted Mannan's poster outside his house in Kiratpur town. Now, police can proceed with attaching his property if he does not surrender. A non-bailable warrant was issued against him and three others after they did not appear in court in connection with a case of alleged cow slaughter at Mannan's farmhouse last week. Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor’s superintendent of police, said, “After the NBW was issued against the accused, a reward of Rs 25,000 against each was announced. If they don’t surface now, their properties will be attached."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nagar-palika-chairman-declared-fugitive/articleshow/78480788.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 5, 2020||Patna||LJP quits NDA in Bihar, to go it alone in election||PATNA: The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan on Sunday finally decided not to be part of the NDA in Bihar. It will contest the state assembly polls on its own and not under NDA’s CM face and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar. But LJP clarified that it would not field candidates against BJP and the decision to go solo was taken “due to ideological differences with another NDA ally JD(U) in Bihar”. In a press release after the LJP parliamentary board meeting in Delhi, party’s general secretary Abdul Khaliq stated, “BJP and LJP will form the government in Bihar on the pattern of the Centre. The people will decide who to support in the larger interest of the state. LJP wanted to implement the ‘Bihar first, Bihari first’ vision document, which couldn’t materialise leading to the split in the alliance.” He clarified that LJP may field its candidates against JD(U) on several seats in the election to be held from October 28 to November 7. Khaliq said there was no bitterness between BJP and LJP. Both the parties fought the parliamentary polls together and won. “We wanted to contest the state assembly polls in the same manner. But it couldn’t be possible,” he said. Reiterating that LJP’s ties with BJP is very strong and unbreakable, he said all the LJP legislators would strengthen the hands of PM Narendra Modi on his development agenda after the poll results. The LJP MLAs will leave no stone unturned to make Bihar first under the BJP leadership. Many key leaders of the party, including Veena Devi, Chandan Singh, Surajbhan Singh, Raju Tiwari, Prince Raj and Kali Pandey were present at the meeting. LJP MPs Pashupati Kumar Paras and Choudhary Mahboob Ali Kaiser attended the meeting virtually.  The party had earlier decided to contest in 143 out of the 243 assembly constituencies. LJP leaders had expressed displeasure over 27 seats being offered to it by BJP and reportedly told Chirag to contest on 143 seats. The parliamentary board meeting, which was earlier scheduled for Saturday, had to be deferred as the health of LJP’s founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan deteriorated and he had to undergo heart surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-quits-nda-in-bihar-to-go-it-alone-in-election/articleshow/78485244.cms||Ramashankar
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Eight construction workers injured in Gachibowli||HYDERABAD: Eight construction workers who were working at a construction site in Gachibowli got injured in a mishap on Sunday. The incident took place when they were working on a slab. The under-construction slab collapsed. All the injured where shifted to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eight-construction-workers-injured/articleshow/78482661.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Passenger traffic rises at Visakhapatnam airport||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam international airport has seen a steady growth in passenger footfall since domestic flight operations resumed in the state on May 26. While in June 2020, the airport registered a footfall of 39,565 passengers, in September, this number increased to 79,727. “After the ministry of civil aviation gave the green signal to resume domestic flights, operations started at the airport from May 26. In June, altogether 439 flights operated from Visakhapatnam, including domestic flights and a few international repatriation flights by Air India and other foreign airlines. In September, 794 flights operated from the city,” said a senior official. In July, 529 flights operated from the city, with a passenger footfall of 40,095, which rose to 619 flights and 60,839 passengers in August. “Despite the festive season being round the corner we don’t think new flights will come in by October-end or early-November until and unless the ministry increases the number of flight operations. In all probability, only SpiceJet might introduce its Chennai-Vijaywada-Visakhapatnam flight as of now,” K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh told TOI. On September 2, the ministry of civil aviation announced an increase in limited domestic flight operations from 45% to 60%. At present, the growth rate at Visakhapatnam airport is highest among all other airports – Vijayawada, Tirupati and Rajahmundry — in the state. Figures for August show a passenger footfall of 30,160 in Vijayawada, 11,502 in Rajahmundry and 18,108 in Tirupati. Numbers for flight operations in August show 507 flights from Vijaywada airport, 528 at Rajahmundry and 278 at Tirupati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/passenger-traffic-rises-at-vizag-airport/articleshow/78479903.cms||Arpit Basu
October 5, 2020||Allahabad||NAeL Naini unit to make fuselage for wheel-based choppers||PRAYAGRAJ: After producing structures and looms for skid-based multi-role Advanced Light Helicopter Dhruv, the Naini Aerospace Limited (NAel) of the city would soon start making structures and looms for wheel-based choppers to be used by Indian Navy and Air Force. “The skid-based multirole helicopters are used mainly by the Indian Army, and of the 300-odd Dhruv copters supplied by helicopter unit of Hindustan Aeronautical Limited (HAL), NAeL has manufactured fuselage (the main body) of 10 helicopters in the facility at Naini unit,” said newly appointed Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the company, Amit Mai Srivastava. He has taken over the charge from RK Mishra, who retired on September 30. “This state-of-the-art facility at Naini would soon be visited by a team of experts from HAL, Bengaluru, who would inspect and suggest changes to be made in the jig (the workplace where trained staff fixes units in sequence while making any product),” he added. “We expect the team would visit this month only and if the needed alterations for manufacturing fuselage of wheel-based choppers are made in this year, we would be able to manufacture at least four fuselage for wheel-based Dhruv by March 2021,” said Srivastava. The Naini unit of NAeL is already making looms (a bunch of wires used to transmit signals) for Dhruv and Tejas, while Isro would also be giving its approval for manufacturing looms for satellite launchers. Helicopters are of two kinds, wheel type, having two front wheels and a nose or tail wheel, and the skid type. Skid-type landing gear incorporates two skids with forward and aft cross tubes, on either side of the helicopter. The forward end of skids are usually bent upwards to facilitate run-on landings and close-to-ground handling. Wheel landing gear has wheels, explained Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/nael-naini-unit-to-make-fuselage-for-wheel-based-copters/articleshow/78481545.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Varanasi||Minister to inaugurate renaming of Naugarh railway station||GORAKHPUR: Railway minister Piyush Goyal will inaugurate the renaming of the Naugarh railway station as Siddharthanagar railway station on Monday. “Rail minister Piyush Goyal will inaugurate the renaming of the station at 3.15pm through a video link. MP Jagdambika Pal will also be present in the online inauguration. It can be seen live at youtube.com/user/RailMinIndia,” said CPRO, NER, Pankaj Singh. “Naugarh railway station came into existence around 115 years ago on January 15, 1905 and the rail line was changed into broad gauge in 2015. It was declared Adarsh Railway station and all facilities were provided there accordingly, CPRO said. Lumbini, the birthplace of Mahatma Buddha, is only 35 km away from the place and the area is full of stories related to Buddha’s life so Naugarh railway station is being named after him, the CPRO said. The Yogi Adityanath government had changed the name of Naugarh railway station to Siddharthanagar railway station in December 2019. BJP MP Jagdambika Pal said there was no point in the railway station being named as Naugarh when the district was Siddharthanagar. “The name only added to the confusion among the foreign tourists,” he said. The inauguration was due in July, but was postponed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/min-to-inaugurate-renamingof-naugarh-rly-station-today/articleshow/78481455.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Biker duo transporting 18 crude bombs arrested in Srikakulam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Srikakulam police on Sunday recovered 18 crude bombs from two persons travelling on a two-wheeler near Meliaputty Road. According to reports, the two accused— Rajesh and Naveen— were caught by the police while moving the crude bombs. Both accused are residents of Tekkali in Srikakulam district. Tekkali sub-inspector N Kameswara Rao said that the accused had earlier been involved in making crude bombs meant to kill wild animals. The SI said that the duo was allegedly involved in killing a wild boar in the district. Moreover, the accused were allegedly also involved in an incident in January where two children were injured after a country-made bomb exploded near a school as Geddalapadu village of Santhakaviti mandal in Srikakulam district, the SI said. A case was registered under the Explosive Substances Act and the arrested sent on remand. The recovered crude bombs will be defused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/biker-duo-transporting-18-crude-bombs-arrested/articleshow/78479918.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Nonalcoholic fatty liver a problem for obese kids in rural Pb: Study||CHANDIGARH: High prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver in obese children residing in rural Punjab has been observed in a study conducted by Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with liver‐related morbidity and mortality and other health issues such as insulin resistance, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular problems and Type II diabetes. To assess metabolic profiles and associated risk factors of NAFLD in obese children, the study was conducted at the paediatric outpatient unit of the PGIMER satellite centre, Sangrur. Participants comprised children aged between 5 years and 18 years who have been residing in Punjab for the last five years and have a body mass index (BMI) of >27 kg/m2. The assessment was done over a 13-month period from September 2018 to October 2019. NAFLD was diagnosed by using ultrasonography besides measuring anthropometry, liver function test, lipid profile, thyroid levels, fasting blood sugar and blood pressure. Prevalence of NAFLD was found to be 62%, with 46% of patients having mild and 16% having moderate fatty infiltration. However, none of the patients were found to have severe fatty liver condition. Alanine transaminase (ALT), an enzyme found primarily in the liver and kidney, was significantly elevated in all children with NAFLD. A family history of obesity, diabetes and hypertension was present in 42%, 34%, and 38% of the children, respectively. Hypertension was found in 20% of the patients while 22 had subclinical hypothyroidism, a condition in which the thyroid gland is unable to produce enough thyroid hormone. Hyperglycemia -- high levels of sugar – was found in 12% patients. Findings of the study, ‘Prevalence and risk factors for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in obese children in rural Punjab,’ conducted by Dr Nishu Gupta and Dr Gunjan Jindal of department of radiodiagnosis; Dr Anuradha Nadda of department of community medicine; Dr Saloni Bansal of department of biochemistry with Dr Shailesh Gahukar and Dr Ashok Kumar of department of hospital administration have been published in the Journal of Family and Community Medicine. The study observed that the prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver in obese children aged 5–18 years is rising. “Trend observed similar to the western countries. Early detection using various simple screening tools can go a long way in the prevention of chronic liver disease and associated comorbidities in the obese children,” recommended the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nonalcoholic-fatty-liver-a-problem-for-obese-kids-in-rural-pb-study/articleshow/78482664.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Sanitation activities on fast track ahead of GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election, works pertaining to sanitation and increasing green cover in the city have started to pace up. A total of 650 Swachh Auto Tippers (SATs) have until now been procured for door-to-door garbage collection. Each auto will cover 300 to 600 households. Commercial stretches of 1,176 km are also being handed over to agencies, that are required to sweep the roads every day. The agencies will set up two bins (50 litres to 60 litres capacity) and ensure door-to-door collection of garbage is carried out. For sanitation of the stretch, Rs 215 crore are scheduled to be spent every year. An app to monitor the sanitation activities is being designed, wherein all agency staffers will be required to upload the work carried out. A QR code will be provided to all commercial establishments for this purpose. As part of the sanitation measures, open lands that have turned into dumpyards over the years will be converted into lung spaces. In Kukatpally, two such parks have already been constructed. On Road No. 1 of Kukatpally Housing Board (KPHB), a dumpyard was converted into sports area. In KPHB-phase five, an open gym has been installed inside a park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-activities-on-fast-track-ahead-of-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78482666.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM helpline to reach 7 million farmers with MSP talk||LUCKNOW: The office of chief minister Yogi Adityanath will now reach out to lakhs of farmers through its helpline number 1076 to address the problems being faced by them as well as to apprise them of programmes that the state government has launched for their welfare, including the new MSP. CM's secretary Alok Kumar, who also monitors the helpline's functioning, said, “So far, the helpline of the CM office has been catering to Covid-19 patients and to those who have lodged complaints with 1076. But now on the CM's initiation, the helpline will start contacting farmers directly, briefing them about the government's schemes.” Kumar said that in the first phase the helpline has mapped over 7 million paddy cultivators by procuring a list containing their phone numbers from the food and civil supplies department which had purchased paddy from them in the previous season. “The helpline is briefing them about the new MSP set for paddy and the purchase centres which the government has set up for their convenience,” he said, adding that 1076 will also try to address farmers' concerns related to the paddy purchase procedures. Besides, farmers can lodge their complaints if they face any problem at any stage, he added. This financial year, the government has set the paddy MSP at Rs 1,868 per quintal. Before joining the CM's office, Kumar was commissioner, food and civil supplies. Now, he is utilising his experience of the civil supply department in making the 'helpline for farmers' project a success. “From paddy we will move on to the rabi crop, informing farmers about centres which the government would set up at block and tehsil levels to make available seeds and fertilizers for them at subsidised rates,” Kumar said and added that the CM has told him that he would personally monitor the helpline and if required would directly talk to farmers. Earlier, the CM helpline was in regular touch of Covid-19 patients, asking them if they were getting proper treatment at hospitals, behaviour of nursing staff and response of doctors and was also guiding them about post-Covid care after their discharge from hospitals. Since coronavirus is on the wane now, the helpline has started contacting patients at over 45 government run dialysis centres in district hospitals, Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-helpline-to-reach-7mn-farmers-with-msp-talk/articleshow/78483153.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 5, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: 700 bigha encroached land in village vacated||KANPUR: A joint team of Kanpur Development Authority (KDA), irrigation department and tehsil staff dispossessed illegal occupiers and vacated around 700 bighas of land worth Rs 237 crore in village Katri Shankarpur. The team had vacated around 150 bigha land on Thursday. In the last three days, it dispossessed the illegal occupiers from 850 bighas of land worth Rs 287 crore. The team members had to face a lot of difficulty in getting the land vacated as at several places the illegal occupiers surrounded them and claimed the land belonged to them. When the team members asked them to produce documents regarding their ownership and layout plans, they failed to present the same. Later, they were dispersed by police. Three JCBs were pressed into service to demolish illegal constructions to get the land vacated. According to KDA sources, the joint team led by KDA tehsildar Ajit Singh, special officer Bhairav Singh, tehsildar (Sadar) Atul Gangwar and the staff of irrigation department reached Katri Shankarpur village around 1.30pm on Saturday, but a big crowd at the spot surrounded them and claimed the land belonged to them. “KDA has no right to dispossess us. It is doing an illegal act as it did not give them any notice,” said a man in the crowd. The officials told them that in records the area was recorded as Ganga’s submerged area, and as per rules, no construction could take place there and it could only be used for agriculture purpose. Neither any layout nor a building plan could be passed for this land, and that all the construction was illegal. If they had any document, the same should be produced, else the team was going to demolish them, the officials told the crowd. Later, the earth movers demolished the illegal constructions and vacated around 700 bigha land till Sunday evening. “KDA has taken possession of the vacated land, but still there is some land under illegal occupiers that will be vacated soon,” said tehsildar Ajit Singh. Several persons claimed that they had been defrauded and lost lakhs of rupees. Rakesh Singh of Vishnupuri said, “I purchased the land last year and was happy that I am now a plot owner. Now, I realise that the land was illegally sold to me. I have lost money and land both.” In the evening, the irrigation department announced that KDA would remove illegal structures from Maggi point near Ganga barrage on Monday therefore illegal occupiers should remove their structures else KDA would demolish them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/700-bigha-encroached-land-in-village-vacated/articleshow/78481618.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||10 Covid deaths in Amravati, cases cross 14,000-mark||AMRAVATI: With a spike of 138 cases, the district’s caseload crossed the 14,000-mark and reached 14,005 on Sunday. The district also reported 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 311, according to a civil surgeon office report. The death rate remained steady at 2.1%. With 147 patients getting discharged on Sunday, the recoveries reached 11,555 for a recovery rate of 82.51%. Now, there are 2,139 active patients that included 923 in Covid hospitals here, 12 in Nagpur and 1,204 in home isolation. CHANDRAPUR: Covid total of district crossed the 11,000-mark after addition of 159 new patients to take the total caseload to 11,026 on Sunday. The day also witnessed four deaths, atking the toll to 167. In all, 428 patients were discharged during the day raising the number of recoveries to 7,558, leaving 3,301 patients under treatment. YAVATMAL: The district, after a long gap, did not see any death due to Covid-19 on Sunday, probably due to no reporting by rural health authorities as doctors and other staffers would be joining on Monday after calling off their five-day strike. The reporting is likely to be up to date from Monday. The civil surgeon's office has not sent any update even on Sunday, said an authority in GMC Yavatmal. In the last 24 hours, 22 new patients (16 men and 6 women) were detected in the district, taking the total to 8,748. Total 775 reports are pending. WARDHA: The district recorded six deaths due to Covid-19, 84 new cases and 96 recoveries on Sunday. The caseload has reached 4,936. Two women (46 and 80) from Wardha, two women (48 and 60) from Deoli, a 45-year-old man from Selu and a 51-year-old man from Samudrapur died during treatment, taking the toll to 140. Highest 60 new cases came from Wardha, followed by Ashti and Selu (6 each), Hinganghat (5), Deoli and Samudrapur (3 each) and Arvi (1). The day saw 96 patients getting discharge, taking total recoveries to 2,723 and leaving 2,073 patients under treatment. GONDIA: For the first time in last 15 days, Gondia reported no death due to Covid-19. Record 305 patients recovered on Sunday while 120 new cases were detected, taking caseload to 7,467, with 5,900 of them recovered. Recovery rate of Gondia is more than 79%. Number of patients under treatment dipped below 1,500-mark after 21 days. Now, 1,463 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Total 111 new cases and 99 recoveries were reported in the district on Sunay. No death was reported for fourth consecutive day. Now, the district has 3,197 cases, with 2,332 of them recovered and 21 deaths. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 74%. Currently, 844 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: The district reported 26 new cases while 186 patients recovered. Akola has reported total 7,620 cases and 6,516 recoveries. Recovery rate is more than 85%. A 50-year-old man from Bus Stand area in Akola old city died during treatment. He was admitted in critical condition on October 1. With this, the toll reached 244. The district now has 860 patients admitted, third lowest in Vidarbha after Washim and Gadchiroli. BULDHANA: The district reported 138 new cases, while 102 patients recovered on Sunday. No death was reported. With 6,514 out of total 7,648 patients recovering till date, Buldhana’s recovery rate is above 85%. Total 1,035 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: With 68 new cases, 47 recoveries and no death on Sunday, Washim’s caseload reached 4,570 on Sunday. Total 3,888 of these patients have recovered which means Washims’ recovery rate is above 85%. Washim has only 587 patients under treatment which is lowest in Vidarbha. BHANDARA: The district reported three deaths on Sunday, taking the toll to 136. Total 126 new cases took the caseload to 5,990. On recovery front, 106 patients recovered, taking total to 4,112. Total 1,742 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-covid-deaths-in-amt-cases-cross-14000-mark/articleshow/78482676.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||Bus overturns in Dahod; girl killed||VADODARA: A private luxury bus overturned in Dahod on Sunday, killing a four-year-old girl and injuring 20 other passengers. This was the third road accident reported within a fortnight in central Gujarat wherein a private bus had overturned. On Sunday afternoon, a bus registered in Anand district had started with 30 passengers for Anand from Limdi in Dahod. Around 2 pm at a sharp curve near Fulpari village in Limkheda taluka, the driver of the bus lost control over the vehicle due to which the bus overturned. A four-year-old girl, identified as Nikita Vasaiya from Kharwani village, was killed on the spot after receiving head injuries. Another 60-year-old woman, Santudi Ninama, was seriously injured whose left arm had to be amputated during treatment. Of the total injured persons, eight were taken to health centre in Limkheda, while Ninama was taken to Zydus hospital in Dahod town. Others who had suffered minor injuries were given treatment on the spot by the paramedical staff. An offence of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered against the unidentified bus driver at Limkheda police station. On September 27, 45 labourers from Uttar Pradesh who were on their way to Surat were injured as their bus had overturned near Godhra. Similarly, on September 20, a bus carrying nearly 100 passengers from Dahod had overturned in Mahisagar where 25 passengers were injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bus-overturns-in-dahod-girl-killed/articleshow/78480539.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Farmers made to sell cotton below MSP’||Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Talwandi Sabo MLA Baljinder Kaur said cotton farmers from Malwa are being forced to sell their produce below Minimum Support Price (MSP) because the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has not started procurement yet. MSP of cotton was set between Rs 5,515 and Rs 5,725 per quintal, but the produce is being procured at Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,500 per quintal, she added. The AAP leader further said that businessmen claimed that they were unable to purchase the produce because of the high moisture content. Therefore, farmers have been now been left with no option but to sell their produce below MSP. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-made-to-sell-cotton-below-msp/articleshow/78482675.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Kanpur||Scrap motor parts beautifycity, convey health message||Varanasi: An art installation made by assembling motor parts like rims, springs, sprockets, clutch parts, ball-bearings, springs, gaskets, pistons and rings artistically into a human yoga posture at the crossing in Chaukaghat area in the city has become a centre of attraction. Set up by a group of local artisans who drew inspiration from PM Narendra Modi’s stress on yoga, the art installation is beautifying the city besides giving a message of fitness and healthy living to the society. The installation put up on October 2 to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi has become very popular and curious people have started thronging the spot to take selfies with it. The municipal authorities had invited city-centric motivational themes from fine arts professionals for beautification of the city. Manish Sharma, a freelance designer who along with Praveedamani Tripathi created the installation, told TOI on Sunday, “Municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi and assistant municipal commissioner Pramita Singh had briefed us about the beautification project based on the theme of the city’s culture.” They both are associated with ‘Artisan’, an organization engaged in art designing for carpet, textiles, painting and thematic arts. “We chose the theme of Yoga for its universal appeal to make mankind physically and spiritually healthy and fit,” he said, adding that yoga is also highly recommended for boosting immunity and fighting against Covid-19. The design was readily approved by the municipal authorities. The 10-feet-tall installation with eight hands spread out in sitting posture of yoga took 9-10 days to complete, he said, adding that scrapped motor parts were used in it. Another group of artisans has created a big globe displaying the importance of the work force and role of workers in nation building at Kutchehry crossing. Another art creation in the Kutchery Park — a helmet-wearing butterfly symbolizes the importance of following traffic rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/scrap-motor-parts-beautifycity-convey-health-message/articleshow/78481520.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Active cases down 22,000 since September 17 in UP||LUCKNOW: Although the number of active cases has gone down by 22,000 since September 17, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday emphasized on extra precautions to break the chain of coronavirus infection. In the past 24 hours, 3,930 fresh cases were detected while 5,226 people were discharged after recovery. Chairing a review meeting, the CM asked officials to identify districts recording more than 100 cases per day and ensure constitution of containment zones. He also asked officials to put in place house-to-house supply of essential goods. He specifically mentioned Lucknow and Kanpur where the number of coronavirus cases is high. Additional chief secretary (medical and health) Amit Mohan Prasad said the number of active cases have come down by nearly 22,000 since September 17 when 68,235 active cases were registered. On Sunday, there were only 46,385 active cases. Similarly, the recovery rate has gone up to 87.3%. Prasad said people should not fall in the trap of false sense of security as it could lead to second surge of Covid-19 infection as was the case with Delhi and Kerala. “At least 3.6 lakh people have been discharged from hospital after treatment. More than 1.5 lakh samples were tested in last 24 hours. With this, the total number of tests so far has reached close to 3.1 crore,” Prasad added. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, said besides controlling the spread of coronavirus, the CM has emphasised on giving a thrust to industrial development in the state. “Already, 8 lakh industrial units are working in the state and arrangement of loans has been made through banks,” Sehgal said. He said nearly 4.3 lakh units had already been given loans to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore. “Likewise, nearly 4.2 lakh MSME units have received loans worth Rs 14,000 crore,” he said. Sehgal added that Covid-19 situation was being reviewed regularly. “The home department is carrying out a drive to enforce preventive measures including use of face masks at this crucial time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-cases-down-22k-since-sept-17/articleshow/78483157.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Surat||To woo wife, man abandons young son; fakes kidnapping||SURAT: Caught between child and wife, 25-year-old man wanted to repair strained relations with his wife first by making his ‘hindrance’ disappear for some time. However, the grand ‘couple-time’ designs failed and the man tripped in his own trap. Police are now planning to register an offence against the father for wilfully abandoning a small child. As for Prince, the five-year-old son, the 24-hour adventure he unwittingly had, thanks to his ‘adventuresome’ father, was nothing less than harrowing. Saheb Chaudhary, a native of West Champaran district in Bihar, told the police that his relation with his 23-year-old wife, Saroj, was developing cracks owing to the presence of the child which hampered their privacy and also affected the child’s studies. The problem only got aggravated during the lockdown and the couple’s love marriage of around six years was almost on the rocks. The couple is employed as textile unit workers and live in a rented accommodation in Pali locality in Sachin GIDC with their son Prince. On Saturday, Chaudhary was not called at work due to a power cut while Saroj went to work. Alone at home with Prince, the father hit upon the devilish plan and cooked up a ‘kidnap’ story of his son for the Sachin GIDC police station where he went to register a missing complaint late on Saturday evening. Chaudhary claimed Prince went missing between 2 and 3 pm and hinted that he may have been kidnapped. Police launched a search operation and when they questioned neighbours, cops got a lead that the father had ben searching for the child since 12.30 pm, said J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, F division. But the father’s lie was caught when police came to know that he did not inform his wife about the child missing in the afternoon. “This behaviour raised our suspicions,” said cops who forced Chaudhary to spill the beans on the ‘missing’ drama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/to-woo-wife-man-abandons-young-son-fakes-kidnapping/articleshow/78481433.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 5, 2020||Surat||Ashish Gujarati voted as new SGCCI VP||SURAT: Ashish Gujarati, the leader of the powerloom weaving industry, was elected as the vice-president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) in a victory against the well-known chartered accountant, Mitesh Modi, on Sunday. This is the second consecutive defeat for Modi in the past two years. In 2019, Modi was defeated by the present president of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya, in the vice-presidential election. Out of the total 2,878 valid votes, Gujarati received 1,777 votes, while Modi received 1,098 votes. Gujarati told TOI: “This is the first time after one decade that the textile industry has got the representation in the SGCCI. Due to the Covid-19, the situation of the trade and industry in the city has gone from bad to worse. .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ashish-gujarati-voted-as-new-sgcci-vp/articleshow/78481109.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Case against tribespeople for repairing road||Palakkad: Forest department has registered cases against 320 tribespeople in Parambikulam for repairing a road through forest to reach their hamlets without passing through Tamil Nadu.Due to the lack of proper Ghat Road from Chemmanampathy to Thekkadi, the tribespeople need to travel around 40km through Tamil Nadu to reach their settlements in Allimooppan Colony, Muppathekkar and Oravanpadi. Over Friday and Saturday, the tribespeople cleared the undergrowth and laid earth across 3km on the stretch. The repaired road has cut down the distance for the tribespeople from 40km to around 17km. Kollengode forest range officer registered cases against tribespeople for encroaching into forest under section 27 of Forest Conversation Act, said Nemmara divisional forest officer C P Aneesh. The tribespeople of Parambikulam have been demanding a Ghat Road from Chemmanampathy to Thekkadi road for decades. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/case-against-tribespeople-for-repairing-road/articleshow/78481808.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Begum Bazar to get a face lift||HYDERABAD: The Begum Bazar fish market located in the Khairtabad zone is getting a face lift with a three storied building being built for vendors. The structure, with 9,000 square feet of space, will be able to accommodate 200 stalls. It will have a parking area , two lifts, ice flaking machine and a walk-in freezer. The project has been taken up by National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB) and GHMC. “Project cost is Rs 9 crore. By December the construction will be completed,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-storied-bldg-at-begum-bazar/articleshow/78482674.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Hooda, BJP in connivance, alleges former Haryana Cong chief Tanwar||YAMUNANAGAR: Senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda is working in connivance with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and both are helping each other, alleged former Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) chief Ashok Tanwar, who held a press conference at the house of social worker Sanjeev Chaudhary in Jagadhri on Sunday. He said the people of Haryana would reduce the BJP to one or two seats in the assembly elections in the future. “People of Haryana are upset and angry with the BJP government. They have made up their mind to uproot this government as it has failed on all fronts and every section of the society is protesting. Earlier, it won four or five seats, but in the next state assembly elections, BJP will be able to win only one or two seats,” said Tanwar. Talking about upcoming elections at Baroda constituency, Tanwar said, “People there want to defeat BJP in Baroda by-elections, but surprisingly several leaders of the Congress are making efforts to ensure that BJP candidate wins. Several leaders of the Congress party are working in secret coalition with the BJP. The people want change and they are fed up with the present political system. People are searching for an option and we will prove a good option for them,” Tanwar said. Tanwar went on to allege that Hooda one among the Congress leaders who is working in connivance with BJP and both are helping each other. “It has been six years since the BJP is ruling, why is the government not putting him in jail? It is because they are the same and have reached settlements to close the files of investigation. There is darkness all around the Congress and the leadership in Haryana is not supporting Rahul Gandhi and he seems helpless. All 23 people who raised questions on Congress leadership in connivance with BJP, should be expelled from the party,” he added. According to Tanwar, “Former chief minister Hooda during his tenure gave away thousands of acres of land, exploited farmers, and some land was also returned, lawsuits were filed but all is quiet. BJP and Congress are in collusion but no one is going to listen.” Tanwar also alleged that the central and the Haryana governments failed to handle the Covid-19 pandemic and people lost their lives and cases are increasing with large numbers on daily basis. Talking about three agriculture laws, Tanwar said, “These laws have been passed to benefit big capitalists and to ruin the farmers. If the opposition parties would have played their role in Parliament honestly, the three farm laws would never have been passed and farmers would have been busy in the field rather than staging protests in the streets,” said Tanwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooda-bjp-in-connivance-alleges-former-haryana-cong-chief-tanwar/articleshow/78482685.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Chennai||45% of packaged water samples from Chennai unsafe, corpn tells NGT||CHENNAI: Nearly 45% of packaged water samples tested from the city were unsafe, Greater Chennai Corporation has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT). A total of 187 samples were collected from cans, bottles, sachets and water manufacturing units in the city and 42 of them were found unfit for analysis. The remaining 147 samples were analysed, of which 30 were bacteriologically not satisfactory, 20 were misbranded and 14 contained bacteria and were misbranded, according to the city corporation’s affidavit filed with NGT. A senior official from health wing of GCC said unsafe drinking water could cause diarrhoea, cholera and even typhoid and added, “We are trying our best to prevent spread of such water-borne diseases by conducting surprise inspections and awareness campaigns.” Besides this, Tamil Nadu Food Safety and Drugs Administration Department too independently analysed 50 randomly collected water samples and found only 16 of them to be of prescribed standards. The rest were ‘sub-substandard’ and ‘unsafe’. The tribunal, considering the submissions made, came to a conclusion that a large portion of the packaged water being sold in the market in Chennai was not fit for consumption and ordered that strict action be taken in necessary cases without delay. According to official data, there are 462 drinking water packaging units in Chennai’s suburbs Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram and inspections have revealed that 157 of them operated without the mandatory No Objection Certificate (NOC) from Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), food safety department and other statutory bodies. Thirty six of them were shut down by TNPCB and the units, which were extracting groundwater illegally, approached the Madras high court for reprieve. The court granted them permission to reopen the units but on condition that they make make a security deposit for Rs 50,000 while applying for or renewing their licence. Also, to meet the emergency need of increased demand of bottled water in the state and in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the court, through an interim order, allowed all firms in safe and semi-critical ‘firkas’ to operate upon free contribution of 15% of daily production to public. Complying with the order, 34 firms have contributed 1.75lakh LPD (litres per day) of water for free to the public, said the geology department. Admitting this, NGT southern zone members Justice J M Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta on September 21 disposed of the petition as the case was pending at the high court and with actions being monitored directly, there was no necessity for NGT’s involvement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/45-of-packaged-water-samples-from-city-unsafe-corpn-tells-ngt/articleshow/78482687.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 5, 2020||Allahabad||Naini gangster’s illegal lodge razed||PRAYAGRAJ: A joint team of Praygaraj Development Authority (PDA), administrative officials and police on Sunday demolished a lodge cum complex belonging to former block pramukh and gangster Dilip Mishra in Naini area of Prayagraj district. The structure was razed during action against the jailed gangster’s unauthorised properties in the city. PDA officials said that the property was valued to be around Rs 10 crore. They also said that PDA hadn’t sanctioned a map for the construction of the lodge. PDA officer on special duty Alok Pandey said “The development authority took cognisance that this building was constructed illegally. The structure is spread around 850 square meters. The entire land would now be attached by PDA.” He said that the demolition squad started razing the illegal building in the afternoon and the work continued till late evening. Tight security was deployed during the demolition drive. Officials said that the lodge was sealed and a few other properties owned by Mishra were attached by the district administration during the tenure of the Bahujan Samaj Party government under the provisions of Gangster Act. Earlier in September, Prayagraj district administration had also demolished several properties owned by former MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmed and his associates. Police and the district revenue department had last month attached many fields owned by gangsters in Tikuri and Deorakh villages of the district under the Gangster Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-lodge-owned-by-gangster-dilip-mishra-demolished-in-naini/articleshow/78481530.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Coming soon: DMRC's big commercial hub in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Located a short distance from each other, both Anand Vihar and Karkardooma Metro Stations are important interchange facilities where Blue (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida Electronic City) and Pink (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) Lines merge, thereby creating a thriving transport hub. This is also where the capital’s first transit-oriented development (TOD) project — East Delhi Hub — is coming up. Delhi Metro has now started turning these busy interchange stations into commercial hubs with malls, restaurants, offices, banks and even transit hotels on offer. The 60-acre site, where Delhi’s first TOD project would come up, is situated around Blue and Pink Line stations of Karkardooma flanked by Anand Vihar interchange station on the eastern end. The project would see 30 residential and commercial towers, with the tallest being 48 storeys (161 metres) high. The first phase would see four towers come up around Karkardooma’s Blue and Pink line corridors. Creating the East Delhi Hub project was a challenge as highrise residential towers would be centered around the Blue and Pink lines. Despite two elevated corridors and two busy interchange Metro Stations, the project has been designed in such a manner that the buildings coexist with nature instead of looking like a concrete jungle. At the heart of the project is a green area spread over 10 acres. There would also be extensive usage of vertical and terrace gardens. The 48-storey tower would have a facade with 2-3 layers of traditional lattice work in different patterns to trap dust and create standing waves that damp out noise. There would be high-density, mixed-use buildings close to the stations as Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) TOD policy aims to induce people to walk, cycle and use Metro and buses. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is planning commercial development at Karkardooma station to cater to the rise in demand. DMRC would lease out an area measuring 9,563 square metres at Karkardooma Pink Line station, which would include space on the first, second and third floors for specific purposes like retail, organised commercial space, offices, banks, etc. Plans are also afoot to allow educational institutions and coaching centres. The space for the complex was kept during construction of the spacious Pink Line station, said a DMRC spokesperson. “Even before the TOD project comes up, the commercial complex will cater to the existing residential and office areas nearby. The station also lies in close proximity to Karkardooma District Courts Complex. Separate access is available at the station for commercial areas and parking space, apart from a prominent and spacious frontage,” the DMRC spokesperson said. At Anand Vihar, DMRC has approximately 8,600 square metres available at the older Blue Line station. “The station is located next to a huge transport hub with connectivity to Pink and Blue lines, railway station and ISBT. The area also has adequate social and physical infrastructure and amenities such as educational institutes, hospitals and nursing homes, entertainment facilities and Yamuna Sports Complex. Sahibabad and Patparganj industrial areas are also in the vicinity. Such factors give it a high potential for commercial development,” said the spokesperson. The area has been divided by DMRC into two packages, one being 1,130 square metres at the concourse level and another of 7,470 square metres on the ground and first floors. “The tender for the first package has already been invited, while the one for the second is scheduled for next month,” said the official. The foundation stone for East Delhi Hub was laid by Union home minister Amit Shah in January this year and DDA selected NBCC for implementing the project, which has a deadline of 2023. The Karkardooma TOD project was approved by DDA in 2014, but then it went into cold storage. With DDA finalising its TOD policy last year, the project was revived. DDA has also selected areas near Mayur Vihar Extension, Dwarka Sector 21, Rohini Sector 18, Mukundpur, Sarojini Nagar and INA Metro Stations for development under the TOD policy. Watch DMRC to turn interchanging stations into commercial hubs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coming-soon-dmrcs-big-commercial-hub-in-delhi/articleshow/78481814.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 5, 2020||Kanpur||Missing girl’s body found hanging from tree||Kanpur: The body of a 20-year-old girl who was missing since September 30, was found hanging from a tree in Unnao district on late Saturday night. The girl had gone missing three days ago from her house in Shivgan village of Unnao, a police officer said. “A missing case was registered on September 30 and a search operation was underway to trace the girl. On late Saturday night, a passerby informed us that the body of a girl was hanging from a tree,” said circle officer Ramesh Chandra. “The exact cause of the death yet to be ascertained. We are trying to find out whether the girl died by suicide, or was hanged by someone else. The girl’s uncle alleged foul play and suspected the hand of a local youth in the matter. After the preliminary investigation, the body was sent for autopsy. Investigation into the matter has begun,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/missing-girls-body-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/78481580.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Kanpur||Kin of Unnao rape victim missing, 3 cops suspended||KANPUR: Three cops deployed to secure the family members of the Unnao rape victim, who had died after being set ablaze by upper caste men, were suspended after her six-year-old nephew went missing late Friday in Bihar police station area of Unnao district. The rape victim was set ablaze on December 5, 2019. Inspector General (Lucknow range) Lakshmi Singh went to investigate the case on Saturday on receiving information about the case. She ordered suspension of three cops, including gunner Narendra Kumar Yadav, constable Rajesh Kumar and lady constable Anuj. “The three cops were deloyed to provide security to the family members of the rape survivor, who was allegedly set ablaze on December 5, 2019,” informed police sources. On the basis of a complaint given by the kin, police have registered a case against five people. Investigations and search operations to locate the child are underway. Police said, “A six-year-old child was reported missing in Bhatankheda in Bihar police station area on Friday night. The family of the child has lodged a complaint against five people, Captain Bajpai, Saroj Trivedi, Anita, Sundara Lodh and Harshit Bajpai, all of the same village and related to the accused Shubham and Shivam Trivedi, Harishankar, Umesh and Ramkishore, who had allegedly poured petrol on the rape survivor and set her ablaze to prevent her from going to Baiswara railway station where she was supposed to board a train for Rae Bareli for meeting her advocate.” Superintendent of police, Unnao, Anand Kulkarni said, “Three police staffers hve been suspended, besides a case under section 364 of IPC has been registered at the Bihar police station and teams from five police stations including Bihar, Barasagwar, Purwa, Maurawan and Bighapur have been roped in to recover the missing child.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nephew-of-deceased-rape-survivor-goes-missing-from-unnao/articleshow/78481627.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Allahabad||SHUATS scholar grows ‘goldenrod’ flower in contrast climatic conditions of Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A research scholar of SHUATS, Naini has been successful in growing ‘goldenrod’, a flower which is mostly used for decorative purposes, in the climatic conditions of Prayagraj. Sai Bharath has been successful in growing this high-yield and commercially viable flower round the year, including extreme weather in winter when the mercury plunges to near three degrees Celcius. This promises a bright future for the farmers of the region engaged in floriculture. “The origin of goldenrod’s common name refers to both the flower’s colour and the plant’s spindly presentation. The genus name comes from two Latin words: solidus (meaning ‘whole’) and ago (meaning ‘make). It’s botanical is Solidago canadensis L. Bharath has developed this plant under the guidance of S S Saravanan, associate professor of horticulture department at SHUATS, and with the help of Vijay Bahadar, head of the department. “A Pune based farm provided me with the mother plant with a word of caution that this will not survive in climate in Prayagraj. The crop can be cultivated throughout the year. Bright sunny warm weather is best suited for its healthy growth and can be grown in sandy loam to red loam soils with proper drainage, the factors which were challenging for me to find out in Prayagraj,” said Bharath. This drought-tolerant flower can be grown under varied climatic conditions and is less prone to attack of pests and diseases. Although it lacks fragrance, it is very popular because of its attractive colour and thus used for making of bouquets as a filler material with combination of limonium and Holli Hock flower, he explained. Using goldenrod fillers in combination with limonium is becoming increasingly popular in India because professional florists use fillers not only to flatter the flowers, but also to keep the costs down. The horticulturists can not only grow this flower but can get the harvest all year along, he added. He added that apart from its decorative value, this plant has various medicinal properties like anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, analgesic and spasmolytic, antibacterial, antifungal, anticancer and immunomodulatory activity. “Santosh from Manjari farm in Pune told me that this plant is not tolerant to cold temperature and would not survive in winter as witnessed in Pryagraj, when the temperature as low as five degree Celsius. But, I planted the plants in December and the plants stood up with a hope of growing. We have grown the flowers and their quality is extremely good and the farmers will get good income,” said Bharath. Being a high-value and low-volume crop, this is one of the most demanded cut flower in India, and in special days the price goes up to Rs 20-25 per spike, which is enough to give an idea of the profit and sizable market that awaits the farmers, he said. It is more profitable for small and marginal farmers because they can get more income at lower costs in the available land. They can save labour charges and money by involving family members for harvesting, said his guide Saravanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/shuats-scholar-grows-goldenrod-flower-in-contrast-climatic-conditions-of-prayagraj/articleshow/78481561.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Amaravati||East Godavari crosses 1 lakh Covid cases; 40 more die in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: East Godavari became the first district in Andhra Pradesh to cross the one lakh Covid-19 case mark, even as the state reported 6,242 new infections on Sunday and 40 more deaths. While the cumulative caseload went up to 7,19,256, the Covid-19 toll increased to 5,981. Altogether, 7,084 people have recovered from the disease with 54,400 active cases and 6,58,875 cumulative recoveries, translating to 91% rate of recovery. East Godavari, the most populous district in AP, registered its first Covid-19 case on March 21 when a youth, who returned from London, was diagnosed with the disease. A few Markaz-related cases surfaced in the subsequent weeks apart from some local infections. A government school teacher tested positive on April 9 in Kathipudi village in EG district, transmitting the disease to another five family members and neighbours. Later, a 53-year-old man from Gollala Mamidada village succumbed to the disease within half an hour after his admission to the hospital on May 20. The victim was believed to have transmitted the disease to about 200 people in Pedapudi and neighbouring mandals. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/eg-crosses-1l-covid-cases-40-more-die-in-ap/articleshow/78482688.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Manager of fake educational institutes held in SC/ST scholarship scam||Haridwar: The SIT unit probing the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam have arrested the manager of two fake educational institutes for alleged fraud worth Rs 66 lakh. The owner had reportedly paid commission to a social welfare department officer for submitting a forged inspection report. A case has been registered against Ashwani Tandon, the chief of Hemlata Institute, located near Crystal World amusement park in Bhadrabad. He ran the institute claiming that it has the affiliation from Singhania University of Rajasthan and managed to get Rs 50.26 lakh scholarship from the social welfare department in 2013-14. During the probe, it was found that the institute was being run in four rooms and students never took classes there. Meanwhile, Singhania University of Rajasthan also denied giving any affiliation to the institute in question. Tandon, a Roorkee resident, is also suspected to have siphoned off scholarship funds to the tune of Rs 16.69 lakh through another institute which was run in a single room building in Vivek Vihar, Haridwar. SIT head Manjunath TC told TOI, “Ashwani Tandon ran two study centres and claimed that they were affiliated from Singhania University of Rajasthan and Manav Bharti Vishwa Vidyalaya of Himachal Pradesh. During investigation, he confessed that he gave 12% commission of the total amount to associate social welfare officer Munesh Tyagi to submit a forged inspection report of the study centre. We will take his police remand for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manager-of-fake-educational-institutes-held-in-sc/st-scholarship-scam/articleshow/78480840.cms||MS Nawaz
October 5, 2020||Meerut||Construction at five illegal colonies stopped in M’ngr||Muzaffarnagar: In a crackdown against illegal colonies in the city, Muzaffarnagar Development Authority (MDA) on Sunday stopped all construction activities in five such localities on Pahenda road, under New Mandi police station. The layouts of these colonies have not been approved by MDA but residential plots have been marked out and construction started at a few sites, officials said.Earlier, a notice was served on these colonies.On Sunday, MDA officials along with a big police force reached the localities and bulldozed some newly-built foundations in a few plots and small constructions. One building was razed.An official said no "owner" of the plots has come forward to lodge a complaint. Ajay Ambasth, sub divisional magistrate, said, "The layouts of the colonies were not approved by MDA and registration with Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) was not done. These colonies are illegal and action was taken against them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/construction-at-five-illegal-colonies-stopped-in-mngr/articleshow/78480836.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Gang that stole 68 high-end bikes held||CHENNAI: A gang of 10 men which stole 68 high-end bikes from across the city and resold a few has been arrested. Operating as two teams, the gang members took away vehicles from Kilpauk, Periamet, Nungambakkam, Saidapet, Royapuram and Korrukupet. Following a series of complaints of theft of Royal Enfield bikes, R Sudhakar, joint commissioner of police (east), formed a special team to look into them. The team, while skimming CCTV camera footage from crime scenes, noticed that the vehicles stopped at surveillance blackspots, only to re-emerge on camera after two days. Police began tracking cellphone numbers that moved in the areas frequently around the time of theft and zeroed in on the ten accused. During interrogation, they spilled the beans and told police that they had a WhatsApp group for sale of bikes and stole bikes according to buyers’ requirements. “To avoid being tracked through CCTVs, one team stole the bike, parked it in a blindspot, while a member of the other team picked up the vehicle using a duplicate key,” Sudhakar said. They sold the bikes for Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000. In a reminder, city traffic police asked vehicle owners to adhere to number plate norms. Vehicles with engine capacity below 500cc should have letters 35mm in height, 7mm in thickness and with 5mm space between them, while three-wheelers above 500 cc should have letters and numbers 40mm in the height.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-that-stole-68-high-end-bikes-held/articleshow/78482692.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urges kids to take dengue campaign forward||NEW DELHI: In the fifth week of the government’s anti-dengue campaign, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal encouraged school students to participate in the drive by inspecting their houses for 10 minutes at 10am every Sunday. Kejriwal, who himself inspected his house for stagnant clean water on Sunday as part of the government’s 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute campaign, asked children to call their friends and motivate them to take part in it. “Delhi’s campaign against dengue continues. Today, on the fifth Sunday of the campaign, I replaced the water at home and eliminated the possibility of breeding of dengue mosquitoes. I urge everyone to be part of this campaign every Sunday. #10Hafte10Baje10Minute Har Ravivaar, Dengue Par Vaar,” the chief minister tweeted. The campaign is witnessing encouraging participation from children. Yuvraj, a Class VIII student in a Delhi government school, has been replacing stagnant water at home every Sunday and also urging his friends to do so to prevent mosquito breeding. “In this campaign against dengue, the children of Delhi are doing their homework well. Other students, along with Yuvraj, also checked their houses and replaced the stagnant water. I pray to God that our children remain safe from dengue, stay healthy, and do good in life,” Kejriwal tweeted. The campaign was launched in early September to make people aware about the danger of dengue. The mosquitoes causing dengue breed in clean stagnant water and even a teaspoon of it is enough for their breeding. The campaign urges people to clear stagnant water from pots, coolers, airconditioners, tyres, vases etc. every week. A small layer of oil/petrol can also be added to the accumulated water, the government said in a statement. People should also cover water tanks with lids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-urges-kids-to-take-dengue-campaign-forward/articleshow/78481820.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mysuru||Lack of civic sense hobbles state’s fight against Covid||MYSURU: Despite orders issued by the government repeatedly reiterate the need for pregnant women, elderly and children under the age of 10 – deemed particularly vulnerable to Covid-19 infection – to limit their movement in public spaces, one sees parents bringing their kids along to several crowded places with scant regard for either their safety or that of their wards. In crowded shopping complexes in Mysuru city, one finds kids in the five to ten age group trailing their parents. Experts are severely distressed at such disregard for safety norms, failure to follow which they warn may lead to an alarming spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the Heritage City. Residents sensitive to the perils of unguarded movement of children and elderly citizens, rued the lack of caution among the people despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Mysuru city and the rest of the district. “Go to any supermarket and you will see pregnant women, parents with infants and elderly citizens roaming about freely. Most shoppers wear masks indifferently. Although it is unavoidable for some of the people to make visits to stores and supermarkets, most people have no valid excuse to be in such crowded spaces. This attitude needs to change,” said a representative of a supermarket on Narayana Shastri Road in Mysuru. An officer in the health department said that sensitising people was the only way forward. “People are not completely serious about the infection. It will be easy to check the spread of the pandemic if we join hands in this fight. But people are still unwilling to sacrifice many of their habits,” he said. Mysuru City Corporation chief health officer Dr MS Jayant said that, in addition to penalising those seen in public without masks, the civic agency was engaged in raising awareness on safety. “We will intensify the drive in the coming days,” Dr Jayant said. Munish Moudgil, who heads Karnataka’s Covid-19 war room, said that the uncooperative attitude of the people was one of the biggest hurdles in the fight against the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lack-of-civic-sense-hobbles-states-fight-against-covid/articleshow/78479965.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Remodelling from scrap a passion||Kochi: After completing Class X in 2018, Sumith Sunil aka Ambily, a 17-year-old boy from Vaikom, had dreamt of choosing science stream in Class XI due to his passion for machines. But low marks in SSLC landed him in commerce class at Govt D V HSS Vechoor in Kumarakom. But that didn’t deter his passion for machines, proof of which is a ‘cycle-motorbike’ made by this Class XII student during the lockdown. His cycle-bike made from scrap is already a hit on social media. Ambily, the younger son of Sunil Kumar, an autorickshaw driver, and Cinimol, a homemaker, has made a petrol-powered motorbike that resembles a bicycle. “My plan was to make a car with bike’s engine but due to space constraints at home I thought of making a bike that resembles a bicycle. It took me a month to complete the work, including finding the material from the scrap shop. I studied the making and functioning of bike from YouTube videos and from workshops near my house,” he said. “Vehicles have been a passion for Ambily since childhood and he used to come with me whenever I take my autorickshaw to workshop. When he said he wanted to make a bike, we helped him purchase equipment and machines needed. My elder son Sujith Sunil too helped Ambily,” said Sunil. “Repairing the engine, which was from an old Hero Honda CD100 bike, and mating it with the gearbox and fuel tank consumed more time. The bike can move at a speed of up to 50kmph and has a mileage of 40kms. The silencer was made using a spray paint bottle and seat was taken from an old bicycle. The total cost came to around Rs 10,000,” said Ambily. Ambily’s dream is to become a mechanical engineer and he plans to pursue polytechnic after completing Class XII. He is now in pursuit of getting a fitness certificate and registration for his bike from the motor vehicle department. As the video of his cycle-bike has gone viral on social media, Ambily has been getting calls from several people. “Since it is difficult to get permission to use these motorbikes on road, I am planning to make electric bikes, which are easier to get registered. I am working on the designs now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/remodelling-from-scrap-a-passion/articleshow/78480862.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 5, 2020||Goa||One more IPL betting racket busted||Calangute: An IPL betting racket was busted at Candolim by Calangute police late Saturday night. This is the second illegal betting operation to be busted in the Calangute-Candolim tourism hub within three days. Calangute police said they received a tip-off about the IPL betting racket being operated from an apartment in a resort near the Candolim primary health centre, following which they raided the place. The police nabbed three persons red-handed for their involvement in the IPL betting during the match played between Rajasthan Royals and Royal Challengers Bangalore. The three have been identified as Bhanu P, 21, Raju Rao, 34, and Shahi Kiran, 33, all natives of Hyderabad. They were arrested after being charged under Sections 3 and 4 of the Goa Public Gambling Act. Police have also seized Rs 8,400 cash, three cellphones and one laptop. They were subsequently released on bail after furnishing sureties of Rs 10,000 each. On Wednesday, five persons had been arrested after Calangute police busted a similar IPL betting racket operating from a villa in Candolim. Of the five arrested , four were from Rajasthan and one from Nepal. Police had also seized Rs 95,000 cash, nine mobiles and two laptops. They were later released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-more-ipl-betting-racket-busted/articleshow/78482694.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s recovery rate more than state avg, cases reducing||Nagpur: For the fourth consecutive day in October, Covid-19 cases showed downward trend on Saturday. Starting with 2,194 cases on October 1, daily caseload of all 11 districts in the region together reduced to 1,609 cases on October 4. This figure is lowest since August 25. On the other hand, 2,895 patients recovered in a day. Now, out of total 1,56,668 Covid-19 patients, 1,26,441 have recovered. Recovery rate is above 80% for the first time while state’s average is 76.6%. High deaths still remain a matter of concern. Total 51 patients died on Sunday. Highest 27 deaths were reported in Nagpur, followed by Amravati (10), Wardha (6), Chandrapur (4), Bhandara (3), and Akola (1). Case fatality rate of region is still 2.68%, which indicates that people are getting Covid-19 tests done on time. The infection takes serious form and patients land in hospital in critical condition. Good news is that five districts — Gadchiroli, Yavatmal, Gondia, Washim and Buldhana — reported no Covid-19 death on Sunday. Day’s cases came from Nagpur (617), Chandrapur (159), Amravati (138), Buldhana (138), Bhandara (126), Gondia (120), Gadchiroli (111), Wardha (84), Washim (68), Akola (26) and Yavatmal (22). As reported by TOI on October 1, caseload is now shifted to Nagpur division from Amravati division. On Sunday, Amravati division reported only 392 new cases out of total 1,609. Nagpur reported highest 1,379 recoveries for the day, followed by Chandrapur (428), Gondia (305), Akola (186), Amravati (147), Bhandara (106), Buldhana (102), Gadchiroli (99), Wardha (96), and Washim (47). Though, recovery rate is increasing, Vidarbha is far behind the national average which is nearly 84% now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-recovery-rate-more-than-state-avg-cases-reducing/articleshow/78482700.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM: Opposition triggering caste conflict||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday launched a blistering attack on the Opposition, accusing it of triggering a caste conflagration in the state to eclipse development work carried out by the BJP government. Yogi’s statement comes in the backdrop of Opposition’s mounting attack on the government over the alleged rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras district. Addressing BJP workers in Naugawan Sadat in Amroha district through video conference, Yogi said, the Opposition was unable to digest the leap of development in Uttar Pradesh and was plotting to destabilize government functioning by fanning caste conflicts. The CM’s attack came even as Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad and RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary marched to Hathras to meet the family of the Hathras girl. Yogi said, several public welfare schemes were executed in six years of the Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre and the pandemic notwithstanding, the UP government launched people-centric schemes. “Because of Corona, by-elections would be different and there would be no big rallies,” Yogi said, stressing on role of booth-level workers to carry out door-to-door campaigns to apprise people about the government’s development work. Yogi said, if the party managed to reach every voter through booth-level functionaries, they would sweep the ensuing bypolls. The CM reiterated his government’s commitment to generate 3 lakh government jobs in coming days. He said, 20 lakh youth are already employed with government aid and exhorted BJP functionaries to fulfil the dreams of late Chetan Chauhan, former cricketer and MLA of Naugaon Sadat, who sought swift development of Moradabad division. Addressing party workers, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, BJP patriarch Late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath exemplify honesty and integrity. “This is the most important aspect of our party. We must expose the malicious designs of the Opposition,” he said. Singh said, the party would abide by the mantra of coordination and mass contact programmes to win the bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-opposition-triggering-caste-conflict/articleshow/78483160.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Long weekend, no curbs get tourists back to HP||MANALI: Himachal Pradesh, which had restricted entry of outsiders till last month, is witnessing its first tourist surge during the coronavirus pandemic this weekend. Thousands of tourists travelled to Shimla, Manali, Dalhousie, Dharamshala and other Himachal towns after the state government removed mandatory requirements of Covid-19 test and registration with the state authorities. The Himachal government led by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had eased these restrictions on September 17. However, it took a long weekend for tourists to arrive in large numbers. The influx of tourists has left parking places in most towns fully occupied as inter-state bus service is still to be resumed and tourists are travelling in their private vehicles. The sudden surge in the number of tourist vehicles in Shimla and Manali this weekend resulted in traffic moving at a snail’s pace. Many vehicles were also seen parked on the roadsides as there was no space in parking lots in both Shimla and Manali. Many tourists are staying in hotels and homestays away from crowds and are avoiding visiting the towns. Most tourists are from neighbouring areas of Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana, Delhi and UP and occupancy rate in hotels has risen to over 50%. Tourists from other states are yet to return as they seem to be worried about crossing multiple state borders. Rajeev Mehra, a tourist from Delhi, said he wanted to leave the national capital since the lockdown was imposed. “I was working from home for over five months. My wife and I were looking for a long break. Himachal has comparatively very few cases of Covid-19. So, we decided to head to Shimla and Manali. Travelling with others is still unsafe, so we decided to drive our own car,” he said. Interestingly, elderly and small children are not seen among the tourists in the state. Only young and middle-aged tourists are visible everywhere. The Rohtang tunnel has become a favourite tourist destination. Hundreds of tourists are reaching here after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated it on Saturday.Manali Hoteliers Association president Anup Thakur said, “Our member hotels are open for booking. As soon as hotels opened, tourists started thronging the hill town. Tourist places here have come alive after a long time. Tourists are visiting Rohtang pass and now they have a new destination as Atal tunnel,” he said. A large number of hotels in Manali have opened from October 1. Nearly half of the hotels in Manali opened from October 1 and their overall occupancy rate reached almost 50 % this weekend. Overall hotel occupancy in Shimla has reached over 60 % this weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/long-weekend-no-curbs-get-tourists-back-to-hp/articleshow/78482699.cms||Suresh Sharma
October 5, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD panel to work for more fiscal autonomy||CHANDIGARH: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday announced formation of a committee comprising senior leaders of the party to coordinate with other regional and like-minded parties in the country for establishing a ‘genuinely federal structure’ in the country. The decision was taken at a meeting of the SAD’s core committee held at the party headquarters in Chandigarh. The panel will be chaired by party secretary general Balwidner Singh Bhunder and also include Prem Singh Chandumajra, Manjinder Singh Sirsa and Naresh Gujral as members. The committee will coordinate with the leaders of other regional parties and those who have been consistently advocating more fiscal and political autonomy for the states. Sukhbir told the core committee that the need for strengthening the federal structure of the country has become more pronounced in the wake of recent threats posed to it. The SAD core committee also urged the Centre to immediately convene a joint meeting of all stakeholders in the on-going farmers’ struggle, including representatives of farmers, farm labourers, shopkeepers and all political parties, to resolve the crisis arising out of the controversial farm laws. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-panel-to-work-for-more-fiscal-autonomy/articleshow/78482701.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Copy that! Study material home-delivered||NEW DELHI: Despite photocopying and thesis printing shops reopening a couple of months ago, the absence of students in the once crowded area near Patel Chest Institute in Delhi University’s North Campus indicates the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on businesses. To counter the losses, many shops have taken to “creating” reading materials: photocopying portions from books and couriers them to students across the country. Books are expensive, and many students prefer the photocopied reading materials, allowing the shop owners to earn some sort of an income. Lalit, recalling the big crowd of students at his photocopy facility earlier, said that even the few who come to the shop only have small tasks like getting prints of their project works or theses “This is not enough to sustain our business,” he said. Most of the shop owners did not want to reveal their names or admit to the activity, still recalling the case filed by Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press and Taylor & Francis against Rameshwari Photocopy Service in 2012 for infringement of the copyrights through photocopied distribution of popular books. But the publishing bodies’ withdrawal of the case in 2017 gave students the option of avoiding the purchase of books but getting relevant segments photocopied for use. A photocopy shop owner at a college has shifted his place of operation and adopted the new business model. He said, “With the college shut and no prospects of it opening soon, I shifted to this area and now create reading materials. In two months since taking up this type of work, we have delivered bundles to students in Delhi and other states, including Telangana and Kashmir.” The charges for these deliveries vary, depending on the availability of the primary material. As another businessman revealed, “Mostly, we copy pages from only those books that are easy to procure from shops or the ones we already have bought from senior students who have graduated. We normally inform a student of our inability to provide materials from obscure books they may request.” Dharam Pal, owner of Rameshwari Photocopy, who was sued by the international publishers in 2012 noted, “If it weren’t for my case, things could have been bad for students during the pandemic. How can someone in remote areas of Ladakh, Assam or other states access texts from the syllabus? If not for relevant copies of the books, wouldn’t their studies suffer?” Students themselves are grateful for the what they call “necessary service”. “The photocopy shops send us reading material right to home,” said Yash Chaudhary, an economics MA course student. “Some charge as much as Rs 400 per delivery, but this amount is nothing compared with the cost of buying all the texts suggested in the syllabus.” In fact, the activity recently appeared to get official sanction at Rajdhani College, when the institution started a programme called Books Without Limits. According to assistant professor Anand Kumar, “The scheme helps students receive study materials at home and saves them a lot of money in buying new books.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/copy-that-study-material-home-delivered/articleshow/78482716.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 5, 2020||Goa||Chimbel locals oppose road widening||Panaji: Residents of Chimbel on Sunday strongly opposed the move to widen the service road along NH 4-A saying it threatens to harm the chapel of Our Lady of Immaculate conception at Portais. Speakers at a meeting held outside the chapel said that they are objecting to the manner in which the government is going ahead with its plans. They said that after an accident some months ago, at the junction, the government wants to push the alignment towards the chapel. S Prabhudesai and other residents suggested that the widening could be done on the northern side. Former MLA Victor Gonsalves said he was shocked by the new plan as there was no plan to bring the alignment a metre or two from the chapel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chimbel-locals-oppose-road-widening/articleshow/78482710.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s 2,800 c-zones mostly on paper as cases surge||Nagpur: Despite frequent orders of Central and state governments, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is not following guidelines of containment zone which is must to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. On paper, 2,800 containment zones exist in city but at ground-level the reality is different. Govenment notifications September 30 said lockdown will continue in containment zones till October 31. “Containment zones shall be demarcated after taking into consideration guidelines of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) with objective of effectively breaking the chain of transmission. Only essential activities will be allowed in these zones. There shall be strict perimeter control to ensure there is no movement of people in or out of these zones. There shall be intensive contact tracing, house-to-house surveillance and other clinical interventions. These zones will be notified on websites by the respective authorities,” the orders said. The same was also mentioned in Unlocking order issued for August and September. As per guidelines of containment zone on MoHFW’s website, there shall be a perimeter of a confined area comprising houses of cluster of cases and also a buffer zone outside perimeter. Surveillance teams are supposed to be appointed for tracing all persons who came in contact with positive patient for last two days, visit all houses daily to identify suspected cases in containment zones. It is mentioned that 100 households should be assigned to each team. Activist Narayan Ahuja said there is not a single area or lane in the city where containment zone was or is in existence for the last two onths. There is no area where there is restriction on movement of people let alone contact tracing and house-to-house surveillance. “I can give details of three immediate family members of positive patients who were not tested and died. They had symptoms of Covid-19. There are many cases in which NMC team even did not visit their house. NMC team comes and pastes a sticker whenever there is any complaint. Effective containment zone and contract tracing are only method to end chains,” he said. A senior citizen residing near Bhole Petrol Pump had tested positive on September 6. He was in home isolation for some days and later admitted in a private hospital for treatment. He got discharge a few days ago. The patient reportedly did not even get a call from NMC. TOI had reported a few positive persons found running shops. In some cases, asymptomatic positive patients have no option to go out for essential goods, medicines or treatment of symptomatic family member. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “There are around 2,800 containment zones in existence as of Sunday. Containment zone’s definition has changed with home isolation policy. We notify particular floor of a flat as containment zone in case of flat scheme. In case of an individual house, we declare 4-10 houses as containment zone depending upon area. Assistant commissioners have been given powers to declare containment zone. As the cases increased, bamboo barricade or nylon rope has replaced tin sheet barricading.” On Sunday, city had 7,278 active cases. TOI talked to five assistant commissioners who said they declare only one individual house as containment zone. “Our team goes to home of positive patients, pastes sticker or banner, notes down names of family members, neighbours and guide them about testing. It is not possible to monitor the patient in home isolation and family members in home quarantine. It is also not possible to deploy staff at each house as there are large number of cases. People should cooperate and realize their responsibilities,” they said. Assistant commissioner Ashok Patil said, “NMC should discontinue home isolation of positive patients for effective implementation of containment zone and contact tracing.” Till end of May, the civic body used to declare area upto 500 metres as containment zone and carry out house-to-house surveillance for 28 days. Area of containment zone in June and July was restricted to 50 houses or houses on two sides of a road. Since beginning of August, it was also stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-2800-c-zones-mostly-on-paper-as-cases-surge/articleshow/78482728.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 5, 2020||Chennai||With assembly polls in mind, GCC expedites ongoing projs||Chennai: The state assembly election is drawing close and the city corporation is in fast track mode, seeking to finish all pending projects slowed down by the lockdown. The civic body has come up with a tracker that gives info on the status of every project. Officials concerned conduct a review every day and inform the status to senior officials. A task management software is soon to be introduced. The multi-level car parking lot at Thanickachalam Road in T Nagar under the Smart City plan, one of the major projects that was stuck due to the lockdown, has now been fast tracked, with daily reports on the number of workers at the site being updated to senior officials who expect it to be ready for use before Diwali. Other Smart City projects including those to renovate school buildings, set up smart and inclusive parks, restore lakes like the one at Villivakkam and launch a LED light remote sensing monitoring system are being reviewed daily. Following a nod from the stormwater drain department, the civic agency has got funding from the Asian Development Bank for the Kosasthalaiyar basin and is set to float tenders soon. Work on the Kovalam basin is on and construction of 15 bridges is being tracked daily. Meghanath Reddy, in-charge deputy commissioner (works), said projects were reviewed every Monday, with officials told to give deadlines for not just completion of the whole project but also for the components. “With regard to the vertical gardens, sewage treatment plants have been set up, and ramps to keep pots placed. Now, pots have to be placed. For lake restoration, every day we get regular updates. Soon we will come up with a software to track all ongoing projects,” he said. There are colour codes for each project, with red denoting further review, green saying it is on schedule and yellow saying it needs better management. This is also for management companies that are creating proposals and monitoring projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-assembly-polls-in-mind-gcc-expedites-ongoing-projs/articleshow/78482707.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Balrampur rape-murder trial in fast-track court||LUCKNOW: Reaching out to the family of the 22-year-old Dalit gang-rape victim from Balrampur whose death coincided with that of the Hathras girl, the Yogi Adityanath government on Sunday suggested invoking the National Security Act (NSA) against the accused while sending the case to a fast-track court. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and additional DGP (law and order) Prashant Kumar's visit to Balrampur came a day after investigators received forensic confirmation of gang-rape. Awasthi, who had accompanied DGP H C Awasthy to Hathras on Saturday, said the family of the Balrampur victim suspects more than two men were involved in the gang-rape and fatal assault. They pleaded for the harshest possible punishment to the perpetrators, he said. The Balrampur district magistrate has been asked to stay in touch with the family. Awasthi said that if the local authorities deemed fit, the stringent NSA could be slapped on the prime accused, both of whom have been arrested along with two other alleged co-conspirators. The current charges are abduction, gang-rape and murder under the IPC and the sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The main accused, identified as Shahid and Sahil, had allegedly abducted the Dalit woman and raped her on September 29. When her condition worsened, they took her to a clinic, where a paramedic examined her and later hired a rickshaw to send her home.The woman's brother moved her to the district hospital, but she died before getting medical attention. The woman's sister told TOI that the visit by two top officials had raised her family's hope of getting justice. The family has sought Rs 1 crore as ex gratia, a job for a family member and a house, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/balrampur-rape-murder-trial-in-fast-track-court/articleshow/78483181.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Beer and biryani passé, voters in Hyderabad get masks & paracetamols||HYDERABAD: Move over crates of beer and biryani. This poll season, political parties are gifting packs of face mask and paracetamol tablets to woo voters ahead of the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. Cashing in on the Covid-19 pandemic, political parties have begun regular household connect activities to provide healthcare needs to voters in the middle income and below group divisions of the city. Voters who are used to tall promises of good roads and water, apart from liquor and biryani, are now getting free masks, vitamin tablets and eggs instead. Volunteers said the distribution of the free items will now spread to every household at least thrice before the municipal election. “We generally send our volunteers to note the number of voters and their concerns, but this time, we have healthcare questions as well,” A Damodar, who is working for the two aspirants in Kompally area, said. “Paracetamol tablets, one deposable mask for every person and one multivitamin strip are already being supplied in slums,” he added. Health camps are also being conducted as part of the household connect programmes. Each volunteer is given a task of covering a minimum of 50 households. Volunteers are also given free masks, sanitizers, and vitamin tablets along with Rs 1200 for 12 hours and Rs 600 for half a day’s work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beer-and-biryani-pass-voters-in-hyderabad-get-masks-paracetamols/articleshow/78483586.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||Self-finance model for centre for excellence||Vadodara: M S University has decided to run the Centre of Excellence in Industrial Automation set up at its Faculty of Technology and Engineering on self-financed basis. The centre was commissioned in August 2015. It was established under public private partnership (PPP) mode between MSU, Siemens India, Gujarat government and Pune-based DesignTech Systems. The MoU to set up this centre meant for skill development of youth was signed in September 2013 in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was then serving as Gujarat’s chief minister. But in Covid times, the centre’s activities which are mainly to train students and professionals in practical aspects of automation, has come to a halt. The university’s syndicate body recently cleared payment worth Rs 45 lakh towards salary of manpower and other expenses to be paid to the Pune-based firm as the three year MoU period came to an end in August 2018. As per the MoU, for the initial three years, Siemens was supposed to run the centre providing training to faculty and students. Later, the centre was to be transferred to MSU offering BE and ME programmes in the area of mechatronics. “So far, we have trained 4,700 students and around 35 teachers at this centre. But if we want to continue this centre we will have to run it on self-sustainable model,” said G D Karhadkar, chief coordinator of the centre and former head of mechanical engineering department. “We will raise funds through industry contacts and also collect a token fees from students. Modalities about the fee structure are being worked out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/self-finance-model-for-centre-for-excellence/articleshow/78480569.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nashik||27-year-old held for beating man to death||Nashik: Crime branch unit 1 of the city police has arrested a 27-year-old man on Saturday for beating a Nepali man to death. The suspect has been identified as Pinesh Khaire, resident of Panchavati. On Monday night (September 28), at around 10.45 pm, Hiralal Prajapati (35), a native of Nepal, was murdered in the old city area. He worked in a glass factory at Madsangvi. Prima facie it appeared that two people had beaten him with a wooden stick and they fled on a bike. Anand Wagh, the police inspector, said after checking the CCTV footage, they found a man running after the victim with a stick. Police then zeroed down to Khaire, who lived along the river banks with his two children When the victim was sitting on the river banks where Khaire’s two children were sleeping, Khaire thought that Prajapati was bothering his daughter. Under the influence of alcohol, the accused chased the victim and beat him to death with a wooden stick. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/27-year-old-held-for-beating-man-to-death/articleshow/78479989.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Ahead of festive season, mayor orders marketplaces to be repaired||Dehradun: With the festive season almost here, Doon mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama on Sunday directed Public Works Department (PWD) officials to finish repair works at dug-up stretches in the city, especially marketplaces like Paltan Bazar. The deadline for patch-ups has been fixed as December. In his weekly inspection of projects under Smart City, the mayor asked the PWD to level Subhash Road and Convent Road, so commutes are safe and comfortable. Gama also inspected the smart road between Nanny's Bakery and Behl chowk, as well as the stretch to Kanak Chowk. The mayor instructed officials to ensure better traffic management at the routes, as these often end up as hotspots of traffic jams. During the inspection, Ashish Srivastava, CEO, Dehradun Smart City Limited said, “A major focus is on completing the undergoing work within the timelines and making sure it’s of the best quality, so residents get the true experience of a Smart City. Regular inspections by the mayor and inputs of MLAs are of great help.” The mayor informed that the smart vending zone at 6 number pulia, along with 20 others, will be made operational within a month. A maximum of 100 people will be allowed to work at each zone, with a mandatory license and minimum monthly rent for maintenance purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ahead-of-festive-season-mayor-orders-marketplaces-to-be-repaired/articleshow/78480905.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Kudla to miss pilivesha this Navaratri||MANGALURU: People in the coast will not be able to see pilivesha, the tiger dance, during this Navaratri festival. Pilivesha is an integral part of Tulunadu’s culture. Dozens of troupes, sponsored by various organisations, set up tiger dance teams and competitions are also held at various parts of the city during Navaratri in the city every year. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, restrictions have been imposed on all types of gatherings during the festival and pilivesha has been banned this year. Mangaluru Dasara festival of Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatha Temple is scheduled to be held from October 17 without much pomp. Similarly, Navaratri will also be a low-key affair, focussing mainly on religious rituals at Mahathobara Shree Mangaladevi Temple. The decision to impose restrictions on celebrations during Dasara and Deepavali was taken at a meeting of Dakshina Kannada District Dharmika Parishat chaired by deputy commissioner K V Rajendra on Saturday. Major decisions include ban on pilivesha, cultural programmes, festival fetes and fireworks. Rajendra said temples should ensure that Covid protocols are strictly followed during the festival. “Temples should make sanitizer, thermal scanning and face masks compulsory for all devotees. Temples may seek help from the jurisdictional police in ensuring social distancing and other precautionary measures,” he said. No public gatherings will be allowed near places where Sharada idols are installed for the festival. Cultural programmes can be organised on the temple premises with emphasis on social distancing and the same can be aired live on social media. Temples and festival organisers should not be allowed to erect pandals of large size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kudla-to-miss-pilivesha-this-navaratri/articleshow/78479993.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Meet on Gap road widening inconclusive||Idukki: The resumption of the road widening works on the Gap road stretch of Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway is likely to be held up as a virtual meeting held for restarting the works remained inconclusive. The online meeting called by district collector H Dinesan was attended by power minister M M Mani, the road contractor, NH officials, Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan, Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, Devikulam MLA S Rajendran and affected farmers. “At the meeting, the contractor offered Rs 2 lakh per acre as compensation to the farmers. But the farmers sought Rs 10 lakh per acre. The MP and Devikulam MLA will conduct meetings with the farmers and take further decision on the compensation amount. It is a fact that the farmers have suffered large-scale losses due to the landslide,” said Premkrishnan. “Due to the landslide, I lost over 11 acres of a well-maintained cardamom plantation. The amount offered by the contractor is too less, we can’t agree to it. Without getting proper compensation, we will not allow the road-widening works to resume,” said Kunnel Baby, one of the affected farmers from Bison Valley. The district collector said a detailed report will be submitted to the government over the condition of Gap Road stretch and that it will be based on the recent report submitted by Devikulam sub-collector. In the report submitted to the revenue principal secretary and Idukki district collector, the sub-collector had stated that road widening work on the Gap road stretch cannot be resumed under the present situation. The report stated that the widening works were carried out unscientifically and led to a series of landslips in the area and recommended a probe against the contractor and NH officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/meet-on-gap-road-widening-inconclusive/articleshow/78480915.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Prayer meet held for lioness in Kakrach||AHMEDABAD: The residents of five villages in Kakrach area on Sunday held a prayer meet and a religious discourse for the lioness Rajmata, who recently died in the area.  This was the second meet organized there in remembrance of the lion matriarch. The first remembrance meet for Rajmata was held in the first week of September.  Rajmata, who died at the age of 20 in the last week of August, was known to have lived the longest among Asiatic lions. Her last rites were held at Vadal Animal Care Centre near Palitana. Apart from her long age, what surprised wildlife experts were the number of her successful pregnancies. She also holds the record among Asiatic lions for having given birth to 15 cubs in seven litters.  Mahendra Khuman, the organizer of the prayer meet and deputy sarpanch of Kakrach gram panchayat said, “The villagers loved the lioness and protected her. She was unique and a source of pride for the area. She died in August end and we organized a religious discourse on Sunday for her departed soul.” Manoj Joshi, a resident of the area and a local leader said, “Rajmata was a majestic lioness. We demand that the government or the gram panchayat should name the area or one of the offices in the name of Rajmata so that she is always remembered by the residents.” Jalpan Rupapara and Purvesh Kacha, two doctors who have closely studied Rajmata along with other lions in Greater Gir region, said her last offspring was born in 2018. Rajmata’s health started failing after her youngest cub went missing that year. The cub is believed to have fallen prey to cannibalism. She was the first lioness to set up her kingdom in Liliya Kakrach area. She was captured from Shetrunjay division in 2008 after her second delivery, and was later released in Hadala range in Gir East where she was radio-collared. She was about six years then and was named ‘Collar wali sinhan’ (collared lioness). In 2016, she was given the name of Rajmata by the locals due to her firm hold on her kingdom. Rajmata did not allow any other lioness to encroach on her territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/prayer-meet-held-for-lioness/articleshow/78481918.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||BJP to form state executive committee in 3 days, warns warring members to share grievances and grudges only on party platform||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held its core committee meeting on Sunday. During the meet, BJP’s state president Bansidhar Bhagat announced to set up an executive committee in the next three days. Bhagat also warned MLAs that if they go against the party on public platforms, it will be considered as an act of gross indiscipline. The core committee meeting was attended by CM Trivendra Rawat, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, party MLAs, and other senior BJP leaders. Addressing the media after the core committee meeting, Bhagat said, “The party will form a state executive committee and volunteers of all other fronts in the next three days. Besides, a day-long training session of party members of each district will start in Dehradun from October 16. The training session has to be attended by the district president, MLAs, and all other senior party members.” Bhagat also informed that the bhumi pujan (land worship) and the foundation stone laying ceremony of BJP’s new state office in Dehradun will be done in a virtual event on October 17 by party’s national president JP Nadda. Commenting on the issue of warring MLAs, Bhagat said that MLAs have been given clear instructions in the meeting that in any matter, the minister, MLA or office bearer will first bring it on the party forum and not take to the public platform unless the party decides so. “If this protocol is violated, then it will be considered as indiscipline. If we talk about the particular case of MLA Puran Fartyal, Ajay Bhatt, and Ajay Tamta, MPs from Kumaon have been asked to speak to him on this matter,” added Bhagat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-to-form-state-executive-committee-in-3-days-warns-warring-members-to-share-grievances-and-grudges-only-on-party-platform/articleshow/78480918.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||SAAC invites applications from higher edu institutions||Thiruvananthapuram: The State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC) has started accepting applications for state-level accreditation of higher education institutions. The centre set up on the model of National Assessment and Accreditation Council comes under Kerala State Higher Education Council. Applications can be submitted online. Unlike NAAC, the state-level accreditation centre would consider a different set of parameters too for the assessment of higher education institutions. They include the scientific temper and secularist views and practices of the institutions applying for the accreditation. State government had earlier announced that SAAC accreditation would be one of the criteria to be considered while considering applications for new courses. All government, aided, private colleges affiliated with various universities in the state can apply for the accreditation. More details about SAAC can be had on http://www.kshec.kerala.gov.in or call/mail SAAC coordinator Shefeeq over 8281942902/ saackerala@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/saac-invites-applications-from-higher-edu-institutions/articleshow/78480941.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 16 more fast-track courts to be set up for rape cases||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has given its green signal to set up 16 more fast-track courts (FTCs) to decide rape cases against women and children, though as a temporary measure for two years. In a letter sent to the Delhi high court in last week of September 2020, the government’s law department said that lieutenant governor Anil Baijal has approved the creation of 16 posts to man these fast-track courts. The communication sent to the high court also specifies that LG has sanctioned posts of Delhi Higher Judicial Service (DHJS) cadre who will be manning the new courts. These include 11 FTC’s dedicated exclusively to try POCSO Act cases while remaining 4 are for rape trials. These are temporary courts set up on contractual basis for an initial period of two years, the government has told the court, which is the final authority in appointing judges and posting them for these posts. According to the letter, the LG has also approved creation of 112 posts for hiring support staff required for efficient running of the 16 proposed FTCs, again on contractual basis for two years. Last year, the Supreme Court had issued several directions in this regard while monitoring steps taken to expedite trial in sexual offence cases. Following the SC ruling the Centre brought in a scheme for its effective implementation as also to give the amended anti-rape law of 2018 more teeth. It proposed to set up 1,023 fast-track special courts for speedy trial of over 1.66 lakh pending cases of crime against women and children across the country. Of these, 389 courts are meant to exclusively handle cases registered under POCSO Act while the remaining 634 courts will deal with either rape cases or both rape and POCSO Act cases depending upon the pendency and requirement. The 16 courts approved by LG are a step in this direction, after the Centre contributed part of its 60% share for the scheme where state/UT governments have to foot the 40% share. However, sources say the government proposal fails to adhere to a 2012 SC ruling, directing FTCs must be a permanent feature of administration of justice and not a temporary one. “It is directed that all the states, henceforth, shall not take a decision to continue the FTC scheme on an ad hoc and temporary basis. The states are at liberty to decide but only with regard either to bring the FTC scheme to an end or to continue the same as a permanent feature,” the apex court had noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/16-more-fast-track-courts-to-be-set-up-for-rape-cases/articleshow/78482725.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Cops seize gutka, tobacco worth Rs 96 lakh||Nashik: Banned gutka and tobacco products worth Rs 96.48 lakh along with a truck worth Rs 10 lakh were seized by Nashik rural police near Saikheda on the night between Saturday and Sunday. The banned products were being transported from Gujarat to Aurangabad by the truck via the Nashik-Aurangabad highway. After getting information from the sources, the truck was intercepted by the rural police at Chitegaon in Niphad taluka. “Superintendent of police Sachin Patil of Nashik rural had got information that a container with a registration number of Uttar Pradesh is carrying gutka and banned tobacco products towards the Aurangabad side,” a police officer said. “Based on Patil’s instructions a team of the rural police intercepted the suspicious container at around 1.30am on Sunday. The driver of the container gave vague answers to the police when asked about the content of the container, but upon searching police found the banned goods,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-seize-gutka-tobacco-worth-rs-96-lakh/articleshow/78480016.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Multiplexes sceptical about footfall, seek tax relief||AHMEDABAD: Multiplexes and cinema halls can begin operations from October 15, albeit at a 50% capacity, according to the latest government guidelines. However, cinema hall and multiplex owners, who have already suffered grave losses, are staring at a bleak footfall when cinema halls reopen doors. Industry players claim that widespread apprehensions amid the ongoing pandemic may cause footfall, and consequently revenues, to suffer. Manubhai Patel, chairman, Gujarat Multiplex Owners’ Association, said, “We look forward to starting off with cinema halls, but we are sceptical of how the footfall will pan out. This will further dent our revenues because even if we operate at 50% capacity, we are not sure how many people will turn up. As soon as the government declares a detailed standard operating procedure, we will duly follow it and take a call on how to resume operations at the theatre.” Industry players said that movie releases are being deferred and therefore, if a blockbuster movie isn’t released, it is likely to affect footfall. Some of them also said that a few releases on online streaming platforms are also hitting their revenues. Concerns over revenues continue to remain as far as multiplex and cinema hall operations are concerned, because the cost of operations under the new normal will certainly go up. “We have made a slew of representations before the government seeking waiver in electricity duty and relief in taxes so that the business may survive,” Patel added. “With more than six months of shutdown, revenues have taken a big hit and to sustain overhead costs, we are forced to shell out money from our pockets. However, it is a promising business and we look forward to brighter times. Only when people start coming in, they will regain the confidence to return to theatres,” said a theatre-owner in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/multiplexes-sceptical-about-footfall-seek-tax-relief/articleshow/78481923.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Bid to snatch chain fails, two men slash woman’s neck||CHENNAI: Two men escaped after attacking a college student at Chromepet in attempt to snatch her chain on Saturday night. Police said the victim, 19-year-old Vinodhini of Nemilicherry, was heading home from a supermarket run by a relative on her two-wheeler when the incident took place. While passing by AGS Colony, she stopped to answer a phone call when two bike-borne men tried to snatch her gold chain from behind. Vinodhini held onto her chain tightly but the duo cut her neck using a blade and fled. Passersby tried to catch the attackers but in vain. They took the victim to a private hospital nearby where the cut injury was sutured. No one lodged a formal complaint. Police believe the two assailants were following her from the supermarket and suspect it to be a love affair gone wrong. They are skimming the CCTV camera footage from the vicinity to establish the identity of the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bid-to-snatch-chain-fails-two-men-slash-womans-neck/articleshow/78482721.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases surge in U’khand after a lull, 1,419 new infections surface||Dehradun: After witnessing a downward trend in the last one week, Covid-19 cases spiked in Uttarakhand on Sunday with 1,419 fresh infections. The state’s coronavirus tally reached 51,481 on the day. The hill districts like Tehri and Uttarkahsi witnessed their highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The active cases in the state rose to 9,089 and the recovery rate dropped to 80%. Also, with four deaths reported on Sunday, the toll of the virus shot up to 652 in the state. Among the fresh infections, Dehradun once again reported the maximum of 472 cases, followed by 175 from Udham Singh Nagar, 161 from Haridwar, and 89 from Nainital. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, told TOI, “Tehri reported its highest single-day surge in Covid-19 cases with 196 fresh infections on Sunday. This is the highest for any hill district so far. Meanwhile, 102 cases were reported from Uttarkashi, 58 from Pauri, 48 from Chamoli, 30 from Champawat and Rudraprayag, 29 from Pithoragarh, and 26 from Bageshwar.” If health watchers are to be believed, the reason for less number of Covid-19 cases reported in the state last week was low testing. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said, “The state conducted the lowest number of tests and thus, reported the lowest number of cases in the last week. Just 15 days ago, 12,000 samples were being tested for Covid-19 per day. The number reduced to 8,000 in the last one week. It is good that the state witnessed over 6,000 recoveries but we also recorded more than 80 deaths in the last week. This is what the state must focus on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-surge-in-ukhand-after-a-lull-1419-new-infections-surface/articleshow/78480931.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Farm Acts historic and in best interest of farmers, says Nishank||Haridwar: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank said that the three farm bills (now Acts) which were recently passed by the Union government in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha are “historic” and “in the best interest of farmers in the country”. He stressed that the three bills will bring about significant changes in the conditions of the farmers and “in a way liberate them”. While addressing a press conference in Haridwar on Sunday, Nishank accused the Congress and other Opposition parties of misleading farmers and creating “baseless apprehensions” in their minds. “They (Opposition) allege that if farmers enter into a contract with a company, it will usurp their land. This is not true as the contract will be for the farmers’ produce and not their land. The company will cover all risks to the farmers’ produce. Besides, if a farmer is not satisfied with a company, he will be free to sign an agreement with someone else,” Nishank said. Launching an attack on the Congress, Nishank said, “The Narendra Modi government directly transferred Rs 92,000 crore into the farmers’ bank accounts. This was unthinkable in the days of the Congress government. During his term as Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi had admitted that out of the Re 1 that the Centre sends, only 15 paise reach the beneficiaries due to middlemen.” Nishank further pointed out, “The Congress had separated a budget of Rs 12,000 crore for the farmers in 2009-10. In contrast, the Modi government kept a budget of Rs 34,000 crore for the farmers. Similarly, the BJP has kept Rs 15 lakh crore for loans to farmers as against Rs 8 lakh crore allotted by the Congress.” Last month, both Houses of Parliament had passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment & Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. On September 27, the President had notified all the three bills as Acts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farm-acts-historic-and-in-best-interest-of-farmers-says-nishank/articleshow/78480938.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Woman flees UP, travels 900km in cab to file rape complaint in Nagpur||NAGPUR: A 22-year-old woman, raped repeatedly and filmed during the act, managed to flee from Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh to reach Nagpur, travelling around 900km in a cab to register FIR. The woman, a national of Nepal, had come to India to make a living two years ago fled UP against the backdrop of Hathras case outcry. Scared by her boyfriend-turned-alleged tormentor Pravin Yadav and his nexus with Uttar Pradesh police, the Nepal national decided to seek help of a friend in Nagpur to lodge a police complaint. Yadav is learnt to have lured the woman by promising to help her financially and also render other support during the lockdown before beginning to exploit her. Yadav had also made videos of her while exploiting her sexually and posted them on her own social media accounts, ensuring the images reaches the woman’s family in Kathmandu in Nepal. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said a case was registered at Koradi police station and it has been referred to Uttar Pradesh police now as the incident had taken place at Lucknow where the accused resides. CP also gave credit to Koradi police for prompt action. Senior inspector Vazeer Shaikh of Koradi police station said the woman had come to Mahadula in Koradi because a Nepali friend of hers is settled here. “The woman initially wanted to register a complaint in Lucknow but Yadav brought a constable with him who asked the victim to settle the matter and compromise with the accused. After that, she lost faith on UP police. Yadav would also repeatedly claim he was a don and police were close to him,” said Shaikh. “The woman’s Nepali friend and her husband encouraged her to take a cab and reach Nagpur so she can seek some help here. They also booked the cab for her so that she may leave Lucknow without hitch. The woman then convinced Yadav she needed to go to Ahmedabad to meet a friend and landed in city,” said Shaikh. “After she came to us, we summoned two women officers to speak to her. Ensured she felt at ease before recording her complaint,” said the PI. “We have now sent the case to the Chinhat police station of Lucknow. We have also sent the woman accompanied by our police personnel and also spoken to the in-charge of the Chinhat police station ensuring she faces no more trouble,” said Shaikh. Apart from Yadav, Koradi police have also booked victim’s Nepali friend Sufi Vishwakarma for robbery and criminal breach of trust. Vishwakarma had introduced the woman to Yadav earlier this year. Yadav was working as a software engineer in Dubai then. The victim and Yadav later started talking to each other frequently. Vishwakarma and the victim had become friends in Surat from where they shifted to Lucknow to earn their living. The victim had started sharing accommodation with Vishwakarma but they had later developed a rift with him. The victim claimed she had kept Rs 1.50 lakh cash and her passport with Vishwakarma that later he refused to part with. The woman was also thrashed by Vishwakarma frequently. Yadav had booked a hotel for the victim asking her to shift there. After two days, Yadav flew to Lucknow from Dubai and began exploiting her at the hotel and then at his friend’s place. He also allegedly started threatening her of dire consequences. She claimed Yadav later uploaded her pictures and videos on the social media and changed passwords of her account so she could not delete them. At this point the victim decided to flee. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-flees-900kms-from-lucknow-to-file-rape-fir-in-city/articleshow/78482727.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Printing ‘best before’ date not a ‘sweet’ deal for shopkeepers||Nashik: Despite the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) making it mandatory for sweet sellers to print the ‘best before’ date of milk-based sweets sold in loose, sweet shop owners have been finding it difficult to implement the rule given the variety of sweets. Sweet sellers said that it was a tough task to put the labels of ‘best before’ date on all the sweets on display at their shops. “No sweet seller would want to ruin his business by selling stale sweets. Be it a festive season or not, shopkeepers have a fair idea on how much time it would take for them to sell the stock of sweets prepared by them. Thus, the question of preparing sweets in bulk and keeping them for sale, even when they become stale, does not arise,” said the owner of a renowned sweet shop in the Old City area. The process of changing the dates on each item on display every day would be quite hectic, he added.Another seller, who has been running a sweetmeat shop for more than 50 years in the Nashik Road area, said, “The ‘best before’ date on loose sweets means the customer has to consume it before the date mentioned. Milk-based sweets have a very short shelf life. The purpose of printing the date gets defeated if someone buys a kg of peda from me on the ‘best before’ date mentioned on the packet and takes it to his relatives who may consume the sweets a day or two later.” The aforementioned sweet seller said that they have been able to sustain in the sweetmeat business for decades because of the trust of the customers. “To ensure the sweetmeats do not cross their shlef life, perishable sweets are not prepared in bulk. In rare cases, we tell the customers to consume the sweets in a day or two.”Sweet sellers alleged that there were some who modified the sweets once they started getting stale. Most of the sweet sellers said there should have been a forum of sweet sellers in the city who could have opposed the new FDA rule since it was a hectic task of putting labels of ‘best before’ dates on various sweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/printing-best-before-date-not-a-sweet-deal-for-shopkeepers/articleshow/78480042.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Man held for blackmail, sexual abuse||Chennai: Police on Saturday arrested in Mogappair a 28-year-old man who had been blackmailing and sexually abusing a businessman’s wife. Rathinakumar, an employee of the vehicle insurance firm run by the victim, was later sent to jail. Police said the 32-year-old victim, a mother of two, told one of her employees about a broken love affair. Rathinakumar came to know of this and threatened to reveal it to her husband if she didn’t send him her nude photographs and sexually assaulted her, police said. Her husband recovered the photographs she had deleted and confronted her, following which they lodged a complaint with police.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-held-for-blackmail-sexual-abuse/articleshow/78482737.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Uncertainty over paramedical admissions||AHMEDABAD: After extending the deadline for registration thrice this year, uncertainty looms large over the commencement of admissions in paramedical courses. The results for NEET 2020 exams by National Testing Agency (NTA) will be announced soon, after which a decision on the admission process is expected, said sources in the admission committee. A total of 34,000 students have registered online so far. The registration process was earlier scheduled to be conducted from August 24 to September 1 for admissions to physiotherapy, nursing and other paramedical courses. Keeping in view the heavy rainfall, the The Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) had decided to extend the registration process till September 4. This deadline was again extended twice due to Covid-19 crisis. There are about 22,800 seats across 515 colleges in the state. Last year, after the first round of admissions, only eight seats were vacant. However, after the third round, ACPC found that about 2,100 seats were vacant. The change was attributed to candidates opting out of pharmacy to take admissions in medical and paramedical courses. A similar situation is likely to arise this year where the ACPC will have to direct colleges to fill the vacant seats for some of the courses on their own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uncertainty-over-paramedical-admissions/articleshow/78481928.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital’s way of handling Covid gets recognition by Centre||Nainital: A team of the Union health ministry has recommended Nainital’s model of tackling Covid-19 — through the use of GIC mapping for identifying containment zones and contact tracing — as one of the “best practices” in the country. The team has recommended the model as one of the strategies to be included at a national level to contain the spread of the coronavirus. According to the local administration, the model developed by the district includes taking details and locations of each and every Covid-19 positive patient and those who succumbed to the virus. The details are first put on a spreadsheet and then the data is mapped on GIS platform. “We have developed an SOP under which, each and every severely infected Covid-19 patient’s details are taken on the spreadsheet and then on the GIC platform. After studying the data, the areas where more number of Covid-19 positives are being found is declared a cluster,” said Nainital district magistrate (DM) Savin Bansal. The official added that the identification of clusters is then followed by intense door-to-door examination, sampling, and contact tracing. “We send our health department team and police to these areas for sampling and contact tracing. The efforts till now have delivered positive results and therefore, we have been able to contain the spread of the virus in many areas,” DM Bansal added. At present, the district has eight identified clusters in the Haldwani municipal corporation area. Due to the proactive approach of the local administration, Nainital has reported fewer cases and fewer deaths as compared to districts like Dehradun, Haridwar, and Udham Singh Nagar. Till now, more than 6,000 cases have been found in Nainital. In comparison, Dehradun has reported the highest of 13,474 cases in the state, followed by Haridwar (9,636), and Udham Singh Nagar (8,428).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainitals-way-of-handling-covid-gets-recognition-by-centre/articleshow/78480974.cms||Prashant Jha
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How south corporation is boxing in wet waste||NEW DELHI: To save space and yet utilise all segregated wet waste collected at its processing centres or dhalaos, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has started installing huge boxes of iron mesh for aerobic composting, each with a capacity to hold one-two tonnes of garbage. While most of the dhalaos under SDMC have been converted into segregation and processing centres, sanitation workers often find the space too small to segregate, store and utilise the waste after segregation. “To resolve the issue, we picked up the horticulture department’s idea. They are making iron mesh into a box for keeping dry leaves for making compost, especially in winters,” said an SDMC official. The experiment began at Tagore Garden’s material recovery centre developed along Najafgarh Road. Six boxes were made to keep the segregated wet waste collected from neighbouring areas. “Of these, five are already full and their compost will get ready in a week,” said the official. These meshes are not cost-effective but save space and can be easily shifted, he added. “We have decided to distribute the compost generated at the Tagore Garden centre among the horticulture department, residents and waste pickers supplying segregated waste to the unit,” the official said. “The SDMC commissioner has asked officials to develop 10 such centres in each of the four zone.” The procedure is already being followed at a dhalao located at a corner of the Sunder Nagar colony. “These decentralised units are mandatory in the wake of the enforcement of the solid waste management bylaws and we expect people to support us in the cause and segregate waste regularly,” said the official. The Tagore Garden unit, known as the ‘Save our planet’ centre, is also carrying out a drive to accept plastic items from waste pickers and give them essential items, such as soap, rice, buckets and compost, in exchange.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-south-corpn-is-boxing-in-wet-waste/articleshow/78482732.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 5, 2020||India||Mumbai buildings are high, levies higher||MUMBAI: Building construction in Mumbai is the most expensive in the country with developers having to pay 22 kinds of premiums and charges, which constitute one third or more of the sale price of a project, according to the state government-appointed Deepak Parekh committee report for the real estate sector. But there could soon be some relief for city builders. Last week, municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal wrote to the state urban development department, suggesting that all premiums, levies and cess charged by the BMC be reduced by 50% for one year or up to December 31, 2021. “All political parties in the BMC are on board with this proposal,” Chahal told TOI. According to the Deepak Parekh committee report, in Bengaluru, developers have to pay 10 kinds of premiums and charges, in Delhi five, and in Hyderabad three. Based on the committee’s recommendations, the state government is likely to reduce by 50% the hefty premiums and charges paid by builders for a period of one year. The proposal is likely to come up for discussion in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday. This reduction, said developers, will help boost construction activity as many building projects became financially unviable for them because of the high premiums. A builder developing a plot in Bandra said while the land cost is Rs 30 crore, he had to pay premiums and cesses amounting to a mind-boggling Rs 60 crore. Another developer who wanted to construct an office building in Chembur found that the premiums he would have to pay the BMC totalled Rs 6 crore when the plot value itself was Rs 5 crore. The Parekh committee report said, “The premium and charges collected in Mumbai is significantly higher than other comparable cities. The number of heads increases based on the type of project and land holding. When compared to the land value in each city (on the basis of the stamp duty ready reckoner values), the multiple of premium payments to value of land in Mumbai ranges from 1.96x land value for residential developments in the suburbs to 4.23x land value for commercial developments in Mumbai City”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-buildings-are-high-levies-higher/articleshow/78483618.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
October 5, 2020||Hubballi||Lyricist Kalyan blames wife’s estrangement on black magic||BELAGAVI: Kannada lyricist K Kalyan, who had filed a police complaint that his wife had gone missing, alleged on Sunday that a black magic practitioner has separated his wife from him. Kalyan told journalists that astrologer Shivananda Vali has driven his wife away and pointed to a sum of Rs 1,70,000 having been transferred from his wife’s account to that of the astrologer to support his claim. Kalyan said that after the demise of his parents, he and his wife moved to live with his parents-in-law. During that period, Ganga Kulkarni, a domestic help, was hired. “Initially my wife was unhappy over her joining the work and resisted her presence,” he pointed out. Ganga later introduced Kalyan’s parents-in-law to Shivananda Vali. Kalyan alleged that Vali had indulged in black magic and it was under the influence of those rituals that in his wife, along with her parents, had moved to Belagavi. “Vali and Ganga are responsible for the rift in my family. I will continue the legal battle against them,” Kalyan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lyricist-kalyan-blames-wifes-estrangement-on-black-magic/articleshow/78480037.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Surat||PSI booked for demanding bribe||SURAT: Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Saturday booked a police sub inspector (PSI) for allegedly demanding Rs 2.5 lakh bribe from an accused in a rape case. In a separate case sleuths caught an assistant sub inspector (ASI) and a traffic brigade jawan on Sunday while accepting a bribe of Rs 1,000 from a roadside fruit vendor in Kapodra. ACB booked S A Gadhvi, PSI posted in Chowk Bazaar police station, for allegedly demanding Rs 2.5 lakh from the complainant in a rape complaint lodged by a 33-year-old woman in Chowk Bazaar police station. To favour the accused during investigation Gadhvi demanded total Rs 2.5 lakh of which he wanted Rs 2 lakh in advance while remaining Rs 50,000 was to be paid after accused gets anticipatory bail. The accused contacted the ACB and lodged a complaint, following which Solanki, police inspector, laid a trap. But when the complainant went to pay the bribe at Ved Road police chowky on September 5, Gadhvi sniffed a rat and did not accept the money due to which the trap failed. “However, ACB has strong audio recording and other scientific evidence based on which the offence has been registered,” said an ACB officer. Meanwhile, ACB team nabbed Rakesh Chaudhary, ASI in traffic police, and Sanesh Kushwaha, a TRB jawan, from Shree Ram Chowk in Kapodra while accepting Rs 1,000 as ‘hafta’ from a fruit cart owner. The accused used to collect Rs 500 to Rs 1000 on monthly basis from all cart owners for allowing them to do business on the road. Based on specific information S N Desai, police inspector, ACB, contacted one of the owners and laid a trap. The accused were caught during their ‘collection’ drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/psi-booked-for-demanding-bribe/articleshow/78481120.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||5,000 under quarantine in Vadodara||VADODARA: Nearly 5,000 citizens are under quarantine in the city and district. Going by the medical bulletin shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Sunday, a total of 4,999 individuals in Vadodara city and district are under quarantine. Of these, a majority – 4,997 are under home quarantine while only two are under quarantine at private facility. In 24 hours ending Sunday evening, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vadodara had reached 12,265 with addition of 115 fresh cases in city and district. In city areas, the cases were reported from Vadsar, Jubileebaug, GIDC Road, Karelibaug, Munjmahuda, Waghodiya Road, Tandalja, Manjalpur, Ajwa Road, New Sama Road, Kalali Crossing, Fatehgunj, Kothi, Ektanagar, VIP Road, Tarsali, Vasna-Bhayli Road, Nava Bazaar, Warasiya, Subhanpura, Salatwada, Siyabaug, Maneja, Diwalipura, Gotri Road and Bapod. In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases were reported from Desar, Jarod, Padra, Savli, Dabhoi, Varnama, Dhavat and Karjan. The 115 fresh cases were results of 4,417 samples that were tested since Saturday evening. The official death toll in Vadodara has now touched 202 with VMC confirming two more deaths. Of the 1,660 patients who are currently undergoing treatment, condition of 1,407 is said to be stable, while 181 are being treated with oxygen support and 72 others are being treated under ventilator or BiPAP machine. Meanwhile, the total number of discharges has reached 10,403 with 86 patients including 26 from government hospital, 29 from private hospital and 31 from home isolation getting discharged. Vadodara rural has continued to witness spike. With the addition of 43 cases, the total number of positive cases in Vadodara rural has reached 3,158. Within VMC limits, north zone remains the worst hit. With the addition of 20 new cases, the total number of cases in this zone has reached 2,750. The south zone on the other hand has recorded 19 new cases taking the total to 2,374 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5000-under-quarantine-in-vadodara/articleshow/78480582.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Nonagenarian loses his way in forest, villagers rescue him||Mangaluru: A nonagenarian who was missing for four days and his rescue from deep inside the Western Ghats triggered celebrations at Mittabagilu village in Belthangady taluk. Located on the foothills of the Western Ghats, it was not unusual for Annu Poojary, 92, of Shantigudde in Mittabagilu to venture into the forest. However, when he did not return after this seeming routine activity four days ago, the villagers got worried. While a search mounted by his family members and villagers on Thursday in the vicinity of the house, failed to yield results, some villagers approached the local astrologer, seeking clues to his whereabouts. Giving them a ray of hope, the astrologer said Annu Poojary would be found by Sunday afternoon. Sparking a debate if astrology is a precise science, a team of villagers did indeed find Annu Poojary inside the forest on Sunday morning. Villagers suspect that Annu Poojary might have lost his way once he entered the forest. Steady rain that the region has been receiving in the recent past too might have contributed to this, they surmised. Undeterred, teams that the locals formed continued their search. A team comprising Kadumane Vijay, Vinay Senarabettu, Jarige Girish, Ratan Shetty and local youths found him sitting on a stone beside a stream near Kadumane forest. Incidentally, the training that Ratan and Vijay underwent with the NDRF helped them in the search and rescue efforts. Annu Poojary was sitting on a stone and had survived by drinking water from the nearby stream, said Vinay Senarabettu, former vice-president of Mittabagilu gram panchayat. The villagers had to bring down Annu, who was exhausted from the ordeal, on their shoulders. He was found at a spot that was 3km from his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nonagenarian-loses-his-way-in-forest-villagers-rescue-him/articleshow/78480624.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Woman backtracks on gangrape claim, no injury mark found||Dehradun: A 26-year-old woman, who had alleged that she was gangraped by two persons in Sahaspur area of Dehradun late on Saturday evening and had lodged a complaint against them, backtracked on her claim on Sunday and denied any such crime. Later, a police team counselled the woman and she agreed for a medical test. However, no internal or external injury was found on her body during the test. Earlier on late Saturday evening, the woman had arrived at Sahaspur police station claiming that she had been raped by two persons under a bridge between Sahaspur and Selaqui area on the outskirts of Dehradun. Taking cognisance of the complaint, DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi rushed to the spot and directed senior officials, including SP (rural) Parmendra Dobal, to solve the case at the earliest. Dobal and his team inspected the entire area and spent the night probing the matter. However on Sunday morning, the woman along with her father came back to the police station. The father reportedly denied any such crime and told the police team that her daughter is mentally unstable. He was against the medical test of his daughter and claimed that she was unwell for a long time. “Despite the claims of the father, our police team conducted counselling of the woman and she agreed for the medical test. Our teams are working on the case and we will soon find out the truth in the matter,” DIG Joshi told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-backtracks-on-gangrape-claim-no-injury-mark-found/articleshow/78481011.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 5, 2020||Goa||Cong: Issue white paper on Mhadei water||Panaji: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant must release a white paper on key issues affecting the state particularly the Mhadei river dispute and the concern about the environmental impact of the three infrastructure projects in Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park. Claiming that the BJP has sold Mhadei to Karnataka for political gains, the Congress party challenged Sawant to outline the plan to restore proper flow of the Mhadei. “The BJP has sold Mhadei to Karnataka. Even coal is being transported only to Karnataka,” said state Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar. Congress party’s charge comes after Union minister Prakash Javadekar deflected questions about the Mhadei river dispute and the three projects by putting the ball in Sawant’s court. Javadekar said that Sawant would “answer elaborately” and that “nothing is pending” with the Union ministry of forests and environment. Javadekar also said he would study Goa’s concerns if he received any memorandums on the issue. “So many letters have been written to Prakash Javadekar. Even in mining, Goa has submitted so many representations,” said Amonkar. Javadekar was in Goa to convince farmers about the benefits of the three Farm Acts introduced by the Centre. “The Union minister did not dare to meet real farmers of Shel-Melauli, Mapusa and sugarcane farmers. He was left high and dry when a few farmers raised questions about various schemes announced by PM Modi which had not reached them,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Meanwhile, the Congress workers who were arrested for protesting at a five-star resort, presented themselves at the Panaji police station as ordered by the divisional magistrate. Panaji: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant must release a white paper on key issues affecting the state particularly the Mhadei river dispute and the concern about the environmental impact of the three infrastructure projects in Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park. Claiming that the BJP has sold Mhadei to Karnataka for political gains, the Congress party challenged Sawant to outline the plan to restore proper flow of the Mhadei. “The BJP has sold Mhadei to Karnataka. Even coal is being transported only to Karnataka,” said state Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar. Congress party’s charge comes after Union minister Prakash Javadekar deflected questions about the Mhadei river dispute and the three projects by putting the ball in Sawant’s court. Javadekar said that Sawant would “answer elaborately” and that “nothing is pending” with the Union ministry of forests and environment. Javadekar also said he would study Goa’s concerns if he received any memorandums on the issue. “So many letters have been written to Prakash Javadekar. Even in mining, Goa has submitted so many representations,” said Amonkar. Javadekar was in Goa to convince farmers about the benefits of the three Farm Acts introduced by the Centre. “The Union minister did not dare to meet real farmers of Shel-Melauli, Mapusa and sugarcane farmers. He was left high and dry when a few farmers raised questions about various schemes announced by PM Modi which had not reached them,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Meanwhile, the Congress workers who were arrested for protesting at a five-star resort, presented themselves at the Panaji police station as ordered by the divisional magistrate. The workers asked how Karnataka was allowed to divert water from the Mhadei river basin if the water dispute is still sub judice. “The agriculture minister and deputy chief minister was sitting next to the Union minister. Could he have not spoken up and highlighted what Karnataka has done?” said Amonkar. Chodankar said that BJP has a vested interest in coal transportation. “The chief minister should make public what transpired during his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi four days back,” said Chodankar. Panaji: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant must release a White Paper on key issues affecting the state particularly the Mhadei river dispute and the concern about the environmental impact of the three infrastructure projects in Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and the Mollem National Park. Claiming that the BJP has sold Mhadei to Karnataka for political gains, the Congress party challenged Sawant to outline the plan to restore proper flow of the Mhadei river. “The BJP has sold Mhadei to Karnataka. Even coal is being transported only to Karnataka,” said state Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar. The Congress party’s charge comes after union minister Prakash Javadekar deflected questions about the Mhadei river dispute and the three projects by putting the ball in Sawant’s court. Javadekar said that Sawant would “answer elaborately” and that “nothing is pending” with the union ministry of forests and environment. Javadekar also said he would study Goa’s concerns if he received any memorandums on the issue. “So many letters have been written to Prakash Javadekar. Even in mining, Goa has submitted so many representations,” said Amonkar. Javadekar was in Goa to convince farmers about the benefits of the three Farm Acts introduced by the Centre. “The Union minister did not dare to meet real farmers of Shel-Melauli, Mapusa and sugarcane farmers. He was left high and dry when a few farmers raised questions about various schemes announced by PM Modi which had not reached them,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. Meanwhile, the Congress workers who were arrested for protesting at a five-star resort, presented themselves at the Panaji police station as ordered by the divisional magistrate. The workers asked how Karnataka was allowed to divert water from the Mhadei river basin if the water dispute is still subjudice. “The agriculture minister and deputy chief minister was sitting next to the union minister. Could he have not spoken up and highlighted what Karnataka has done?” said Amonkar. Chodankar said that BJP has a vested interest in coal transportation. “The chief minister should make public what transpired during his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi four days back,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-issue-white-paper-on-mhadei-water/articleshow/78482742.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Bareilly||‘Road Safety’ week in Bareilly city to begin on Oct 5||BAREILLY: Bareilly Regional Transport Office (RTO) will be observing a week-long "Road Safety" drive in the city between October 5 and 11. The transport authorities will be conducting various traffic rule awareness programmes to sensitise vehicle-users about basic guidelines. Enforcement activities will also be intensified across the city to check erring drivers. Officials at the transport department said this time awareness rallies and street shows will not be organized in view of Covid-19 protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/road-safety-week-in-bareilly-city-to-begin-on-oct-5/articleshow/78479470.cms||Maria Khan
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang poses as power firm staff to extort trader||NEW DELHI: Posing as employees of a power company, four men allegedly entered a trader's house in south-west Delhi’s Maharani Enclave and threatened to arrest him for tampering with the electric meter. They demanded Rs 7 lakh to settle the case and not arrest the victim. When the victim pleaded for mercy, they took his mother’s earrings and took the victim to an ATM in their car. They made him withdraw Rs 25,000 and also took away Rs 6,000 in his wallet. They further scared him with the threat of life imprisonment and made him transfer Rs 8,000 to their Paytm wallet, police said. The cops have arrested the accused after tracing their vehicle. The accused have been identified as Rohit Manocha (34), Lalit (30), Vinay Kumar (30) and Rahul Attri (27). They lived in different localities of west Delhi and were earlier working for a power company. The men lost their jobs during the lockdown and thought of blackmailing people accusing them of meter tampering. In the current incident, the accused went to the victim’s house on September 2 in an Eeco car. Two of them checked the meter and told the victim that it had been tampered with and therefore they would have to file and FIR and get him arrested. The offence, they said, carried a life sentence. “After they extorted the trader and left, the victim approached police for help. The cops filed an FIR and a team under ACP Anil Dureja started looking for the men,” DCP Santosh Meena said. The cops conducted a raid at the registration address of the Eeco but the vehicle owner was not found. However, police received a tip-off regarding the owner’s identity. The man detained and questioned where he revealed the identity of the person who had rented the car. The cops nabbed the man, who led them to the other three. The men told police that accused Rohit had committed a similar offence in the past and coached them. The cops have recovered some cash and jewellery from the accused apart from their fake power company ID cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-poses-as-power-firm-staff-to-extort-trader/articleshow/78482739.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Carrots might cost more this week as supply drops by 50%||Chennai: Carrot will be dearer for consumers in the city since its cost may spike to Rs 150/kg in neighbourhood markets this week as arrivals to the Koyambedu market has halved. While all of Koyambedu wholesale market receives between 1,500 and 1,600 bags of carrot (each bag has 80kg of carrot), it has dropped to 800 to 1,000 bags. According to market sources, carrot harvested in The Nilgiris and Mettupalayam is distributed to different markets in Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy as well and arrivals from Karnataka to Koyambedu has stopped due to rains in the neighbouring state. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said both the factors had an impact on supply to the city's wholesale market. "The shortage will see 1kg of carrot being sold for up to Rs 100 at the wholesale market and Rs 150 in the local markets," he said. Last week, the wholesale prices of carrot was between Rs 80 and Rs 90. Cost of onion will neither shoot up nor drop this week. The wholesale price is Rs 45/kg and there will be no respite for consumers till shortage of onions in other markets in the state is stabilised. Price of brinjal is fluctuating and is expected to increase by Rs 5 in the wholesale market this week, Chandran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/carrots-might-cost-more-this-week-as-supply-drops-by-50/articleshow/78482740.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||No distancing, precautions at immersion ghats on city outskirts||Nagpur: A stretch of the bank along a narrow stream of Kolar river near Koradi is dotted with people. Groups of 15 to 20 can be seen huddled together, not many sporting masks, as they complete the last rites for the departed. Some children too can be seen around. The riverside is among the sites for immersion of ashes of the dead. The crowds have increased during the pandemic, say the locals. Yet, as the corona bereaved continue to gather, Covid precautions seem to have been set aside. Distancing remains a far cry as families are also seen bringing children and elderly to the place. A senior official in the district collectorate approached for a comment only said he will ask the police to ensure distancing at the ghats. TOI visited the traditional ghats on the banks of Kolar and Kanhan rivers. At Kolar, a group could be seen standing huddled together, praying for the deceased as part of a ritual. Four persons from another family took the urn into the middle of the stream to immerse the ashes, as others bathed close by. A little further some people scooped up earth from the shallow river bed in a pan. They look for some valuables, maybe a gold ornament, which many leave on the dead body, which is immersed along with the ashes. Members of the Sonjhari community of gold scavengers are regular visitors at this river bank. In the hour TOI stayed at Kolar, immersions were done along a stretch over 70 meters on either side of the bridge. People were seen sporting masks as they came, but they were soon taken off. For some, the ritual started with a condolence meeting in which nearly 20 odd persons were seen standing close together. A few children with tonsured heads were also seeing playing in the shallow waters, as the grown up stood close to each other chatting in the water. At one end, a group of nearly 50 women sat together, again with no distancing, for nearly half an hour. More groups arrived and followed the same practice. “The number of families arriving has increased since the pandemic began. Maybe because other ghats were closed till a couple of months ago. Of course, the numbers have come down lately as other sites opened,” said a Sonjhari. “Earlier not more than 10 to 12 families would come in a day, now it has more than doubled. Before Covid, they would come in a small groups of 3 to 4. Now, the members in each group have increased to 10 to 15 at least,” he said. Outside the ghats, vendors have pitched tents but little crowd is seen there. The banks of Kanhan appeared deserted, but even here a group was seen sitting in a close circles after the rites were over. A temple and a dargah close by also had visitors, with little respect for distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-distancing-precautions-at-immersion-ghats-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/78483253.cms||Shishir Arya
October 5, 2020||India||New claimants want to reopen Rampur’s 47-yr-old property dispute||A dusty town barely four hours from Delhi, Rampur is famous for its cuisine and the switch knife known as Rampuri chaaku. It’s also known for the Rampur hound and the Raza Library. But in recent years, it’s been in the news for the country’s longest-running civil dispute among squabbling descendants of the late Nawab of Rampur. Last year, a Supreme Court ruling seemed to have settled the matter. But now five new claimants to the late Rampur ruler’s material legacy — palaces, vehicles, weapons and jewellery — have surfaced and they want to be added to the court-approved list of 16 descendants. Rampur became a place of consequence after the Rohilla Afghans established an independent state here in 1774. The Nawabs of Rampur were able to keep their state intact despite the turmoil of the 18th and 19th-century. As they negotiated their sovereign status vis-à-vis the new masters of the realm — the British — Rampur became a 15-gun salute princely state of British India (a British system of ranking princely states by deciding how many guns need to open up in salute every time the heads of the states made ceremonial visits to British-administered provinces). The state had to renegotiate its sovereignty with free India and became the first princely state to merge with the Indian Union in 1949. This was under Nawab Raza Ali Khan. When he died in 1966, he had three wives, three sons and six daughters. His eldest son, Murtaza Ali Khan, succeeded him, and the government recognised him as the sole inheritor of all his father’s private properties and issued a certificate to this effect. But his brother Zulfiquar Ali Khan, married to former Lok Sabha member Noor Bano Begum, challenged this in court. This was the genesis of the property dispute in which the courts were asked to decide if inheritance should be based on Muslim personal law or the unique gaddi system the royal family followed before joining the Indian Union. The case went on for 47 years until in July 2019, the Supreme Court decided in favour of Muslim personal law which recognised all sons and daughters as legal heirs. This totted up to 16 descendants. The SC set a deadline of December 2020 to resolve the dispute. But even as a government monitored audit of the palaces, guns, vehicles and jewellery is taking place, there are five new claimants — descendants of the Nawab’s youngest sister Nawabzadi Kulsoom Begum or Nanhi Begum. Her grandson Salman Ali Khan says, “As the sister of Raza Ali Khan and daughter of Nawab Hamid Ali Khan, my grandmother has a right in the property as do we”. Apart from Salman, the new claimants are Sherouth Ali Khan, Sanam Ali Khan, Saira Ali Khan and Mehrunissa Begum, the daughter-in-law of Nanhi Begum. “My grandmother was merely 10 years old when her father Hamid Ali Khan passed away. She was deprived of her rights,” Khan, a former advertising professional, says. Nanhi Begum’s grandchildren tried to obtain a stay on the property division, but their plea was turned down by a district court. They now plan to move Supreme Court for a stay while also trying to establish their rights as descendants at a civil court in Rampur. However, Harsh Gupta, the lawyer of the late Zulfiquar Ali Khan’s side of the family, says nobody except the legal heirs of Nawab Raza Ali Khan have claim to the property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-claimants-want-to-reopen-rampurs-47-yr-old-property-dispute/articleshow/78483653.cms||Himanshi Dhawan
October 5, 2020||Bareilly||35-year-old man nabbed for attempting to rape 5-year-old girl||Pilibhit: A 35-year-old man was arrested late in the evening on Saturday, for attempting to rape a 5-year-old girl in a village under Barkhera police station, after he was caught red-handed by the girl’s relatives with the help of locals near the village market, hours after attempting to commit the crime. An FIR has been lodged against him, and the victim sent for medical examination. The accused, identified as Raju of the same village, had earlier made sexual advances on other little girls of the same age group, but the village panchayat had absolved him every time after giving him a simple warning, said villagers. The villagers also divulged that the accused was a drug and liquor addict. He had a small agricultural plot but mainly worked as a barber, they said. According to the victim’s father, who filed the written complaint to police, his daughter had gone to play in an orchard nearby at 3pm on Saturday, along with her friends. The accused reached the orchard and lured her away by offering her potato chips. He took the girl to a sugarcane field where he attempted to rape her. But when the girl started to scream, locals working in fields nearby rushed to her rescue, at which, the accused fled from the spot, said the complainant. The girl’s relatives and neighbours, however, tracked the accused down to the village market in the evening and called police. SHO Kamal Singh Yadav said the accused was booked under sections 363 (kidnapping), 354A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) of IPC, as well as 7 and 8 of POCSO Act. He was sent to jail, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/35-year-old-man-nabbed-for-attempting-to-rape-5-year-old-girl/articleshow/78478818.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: EOW to act tough on banks and NBFCs filing ‘casual’ complaints||NEW DELHI: Cracking the whip on banks and non-banking finance institutions (NBFCs) casually filing complaints against loan defaulters and not cooperating with the cops later, the Economic Offences Wing has issued an order directing the complainants and investigating officers to complete all the documentation properly before an inquiry is initiated by Delhi Police. A source said that many NBFCs and even banks have been found lax in their response to police’s queries and many don’t even pursue complaints as many times there are lapses and connivance at their end. “So, they try to wash their hands off by lodging a complaint with police and forgetting out it. A detailed check list and order has now been issued,” said an official. According to the order, scrutiny by the EOW of several complaints received from the NBFCs and banks had revealed that many crucial documents are not supplied with the original complaint, resulting in delay in probe and finalisation of such complaints. The order also asks the investigating officers to ensure whether an internal enquiry had been conducted by the complainant and if the outcome of the enquiry has been supplied. The role of institutions’ chartered accountants, statutory and stock auditors has to be specified as well. “Substantial number of complaints is received from non-banking financial companies and banks regarding frauds committed by unscrupulous borrowers. In such complaints, the complainant NBFCs and banks are supposed to follow the guidelines of RBI regarding reporting of frauds,” reads the order issued by joint commissioner O P Mishra. “These organisations are also supposed to furnish relevant documents regarding the alleged fraud like causative factors, collusion of internal staff, procedure followed in sanction and disbursal of loans etc along with their complaint,” the order further states, adding that the complaints remain pending due to delayed response in supplying of documents by the complainant banks and NBFCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eow-to-act-tough-on-banks-and-nbfcs-filing-casual-complaints/articleshow/78482757.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Positive cases in Nashik district cross 80,000-mark||Nashik: The district reported 836 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, including 397 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 80,116. On Sunday, the district crossed 80,000-mark of Covid-19 cases. The district now has 9,508 active cases, of which 4,052 are in the city Meanwhile, 10 people succumbed to the contagion in the district, including five deaths in Nashik city. The death toll stands at 1,437 in the district, including 764 in the city. As many as 762 patients were discharged from across the district on Sunday, of which 479 patients were from the city.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/positive-cases-in-nashik-district-cross-80000-mark/articleshow/78480068.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Goa||GFP gives CM 48 hrs to reveal Mhadei plan||Panaji: Issuing a 48-hour ultimatum to chief minister Pramod Sawant, Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Sunday said that Sawant should spell out his plan to restore the normal flow of water from the Mhadei river basin, which Karnataka has diverted. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said, “The chief minister should tell us what his plan is otherwise he should resign and dissolve the assembly and fight along with the people.” Sardesai’s remarks came after union minister Prakash Javadekar refused to speak about the Mhadei river dispute and instead said that Sawant would answer all queries. “This minister betrayed Goa and he is starting a new farce of passing the buck. Pramod Sawant is answerable to the people of Goa because his own central minister has pointed fingers at him,” Sardesai said. GFP said that the Centre is taking Goa for granted as the state’s concerns regarding the Mhadei water dispute, razing of trees in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park are being ignored. “The only solution is such that even though we cannot come together and protest, the time may have come to protest on the street and expose this government,” said the former deputy chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-gives-cm-48-hrs-to-reveal-mhadei-plan/articleshow/78482749.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Hubballi||One nabbed in double murder case in Kamalapur taluk||KALABURAGI : Police on Sunday took a person into custody in connection with the murder of a couple, whose minor daughter was allegedly raped two months ago at Dinasi tanda in Kamalapur taluk. The couple — Maruthi and his wife — was murdered brutally in front of their 10-year-old son on Friday night. Traumatised by the incident, the boy has taken shelter at his aunt’s house in the same tanda. Maruthi’s first wife’s four daughters are staying at their uncle’s house. Superintendent of police Simi Mariam George said the couple’s murder case has been taken seriously in which a person nabbed based on a strong clue. Tanda residents suspect that the murder took place due to rivalry as the couple had filed a case under the POCSO Act against two youths — Tobu and Dinesh — alleging that the duo raped their 16-year-old daughter. While the former is in police custody, the latter is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/one-nabbed-in-double-murder-case/articleshow/78480074.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Bareilly||Man held after encounter for ‘killing’ minor boy in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A 32-year-old man, who was accused of sexually assaulting and killing a five-year-old boy in UP’s Bareilly, was caught after a brief encounter. The accused, identified as Raju Kumar, had opened fire at the police when asked to surrender. Thereafter, the cops retaliated and shot him in his right leg. Kumar had allegedly abducted the son of his landlord on September 21 in Bahedi area of Bareilly district. Later, the child’s body was found in a cane field. The autopsy confirmed that the boy was sodomised and killed. An FIR was registered at Behedi police station under IPC sections 377 (unnatural offences), 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and POCSO Act. Bareilly SSP Roht Singh Sajwan had also announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 after Kumar went absconding. Apart from a country-made pistol, cops have recovered the weapon used for murder, a knife and the vehicle he used for the crime. Additional SP (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “Inspector Pankaj Pant and his team had raided a place in the forest where Raju was hiding. Police retaliated after Raju opened fire. Pant and his team were fortunate not to get hurt. We have also registered a separate FIR under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) and section 25 of the Arms Act. He will be sent to jail after treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-held-after-encounter-for-killing-minor-boy-in-bareilly/articleshow/78478827.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Civil service aspirants find prelims tough||Chennai: Civil service aspirants from the city found both question papers of the civil services preliminary exam held by Union Public Service Commission’s tough. Questions needed lengthy answers and fewer ones were on current affairs, they said, adding that questions on ancient India, polity and agriculture dominated paper-1. More than 20,000 students in the city and around 40,000 in the state wrote general studies paper-1 in the morning and paper-2, the qualifying paper, in the afternoon. Swathika, an aspirant from the city said the paper-1 was moderately difficult with less questions on current affairs. Premanand, another aspirant said both papers were tough as many questions were asked from grey topics such as arts and culture and ancient India. He said both question papers needed lengthy answers . “In paper-2, lengthy passages were given in English comprehension and aptitude and reasoning questions were also tough,” he added. S Boominathan, director, King Makers IAS Academy, said the papers ranged from moderate to difficult level. “Cut-off for qualifying to the main exam would be around 95 to 100 marks,” he said. Last year, the cut-off for general category was 98 out of 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civil-service-aspirants-find-prelims-tough/articleshow/78482753.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Goa||Will take up Mollem issue with Centre: Sardinha||Panaji: South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Sunday assured that he would take up Goa’s concerns regarding the three infrastructure projects expected to come up in Mollem and the Major Ports Authority Bill. Sardinha met a Goencho Ekvott delegation and called for all documents and plans to study the impact of the projects so that he can raise the issue with the Centre. Goencho Ekvott submitted a memorandum to the Sardinha highlighting the various projects to be taken up as part of the Sagarmala project and the three linear projects passing through the Mollem protected forest. The impact of the Major Port Authority Bill on Goa’s environment was also discussed with the MP. “All the projects are basically linked to transportation of coal through Goa to make it a coal hub,” Olencio Simoes said. He explained the ill-effects of Goa being declared a Coastal Economic Zone (CEZ). Simoes also said that the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) amendments were brought in just to favour Mormugao Port Trust’s expansion plans and not to support any Goans. Explaining the impact of the bill, Goencho Avaaz convenor Viriato Fernandes requested Sardinha to push for the removal of MPT from the ambit of the bill. “Goa being a small state, such large infrastructure development will severely damage its ecological balance. If MPT is not omitted, it will be a state within a state,” Fernandes said. Goencho Avaaz and Goencho Ekvott have suggested alternative plans for coal transportation. Extending his unconditional support to avoid damage to the environment, Sardinha assured the delegation that he would study the projects and take up the matter with the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-take-up-mollem-issue-with-centre-sardinha/articleshow/78482752.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Nashik bars, restaurants allowed to stay open between 9am and 7pm||NASHIK: Owners of restaurants and bars across the state will be reopening their establishments on Monday with the hope that customers extend their support and help revive their businesses that have taken a hit. To this effect, the owners are ensuring that their establishments adhere to the government-issued guidelines on Covid safety and follow all standard operating procedures (SOPs). However, some feel they still being restricted. In Nashik, restaurants and bars are allowed to operate only between 9am and 7 pm. Officials of the state excise department said they have issued a timing-related order on the instructions of the Nashik district collector. “Bars (and restaurants) can operate between 9am and 7pm with 50% capacity. We have already issued an order in this connection as per the collector’s directive,” said an excise official. Members of the Association of Bar, Hotels and Restaurants (ABHAR) in Nashik are unhappy with the permitted timing. They feel it will not help them attract too many customers as people usually visit restaurants and bars in the evening. The members have demanded that they be allowed to operate till 9 pm. They have written to district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, collector Suraj Mandhare and Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) chief Kailas Jadhav to increase the timings of these establishments by two hours. “Municipal corporations in Nagpur and Latur have allowed bars and restaurants to operate between 9am and 9pm., but in Nashik city, bars are allowed to operate between 9am and 7pm only. But customers usually go to bars and restaurants in the evening. We will have good business only if timings are extended till 9 pm” said Sanjay Chavan, the president, ABHAR Nashik. “The annual license fees for bars is around Rs 7.30 lakh, but all bars have been closed for the past six months and they have lost business. At this juncture, there is a need to extend the timings,” he added. Kolhapur owners take additional precautions In Kolhapur, hotels and restaurants are taking precautions in addition to the SOPs issued by the district administration. In a meeting of the hoteliers’ association, doctors guided the owners on how to keep the customers and staff safe from Covid infection. The administration has asked the hotel/restaurant owners to check all customers’ temperature, apply sanitisers and not allow anyone in without a mask. Ujjwal Nageshkar, the president of the association, said: “We are going to use pulse oximeters to check the blood saturation level of customers in addition to thermal scanning. We are going to use the disinfectants of good quality and ensure that the hotels are disinfected every four hours. The SOPs have suggested contact-less procedure to order and deliver food. We will ensure that the staff and customers have limited or no contact.” The hoteliers said they will open the hotels only after all preparations taken. Most of them said they are yet to get the safety gears for the staff and customers, and since the hotels and bars have been closed for so many months it will take time to clean and make hotels ready for dining. Nageshkar said, “Since there are very few tourist and business activities are slow, we are expecting a low response for the first few days. We have asked the administration to resume tourist activities. At present, there is a shortage of staff also. We expect many establishments to resume activities a little later.” — With inputs from Kolhapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-bars-restaurants-allowed-to-stay-open-between-9am-7pm/articleshow/78480082.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 5, 2020||Goa||GMC sees Goa’s first cases of Covid reinfection in doctors||PANAJI: More than three months after contracting Covid-19, two doctors at Goa medical college (GMC) have been reinfected with the virus, the first official Covid reinfection case in the state. Dean Dr S M Bandekar confirmed the reinfection of the two doctors. “They have been reinfected,” he said. “They were working in the core department. One developed a high fever and has a pneumonia patch in the lungs, while the other has a mild infection. Both are recovering at the Covid care centre at Panaji Residency.” There have been several cases of reinfection, Bandekar said, but stressed that this is the first known case of doctors getting infected. The reinfection of the doctors has not gone down well with health workers, who are already overburdened during the pandemic. “We’re upset. Initially, we were under the impression that a person once infected develops immunity, but this is no more the case,” he said. Several healthcare workers, including doctors and nurses at the ESI hospital and GMC, as well as the health services, began getting infected when Covid cases began to rise in the state. The news of the two doctors’ reinfection comes more than a month after Mumbai reported its first case of Covid reinfection in a doctor at Sion Hospital. The doctor had tested positive for the virus a second time after a gap of two months. The doctor in Mumbai received full treatment the first time, and has recovered from the second bout of the infection. TOI had reported that research conducted by two Mumbai hospitals on four reinfected patients (including three doctors) found that they all had a more severe Covid-19 infection the second time. The first Covid infection was asymptomatic to mild in these healthcare workers, but the second time, they all needed hospitalisation. “For all four HCWs (healthcare workers), the second episode had more symptoms, with constitutional manifestations and illness that lasted longer than the first episode,” read the preprint of the paper published on The Lancet medical journal’s website. The first Covid-19 reinfection was reported in Hong Kong on August 24. There have been more cases of reinfection reported from Belgium, the Netherlands and the US since. Scientists say the second bout may or may not be more severe than the first. The 33-year-old Hong Kong resident had a milder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-sees-goas-first-cases-of-covid-reinfection-in-doctors/articleshow/78482762.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Edu min launches SOP for school reopening across country||Nagpur: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal today released the standard operating procedures for school reopening. The Union government had earlier issued guidelines that states may take a call on reopening after October 15. Maharashtra government has already ruled out the reopening of educational institutes till at least October 31. Union government has also clarified that school reopening has to be done only after looking at the local situation. There are two parts of the school reopening process and first one deals with health and safety aspects for reopening schools. The following things are covered under Part-I:- 1.a) Arrange and implement for thorough cleaning and disinfecting of all areas, furniture, equipment, stationery, storage places, water tanks, kitchens, canteen, washrooms, laboratories, libraries, etc on school campus and ensure air flow in indoor space. 1.b) Schools to form Task Teams such as, Emergency Care Support/Response Team, General Support Team for all stakeholders, Commodity Support Team, Hygiene Inspection Team, etc with earmarked responsibilities will be helpful. 1.c) Schools may be encouraged to make their own SOPs based on the guidelines issued by States/UTs for the following, keeping in view the safety and physical/social distancing norms, and ensuring that the notices/posters/messages/communication to parents in this regard are prominently displayed/disseminated 1.d) .Physical distancing / social distancing to be ensured while planning the seating plan, functions and events to be avoided, staggering of entry and exits timings and points of schools, staggered time tables 1.e) .All students and staff to arrive at school wearing a face cover/mask and continue wearing it all through, especially when in class, or doing any activity in groups, such as eating in the mess, working in the laboratories or reading in the libraries 1.f) .Display Signages and markings for enforcing physical/social distancing and safety protocols at adequate places. States/UTs should take the consent t of parents/guardians before their child/ward begins attending schools. Students willing to study from home with the consent of the parents may be allowed to do so. 1.g) Sensitize students, parents, teachers, community members and hostel staff on Covid-19 related challenges and their role to be conducted based upon guidelines issued by the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare with all the stakeholders. 1.h) Plan for academic calendar changes for all classes, particularly in relation to breaks and exams.Ensure all students have access to prescribed textbooks before school reopens. 1.i) Ensure availability in school or at contactable distance full-time trained health care attendant/nurse/doctor and counsellor to take care of physical and mental health of the students. Regular health check-up of students and teachers may be organized. 1.j) Adequate information should be collected from students, parents and teachers upon the health status. From local administration: About the State and district helplines and the nearest Covid Centre and other contact details for dealing with emergency. 1.k) Flexible attendance and sick leave policies may be developed and implemented to encourage students and staff to stay at home when sick. 1.l) Actions to be as per the Protocol defined in case of detection of a suspected case of Covid-19. 1.m) Focus the most vulnerable students (homeless/migrated students, students with disabilities, and students directly affected by Covid-19 through a family death or hospitalization) to prioritize their needs. Ensure provision of assistive devices and learning content as per the needs of the CwSN. 1.n) To meet the nutritional requirements of children and safeguard their immunity during the Covid-19 outbreak, States / UTs were advised to provide hot cooked Mid-Day Meal or its equivalent Food Security Allowance to eligible children during closure of schools and summer vacations. Adequate focus on food safety, health, and hygiene along with physical/social distancing. Part II refers to learning with physical/social distancing and the academic aspects related to the delivery of education, such as, curriculum transactions, instructional load, timetables, assessment, etc 2.a) Making a Comprehensive Alternative Calendar of Activities for the whole year with focus on learning outcomes. Academic calendar may be realigned for the whole year in accordance with the emerging situation. Comprehensive academic plan can be prepared as per the guidelines received from the concerned Directorate of Education. This plan may follow guidelines of Alternative Academic Calendar prepared by the NCERT. 2.b) Reintegration of students into school may be taken on priority after reopening. 2.c) Teachers must polish their skills for integrating ICT in class as far as possible. Training modules may be prepared for the same. 2.d) Children can also be sensitized about the pandemic by integrating various concepts into the teaching of various subject areas such as EVS, languages, science and social science, arts. 2.e) Teachers must discuss with the students the clear road map of the curriculum, the modes of learning to be adopted (through face to face instruction/individual assignments or portfolios/group-based project work/group presentations, etc) to be covered, the time to be taken for the same, dates of school based assessments, breaks, etc 2.f) Focus on the most vulnerable students (homeless/migrated students, students with disabilities, and students directly affected by Covid-19 through a family death or hospitalization) to prioritize their needs. 2.g) Divergent use of teaching resources shall have to be relied upon keeping physical/social distancing and other safety norms in mind. Resources could include peer teaching and learning, use of workbooks and worksheets, use of technology-based resources in class, empowering parents/grandparents/older sibling to teach, using the services of volunteers from the community, etc 2.h) PRAGYATA Guidelines on digital and online education can be used to orient teachers and students in this regard.If the State/UT has Energized Textbooks, inform students and parents how to download the e-content behind the QR on DIKSHA, codes and use the same in offline mode, thereon. 2.i) Teachers, parents, and administrators need to focus on formative assessment to ensure achievement of learning goals by all learners. Guidelines of SCERT/NCERT may be used to sensitize parents to improve their understanding of and appreciation for formative assessment. 2.j) Schools to ensure smooth transition of students from home-based schooling during lockdown to formal schooling. Schools can implement re-adjusted school calendar and redesigned Annual Curriculum Plan (ACP), remedial classes or conduct back to school campaign among other steps. 2.k) The teachers, school counsellor and school health workers should work in unison to ensure emotional safety of their students. ‘MANODARPAN’ covers a wide range of activities to provide psychosocial support to students, teachers and families for Mental Health and Emotional well-being during the Covid outbreak and beyond. 2.l) Based on these SOP/guidelines, State / UT Governments need to develop their own Standard Operating Procedures for reopening schools and for training different stakeholders as and when the State/Union Territory Governments declare it safe for schools to operate. 2.m) Checklists for safe school environment which includes for different stakeholders, for building resilience and for academic planning and school operations may be used. 2.n) The State/UT Education Departments may conduct awareness and capacity building programmes for DIET faculty members, School Heads, Teachers, and Parents before the opening of the schools. These SOPs are advisory in nature and states/UTs may use these in the manner deemed fit to prepare their own guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-min-launches-sop-for-school-reopening-across-country/articleshow/78498165.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 5, 2020||Rajkot||Three including woman held for murder in Gandhidham||RAJKOT: A woman and two others were arrested in connection with the murder of a man in Gandhidham of Kutch district on Saturday. Police said the accused, Meena Matang (27) incited Rohit Maheshweri and Karan Maheshweri, both aged 25, to stab her 30-year-old ex-lover Jitu Matang to death. “In her statement, Meena said that Jitu and she had severed their relationship, but the former kept pestering her with phone calls. Tired of the harasment Meena complained to Rohit and Karan, who stabbed Jitu near Empire Hotel in Gandhidham,” said K P Sagathia, inspector with Gandhidham A division police station. Jitu was taken to Rambaug Civil Hospital in Gandhidham where he was declared brought dead. The accused were arrested on the complaint of Jitu’s elder brother Punam Matang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-including-woman-held-for-murder/articleshow/78482760.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||6 UPSC special trains run with 159 on board; one with just 4 passengers||Dehradun: The Moradabad railway division on Sunday ran six special trains to ferry candidates appearing for the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) prelims exams, with a total of 159 passengers availing of the services. This comes a fortnight after the division ran five trains for National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) aspirants which had only 21 people on board. According to railways officials,a sum close to Rs eight lakh was spent on running the six special trains on Sunday while the revenue generated was a paltry Rs 9,190. Data provided by the railways revealed that the exam special train that ran from Bareilly to Ghaziabad carried nine passengers and earned Rs 530 from ticket sales while another train from Bareilly to Lucknow had eight passengers and made Rs 520. “A train that travelled from Moradabad to Dehradun ferried 39 passengers and railways earned Rs 2,300 from it. Another train from Aligarh to Moradabad had four passengers and generated a revenue of Rs 229. The train from Balamau to Bareilly had 30 passengers and earned Rs 1,630 while the Dehradun to Bareilly special earned Rs 3,695 with 69 passengers,” said Rekha Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager (DCM), Moradabad division. Most of these trains started their journey on Saturday night to ensure aspirants reached their exam centre by 9.30am on Sunday. According to DCM (Moradabad) Gaurav Dixit, the return journey of these trains is expected to have a slightly better response. “While data from other centres is awaited, a train from Moradabad to Dehradun which had 39 passengers in the morning left Dehradun with 90 passengers on its return journey,” he said. Commenting on the low turnout of passengers in the exam special trains, a senior railways official said, “These are important competitive exams and no one wants to take a chance. Candidates usually make arrangements to reach the exam centre on the very same day when they get the admit card.” Another official was of the view that the railways had not promoted the initiative properly. A railway official from Agra division — which had run a NEET special from Kosi Kalan (Mathura) to Delhi with 10 passengers — said no special train was run this time. Keshav Tripathi, public relations officer, Prayagraj division also confirmed to TOI that the division didn’t run a special train. Last time, the NEET exam special that ran from Aligarh to Delhi had five people on board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/6-upsc-special-trains-run-with-159-on-board-one-with-just-4-passengers/articleshow/78480086.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad top cop starts ‘My City, My Responsibility’||Aurangabad: Addressing a meeting of thinkers, intellectuals from different fields and social workers on Saturday, newly appointed commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta announced a project called ‘My City, My Responsibility’ under the city police’s ambitious community policing initiative. The meeting was held at the police commissioner’s office. Over the past couple of years, a series of pro-people initiatives as part of community policing efforts have been found to be instrumental in bridging the communication gap between members of different communities and those from varied economic backgrounds. This was Gupta first community policing meeting since he took charge of the city. He said ensuring communal harmony, strict implementation of traffic norms, addressing complaints within 24 hours of receiving them and visible policing are amongst his top priorities. Saturday’s meeting was jointly organised by the Payam-e-Insaniyat Foundation, which has been working along with the city police to address different social issues, including substance abuse among youths, and to ensure communal harmony. Addressing the attendees, who comprised doctors, educationists, industrialists and volunteers representing different NGOs, Gupta appealed them to take initiatives in employment generation and skill development of the youth. Referring to Aurangabad as one of the most liveable cities in the country, Gupta said: “Overall prosperity can be achieved by addressing infrastructural development, employment and communal harmony-related issues of the city.” The officer assured the attendees that the city police have geared themselves up to address the problems caused by criminals and nuisance mongers. Already, a list of active criminal elements from each of the police stations is being prepared to initiate stringent preventive actions against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-top-cop-starts-my-city-my-responsibility/articleshow/78482761.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Paan stall owner shot at in Nanded, hunt on for 4||Aurangabad: Bike-borne suspects fired at a paan stall owner in the Old Mondha area of Nanded city and robbed a hosiery shop in the neighbourhood before fleeing the spot. The incident temporarily led to a stampede in the busy Old Mondha area and normalcy was restored only after heavy police bandobast was deployed. Soon after the incident, police imposed nakabandi in the city and started combing operations to zero in on the suspects. The injured person has been identified as Akash Parihar, who received a bullet injury on the right side of his stomach. He was immediately rushed to a hospital, where he underwent an operation. Eye witnesses to the incident informed police that there were four suspects on two bikes. They reached the Old Mondha corner, where Parihar was sitting in his paan kiosk. One of the suspects riding pillion brandished the firearm and shot a round at him. Then, the suspects entered a neighbouring hosiery shop and robbed around Rs 10,000 kept in the locker. The suspects fired a second round before fleeing the spot. Preliminary probe indicates that the weapon used by the suspects was a country-made firearm. This is the first incident of firing in the city, which off late has been witnessing a series of violent crime, extortions as well as property offences after Pramodkumar Shewale took charge as the superintendent of police, Nanded district. “Prima facie it is a case of armed robbery and we have registered the offence. The suspects have also been identified,” Shewale told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/paan-stall-owner-shot-at-in-nanded-hunt-on-for-4/articleshow/78482755.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||‘Reaching out, not teaching, to children has to be priority’||Nagpur: Even as online classes gain traction, and are being encouraged by the government, there are concerns how tiny tots are adapting to the virtual classrooms. Especially for those who are either first timers or have shifted to a new school, not seeing familiar faces on screen can be un-nerving. Kalpana Dhareshwar, a renowned academic with three decades of experience in pre-primary education, said kids have to be acclimatized very patiently. “Reaching out to children, not ‘teaching to’ children, has to be the priority in the early stages. The child has to feel comfortable with new friends and teachers. We have a ‘know-your-friend’ activity in which the new child introduces himself to a small group from his class. With teacher’s help, these kids interact before or after the class gets over,” said Dhareshwar. She added that activities like role-play and fun games, which involve even parents, help to bridge the initial reluctance of kids. “Games like asking the child to show a red coloured book etc gets the kids involved. This has to go on for at least a month before the regular academics can start,” said Dhareshwar, who is principal of Mother’s Pet Kindergarten. Mrunalini Dasture, principal of South Public School, said initiating the child into a new environment starts way before the actual classes do. “We asked class teachers to note down all new admissions and make a video call to that family. So the teacher then introduces herself to the child and parents, and the entire thing is done in a very light hearted way. Later, a few older students are introduced to these new kids, so that when the online classes start the child spots a few familiar faces,” said Dasture. Parvati Iyer, principal of Bhavan’s BVM (Trimurti Nagar), said the initiation of new kids involves getting the family on the same page as well. “We have a peer mentor system in which a classmate is paired with the new child. This classmate is one who’s more social, comfortable and seeped into the school’s system. This buddy system helps the new child to get comfortable with new faces from her own age group. Then we introduce both families through a video call, which makes that peer bonding even stronger. Similarly, class teacher and other subject teachers are also introduced to the new child,” said Iyer. School counsellor Seema Saboo said new faces and environment are uncomfortable for many, regardless of their age group. “A student going from Std X to junior college will have similar anxiety if faces are unfamiliar. For little ones, this year might not be extremely difficult because they are not physically separated from parents to attend school. So being at home, and yet, meeting new people might be slightly better but it does not mean that children won’t feel anxiety,” said Saboo. There are some who believe that today’s tiny tots are more comfortable with digital tools and meeting new people should not be a problem. However, social media analyst Ajit Parse disagrees. “Children might be comfortable playing a game online or watching cartoons on mobile, but that does not mean they are immediately comfortable during online classes. Getting to know people, interacting with them in virtual platform requires training,” said Parse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reaching-out-not-teaching-to-children-has-to-be-priority/articleshow/78482769.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal strengthens air connectivity with border districts, regular flight service to commence from Dussehra||Pithoragarh: After ramping up security near its border with Uttarakhand by setting up Border Observation Posts (BOPs) and preparing to move a battalion of its Armed Police Force at Chhangru near Kalapani, Nepal is now gearing up to enhance its air connectivity in areas close to the border. On Saturday, Nepalese aviation minister Yogesh Bhattarai reached Patan airport in Baitadi district that borders Pithoragarh. Sources said that the minister was accompanied by a technical team of the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal. A landing trial of two 19-seater planes was also conducted in Chainpur and Dipayal Silgadhi. Chainpur is the district headquarters of Bajhang while Dipayal Silgadhi is the district headquarters of Doti district. Both the districts lie in Sudur Paschim Pradesh (Far-west province) of Nepal, which shares borders with both Uttarakhand and UP. Sources told TOI that the trial landing conducted by the aviation authority team was successful and the minister thereafter announced that regular flight service to these areas will start from Dussehra. He is also believed to have told locals that two more border districts, Achham and Darchula will soon have air connectivity as well. The flights to these areas will operate from Dhangadhi in Kailali district of Sudur Paschim Pradesh. Notably, Patan airport in Baitadi district was constructed in 1980 and it was functional till 1996 when Maoist rebels destroyed the airstrip. It was being rebuilt from the past three years and finally, after 24 years, it has become operational, sources said. The sources added that Darchula district has an air strip at Gokuleshwar but it is not functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-strengthens-air-connectivity-with-border-districts-regular-flight-service-to-commence-from-dussehra/articleshow/78480101.cms||Prem Punetha
October 5, 2020||Goa||Let ASI with 2-year experience be promoted as PSI: Goa Police||Panaji: With nearly half of promotional police sub-inspector (PSI) posts being vacant, Goa police have sent a proposal to the state government to amend existing PSI recruitment rules so that assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) with minimum two years of regular service could be promoted as PSIs. There are around 530 PSI posts in Goa police out of which 50% are promotional vacancies. The decision to propose the amendment has been approved by the Police Establishment Board. Superintendent of police (HQ) Arvind Gawas in a letter to the home department stated that the Police Establishment Board desires to reduce the requirement of regular service for an ASI’s promotion as PSI from the existing five years of regular service to two years in the feeder grade. “Presently, 125 vacant PSI posts have to be filled by promotion. Since, there are no eligible ASIs with 5 years of regular service, all the 125 PSI posts to be filled by promotion are lying vacant,” Gawas stated. The letter states it is worth mentioning that, it takes almost 34 years for a constable to become ASI and by then he is on the verge of his retirement. Unfortunately, before becoming eligible for the post of PSI, the ASIs retire on superannuation and hence the post of PSI (promotional quota) remains vacant. Goa police attached the copies of existing recruitment rules for the post and Recruitment Rules of feeder grade, soft copies, etc for amendment of existing Recruitment Rules for the post of Police Sub Inspector in Police Department and with present proposal. “It is requested that necessary notification may please be issued and published in the official gazette,” the letter reads. The ASIs are already drawing PSI salaries, so if they are promoted there won’t be any financial liabilities for the government, a senior officer said. “If an ASI is promoted, then more PSIs can be deployed at a police station for investigation,” the officer said. Earlier, police had sent a proposal to the state government seeking a one-time relaxation in recruitment rules to fill vacancies to 100 PSI posts on promotion basis, but the government did not take any action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/let-asi-with-2-year-experience-be-promoted-as-psi-goa-police/articleshow/78482774.cms||Murari Shetye
October 5, 2020||Goa||Silent hypoxemia is causing avoidable Covid deaths: Doctors||PANAJI: Even as patients continue to reach hospital late, resulting in high Covid-19 mortality, doctors have warned of silent hypoxemia, a phenomenon in which a patient doesn’t appear breathless or uneasy despite blood oxygen saturation dropping. “That’s why it’s called silent or happy hypoxemia, because patients tend to feel completely fine and healthy initially although their oxygen saturation levels are falling dangerously low,” said Goa Medical College’s (GMC) head of pulmonary medicine, Dr Durga Lawande. “Since patients don’t experience any symptoms of oxygen saturation dropping, they tend to take it lightly and stay at home.” She said that the very fact that oxygen levels are dropping means the lungs are involved. “This is a panic sign, and patients must immediately seek advice from a doctor and get admitted to a hospital,” she said. Lawande said that silent hypoxemia is a factor responsible for several Covid-related deaths, including those occurring in the young. “Patients are reaching hospital late, when the Covid infection has already affected their lower respiratory tract — lungs,” she said. “When they get admitted in this severe state, it becomes difficult to treat them.” Two of the six deceased who succumbed to Covid over the past 24 hours — both in their 70s — died within an hour of admission. Consulting physician Dr Oscar Rebello said that he has seen several patients who experience tightness in the chest and breathlessness turn bad between the 7th and 12th day. “This is even happening to those in the 40-50 age group. You don’t expect them to turn bad. If a patient feels breathless and continues to experience high fever and tightness in the chest, he must go straight to hospital.” Lawande said that oxygen levels of those on home isolation must closely be monitored and checked at least thrice a day with a pulse oximeter. “If blood oxygen saturation goes below 95%, it is an alarming sign, and no time should be wasted in contacting a doctor and getting to hospital.” She said that elderly persons and those with underlying conditions like lung disease, diabetes, hypertension and ischemic heart disease must be more cautious when it comes to monitoring oxygen saturation. “These are the people who are likely to worsen and who will have a bad outcome.” Meanwhile, chest physicial and past IMA president Dr Anil Mehndiratta said that patients on home isolation are being advised to take the six-minute walk test. “This test is only for those whose baseline blood oxygen saturation level is above 95%,” he said. “We tell patients to walk six minutes on level ground and check oxygen saturation before and after the walk, with the pulse oximeter. If it drops to 92% after the walk, further investigation is needed. The patient must contact a doctor and get a CT scan done. This test is not recommended for those with oxygen saturation less than 95%.” SOP too asks patients to monitor SPO2: The standard operating procedure (SOP) for home isolation instructs patients who are self-monitoring to contact the local health centre or assigned doctor immediately should oxygen saturation fall below 95%. It also says that patients must immediately seek medical aid if they have these symptoms — difficulty breathing, weakness, a bluish discoloration of lips/face, persistent pain/pressure in the chest, mental confusion or inability to arouse, temperature beyond 100 degrees Fahrenheit, and pulse rate above 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/silent-hypoxemia-causing-avoidable-covid-deaths-docs/articleshow/78482767.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||Woman’s body found floating in Mahisagar||VADODARA: The body of an unidentified woman was fished out from Mahisagar river near Fajalpur on Sunday evening. Wrapped in a blanket, the woman’s limbs were tied with a rope, said cops. Police said that the locals saw the body floating in the water on Sunday evening and alerted the police and fire brigade. Firemen brought out of the body and as it appeared unnatural death, handed over the body to police for investigation. “The decomposed body seems to be of someone aged 35 years but it is difficult to ascertain the identity. We have sent it for post mortem to a public health centre in Bajwa,” said inspector A K Wadia of Nandesari police station. A case of accidental death was registered on Sunday late at night. Police officials said that if the post-mortem report will reveal that the woman was murdered, an offence will be then be registered accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/womans-body-found-floating-in-mahisagar/articleshow/78480602.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Bike, Rs 50,000 stolen in two incidents; 4 booked||LUDHIANA: Two scooter-borne miscreants robbed a man of his motorcycle on Saturday night after threatening him with a sharp-edged weapon on Shivpuri bridge. The incident occurred when the man was waiting for his friend there. Victim Rajinder Kumar, 28, of Prem Vihar on Tibba road stated that he had gone to Shivpuri to see one of his friends on Saturday night. While he was waiting for his friend on Shivpuri bridge these miscreants turned up there and asked for the key of his motorcycle. When he refused to hand over the keys to them, the accused flashed a sharp-edged weapon and threatened to kill him. Thereafter, he did not resist. The accused snatched the keys from him and drove away his motorcycle. After the miscreants left the spot, he informed the police. ASI Vijay Kumar, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common object) of the IPC had been lodged against unidentified accused at police station, Basti Jodhewal. The police are scanning CCTVs cameras installed near the spot to identify the accused. In another incident, following an argument over parking of a scooter, two men stole Rs 50,000 from the scooter of another man of their locality at Kutbewal Gujran village on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Shanty and Kewal Singh of the same village. The complainant, Sukhdev Singh, stated that he ran a chit fund scheme and used to collect instalments from the members of the scheme. After collecting Rs 50,000 from somewhere he was returning home. On way back to home, he met someone. So, he parked his scooter on the road side and started talking to the man. Meanwhile, the accused turned up there and started abusing him for parking the scooter on the road. The victim added that the accused thrashed him and took away his scooter and stole Rs 50,000 from it. The accused returned his scooter but refused to return the money. Investigating officer from police station Ladhowal, ASI Ram Kishan, said that an FIR under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 379 (theft), 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restrain) ,34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) IPC had been lodged against the accused. The accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bike-rs-50000-stolen-in-two-incidents-4-booked/articleshow/78481116.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mangaluru||Prostitution racket busted, 2 girls rescued||MANGALURU: The Mangaluru city police have busted a prostitution racket, arrested three accused and rescued two girls from Bengaluru, at a flat in Valencia, late on Saturday night. The arrested accused are Ganesh, a resident of Bolar and two others. Police said main accused Ganesh was operating the racket through WhatsApp. He would bring girls from Bengaluru, to the flat in Valencia. A case has been registered at the Mangaluru South police station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/prostitution-racket-busted-2-girls-rescued/articleshow/78480093.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Crop loan: Admin felicitates 5 banks||Nashik: The district administration recently felicitated top five banks across Nashik for disbursing crop loans to the tune of Rs 2,700 crore till the end of kharif season that concluded on September 30, benefiting around 1.17 lakh farmers. As per data available, the Nashik District Central Cooperative (NDCC) Bank disbursed 101% loans of its annual target this year. “These banks have made phenomenal disbursement of agricultural loans as they crossed the Rs 2,000 crore-mark for the first time. This itself is a very high number as 81% of the target of Rs 3,303.7 crore was achieved this year and the NDCC Bank has led the show,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. NDCC’s crop loan disbursement target was Rs 437 crore, but they gave out loan worth Rs 443 crore.The other four banks to be felicitated were Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, State Bank of India and Union Bank of India. Bank of India’s loan disbursement target was Rs 115 crore, and the bank managed to achieve 90% target by giving out Rs 103 crore as crop loan. Bank of Maharashtra achieved 75% of its target of Rs 501 crore. The bank disbursed crop loans worth Rs 387 crore. State Bank of India disbursed Rs 373 crore (76%) of its target of Rs 487. The Union Bank of India was also felicitated for disbursement of crop loans this year. The collector pointed out that last year total loan distribution stood at Rs 1,623 crore which was just 51.58 % of the set target of Rs 3,147 crore. The loan disbursement this year was Rs 658 crore more than last year’s target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/crop-loan-admin-felicitates-5-banks/articleshow/78480112.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Pvt hosps get nod to run DCHCs in rural Nashik||Nashik: With an aim to treat Covid-19 patients in the rural areas, the district health office of Nashik zilla parishad has allowed private hospitals in the rural areas of the district to run dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC). There are 10 locations where private hospitals have been allowed to start DCHCs so that the patients who need extra care can be sent to these centres. The district already has about 15 government-run DCHCs. Expansion has either been proposed in some of these centres or been completed. “Currently, the flow of patients from rural areas to the city area for getting treatment in the DCHCs of private establishments is very high which is affecting the treatment administered to people from Nashik city or even those in Malegaon. The private DCHCs in the rural areas will absorb this flow to reduce the burden on the health facilities in both the cities,” said district health officer Kapil Aher. Currently, two private DCHCs are functioning in Sinnar town of Sinnar taluka. Besides, a 15-bed DCHC in Satana, a 50-bed DCHC in Pimpalgaon (Baswant), a 30-bed DCHC in Ozhar, a 20-bed DCHC in Vinchur—all in Niphad taluka, a 30-bed DCHC in Odha in Nashik taluka and a 20-bed DCHC in Ghoti in Igatpuri taluka have received approval for operations. Moreover, DCHCs have also been proposed in Dindori in Malegaon taluka and Manmad town which are in the phase of getting approval. “These Covid-19 facilities will have to charge for the stay and treatment as per the state government norms and will be monitored by officials from the health office as well as the district administration,” said Aher. Aher added that his office has asked these facilities to take the empanelment with Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MPJAY). “Not all people may like to visit government facilities and not many will be able to bear the expenses of private hospitality. Considering the Covid-19 outbreak, the state government has already extended the benefits of MPJAY to all the people who are residents of Maharashtra. This means that people will be entitled to free treatment here when these hospitals take the empanelment with MPJAY,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-hosps-get-nod-to-run-dchcs-in-rural-nashik/articleshow/78482766.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 5, 2020||India||Bay of Bengal depression: AP & Odisha could see heavy rain||NEW DELHI: A fresh low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal is likely to be formed around October 9 and it may intensify into a depression in the next two-three days, bringing heavy rainfall to north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts during October 11-13. Predicting its impact over eastern coasts, the cyclone warning division of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued warning for these regions asking fishermen not to venture into Andaman sea, east-central and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal during the period. Referring to impact of the current low-pressure area, the IMD predicted fairly widespread rainfall over Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Gangetic West Bengal till October 7. “The current low-pressure area lies over north-west Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coasts. It is very likely to persist there till October 5 and become less marked thereafter. However, its associated cyclonic circulation is very likely to move over to south Chhattisgarh on October 6 and remain active till October 7,” said the IMD. It predicted isolated heavy rainfall over Odisha till October 6 and in Jharkhand, Bihar and Chhattisgarh till October 7. It said, “A fresh low-pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around October 9. It is very likely to move north-westwards towards north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bay-of-bengal-depression-ap-odisha-could-see-heavy-rain/articleshow/78483658.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||With Sunday lockdown lifted, rush returns to city bazars||LUDHIANA: Months after remaining closed on Sundays due to the lockdown put in place by Punjab government, shops finally opened after chief minister Amarinder Singh lifted the ban on Sunday lockdown three days back. During the first ‘unlocked’ Sunday since March, a huge rush of people was witnessed in the markets, specially those located in the old city areas. The shopkeepers too were jubilant after being able to do business on Sunday after a long time. The traders dealing with the garment business are the most happiest lot as their season has started when shopkeepers and traders from other cities visit them, preferably on Sundays for making wholesale purchases. Giving more information, Manpreet Singh Bunty, president of Akalgarh Market, said “This is a very big relief for the shopkeepers and traders who were suffering huge losses due to their shops remaining closed on Sundays, when both retail and wholesale customers turn out in maximum numbers to make purchases. On this Sunday, a huge rush was witnessed in our market and all nearby markets as well, specially those related with garments. We have been constantly pursuing this matter of allowing us to operate on Sundays with the authorities and pressure from our side has worked as finally the CM intervened in the matter and lifted the Sunday lockdown. Keeping in view this development, we have fixed Monday off for our market as on Monday we don’t get that many customers.” According to Deepak Batra, a shopkeeper from Chaura Bazar, “Sunday is the only day of the week when everyone, be it businessmen having factories, self employed and working professionals, is free and that is why people go out for shopping on Sundays only. For the past several months we have been facing difficult times as earlier our shops remained fully closed and later on when we were allowed to open lockdown was declared on Sunday for shops dealing in non-essential goods. The decision had hit us very badly as we lost huge business but finally government has woken up to our woes and lifted the lockdown.” Vijay Kumar, another shopkeeper from Chaura Bazar, said, “We are thankful to the CM for accepting our demand and allowing us to open our shops and offices on Sunday. This will help in saving jobs and livelihood of lakhs of people, along with saving the traders’ fraternity from incurring further losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-sunday-lockdown-lifted-rush-returns-to-city-bazars/articleshow/78481133.cms||Mohit Behl
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Now, PhD a must for assistant prof jobs at Anna univ||CHENNAI: To improve the quality of its faculty, Anna University has changed the minimum qualification for assistant professors from postgraduate to PhD. Candidates applying to teach science and humanities in the university should have one year experience after getting their PhDs. After a gap of six years, Anna University has notified 312 vacancies — 139 for assistant professors, 106 associate professors and 67 professors in four campuses — College of Engineering, Guindy, Madras Institute of Technology, Chromepet, Alagappa College of Technology and School of Architecture and Planning. The notification specified that all candidates should have secured first class in their undergraduate and postgraduate degrees. If the classification is not available, they should have a minimum 70% score in their programmes. Earlier, candidates needed to get first class in either UG or PG. “Faculty members with PhDs can improve the teaching standard and academic environment. They can also contribute to research and work on emerging areas,” said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor of the university. He added that faculty members with doctorates will also improve the university’s ranking at national and global level. “The teacher-students ratio in university departments is on the higher side with some departments having 1:20 or 1:30. We want to gradually bring it down to 1:12, on par with IITs,” he added. Due to the shortage of faculty members, the university departments are using temporary faculty members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-phd-a-must-for-assistant-prof-jobs-at-anna-univ/articleshow/78482778.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 5, 2020||Goa||After settlement GIDC paid SEZ promoters Rs 23.7 crore more||PANAJI: While the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) asked industrial estates to cough up Rs 3 crore for raw water supply, RTI documents show that GIDC lacked the same enthusiasm in safeguarding its interests while refunding an additional Rs 23.7 crore to five SEZ promoters earlier this year. The GIDC repaid the Rs 23.7 crore through a loan, even though the amount had been deposited as tax deducted at source, GST and licence fees in the state government’s kitty while executing the out-of-court settlement with the SEZ promoters. Documents show that three of the five SEZ promoters surrendered the SEZ land in April 2019 after the GIDC refunded Rs 239.3 crore, suggesting that they agreed with the GIDC’s calculations. Yet, eight months later, acting on the industries department’s directions, GIDC decided to release the additional amount. The GIDC and the SEZ promoters had agreed before the Supreme Court to settle the SEZ litigation amicably if the GIDC refunded Rs 256.5 crore which included TDS, GST, licence fees and interest on interest. The TDS, GST and licence fees were deducted at the time of the transaction and transferred to the other authorities. “The GIDC did not defend the extra payment even though they did not get the money as it went to the government. They did not make any attempt to protect their interest,” said an industrialist who served on the GIDC’s board. Records show that three SEZ promoters – INOX Merchantile Company, K Raheja Corp and Paradigm Logistics & Distribution signed the deed of surrender with the GIDC in April 2019. None of the SEZ promoters challenged the GIDC’s calculation before the Supreme Court, which had agreed to the GIDC’s out of court settlement with the SEZ companies. In spite of this, in January, the GIDC released Rs 23.7 crore to the SEZ promoters after industries minister Vishwajit Rane called for a recalculation and asked advocate general Devidas Pangam for a legal opinion. An RTI query seeking the GIDC’s response to the industries minister’s letter elicited the response “unavailable”. In June 2018, the GIDC moved a proposal to pay back the SEZ promoters along with interest after deducting tax liabilities which the state cabinet approved in July 2018. Recently, GIDC chairman Glen Ticlo said that the state government is interfering in the functioning of the corporation. He also said that several files and proposals are stuck with the industries department, particularly a proposal to reduce the water tariff to Rs 15 from Rs 25 per cubic meter of water. The GIDC has threatened to cut off the water supply to the Verna Industrial Estate if industrial units do not pay up Rs 3 crore as payment for raw water supply within 10 days. A file moved by the GIDC to the state government to reduce the water supply tariff has been pending for more than a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-settlement-gidc-paid-sez-promoters-rs-23-7cr-more/articleshow/78482776.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Igatpuri farmers oppose dam meant to store water for M’wada||Nashik: Farmers from Igatpuri have registered their opposition to the construction of Upper Kadva dam in the eastern part of the taluka.The farmers from villages, including Taked, Ghopadewadi, Adharwad, Barashingve, among others, have registered their protest against the proposed dam that is intended to store water for the Marathwada region.Igatpuri, which is just above Kasara Ghat and in the Sahyadri hills, is known as region of dams and has government projects like national highways and Nagpur-Mumbai Super Communication Highway. According to the villagers, huge chunk of land has already gone for these government projects.The taluka receives around 3,130 mm of rainfall annually and owing to this it has large number of dams that provide water for Nashik, Ahmednagar and Aurangabad districts, besides providing water to Mumbai as well.One of the farmers, Kondaji Kalekar, pointed out that construction of the dam would leave the farmers landless and force them to take to streets if the government continues with its plan.“Most of us have already been displaced from our homes due to the various government projects. We have got these lands as resettlement. If it is taken back by the government for dams we will be left landless,” he said.Most of the villages in the region are PESA villages owing the tribal population in the taluka. “While in case of linear land acquisition as related to Samruddhi Highway, the government could force its way through for surrendering of the land. But in case of this dam, the farmers will ensure that the government is not able to go ahead with its plan,” Shivaji Barhe, another farmer, said.The water resources department (WRD) officials have said that they have received a memorandum related to the development and that will be forwarded to the state government for consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/igatpuri-farmers-oppose-dam-meant-to-store-water-for-mwada/articleshow/78482770.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 5, 2020||Bareilly||Over 6,000 women earn Rs 46 lakh govt subsidy for growing cane seedlings||PILIBHIT: Under an ambitious programme of the UP sugarcane administration launched three months ago to make village women self-reliant by growing sugarcane seedling nurseries, as many as 6,682 women entrepreneurs in 36 cane producing districts have earned government-sponsored subsidy worth Rs 46.95 lakh, so far. Also, they will get an equal amount on selling the seedlings. Principal secretary, sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said the government had subsumed a provision of awarding subsidy to women entrepreneurs at a rate of Rs 1.5 per seedling under the National Food Security Mission (NFSM). The subsidy was primarily aimed at meeting the basic cost of the seedling production and making a majority of village women self-reliant, while the sale amount of Rs 1.5 fixed for each seedling was meant for raising their net profits, he said. “As on date as many as 714 self-help groups (SHGs) of village women have been successfully producing cane seedlings under the supervision of the departmental officials and expert trainers. These groups have, so far, produced more than 31 lakh seedlings, of which over 1 lakh seedlings have been sold to those farmers who needed to fill gaps in their sugarcane fields due to various reasons,” said Bhoosreddy. Till October 3, the sugarcane administration had successfully organised as many as 681 training sessions in the state to impart expert training to women entrepreneurs on the scientific methods of the seedling production. The process would continue to maximise the framework of the scheme to the best possible extent, he said. Bhoosreddy added that the due amount of subsidy would soon be transferred to the bank accounts of the entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-6k-women-earn-rs-46-lakh-govt-subsidy-for-growing-cane-seedlings/articleshow/78478858.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Goa||Phase 3 of Guirim coconut tree revival complete||Panaji: The third phase of reviving the coconut trees along the Guirim stretch of the highway took off on Sunday wherein volunteers cleared the debris left behind at the flyover. Volunteers spent hours and excavated 10 bags of stones, glass bottles, cement bags, among other objects that were choking the trees. “The area has received good rainfall in the past weeks. This helped in absorbing the manure. The results of our efforts are starting to show with some of the trees receiving new palm shoots,” said Avertino Miranda, who led the volunteers under the Goa Green Brigade. TOI had reported last month that the volunteers had applied organic manure to 40 trees at the level of the Guirim flyover in a process called ‘new rooting’ to revive the palms. Ever since, the volunteers have been meeting every Sunday to return to the project. The volunteers are now in the process of arranging regular water service for the trees. They are speaking to the road contractor to ensure that the trees don’t go dry. “Each coconut tree requires 10 litres of water per week. It is the road contractor’s responsibility to maintain the trees, so we are speaking to him to organise the water tanker service. Alternatively, we will have to involve the residents of Guirim in watering the trees.” Miranda said. In the next phase, the volunteers will explore the possibility of planting new trees along the stretch to make up for ones that were lost. Some of the volunteers have donated coconut saplings to the Goa Green Brigade for this cause. The volunteers are requesting the contractor to dig holes into the stretch where the new saplings can be planted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/phase-3-of-guirim-coconut-tree-revival-complete/articleshow/78482793.cms||Nida Sayed
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Excess of home remedies to check Covid harmful’||LUDHIANA: To prevent Covid-19, most people are using home-made recipes and trying different ingredients, be it karha, turmeric milk or other herbal spices. However, according to experts, excess of any of these remedies, moreover, without prescription or consultation can be harmful and counter-productive. Ludhiana police have prepared a Covid-care kit, which includes kaarha also. These kits are given to all cops who contract the virus. The police have also made it available for public use also. According to experts, all remedies do not work for all. Dr Gauhar Vatsyayan, an ayurvedic expert, said, “People are using kaarha and other home remedies these days. However, they have to be cautious as not all remedies work for everyone and can be counter-productive. For example, people suffering from hyperacidity should never have karha as it may worsen their condition.” He added, “People should never use any such remedies or medicine without consultation.” Dr Amit Modgil, MD medicine from Suman Hospital, Model Town, said, “Some people consume karha, turmeric milk, etc. as immunity boosters. But excess of everything is bad. There are people who got allergies in their throats after excessive use of turmeric milk. Without any consultation or prescription people should not consume such things, especially after getting recipes from social media.” ADCP special branch, Rupinder Kaur Sra, also nodal officer for Covid-19 in the city, said, “While giving the Covid-care kits to the Covid-positive cops, which includes karha as well, prescription is also given to them about its consumption. After consultation with the doctors a diet chart for all cops fighting the virus has been prepared, which are given to them. The diet chart also includes the intake of medicines like Vitimite C and karha also.” “Besides, our cops interact with doctors daily and in case of any problem or health issue, immediate consultation is provided to them,” the ADCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/excess-of-home-remedies-to-check-covid-harmful/articleshow/78481151.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Jaywalking has cost accident victim 10% of compensation||Chennai: A jaywalking pedestrian was charged 10% of the total compensation for contributory negligence by an accident claims tribunal, which held that the accident victim not paying heed to the lack of a traffic signal had also contributed to the accident. The pedestrian had moved the tribunal seeking compensation for the injuries caused by a rashly driven TNSTC bus in November 2017. According to the petition by R Ishwarya, she and her father were crossing the GST Road at a pedestrian crossing near Guduvanchery, when a rashly driven government bus hit her. The petitioner stated that she survived with grievous injuries on the leg. In response, the transport corporation contended that the accident occurred only because the petitioner crossed the road unmindful of the traffic signal and the warning signals from the bus driver. It further claimed that the police had refused to hear the version of the bus driver. After perusing the documents submitted, chief judicial magistrate, Chengelpet, M A Kabeer noted that the accident occurred only due to the rash driving by the bus driver. However, going through the written submissions by the petitioner and the bus driver, the tribunal judge observed that the pedestrian had crossed the national highway where there was no traffic signal and said 10% contributory negligence had to be slapped on her. After considering various factors such as medical expenses and loss of income, the tribunal arrived at a compensation of Rs 1.98 lakh, of which TNSTC has to pay Rs 1.78 lakh to the petitioner within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jaywalking-has-cost-accident-victim-10-of-compensation/articleshow/78482788.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Aurangabad||EC makes masks, hand gloves must for graduate constituency polls||Aurangabad: The Election Commission, citing the the Covid-19 pandemic, has issued guidelines making it mandatory for every person associated with the election process to wear face masks during every election-related activities. The EC has decided that there shall be a maximum of 1,000 voters instead of 1,500 at a polling station. In addition to this, EC has also made wearing of gloves mandatory for all the officials handling EVM and VVPAT. On the polling day, body temperature of the voters will have to be taken by a thermal gun. If the the temperature is found above the permissible mark, the person will be given a certificate, asking them to come in the last hour of the polling for casting their vote. The EC has also asked to designate a nodal health officer at the state, district and constituency level to oversee Covid-19 related arrangements and for taking preventive measures during the entire electoral process. The authorities have also been asked to organise online training of the election officials. The guidelines have been issued for the graduate constituency elections to be held for the regions of Aurangabad, Pune and Nagpur in the state. The election authorities said that the same rules will be applicable for all the by-elections to be held in a near future. Other than thermal gun, the EC has directed to make arrangements for sanitizers, soap and water. Even for the nomination process, the EC has informed that the forms will be made available on the website of CEO/DEO. The EC has also given the option of filling the affidavit online, before getting a print of the same and submitting it along with the nomination form. The candidates will also been given the option to deposit security money online and the total number of people accompanying the candidate as well as the number of vehicles to be used while going for submitting of the form, should not go beyond two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ec-makes-masks-hand-gloves-must-for-graduate-constituency-polls/articleshow/78482781.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 5, 2020||Goa||‘No talks on Mhadei, Goa CM will give details’||PANAJI: Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday refused to comment on the Mhadei issue, claiming that it was sub-judice. He also said that there was no discussion between him and the state government on the issue on his visit to Goa. “CM Pramod Sawant will answer the question in detail,” Javadekar said when asked to comment on the permission given to Karnataka to divert waters of the river. “The matter is in court and nothing is happening.” He also said that nothing related to the Mhadei issue is pending with his ministry, adding that Mhadei issues do not go to the Union environment ministry. The state government has decided to file a contempt petition against Karnataka in the Supreme Court for diverting the waters of the Kalasa nullah of the Mhadei into the Malaprabha basin at Kankumbi. The water resources department team inspected the site where the diversion was carried out, and have also taken photographs. The petition has already been drafted and has been sent to the legal team for vetting. During lockdown, Karnataka tampered with the Kalasa river bed gradient to reverse the flow of water in the direction of interconnecting canals that join the Malaprabha basin. The diversion came to light when a team from Goa visited Kankumbi on September 1, after border restrictions were lifted. TOI was the first to report that Karnataka diverted the Kalasa waters. Nearly a year ago, Javadekar courted controversy after he tweeted saying Karnataka had been given an EC for a drinking water project (which meant diversion of water from the Mhadei). After protests, he withdrew the tweet. In 2015, after Goa brought it to the notice of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal that Karnataka was diverting water of the Kalasa nulla into the Malaprabha basin, the tribunal asked Karnataka to construct a masonry embankment to stop the flow of the Kalasa waters into the Malaprabha. Javadekar, however, was in Goa to promote the three farmers’ bill passed in parliament — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The President has already assented to them. Those protesting bills are ‘dalals of dalals’ Panaji: Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar branded the opposition “dalal of dalals”, and slammed their opposition to the farmers’ bills. He said that the bills would affect dalals (brokers) the most. Responding to the protest at Mapusa by farmers over the bills, Javadekar said he didn’t know whether or not they were farmers. He said Congress and NCP have announced programmes to protest the bills, and these are political protests. Javadekar also said that through these bills, farmers would be able to sell foodgrains at their own decided price. He also said that Congress, in its 2019 manifesto, said it would bring improvement through farmers bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-talks-on-mhadei-cm-will-give-details/articleshow/78482787.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nashik||20 more pvt hosps keen to treat patients||Nashik: With rise in number of Covid-19 cases in private hospitals across the city from 2% to 10% over the past few weeks, as many as 20 hospitals have sought permission from the civic body to start treatment of patients infected with coronavirus. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has allowed 16 private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. Also, around 400 new beds are to be made available for Covid-19 patients if the civic body gives permission to the new 20 hospitals. Currently, the city has a total 4,500 beds for Covid patients in 86 hospitals, including 75 private hospitals. Out of the 75 private hospitals, 19 hospitals have made all their beds available for Covid-19 patients, while the remaining 56 hospitals have different set-ups for both Covid and non-covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20-more-pvt-hosps-keen-to-treat-patients/articleshow/78480144.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Covid leaves top colleges with fewer NRI applicants||CHENNAI: Top colleges and universities in the city have received fewer applications from non-resident Indians (NRIs) and foreign nationals in 2020-21 compared to the previous year because of the Covid-19 crisis. They are also wondering how to provide hostel accommodation for those who do turn up. Anna University usually attracts more than 500 applications against 300 seats available for NRIs and foreign nationals on its four campuses. “We expected the number of applications to rise given the travel restrictions to western countries. But, the university has received around 400 applications, which is 30% less compared to the previous year,” said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor of Anna University. The university got 600 applications last year, mostly from NRIs in the middle-east. Following salary cuts and job losses, some NRI parents even requested the university to reduce the fees for their children already studying there. Last year, University of Madras received 130 applications from southeast Asia and the middle-east. However, the International Centre for University of Madras (ICOM) has received only around 60 applications so far this year. “The number of applications is definitely less due to the Covid situation. But, we are hopeful of receiving more applications before October 31, which is the last date to complete the admission process,” an official from the university said. Top institutions such as Loyola College, Madras Christian College and Ethiraj College for Women have all received fewer applications. “We used to receive a lot of applications from middle-east countries and some from African countries and Afghanistan. But, this year we have not received many such applications,” said Thomas Amirtham, principal of Loyola College. Educational consultant D Nedunchezhiyan said the mobility of international students was affected by 90% across the globe. “Workers in gulf countries are badly affected due to Covid-19 and hence, parents are hesitating to enroll their wards,” he said. While deemed universities also witnessed a slump in applications, some of them have received more applications compared to last year. But this comes with its own problems. “We expect 40% more admissions of foreign nationals and NRIs compared to previous year,” said Sandeep Sancheti, vice-chancellor of SRM Institute of Science and Technology. One reason could be travel restrictions in western countries. However, “Providing hostel accommodation to these students would be a big challenge due to the prevailing situation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-leaves-top-colleges-with-fewer-nri-applicants/articleshow/78482796.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||City women want complete revamp of system set up for those in distress||LUDHIANA: When the entire country is up in arms against the heinous crimes against women after the Hathras gang-rape case, city-based women feel there should be complete revamp of the system set up for helping women in distress. From helpline numbers, to a strong online platform, to approaching cops or members of woman commission, all these factors need an upgrading. A 28-year-old city-based woman shared her plight with the TOI when recently she was harassed by a man who threatened to upload her morphed pictures on social media. She said that, “The accused had been harassing me for a long time. One day he asked me to do a video call from the bathroom, threatening that else he would upload my morphed pictures on social media. I was too scared to tell anyone about it, including my parents, thinking whether they would support me or not.” “After gathering some courage, I shared it with my friend. She further called all helpline numbers available, including one of the members of Punjab State Women Commission, but nobody answered the call. I did not want to call on 112 out of fear. Also, I was worried that the police would tell my parents about it or if police would make a call to the accused, he might upload my pictures. I was terrified and could not understand what to do,” she added. That night the woman somehow managed to tell the accused that she would not make a video call to him. Thereafter, through a common friend they approached commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, who again asked her to complain on 112 or at least send a written complaint via email. The woman made a complaint on 112 and she was asked to visit the police station concerned. But the woman met the CP the next day and the case was handed over to the cyber cell. The cell called the accused and his parents, who gave a written apology and deleted all pictures. The woman said, “I felt helpless that day. When you are in such a situation, you are afraid and hesitant in sharing such personal things with anyone or even with a cop. I was worried that the cops would blame me for everything or would judge me. Moreover, I was not comfortable talking to any official over the phone. I just wonder why this process cannot be simpler. These days, Ludhiana police are quite active on social media. People get replies within minutes from the police through FB or Twitter. Besides, in Delhi the police and woman commission is too active and immediately reach the spot to help the woman in need.” She suggested, “There should be a separate platform and special teams to deal with such cases. Luckily, I have a friend who helped me in dealing with this situation, but I get worried thinking about the teenage girls who are too young, too scared and even unaware to even talk about it or report against it. Ludhiana police, in fact all districts’ police, should intensify an awareness drive so that girls could have the courage to talk about such issues.” She added that she was also writing to the ADGP, women and child affairs, Gurpreet Deo, sharing her suggestions. Another victim of harassment, a 34-year-old woman from Gill road said, “Most of the girls are unaware about the helpline numbers. Besides, the girls are too scared to share anything as they feel they will also be judged and made to feel guilty. The police or the woman commission should make girls aware of the fact that if someone harasses her, she is not at fault even if the harasser is her friend. The girls should be made so strong mentally, that they don’t tolerate any harassment and report against it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-women-want-complete-revamp-of-system-set-up-for-those-in-distress/articleshow/78481161.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: 112 people fall prey to easy loan scam||AURANGABAD: As many as 112 people have been duped on the pretext of getting loans at a lucrative interest rate. In March 2019, Avinash Saundane, a resident of Balajinagar of Garkheda area, received a call from an unidentified person offering him a role of a sales executive with a firm dealing in financial services. The suspects asked Saundane to look for customers interested in receiving easy loans. After collecting the documents from the customers, they were asked to deposit anything between Rs 4,000 to Rs 6,000 as processing fee. Inspector Santosh Patil said the suspects made Saundane deposit the fee collected in three different bank accounts, which are in the name of people residing in Uttar Pradesh. “The suspects systematically duped people of small amounts so no one goes to the police. It appears to be the handiwork of a professional gang,” said Patil. In about 10 months, Saundane collected processing fees from 112 customers — none of them have got their loans sanctioned.The customers started following up with Saundane and sought back their processing fee. When Saundane tried connecting with the reportedly changed their phone numbers. Saundane reached out to the cyber police station, which carried out a preliminary probe, before referring the matter to Jawahar Nagar police station. Jawahar nagar police have registered a case of cheating and also slapped various sections of the IT Act against unidentified suspects including a woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/112-people-fall-prey-to-easy-loan-scam/articleshow/78482792.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 5, 2020||Goa||Now, cashless payments, visitor log at ASI heritage monuments in Goa||PANAJI: The ASI has introduced cashless payments at its heritage monuments, put in place registers to record details of visitors, and is restricting movement inside monuments to prevent the spread of the infection in the post lockdown reopening. “Our security personnel note down names, phone numbers and addresses of visitors so that they can be traced if necessary. All cash handling has been done away with. Payments for tickets for entry to the upper Fort Aguada and archaeological museum, Old Goa are made online and tickets are issued via e-mode,” an ASI official said. While other ASI monuments, including the Se Cathedral, have opened to the public, the Basilica of Bom Jesus in Old Goa, which received visitors by the thousands each day in pre-Covid times, as well as the St Cajetan Church in Old Goa, are yet to reopen. “We are making arrangements for the reopening along with the Archdiocese, ASI and the tourism department. We began the process sometime back, but there are some difficulties, which we are working on. All SOPs have to be put in place first to control the visitors,” rector of the Basilica, Fr Patricio Fernandes said. Repair works which couldn’t be completed during the monsoon are presently under way at the 17th century Basilica, whose walls have turned damp and haven’t been drying up even during dry spells. While several churches have opened and are celebrating Mass for a limited number of faithful, the Basilica is not celebrating Mass for a congregation. “The Basilica is not a parish. It’s easy for parishes to control the faithful attending mass. The Basilica is frequented by devotees from all over Goa, India and the world. Covid cases are also on the rise. We’re working on opening up slowly, first for veneration,” Fernandes said. The ASI official said precautions are being taken in heritage churches to prevent devotees from touching and kissing statues. “The way through the monument is now marked. Square boxes at the entrance and inside help maintain social distancing. Security guards don’t encourage tourists to sit on benches. If they do, the benches are quickly sanitised,” the ASI official said. Presently ASI monuments are receiving less than 100 tourists on a daily basis, nothing compared to the thousands of visits received in pre-Covid times. “As of now there is no cap on the number of tourists permitted entry. The number of visitors are very low. We will wait for further instructions on how to cope with large number of visitors should the numbers go up,” the ASI official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-cashless-payments-visitor-log-at-asi-heritage-monuments-in-state/articleshow/78482794.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Positivity rate reduces by 15% in 2 week due to decline in Covid cases||Nashik: The positivity rate after every 100 tests conducted has significantly dropped from 40% to 25% in the last two weeks due to the decline in the number of Covid cases in the city. According to NMC officials, a total of 2,500 tests of Covid suspects have been conducted per day in the city, but the positivity rate has reduced at large even though the number of tests conducted per day is the same. Earlier, the number of positive cases in the city was close to 1,000 per day of the total 2,500 tests per day. The positivity rate was around 40% which means 40 of every 100 Covid suspects tested positive.However, since September 23, there has been a significant drop in the positivity rate to 25%. Now, around 650 people test positive per day of the 2,5000 tests. Around 25 of every 100 suspected patients of Covid test positive, said the NMC officials. In the second and third week of September, there was a spike in Covid-19 cases as close to 1,000 cases were being reported per day. But the cases have reduced at large.A total of 447 people tested positive for coronavirus in the city on Sunday. This is the lowest figure in the past 40 days. The last lowest figure was recorded on August 24, when 247 cases were reported but after that, the number of cases kept increasing. Now, the trend has changed with a drop in the number of positive cases since September 23. While the recovery rate has increased over 91% in the city, the death rate has also reduced so far.The Covid death rate has reduced from 2.1% on August 27 to 1.4% on October 3, which is the lowest the death rate has been since May 31. NMC officials said, “We have started conducting a health survey of the residents in the city to find suspected patients of Covid and those who have other health conditions.” “We will conduct a health survey of all the 4.5 lakh houses in the city with a total population of 19 lakh people under the campaign ‘My family my responsibility’. Around 800 teams of health officials and NMC staffers have been deployed to conduct the health survey. This will help us to find suspected patients of Covid and conduct tests for early detection,” the officials said.“The health survey will help us to break the chain of coronavirus in the city,” added the NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/positivity-rate-reduces-by-15-in-2-week-due-to-decline-in-covid-cases/articleshow/78480198.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Gutka worth Rs 2 lakh seized from pvt bus going to Jalna||Aurangabad: The local crime branch of Aurangabad rural police on Sunday morning seized a private passenger bus for illegally transporting gutka from Indore in Madhya Pradesh to Jalna.The latest detection has unearthed yet another modus operandi of the inter-state gang involved in sale, supply and trading of gutka and other tobacco products that are banned in Maharashtra. According to a police officer, they got information from their sources about gutka being transported in a private bus, following which a trap was laid.“Janla police have also been informed about where the product was to be delivered. The gutka was packed in a bag with some code words and a surname written on it with a sketch pen for making it easier for the dealer in Aurangabad to identify the bag,” he said. LCB team led by sub inspector Bhagatsingh Dulat seized gutka worth Rs 2 lakh and three suspects driver of the bus and two cleaners have been arrested. The accused have been identified as Kanhaiyalal Lashkari (46), Mukeshkumar Vishwakarma (45) and Raja Lodhi (21).Sources said that the suspects have not revealed the names of the people who handed them the parcel and who was going to collect it. The seized goods have been handed over to Khultabad police station for further action and investigation.“Due to serious crackdown on gutka and other tobacco-related products in the state, manufacturers and traders from neighbouring states have started supplying the banned goods through various means, including transporting through trucks as well as private buses,” the officer said.“To avoid any kind of suspicion, the suspects load gutka in these vehicles only up to a certain limit, while majority of the remaining consignment is of other goods,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gutka-worth-rs-2-lakh-seized-from-pvt-bus-going-to-jalna/articleshow/78482795.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 5, 2020||Goa||Submit petition, will study Mollem: Minister||PANAJI: Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Sunday that he would “study” the objections to the proposed projects at Mollem if he received a memorandum from the people of the state. “If I receive a memorandum, I will definitely examine it,” he said when asked to comment on the opposition to three projects — a high tension line, double-tracking of the railway, and a national highway. Since the lockdown, people from across the state have spoken out against the three proposed projects, and said they would cause immense degradation to the western ghats in Mollem. Recently, reacting to this opposition, CM Pramod Sawant had said that the people opposing the projects are from Africa, England and Russia. Environment minister Nilesh Cabral said that the people of Mollem want the projects, and that those opposing them are not from Mollem. Cabral also said that the government would try to save as many trees as they can. Cabral, along with PWD minister Deepak Prabhu Pauskar, held a meeting at Mollem but it didn’t help resolve the issue. At least 100 teachers from across Goa, in a letter to the National Board for Wildlife (NBW), said that there was no detailed plan for reparation of the social and environmental damage that the three infrastructure projects would cause. The projects will cut through the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park. “As teachers from Goa, we ask how we are expected to teach young people about their civic duty to protect Goa’s environment and its rich natural heritage, while it is stolen from them through illegal, unscientific manners. Are we expected to teach them about deforestation, global warming, and climate change, without bringing contemplation and thought to how we can do better, and how we can help to change these patterns?” the teachers had said. They said much of the damage would be irreversible, and will have devastating long-term effects on the environment. Students, legal professionals, doctors, architects and tourism promoters had previously written to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change pointing out the absence of due process in passing these projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/submit-petition-will-study-mollem-min/articleshow/78482797.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Here’s why your neighbour may be saving more money on power bills||NEW DELHI: Want to reduce your monthly expenses on airconditioning by almost half? Experts say it’s possible by simply switching to an insulated roof, airtight windows and installing shades on windows that directly face the sun. A new structure complying with the building code can also save 25% of the energy costs over a non-compliant one. This can help save electricity costs, which, in turn, can help control the temperature outside. A recent analysis by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) found that for every degree of rise in the heat index, there was an increase of 187MW in electricity demand during the lockdown period owing majorly to usage of airconditioners. Another CSE analysis, “A Midsummer Nightmare”, which was released last year, pointed towards the correlation between airconditioning and increase in outside temperature. This, in turn, increased the reliance on airconditioners. “Both studies show that the more you rely on airconditioning, there is an impact on energy savings and outside temperature. The growing discomfort due to heat needs to be addressed through architectural designs and cooling solutions instead of increasing AC usage,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at CSE. Data provided by the discom BSES also shows the impact on energy consumption. While there was a difference of around 40% in the peak power demand between April 2019 and this year, it reduced to 5.9% in September. The peak power demand in September 2019 was 6,626MW compared with 6231MW this year. Architect Ashok B Lall, who has worked on several green buildings, said one should aim for an “adaptive comfort” range of 19-32 degrees Celsius in the house, which allows little to no dependence on airconditioning or heaters. While it is easier for newer buildings to save on energy from the start, older buildings can also adapt quickly and save thousands each month on electricity bills. “Windows facing the sun are a major source of heat being trapped inside a house. Any shade or the use of blinds can prevent that from happening. Similarly, if the temperature outside is high, warm air can be prevented from entering inside through airtight windows. Cracks or crevices allow the cooler air inside to escape, which puts additional load on ACs,” said Lall. Lall added, “Light, reflective paint on the roof and insulating fabric of at least 50mm in thickness can reflect a major chunk of the sunlight back, thereby preventing buildings from heating up during the day. In the long run, insulation can halve the airconditioning costs and dependence on ACs can reduce by 1-2 hours a day.” Vaibhav Chaturvedi, a research fellow at Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), said once a building was made, the only option was retrofitting. “Some simple changes are proper insulation, reflective roofs and larger windows, wherever possible, to enhance the flow of light. While retrofitting is useful, the real opportunity is in energy efficient buildings,” he added. CEEW estimates an energy efficient building can save 25% in energy costs, providing savings in the long run. “For a new building, it is critical that local climatic conditions influence the building design and architecture. In an area that is cooler round the year, ventilation becomes an important strategy.” Chaturvedi said. Energy use in India has almost doubled since 2000 and three-fourth of energy demand is met by fossil fuels. Dr Sameer Maithel, director at Greentech Knowledge Solutions, who has worked on several energy efficient building designs across the country, said the cost of making a new building “green” is often minimal. Adjustments in older buildings, which can be as basic as painting the roof with a reflective paint, can save thousands of rupees each month in electricity bills. Minor adjustments can reduce electricity bills by 25% as a large chunk (30-40%) comes from AC consumption. “The use of external shades and roofs outside a window to prevent direct sunlight from entering the room is important. While insulating the roof is preferred, cheaper options include applying reflective paint, which reduces absorption of heat considerably. Hollow clay tiles can be paved on the roofs along with a layer of concrete to prevent sunlight from being absorbed,” said Maithel. (The story is being published as part of CMS-BEEP Media Fellowship Program)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heres-why-your-neighbour-may-be-saving-more-money-on-power-bills/articleshow/78482805.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 5, 2020||Aurangabad||9 held for stealing goods worth Rs 32 lakh from parked truck||Aurangabad: The local crime branch (LCB) of Aurangabad rural police on Sunday nabbed nine suspects on charges of stealing goods worth Rs 32 lakh from a parked truck.The LCB team led by inspector Bhagwat Funde also managed to recover stolen articles worth Rs 28 lakh and even seized vehicles including mini trucks, SUV and pick up vans that were used by the suspects for transporting the stolen articles.According to Funde, on September 2, a truck driven by Pawan Patil (30) was carrying goods from Pune to Jalgaon. “As the driver was a little exhausted, he parked the truck on the side of the road near Kannad and went to sleep. The next morning when he woke up, Patil found that the cover of his truck was cut open and all the articles, including cigarettes, biscuits and sanitizers, were missing,” he said.“Patil immediately alerted the transporter before reaching Kannad rural police station and lodging a complaint. During investigation, we found that it was Patil and his father Bhagwat (both hailing from Jalgaon) who had committed the crime and later reported the case with the police,” he added.When the police team reached out to arrest the suspects, it was found that the stolen goods had already been sold to different traders from Jalgaon, Beed and Jalna districts.The LCB team arrested all the suspects who purchased the stolen goods and even seized their vehicles used for transporting these stolen articles. Citing the preliminary probe, Funde said that the possibility of these suspects’ involvement in committing similar offences on the highways in the state cannot be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/9-held-for-stealing-goods-worth-rs-32-lakh-from-parked-truck/articleshow/78482799.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||2 farm workers killed in accident near Pusad||Yavatmal: Two of three farm workers riding triple seat on a bike were killed after the two-wheeler was rammed by an oncoming ST bus on Friday morning. The accident occurred at Kopara-Seloo diversion on Nanded road in Umarkhed tehsil. While one of the injured died on the spot, another succumbed to injuries in sub-district hospital at Pusad. The surviving worker is seriously injured and reportedly critical. The deceased have been identified as Sunil Kuhrade and Sunil Chavan, both 23. Ravi Kuhrade, 27, is undergoing treatment. All three were from Kadakdari village in Pusad tehsil. According to sources, the trio was riding a bike bearing registration no. MH 29 AS-7141 and while overtaking a tractor, an oncoming ST bus (MH 40 N-8932), going to Nanded from Pusad, rammed the two-wheeler. All three sustained severe injuries and got trapped underneath the bus. A large crowd gathered on the spot, but none came to the rescue of the injured. Many onlookers were busy recording video of the accident site on their mobile. A traffic cop Sheikh Maksood with the help of some onlookers pulled the youths out and sent them to Pusad hospital. Bus driver Parshram Chavan, a resident of Kopara village, reported the accident to Pusad city police who rushed to the site and registered an FIR. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-farm-workers-killed-in-accident-near-pusad/articleshow/78477400.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||How safe are juvenile homes?||VADODARA: Juvenile homes are supposed to be the safest place where children, who come in conflict with the law, get an opportunity to correct themselves and lead a righteous future. But in Gujarat, the picture of juvenile homes may not be bright enough where children can make amends for their wrongful deeds. The report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Crime in India 2019 suggests that the juvenile homes of Gujarat are not safe like those in other states. The report shows that 91 offences by caretakers or in-charges of juvenile homes were committed against the children living there. Though there has been a drastic reduction of offences registered against the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act against these caretakers, the state still tops in this list. In 2018, 439 such offences were recorded. A former officer of a juvenile home in the state said that in many juvenile homes there is a shortage of manpower due to which the children living there are made to do the chores which they are not supposed to do. “There have also been instances that juveniles are counselled just once and a follow-up is not done,” the official said. The other factor that raises concern over safety in juvenile homes is that Gujarat sends the highest number of children who have come in conflict with the law to these homes. As many as 1,670 children have been sent to various juvenile homes while other states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu sent such children back home after giving them advice or collecting fines. Among the 19 cities of the country that have a population of more than two million, the highest number of children (1,281) who were sent to juvenile homes were in Surat. In Ahmedabad, 76 children were sent to juvenile homes. In fact, the percentage of juveniles who were held guilty was 100% in Surat. “A child is sent to juvenile homes when a heinous crime is committed, but there are also instances where the parents of the child do not come to take them from the court so they are sent to juvenile homes,” said Vadodara-based lawyer Komal Kukreja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/how-safe-are-juvenile-homes/articleshow/78480710.cms||Jay Pachchigar
October 5, 2020||Surat||Key accused in bizman suicide fled country||SURAT: Hetal Desai, one of the key accused booked for abetment of suicide of billionaire businessman Durlabh Patel, 74, fled the country exactly on the fourth day after Patel took his own life. While it is being probed how Desai managed to get out of the country when international flight operations are restricted due to global pandemic, the accused was recently traced in London, said police. It is believed that Desai was helped by some well connected people in getting out of the country. Patel killed himself on September 7 and Desai, names as key accused in the FIR, fled the country on September 11. Desai played a prominent role in putting pressure on the police to harass the deceased which ultimately led Patel to commit suicide. He had developed good terms with some top city police officials in the past few months and utilizing this put accused police inspector L P Bodana in touch with the other accused who wanted ownership of the disputed land from Patel. Desai is the only person who has acted as an agency and represented another police officer, police informed. “From his call records, it is clear that apart from Bodana Desai was in touch with some other cops too during the same period when Patel was being harassed,” said an officer who is part of the investigation. One of the 10 accused, Kishore Koshiya purchased the Pisad village land from Patel in 2014 but due to dispute in payment he involved other accused Kanaiyalal Narola and Bhavesh Desai in the matter. They then handed over the entire deal to Raju Lakha Bharwad. Patel refused to transfer ownership to any of the buyer without solving the disputed amount to be paid to Income-Tax as penalty and taxes. To solve the impasse Bharwad involved Bodana, ASI Kiransinh Parmar and constable Ajay Bhopala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/key-accused-in-bizman-suicide-fled-country/articleshow/78481320.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 5, 2020||India||Half of HCs yet to take first step towards e-courts||NEW DELHI: Filing of cases electronically, or e-filing, is the first step in migrating to a virtual court (e-court) system, which has become a necessity in the pandemic-hit world. A recent status report submitted by the government before a parliamentary committee, however, showed 11 of the 25 high courts in the country are yet to adopt the e-filing system. In about half of the states, e-filing is still in the trial stage, both in the high courts and the subordinate courts. West Bengal, Telangana, Bihar, Gujarat, Assam, Karnataka and J&K are among states with high pendency of cases where the high courts are yet to implement the very basics of the judicial reforms, either in the HC or in the subordinate courts under them. And this only means further delaying the process of digitisation, making the reality of virtual courts a distant dream. “Digitisation of case files is progressing at snail’s pace,” the parliamentary standing committee on law and justice observed in its findings after reviewing a status report from the law ministry. The panel’s report on virtual courts was tabled before Parliament in the recently concluded monsoon session. The law ministry status report found poor implementation of the e-courts project with over 14,400 courts yet to be provided with video-conferencing facilities. A decade-and-half long drive to modernise the judiciary came under severe attack as the parliamentary panel pointed out that more than 2,992 courts are yet to get even WAN connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/half-of-hcs-yet-to-take-first-step-towards-e-courts/articleshow/78483664.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Governor should not play politics: Congress||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Sunday urged governor Tamilisai Soundararajan not to turn Raj Bhavan into a den of politics. “I agree that Raj Bhavan should not be an adda for politics, but the governor should also not indulge in politicking and have a partisan attitude,” AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan said in a letter to the governor. “On the pretext of a coronavirus pandemic, the governor did not give an appointment to the MPs, MLAs elected by the people. But she gave an opportunity to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to meet her. Going with this, it is clear that the governor, TRS and the BJP are working as one team,” said Manickam Tagore, AICC general secretary in-charge of Telangana. “The governor’s decision not to allow AICC in-charge Manickam Tagore, TPCC chief N Uttam Kumar Reddy, and others to submit a memorandum against the centre’s farm bills was definitely a political decision,” Sravan told a media conference after releasing the copies of the letter sent to the governor. “We respect you and people are happy with your working style. But you refused to meet our leaders, citing fear for Covid-19. You didn’t even allow us to meet the public relations officer or even agree to leave the memorandum at the gate of Raj Bhavan. You didn’t allow us to do so and you got us arrested,” Sravan said. “The governor should be apolitical but you made fun of us by calling our efforts a drama. You as a governor should also not play politics,” he said. He also wondered how Tamilisai Soundararajan and her husband allowed CM KCR to visit them to congratulate and felicitate Soundararajan on receiving the Dronacharya award. “You were photographed with the chief minister without maintaining physical distancing, comfortably forgetting the fear of Covid-19,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/governor-should-not-play-politics-congress/articleshow/78482020.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Youth who sent pics to Pakistan Whatsapp group deleted earlier chats||NASHIK: The 21-year-old worker arrested by the Deolali Camp police for sending images of the restricted army area to a WhatsApp group in Pakistan had deleted all chats on the group 15 days before his arrest. The police will now be sending his cellphone to the forensic lab to retrieve communication to the group. The worker — Sanjeev Kumar, who originally hails from Alapur village of Gopalganj district in Bihar — was arrested by the Deolali Camp police on Saturday under various sections of the Official Secrets Act, 1923, after produced by the officials of the School of Artillery. The army personnel had checked Sanjeev Kumar’s cellphone on Friday evening and had found that he had taken photographs of the army area and had sent them to a WhatsApp group in Pakistan. API RT More of the Deolali Camp police station, who is investigating the case, said: “The chats on the WhatsApp group concerned were deleted by Sanjeev some 15 days back. To understand the nature of communication he had on the group, his cellphone would be sent to the Forensic Lab for the retrieval of the chats. We have got his custody from the court till October 9. During the course of investigation, we would try to find out how he got involved in the group and who are the others involved in this case.” On Sunday, the Deolali Camp police interrogated five workers who resided with Sanjeev Kumar in a tin-shade near the Deolali Camp railway station. More said Sanjeev Kumar was a relative of a man who provided daily wagers to the main contractor in the Deolali Camp area. He had got Sanjeev a job inside the Deolali Camp about a month ago. On Friday evening, army personnel happened to check Sanjeev near the MH gate in the School of Artillery area and found that he had sent some images of the army area to the Pakistani Whatsapp group. After their initial interrogation, the army personnel handed him to the Deolali Camp police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-who-sent-pics-to-pak-whatsapp-group-deleted-earlier-chats/articleshow/78480268.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||39-yr-old officer from Doon among 2 Navy personnel killed as glider crashes in Kochi||Nainital: A 39-year-old officer from Dehradun was one of the two Navy personnel who were killed when a power glider crashed in Kerala during a routine training sortie on Sunday. Lt Rajeev Jha and 29-year-old petty officer Sunil Kumar — who hailed from Bihar — had to be pulled out from the wreckage in Kochi and taken to the naval hospital where they were declared brought dead, a defence spokesperson said. A statement from the Navy said Jha was a very experienced pilot who had undertaken many such sorties. Jha is survived by his wife and two children. The power glider had taken off from INS Garuda, a naval air station, around 7.15am and crashed near Thoppumpady bridge within 15 minutes of taking flight. “The glider developed a technical glitch and crashed following which local residents informed police,” the defence spokesperson said. A board of inquiry has been ordered by the Southern Naval Command into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/39-yr-old-officer-from-doon-among-2-navy-personnel-killed-as-glider-crashes-in-kochi/articleshow/78481245.cms||Prashant Jha
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||23% rise in cybercrimes against women in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat police in 2019 recorded 226 FIRs with elements of cybercrime where the victims were women. The figure rose by 22.8% compared to 184 in 2018. On the other hand, cybercrimes where children were termed victims declined from 12 to seven or by 42%, according to ‘Crime in India 2019’ report by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The report mentioned that the state police recorded 28 cases of online stalking or bullying, 21 cases of cyber pornography, six cases of blackmail, five cases of fake profiles and four cases of defamation or morphing – in all the cases, the women were the victims. Compared to 2018, cases of online stalking/ bullying and cyber pornography doubled in the state. Overall, the state recorded an 11.7% rise in cybercrimes compared to 2018. Out of 784 cases, 294 were recorded under the IT act, whereas the others were also attracted provisions of IPC. Among the categories that recorded a rise compared to the previous years, identity theft cases rose by 62% whereas computer-related offences rose by 29%. J M Yadav, ACP (cyber cell), said that with a rise in overall interaction with digital devices, prevention is better than the cure. “In the recent past, we have seen several instances where citizens fell prey to cheats running call centres, shared personal details and lost money from bank accounts or e-wallets. Banks don’t call you to get OTPs. Likewise, be careful while using digital wallets,” he said. “During the lockdown period this year, we have seen a rise in cases where several social media users got messages from their friends to send them money,” said Sunny Vaghela, a city-based cyber safety expert. “Always check credentials of the person/organization before online transfer of funds. For personal safety, always change passwords regularly, avoid chatting with strangers and uploading/sending sensitive images, details,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/23-rise-in-cybercrimes-against-women-in-gujarat/articleshow/78482025.cms||Parth Shastri
October 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Police bust KZF terror module, two held in Hoshiarpur||CHANDIGARH/HOSHIARPUR: The Punjab Police claimed to have busted a Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) terror module with the arrest of two militants in Hoshiarpur on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Makhan Singh Gill alias Amli and Davinder Singh alias Happy, both residents of Noorpur Jattan village. The police also seized one MP5 sub-machine gun with two magazines and 30 live rounds, one 9mm pistol with two magazines and 30 live rounds, a car, four mobile phones and an internet dongle. Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said during the initial interrogation, Amli disclosed that they were in touch with Canada-based Harpreet Singh, who had instigated them to raise a terror module in Punjab to carry out killings. Amli, who had earlier been a close associate of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) head Wadhawa Singh Babbar and Canada-based KZF operative Harpreet, is a frequent visitor to Pakistan and is a close aide of Pakistan-based KZF head Ranjeet Singh alias Neeta. He disclosed that Neeta through his associates arranged arms and ammunition for them. The DGP said names of a couple of other terrorist handlers from Germany and the US have also figured, who were involved in transferring funds from abroad to Amli through different money transfer services, including Western Union. Amli, according to the DGP, is a hardcore pro-Khalistan militant, who had been earlier arrested by the Punjab Police for his involvement in smuggling arms consignments into India and other terror-related offences. Gupta further said he has been trained in Pakistan and had stayed in the US during 1980s and 1990s. Amli had also stayed with BKI chief Babbar in Pakistan for over 14 years, he said. An FIR was registered on Sunday under various sections of IPC, Arms Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) at Mahalpur police station in Hoshiarpur district. As many as seven cases had been earlier registered against Amli in Hoshiarpur, Amritsar and Khanna under UAPA, Explosive Substances Act and NDPS Act. Meanwhile, contesting the claim of the DGP that the duo was arrested on Sunday, Amli’s family and advocate Japsal Singh Manjhpur have said both had been in police custody since Friday evening and on Saturday noon, he was even brought to his residence in the village. However, the FIR says the police intercepted the car driven by Happy, in which Amli was carrying arms and ammunition, at 9.50pm on Saturday and the case was registered at 12.20am. Notably, advocate Manjhpur, who had earlier represented Amli as his counsel in a few cases, had on Saturday sent a mail to the Punjab and Haryana high court alerting about Amli’s whereabouts and then also posted this mail on his Facebook wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-bust-kzf-terror-module-two-held/articleshow/78482036.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Water woes persist in 40% Secunderabad cantonment areas||SECUNDERABAD: Even after the reservoirs reached full tank level due to incessant rains there is no end to the water woes of the residents of the Secunderabad Cantonment. Surprisingly, 40% residential areas in the Cantonment are suffering due to unscheduled water supply. Only 60% areas are getting potable water three to four days a week. Despite getting water supply from the Hyderabad Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) on par with other parts of the city, the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) is not able to provide enough water to its residents. SCB receives around 45 to 50 lakh gallons of Godavari water every day. However, due to poor infrastructure, water supply is not reaching several weaker section colonies in the Cantonment. “Even though there are heavy rains this year and all the tanks and reservoirs are full, we are still not getting enough water. It is as if we are still in the summer season. There is no improvement in the water supply schedule. SCB officials and elected members are least bothered about our problems,” said N Shobhita Rani, a resident of Bowenpally. Another resident, Vamshidhar of Kharkhana blamed it on official apathy. “Despite paying bills promptly, water supply is pathetic in our area,” said Vamshidhar. A member of Trimulgherry resident welfare association said, “As the SCB polls are just four months away, ward members are trying their best to impress the electorate. Instead of improving water supply they are promising to revise the water tariff.” When TOI contacted SCB water wing superintendent, S Raj Kumar said, “There is no water problem in Cantonment areas. We are distributing water equally to all the areas. The fact that tanker demand has come down indicates that water supply has improved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-woes-persist-in-40-cantt-areas/articleshow/78482026.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Put Yadav (Aheer) in BC list: AIMIM chief||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday wrote to Telangana State Backward Commission to include Yadav (Aheer) community in backward classes list. Owaisi said that despite members of the community residing in the city since 1614 and being notified as BCs, they are denied nativity certificates as their mother tongue is not Telugu. Members of the community met Owaisi on Sunday at AIMIM party office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/put-yadav-aheer-in-bc-list-asad/articleshow/78482037.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Plot owners urge CM to probe land fraud case||Jaipur: Over 3,500 aggrieved plot owners of the Secretariat Housing Scheme, who are waiting for the possession of land for the past 18 years, have once again submitted a memorandum to chief minister Ashok Gehlot to constitute a high-level committee to probe the land fraud matter. In the scheme, the cooperative society had proposed to develop around 4,200 plots. While, in 2003, after organising camps, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) issued lease deeds to around 700 plot owners, the remaining investors are running from pillar to post to receive possession of their plots. Ashok Mehta, a member of the Secretariat Sangharsh Samiti, said, “The lease deeds were distributed by the then chief minister Ashok Gehlot during the camp. On, January 7, 2010, the layout plan of the society was also approved. However, office-bearers of the Muhna Housing Cooperative Co-operative Society are not giving possession of the land,” he said. The victims, who remain deprived of their plots staged a protest at the assembly on July 19 2019, following which Gehlot took immediate action and handed over the case to registrar of cooperative societies. For the speedy redressal and investigate the matter, three departmental committees were constituted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plot-owners-urge-cm-to-probe-land-fraud-case/articleshow/78482837.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 40,000 apply for IIIT-Basar||HYDERABAD: Over 40,000 students applied for admissions into six-year integrated B Tech course at Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge and Technologies-Basar (RGUKT) for the academic year 2020-21. The intake of IIIT-Basar is about 1,500. Of 40,158 application received, 37, 155 were from local candidates, 2, 963 from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and the remaining from various states across the country. As many as 1,062 applicants mentioned that they were willing to join in unfilled seats of the global category. As per the district-wise data released by the institute, the majority of applications, 2,976, were received from Nizamabad followed by 2,051 from Nalgonda and 1,830 from Jagtial. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-40000-apply-for-iiit-basar/articleshow/78482062.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Crimes against women: Rajasthan BJP to launch campaign||JAIPUR: State BJP has decided to launch a campaign to address the issue of rising crimes against women, which has been highlighted in the NCRB report. The campaign will include counselling of students, working women, outreach programmes with community leaders along with protests against the state government. The saffron party, which is leaving no stones unturned in holding the ruling Congress government responsible for the spike in rape cases, has extended their support to the ruling dispensation in fighting the menace which they feel has embarrassed the state to a great extent. Reacting to the NCRB data, Poonia said as a responsible opposition their job doesn’t end by criticising the government on its failures. “The situation in Rajasthan has no doubt raised fingers on the failure of Gehlot government. Our party has taken the responsibility of doing our bit to regain the lost glory of the state,” said Poonia. Considering the high flow of students from others states for coaching and educational institutes, Poonia said they will mobilize their party leaders and workers to strengthen the NGOs and organisations working for women empowerment. “Our party-affiliated organisations will contribute in creating a gender-neutral society, providing platforms for women to raise their voice, access to the legal aid, awareness on legal rights of women and reaching out communities to sensitize families about the same,” said Poonia, who feels that other than the government, it is the responsibility of every individual to contribute positively. “Our next duty is pushing the government to bring reforms in the system: timely prosecution in the rape or crimes against women cases, dedicated counselling cells for women and girls,” said Poonia. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani said that defence training for girls in schools introduced by him should be extended. “The government should have an independent home minister who should be held accountable and can be reached out by the opposition, media and social organizations working on these areas,” said Devnani. Reacting on the NCRB report, Rajsamand MP Diya Kumari shot a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot stating that atrocities against women and minor girls had been steadily increasing in the state for the past few months. “In the recent past, incidents of rape have peaked and it seems that there is no fear among the culprits of the government, law and police. Criminals are roaming around fearlessly and committing heinous crimes like murder,” said Kumari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crimes-against-women-bjp-to-launch-campaign/articleshow/78482844.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Kochi to get smart surveillance system by March next year||KOCHI: If everything goes as per the plans of Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML), the city will soon be under CCTV surveillance. CSML has awarded the project to install CCTVs at 125 locations in the city which will help the police check, regulate and prevent accidents and crimes. In the first phase of the Rs 42 crore project christened as Integrated City Surveillance System (ICSS), a total of around 465 CCTV cameras with most modern features will be erected in select locations in the city. “We have awarded the work to Bharat Electronics Ltd and the work is expected to begin in a couple of weeks,” an official with CSML said. “We are implementing ICSS with an objective to ensure smooth enforcement of law and public safety,” the official said. The implementation of the project will be over by March 2021. The ICSS has video analytical capabilities such as detection of street littering, licence plate recognition, no helmet detection, intruder detection, defacement of public property. “These features will help ensure a clean city. Those littering garbage can be booked easily and if the crime is repeated, the quantum of penalty can be increased. Shortage of staff is one of the major shortcomings faced by departments like the police and motor vehicles department (MVD). With ICSS collecting and pooling information about violators, they can be booked without overburdening police and MVD,” sources with CSML said. Bharat Electronics Ltd is to implement and operate the system for a period of three years. “The surveillance system will be connected to Integrated Traffic Control System as well as to the Integrated City Command and Control Centre (IC4) to enable monitoring from a central location. The system will be a game changer for the law and order and safety in the city,” a CSML official said. IC4 consists of a superior video wall and 24-seater operator consoles for 24X7 monitoring with an adjoining war room. Though various agencies like the police and MVD had erected CCTV cameras in different parts of the city, most of them became defunct due to lack of proper maintenance. Another handicap of the earlier CCTV surveillance systems was absence of an integrated command control centre to compile and analyse data in a scientific manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-to-get-smart-surveillance-system-by-march-next-year/articleshow/78481279.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lowest daily death toll in 187 days, least cases in 26||AHMEDABAD: It was a day of several lowest scores for Gujarat in the context of Covid-19 – after 187 days or more than six months, the daily death toll reached single digit at nine. The daily tally of 1,302 cases was the lowest in 26 days. At 56,800 tests, it was the lowest daily testing for Covid-19 in the state in 49 days. On the other hand, the number of active cases in Gujarat reached an all-time high at 16,836. With the update, the cumulative positive case figure in the state reached 1.42 lakh, whereas the death toll reached 3,499. The state also recorded discharge of 1,246 patients in 24 hours. The new Covid cases in Gujarat included 283 from Surat, 191 from Ahmedabad, 152 from Rajkot, 133 from Vadodara, and 92 from Jamnagar. With the update, the cumulative cases in Surat crossed the 30,000-mark with 30,210. The cases in Ahmedabad reached 37,709, Vadodara 12,610 and Rajkot 9,872. The latest Covid deaths reported in Gujarat include four from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, and one each from Vadodara and Rajkot. The deaths in Ahmedabad reached 1,825, Surat 778, Vadodara 191, and Rajkot 145. The discharges include 273 from Surat, 272 from Ahmedabad, 177 from Rajkot, and 86 from Vadodara. With the update, the share of active, discharged and deceased patients in total Covid-19 patients in Gujarat reached 11.8%, 85.8% and 2.4% respectively. In 24 hours, Gujarat carried out 56,800 tests, taking the figure of total tests to 46.45 lakh. The state health department officials said that the figure signifies 872 tests per day per million people. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 5.99 lakh persons under quarantine. Of them, 448 are under facility quarantine, whereas the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lowest-daily-death-toll-in-187-days-least-cases-in-26/articleshow/78482039.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman kills husband over harassment in Jagtial||HYDERABAD: A woman killed her husband by slitting his throat at Timmaipalli village in Jagtial district on Sunday as she was fed up with his harassment. According to the police, the deceased, A Laxman, a 40-year-old labourer and his wife Laxmi along with their two daughters were staying at Laxmi’s parents’ house in Timmaipalli village. “Laxman was addicted to liquor and used to harass Laxmi and other family members,” Korutla circle inspector K Rajasekhar said. On Saturday night, Laxman picked up an argument with Laxmi and her mother. At around 9.30 pm, in a fit of rage, Laxman attacked Laxmi’s mother with a stick, following which villagers tied him to a pillar near a construction panchayat office. “At 2.30 am, Laxman managed to free himself and picked up a quarrel with his family. Later, the villagers again tied him to the pillar. An hour later, Laxmi slit Laxman’s throat with a knife,” the CI said. Laxman died on the spot and the accused surrendered before the police. Laxmi told police that Laxman tried to attack her with a knife and misbehaved with their daughter. A case was registered against Laxmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-husband-over-harassment/articleshow/78482042.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Tapan Theatre becomes the first to reopen its stage||Kolkata: On October 1, Aneek became the first theatre group in the city to stage a production at an auditorium. Some 50-odd viewers were present at the Tapan Theatre on Sadananda Road. However, other private and government-run theatres in the city are yet to open their doors for stage production. Arup Roy, secretary of Aneek and director of “Pirandello O Puppeteer” that was staged on October 1 is happy that they have been the first theatre group in the city to have returned to stage after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s tweet. The last play that had been staged at Tapan Theatre was also by his group. “The last play we staged at Tapan Theatre was ‘Brahman’. We could have staged that play had some of the actors not been out of town. That’s why we decided to return with ‘Pirandello O Puppeteer’ on October 1. The excitement was palpable even amidst the audience,” he said. Tea-seller Dipa Banerjee was also happy to return to the theatre after 198 days of closure. Just for the love of theatre, Tapan Theatre’s stage manager, Ajit Roy, even picked up a broom and swept the floor before welcoming the audience. “Aneek had staged ‘Brahman’ on March 16. Back then, Arup had told me that Aneek would want to be the first to stage a play here once the halls reopened. I have been associated with Tapan Theatre since 1974 and have worked with Utpal Dutt, Sombhu Mitra and Ajitesh Bandopadhyay. Never was our theatre shut for as long as six months,” he said. The audience at Tapan Theatre for the showAt the venue, 20 members of the group, including 11 actors, were present. With a seating capacity of 750 spread between the ground floor and balcony, it wasn’t difficult to maintain social distancing. “If couple turned up, they sat together. Otherwise, there was ample space to sit. Not just thermal gun, the hall officials even bought a new metal detector. The rental charges of the hall was Rs 7,000. We could collect Rs 6,000 for the first show. Considering it was the first show, this was a good start,” said Abhijit Sengupta, joint secretary of Aneek. However, other theatres in the city have still not opened their doors. Theatre practitioner Debesh Chattopadhyay has got in touch with other theatres but he is yet to get a green signal on the standard operating procedure. “In the central government notification, 50% occupancy has been allowed with a ceiling of 200 people. We need to rework on the logistics and redraw hall charts with revised seating arrangement. A new hall chart has been drawn up for the Academy of Fine Arts with a hall capacity of 37%. I plan to start staging a play in November,” said Chattopadhyay. Kallol Bose, joint secretary of the Academy, is sending out letters to 120 theatre groups, inviting them for a meeting on October 11, where this hall chart will be discussed along with other issues. “Our total seating capacity is 730 with 472 seats on the ground floor and 258 in the balcony. The proposed occupancy comes to 270 if there is a gap of five feet between viewers,” Bose said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tapan-theatre-becomes-the-first-to-reopen-its-stage/articleshow/78482126.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cocaine seized from Tanzanian national||PUNE: The anti-extortion cell of the city police on Friday arrested Tanzanian national Assey James Hillary (27) from Maralnagar on Kondhwa-Yeolewadi road and recovered 55g of cocaine worth Rs3.3 lakh from him. Hillary was looking for prospective customers when a team from the anti-extortion cell took him into custody. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “We have recovered cocaine worth Rs3.3 lakh, a mobile phone, cash Rs2,000 and scooter worth Rs 30,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cocaine-seized-from-tanzanian-national/articleshow/77939335.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||Five teenagers booked for crimes in Gujarat everyday||Vadodara: Troubled teens in Gujarat are giving their families a tough time.Data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2019 has revealed that Gujarat is among the top five states when it comes to crimes committed by teenagers. Last year, five teenagers on an average were booked daily for committing various offences in the state.According to the data, 2,025 crimes were committed by the juveniles out of which 1,786 were cognizable crimes. With 6.3%, the state stood at number five when it came to share in the country’s total crimes committed by the juveniles. Though the number of serious offences including murder and attempt to murder haven’t increased much, experts say that the trend is worrying.“One of the major reasons for teenagers taking to crime is easy availability of technology and exposure to the social media. Most youngsters these days have gadgets but they don’t understand how to use them apart from ignorance of the legal aspects. They resort to some acts online and end up committing offence,” said Saroj Kumari, DCP (HQ), Surat who has done M.Phil in sociology and taught the subject at a university in Rajasthan.“Another reason is the dwindling influence of the family. Earlier in the joint family system there was always someone to keep a watch on the children and juveniles. They used to get lessons in morality at a young age. But with the rise in the number of nuclear families, there is no one to monitor the teenagers, especially in the well-to-do families. Many end up committing crimes,” Kumari told TOI.One of the major reasons that drives the juveniles to commit crimes is money. “But other factors like the company that they keep also play a key role in their behaviour apart from their upbringing,” said advocate, Komal Kukreja. Apart from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu too have high number of juvenile crimes in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-teenagers-booked-for-crimes-in-gujarat-everyday/articleshow/78480770.cms||Tushar Tere
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Dalit gangrape: Cops arrest main accused||Ajmer: Police on Sunday arrested the main accused of the alleged gangrape of a married Dalit woman in Daurai. Police are looking for the other two accused in this case. The married woman who registered an FIR in Ramganj police station on September 30 claimed that when she went to a nearby village to meet her mother, Teepu Sultan and his two friends raped her in a field and kept her captive for eight hours. When the victim reached her mother’s house late at night, she narrated the incident and came to the police station. Police said they arrested Sultan (27), a resident of Khanpura, and produced him in court which sent him to jail. Police said they took the victim for medical examination and were looking for the other two accused. Police had not given the reason for delay in arresting the accused. Meanwhile, former women and child welfare minister and BJP MLA Anita Bhadel held a press conference accusing that 40 per cent of cases in crime against women and children were pending in the state. She said on October 5 there will be halla bol protest of BJP throughout the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dalit-gangrape-cops-arrest-main-accused/articleshow/78482864.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Ex-MLA Srinivasa Rao dies of Covid-19||VISAKHAPATNAM: Former chairman of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) and two-time Vizag MLA Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao (59) died of Covid-19 on Sunday afternoon. He was receiving treatment for Covid-19 related complications in a private hospital in Visakhapatnam for the last two weeks. YSRC leaders were monitoring the treatment and progress of Srinivasa Rao since he was hospitalised. Coming from a family loyal to Congress, Rao served the party for nearly four decades before shifting his loyalties to YSRC just before elections in 2019. A renowned leader of north coastal AP region, Rao’s father D Satyanarayana also served the public in various capacities, including MLA, Lok Sabha MP and Rajya Sabha MP. Rao unsuccessfully contested assembly elections from Vizag South on YSRC ticket in 2019. However, YSRC made him the first chairman of VMRDA, which replaced the erstwhile Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (VUDA) in 2018. Incidentally, Srinivasa Rao’s father – Dronamraju Satyanarayana - was the first chairman of the Vuda, from 1978 to 1981, after it was upgraded from the Town Planning Trust in 1978. Rao worked as the government whip and TTD board member. He held several key positions in the Congress party in the united AP. YSRC MLAs and tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao paid tributes to the departed leader at the party office near Maddilapalem on Sunday evening. They remembered the services rendered by Rao to the people. Known as an easily accessible leader to the common public, Rao was respected by all political parties and leaders alike. Rao practiced the old-school principles till his last breath on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ex-mla-srinivasa-rao-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78482690.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Zone intrusion analytics to thwart animal intrusion||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has taken up the use of zone intrusion analytics to enforce Covid-19 guidelines and prevent animal intrusion at Tirumala. The temple body’s vigilance and security wing has 1,335 CCTV cameras, integrated with the command and control room at Tirumala. Through the introduction of zone intrusion analytics, the vigilance and security department has been able to keep wild animals at bay. “Once a wild animal, whether a leopard or a bear intrudes into human space and is spotted by our CCTV camera, a pop-up alert is generated. While the nearest patrol team rushes to the spot to drive the animal back into the woods, an automated message is also delivered through the public address system to caution any individuals present at the spot where the wild beast was spotted. The automated message through the public address system has also helped scare the wild animal back into the woods,” said TTD’s chief vigilance and security officer Gopinath Jatti. Sandeep Raghavan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/zone-intrusion-analytics-to-thwart-animal-intrusion/articleshow/78482678.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 5, 2020||Bareilly||Rashtriya Yogi Sena stages dharna on NH-24 against pvt med college in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Rashtriya Yogi Sena members on Sunday gathered at the gates of Teerthanker Mahaveer Medical College and Research Institute (TMU), located on National Highway-24 in Moradabad, to protest against three deaths of Covid-19 patients at the level-3 ward there in two months. The protesters offered prayers and then raised slogans against the hospital administration for alleged negligence. The agitation went on for hours, disrupting traffic on the highway. A motorcycle rally was also taken out, A large police force was deployed in the area. In a span of two months, a banker and a UP Police head constable allegedly ended their lives and a woman (28) fell to her death from the second floor of the Covid-19 ward while trying to escape from the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rashtriya-yogi-sena-stages-dharna-on-nh-24-against-pvt-med-college-in-moradabad/articleshow/78479595.cms||Maria Khan
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati: TTD gives nod for third phase of surveillance project worth Rs 30 crore||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) vigilance department is set to install 1,300 CCTV cameras under the third phase project at a cost of Rs 30 crore. Tirumala, which attracts millions from across the world every year, has been on the Intelligence Bureau (IB) watch-list. The IB has designated the shrine as a high-risk area which faces threats from various extremist groups. Keeping in view the security risks, the TTD trust board approved the integrated CCTV project on 2018. The vigilance and security wing of the temple excuted the first phase of the project in 2018 with a budget of Rs 5.87 crore and set up 285 CCTV cameras followed by another 1,050 cameras in the second phase at a cost of Rs 16 crore. In the first two phases, surveillance inside the Tirumala temple, the inner cordon, the four mada streets, the twin Vaikuntam Q-complexes and other key areas was stepped up. Now, under the third phase, all guest houses and cottages on the Tiruamla outer ring road, Sila Thoranam, ghat roads among others will be brought under CCTV surveillance. In addition to these, nearly 600 CCTV cameras have been installed at Alipiri, Srivari Mettu pedestrian roads, other TTD temples and properties across the country. “Our aim is to address key strategic mandates such as video analytics, monitoring visibiltiy, proactive intervention, real time processing by integrating the command control and video management system on a turnkey basis,” said TTD chief vigilance and security officer (CVSO), Gopinath Jatti. Jatti said the project is geared towards end-to-end surveillance solutions through which they are able to integrate different phases of mechanisms to ensure the safety of the temple complex and devotees at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-gives-nod-for-third-phase-of-surveillance-project-worth-rs-30-cr/articleshow/78482672.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 5, 2020||Surat||Slender Racer snake visits Kevadia||SURAT: With the tourists flocking to Kevadia’s newly opened Jungle Safari Park enthused about the prospect of seeing bigger species of wild animals, a ‘slender’ joy slithered in unnoticed inside the office building of the administrative office of the forest department at the Jungle Safari Park. While the tourists were overjoyed with bees and butterflies at the Park, Safari Park officials at Kevadia in Narmada district which is rich in biodiversity were overwhelmed seeing their rare guest — a Slender Racer snake. Curator of the park Ravirajsinh Rathod along with biologist Ravi Patel rescued the snake and later released it in its wild habitat. According to reptile experts, Gujarat is home to around 55 snake species. "We caught a Slender Racer, a non-venomous snake species, from inside the forest department’s office at Jungle Safari Park at Kevadia. Its scientific name is Platyceps gracilis and is rarely sighted,” said Rajdeepsinh Jhala, assistant conservator of forests, Kevadia division. Herpetologist duo, Romulus Whitaker and Ashok Captain described the Slender Racer snake as ‘a small, slender, and smooth scaled’ snake in their book titled ‘Snakes of India (A field guide)’. Describing the looks, the authors wrote: “Its head is broader than the neck and has a large eyes with round pupils and long and thin tail. The reptile is predominantly brown with narrow white, black edged bands on the back. Top of the head has two or three white, black-edged bars, yellowish-white belly scales with small black spots on outer edges. It is often mistaken for a kukri snake on account of its head markings.” Talking to TOI, Vadodara-based herpetologist, Raju Vyas, said, “Sighting of Slender Racer, an endemic reptile species in India, is rare and mainly reported from the hilly forest belt of the eastern part of the state. Seen mainly in day time, it is one of the beautiful snakes and must be studied in depth for better conservation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/slender-racer-snake-visits-kevadia/articleshow/78481483.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||New fire safety notifications raise more questions||AHMEDABAD: In a notification on October 3, the urban development and urban housing department of the state government formed eight fire regions — covering all eight municipal corporation areas — to bring them under the purview of Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures (GFPLSM) Act, 2013. Earlier, there were five regions covering the entire state. ‘The government of Gujarat appoints the chief fire officer of the respective municipal corporations and designates them as regional fire officers in the respective region,’ mentioned the notification. Another notification on the same date mentioned, ‘The fire brigade, by whatever name called, of all municipalities and municipal corporations shall not form part of the state fire service.’ “The notifications are not contradictory,” said a senior state government official. The official explained: “Earlier, the municipal corporation areas were not part of the GFPLSM Act. The matter was also discussed in the Gujarat high court. With the move, the entire state gets covered under the Act and punitive measures can be initiated against the offenders. On the other hand, eight municipal corporations are excluded from the ‘fire service’ to avoid multiple command authorities – the respective fire brigades will be reporting to the municipal corporation/municipality chief.” But experts in the field criticized the move and termed it as a paper procedure that does not solve the ground issues. “It’s good that the state is covered under the Act. But where are the resources and personnel? If the municipalities and municipal corporations are excluded, how much of the state does remain with the state fire service? Instead of addressing the issues such as clearly demarcating areas of operations, the notifications have raised questions on the coordination and sharing of resources,” said a senior fire brigade official on the condition of anonymity. Bopal to get a new fire station Senior officials of the state government said that Bopal – which has recently merged with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) – will soon get a fire station keeping in mind the expansion of area and the rise in population. Finer details are yet to be worked out, said sources. Severe shortage of senior officers One of the points of criticism for the current structure is dual role of chief fire officer and regional fire officer, said experts. They pointed out that the state doesn’t have adequate senior officers who can take on the roles. “Their seniority and experience vary widely. Several are working on two places simultaneously. In such a scenario, a uniform policy about ranks and authority will be difficult,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-fire-safety-notifications-raise-more-questions/articleshow/78482108.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Nalgonda: Private school teacher ends life over financial problems||HYDERABAD: A 28-year-old private school teacher committed suicide by consuming poison in Munugode, Nalgonda district on Sunday allegedly over unpaid dues. Family members of the teacher, Venkat, suspect that he committed suicide as his financial condition worsened after he stopped receiving his salary post the lockdown. According to Munugode police, Venkat, who was working as a teacher in a private school in Narketpally, went to his family farm field and consumed poison. Later, his family members found him dead at the farm . During investigation, the family members told police that Venkat might have taken the extreme step since he was not getting his salary as schools are shut. No suicide note was found. “Besides salary, it looks like there are other family-related issues linked to the suicide and investigation is on,” Munugode police said. As a student, Venkat was associated with PDSU, a students union. Meanwhile, there are about over 3 lakh private school teachers across the state and most of them are not being paid by their schools since the lockdown was imposed in March. Many of the private school teachers have also been taking up menial jobs or surviving on loans and pledging their valuables to eke out a living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-school-teacher-ends-life-over-financial-problems/articleshow/78482075.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur police teams crack cellphone heist case, 2 held||VIJAYAWADA: Days after Tirupati police arrested the notorious Kanjar Bhat truck robbery gang in connection with a cellphone heist, Guntur urban police cracked a similar case which took place near Khaja village on September 15. Police have arrested two persons involved in the heist and recovered 913 cellphones, Rs 4.5 lakh in cash, tools used to pry open truck doors and a car. They also recovered 1,826 phones worth over Rs 2 crore stolen by the same gang at Chegunta in Telangana’s Medak district. On September 15, a truck carrying a shipment of close to 14,000 cellphones was on its way to Kolkata from Sri City in Nellore district. The Kanjar Bhat gang (also known as the Devas gang) followed the truck in two vehicles. The gang is known for breaking into container trucks from the rear while they are moving. In this case, gang members broke into the container near Yetuluru Road bypass. While two members dropped the boxes on the road, the ones following picked up the boxes and loaded them into another truck they had brought. By the time, the lorry driver was alerted by another driver, the gang had fled the scene with 960 cellphones. Wasting now time, Guntur urban SP RN Ammi Reddy formed two special teams of 20-members to nab the perpetrators. The teams, headed by Nallapadu inspector K Veera Swamy and CCS inspector K Vasu, under the supervision of south sub-division DSP M Kamalakar traced the perpetrators to Devas in Madhya Pradesh after analysing CCTV footage along the highway. On October 1, the special team members found the car used for the heist in Devas’ Katamba village. Upon confirming the identities, they arrested Ravi Jhanja (32), Sharooq Khan (32) and recovered most of the cellphones along with the cash they got from selling dome of the stolen phones. Seven other gang members are still at large. The teams also managed to recover 1826 mobile phones which were stolen in a similar fashion by the same gang at Chegunta in Telangana. Ammi Reddy appreciated the special team members for successfully cracking the case by using modern techniques and recovering the stolen property. He said that the efforts are still on to nab all the gang members involved who are still on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-police-teams-crack-cellphone-heist-case-2-held/articleshow/78482704.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh saves energy worth Rs 1,600 crore, says BEE||VIJAYAWADA: The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has suggested that state governments take active part in implementing “perform, achieve and trade (PAT)” scheme to accelerate implementation of cost-effective improvements in energy efficiency in large energy-intensive industries. It has asked the Andhra Pradesh government to play a pivotal role in view of huge untapped potential in energy efficiency area in the state. In a webinar by BEE on Sunday, it was informed that Andhra Pradesh saved 2386 million units of energy worth Rs 1600 crore in 22 energy intensive units. This is equivalent to 2,05,204 tonnes of oil under PAT scheme. Andhra Pradesh for the first time will conduct a webinar on October 6 on the PAT scheme with all energy intensive industries wherein officials and sector experts of BEE will interact with consumers. The BEE said industrial sector alone was consuming 40 per cent of total energy in India and the sector might record a rapid increase in energy consumption in future. The energy consumption is expected to reach 443.4 million tonne by 2031 against the present total energy consumption of 347 million tonne in industrial sector. BEE director-general Abhay Bhakre along with BEE secretary RK Rai and BEE (PAT) director Ashok Kumar said that the PAT scheme achieved tremendous success with energy savings of 8.67 million tonnes of oil equivalent, monetary savings of Rs 9,500 crore from saved energy consumption, emission reduction of 31 million tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent, capacity building of over 5,000 engineers and operators, and encouraged investments of about Rs 26,100 crore in energy efficient technologies. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said that the AP government would invite every initiative that promote cost effective energy which helps to improve the potentiality of industrial development. The industrial sector is consuming 40% of total energy in India. PAT cycle-I realized 30% more than targeted energy savings of 8.67 million tonnes of energy equivalent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-saves-energy-worth-rs-1600-crore-says-bee/articleshow/78485394.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Cheranellore’s drinking water woes may end soon||KOCHI: The residents of Cheranellore grama panchayat who had been in the course of agitation for more than two decades demanding proper water supply in the area can heave a sigh of relief. The state government has allotted Rs 21 crore as part of Rebuild Kerala project for constructing a pipeline connecting Kerala Water Authority’s pump house at Thammanam and an overhead tank at Cheranellore. As the region is located at the tail end of the KWA’s drinking water pipeline network, water supply will be there for once or twice a week only. The new pipeline coupled with an overhead drinking water tank, which is under construction, will ensure that the area gets adequate potable water. “Residents of Cheranellore have been suffering from acute shortage of drinking water for a couple of decades. This project will address their drinking water woes,” said T J Vinod, MLA. Officials with KWA said that tender procedures for implementing the work has been started. “We have to lay around 10m-long pipeline from Thammanam to Vadathodu at Cheranellore. It is expected that the work can be started in two months,” an official with KWA said. “It can be completed within a year,” the official said. “This pipeline has a capacity to carry 12.5 million litre a day (MLD),” the official said. Authorities are carrying out the work on another project which intends to distribute 18 MLD of water from KWA’s treatment plant at Maradu to the pump house at Thammanam. “The work on the pipeline connecting the Maradu plant and Thammanam pump house is progressing. But the work on around 4km stretch along the national highway couldn’t be started as the National Highways Authority of India hasn’t given nod for digging up the road for the purpose. In the remaining portion, we have completed the pipe laying,” the KWA official said. The capacity of the overhead tank which is being constructed at Vadathodu is 1.5 million litre. The work on the tank with a cost of Rs 7.75 crore is expected to be completed in eight months. “Once the work on the new pipeline and tank is completed, at least six more MLD of water will be available for Cheranallore residents. As of now, around 2.5 MLD of water is available here,” said Rajesh, ward member, Cheranallore grama panchayat. “Earlier the residents had to stay awake at night for standing in long queues for fetching drinking water. After supplying water to the residents all along the distribution line, there won’t be enough water to be given to the people in Cheranellore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cheranellores-drinking-water-woes-may-end-soon/articleshow/78481298.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Covid-19 tally nears 2 lakh||HYDERABAD: With 1,949 new Covid-19 positive cases recorded on Saturday, Telangana is nearing the 2 lakh coronavirus caseload mark, even as 10 more deaths were recorded across the state. The total number of positive cases in the state so far stands at 1,99,276, while the total number of deaths now stands at 1,163. So far, 1,70,212 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection while 27,901 patients continue to be under medication. The case fatality rate is currently at 0.58% in the state, as compared to 1.60% in the country. A low case fatality rate means a lower number of Covid-19 patients dying. The recovery rate is on the increase in the state. It is currently 85% as compared to 84% in the country. On Saturday, a total of 51,623 samples were tested for Covid-19, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the state to 32.1 lakh. The samples tested per million population is 86,116. GHMC limits recorded 291 new cases on Saturday - the highest among districts. This was followed by 156 cases in Rangareddy, 150 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri and 124 cases in Nalgonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-covid-19-tally-nears-2-lakh/articleshow/78482157.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress, BJP have joined hands: T Harish Rao||HYDERABAD: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Sunday said that the Congress and BJP have joined hands for the Dubbak bypoll, hence, instead of fighting the BJP, the Congress is attacking the TRS. Interacting with people in Dubbak, he said the Congress and the saffron party are on the same page. “Though AICC leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are taking on the BJP at the national level, the local leaders are in no mood to fight the BJP and are instead attacking TRS,” he said. Stating that TPCC in-charge Manickam Tagore had bitterly criticised the new farm bills when he was in Dubbak, he said the criticism did not really translate into action in the form of protests. “Is it right to criticise chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao without slamming the BJP for the farm bills? Tagore should learn from the state government as the state is supplying free power to farmers round-the-clock, but the Congress-ruled states still do not have free power for farmers,” Harish said. “Tagore must realise that in the last assembly elections, Congress had won just 26,000 votes, before dreaming of winning 79 seats,” he said, and pointed out that though the bypolls have been announced, the Congress is strangely silent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-bjp-have-joined-hands-harish/articleshow/78482087.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh saves energy worth Rs 1,600 crore, says BEE||VIJAYAWADA: The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has suggested that state governments take active part in implementing “perform, achieve and trade (PAT)” scheme to accelerate implementation of cost-effective improvements in energy efficiency in large energy-intensive industries. It has asked the Andhra Pradesh government to play a pivotal role in view of huge untapped potential in energy efficiency area in the state. In a webinar by BEE on Sunday, it was informed that Andhra Pradesh saved 2386 million units of energy worth Rs 1600 crore in 22 energy intensive units. This is equivalent to 2,05,204 tonnes of oil under PAT scheme. Andhra Pradesh for the first time will conduct a webinar on October 6 on the PAT scheme with all energy intensive industries wherein officials and sector experts of BEE will interact with consumers. The BEE said industrial sector alone was consuming 40 per cent of total energy in India and the sector might record a rapid increase in energy consumption in future. The energy consumption is expected to reach 443.4 million tonne by 2031 against the present total energy consumption of 347 million tonne in industrial sector. BEE director-general Abhay Bhakre along with BEE secretary RK Rai and BEE (PAT) director Ashok Kumar said that the PAT scheme achieved tremendous success with energy savings of 8.67 million tonnes of oil equivalent, monetary savings of Rs 9,500 crore from saved energy consumption, emission reduction of 31 million tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent, capacity building of over 5,000 engineers and operators, and encouraged investments of about Rs 26,100 crore in energy efficient technologies. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said that the AP government would invite every initiative that promote cost effective energy which helps to improve the potentiality of industrial development. The industrial sector is consuming 40% of total energy in India. PAT cycle-I realized 30% more than targeted energy savings of 8.67 million tonnes of energy equivalent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-saves-energy-worth-rs-1600-crore-says-bee/articleshow/78482622.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||ICG patrol vessel arrives in Kakinada||KAKINADA: The CG Fast Patrol Vessel, ICGS Kanaklata Barua, commissioned into the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) at Kolkata on September 30, departed from GRSE Yard, Kolkata on October 2 and arrived at Kakinada on October 4 for permanent basing. The vessel is equipped with state-of-the-art navigation systems and is fifth in the series of 05 Fast Patrol Vessels (FPV) being built indigenously by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited, Kolkata. The vessel, around 51 meters long, can attain a sustained speed of up to 35 knots. It is capable of operating in coastal area and maritime zones, including island territories. The FPV will be deployed for coastal and offshore patrol, policing maritime zones for enhancing maritime domain awareness and control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/icg-patrol-vessel-arrives-in-kakinada/articleshow/78482686.cms||Samson Raj
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Residential societies, city clubs decide not to hold garba this year||AHMEDABAD: Prudence seems to be gaining traction in the pandemic. With top organizers and clubs backing out from organizing Navratri events, residential societies too have begun to call off their annual garba functions. Most society managements say they’ve decided not to hold the garbas given the risk to public health associated with crowding and close contact. Some of the most popular garba venues have called it quits this time. For instance, Friends Garba, which is one of the most sought-after events every year and sees a crowd of at least 8,000 people on the day it is organized, will not be held. “We cannot put public health at risk. Even though we can put a cap on the number of visitors in accordance with government guidelines, it would not be wise to organize the event this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic and risk more pressure on the already burdened healthcare system and professionals,” said Chiranjiv Patel of Friends Garba. Kalhar Blues and Greens, which happens to organize another popular garba event has decided to not hold it this time. “Last year too we didn’t organize garba, and this time around, it is completely out of the question due to the pandemic,” said one of the residents on condition of anonymity. With cases being on the rise, society members are extremely sceptical about organizing events and inviting trouble. “It’s definitely a risk to organize garba even if it is in the same neighbourhood. For once, we can put aside celebration and look at safety and health. With children and senior citizens staying in societies, it is extremely unsafe to hold garba,” said the chairperson of a residential society in Vejalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/residential-societies-city-clubs-decide-not-to-hold-garba-this-year/articleshow/78482152.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Body of girl found hanging from tree in Baran||KOTA: The body of a 16-year-old tribal girl was found hanging from a tree outside her house in Baran district on Sunday. No suicide note is recovered from the deceased. However, police suspect it to be a suicide case. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem by a medical board. Police have launched a probe into the case. The minor has been identified as Thawli Bheel. According to DSP (Shahabad circle) Kajodmal, the girl, who belonged to Bheel community, was found hanging from a tree at Karaiyaan Bheel Basti in Baran. Her family are deeply shocked to shed light on the matter. A case under Section 174 of Cr.P.C has been lodged and probe is underway, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/body-of-girl-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/78482894.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Seven arrested for duping several of Rs 9 lakh in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The crime branch arrested seven persons of a gang who duped people of Rs 9 lakh by promising them to double their money. The gang members also impersonated as policemen. They were nabbed from a hotel in Sindhi Camp police station area in Jaipur on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Shiv Shankar (55), Ramanand Patidar (30), Satish Bairwa (29), Nepal Singh (32), Dheeraj Singh (27), Rahul Nath (20) and Vikas Verma (39). “A complaint was registered at Sindhi Camp police station about such a gang operating in the city and we constituted a team to trace and arrest them. We received information that they were lodged at the hotel and arrested all the members,” said a police official. The cops seized Rs 8.5 lakh from the accused along with police uniforms and a vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/seven-arrested-for-duping-several-of-rs-9-lakh-in-city/articleshow/78482893.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist records max cases under Emigration Act||LUDHIANA: Foreign dreams have been costing Ludhiana district residents dearly with many falling prey to fake emigration companies that dupe them of lakhs of rupees. As per the latest data of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Ludhiana is at number one position in the country in cases of Emigration Act, 1983, violation, recording more than 70% of 164 such violations. As per the NCRB data for 2019, as many as 117 cases of the Emigration Act violation were registered at Ludhiana commissionerate, which was the highest in the country. Chennai with 11 cases was at second position, followed by Cuddapah in Andhra Pradesh at third spot with six cases. The data says in 2018, as many as 52 cases were registered in the Ludhiana commissionerate and it had earned number two spot in the country. Delhi was at number one position with 143 cases, while Chennai, Kochi and Lucknow had stood at number three, four and five with 11, five and four cases, respectively. In Punjab, Jalandhar commissionerate was at number two position with two of the total 119 cases registered in the state in 2019. In 2018, Ludhiana rural police district was at number two position in the state with six cases and Hoshiarpur at number three spot with one cases. The data for the past many years also suggests that the cases in 2019 were the highest in Ludhiana. In 2018, as many as 52 cases were registered, 31 in 2017 and 43 in 2016. Cops said five districts, including Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, Kapurthala and Ludhiana, are known for large number of emigration fraud cases. Ludhiana police authorities say more cases indicate how strict they have been with illegal agents. “We have started a special drive against illegal agents and registered FIRs, which have reflected in NCRB data. This speaks of how severe we have been with them and we will continue with our drive,” said Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal. Police officials said those willing to go abroad for work should look for authorised travel agents, apply on the basis of their qualification, and look for better avenues in own country. “After selling lands and other valuables, people apply for going abroad and fall in the trap of illegal agents. It is good that police have acted tough against them,” said Narinder Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-records-max-cases-under-emigration-act/articleshow/78481301.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Officials blame urban lethargy for poor voting||HYDERABAD: Less than 10% of the estimated graduates in Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar districts had enrolled themselves as voters in the graduates constituency (MLC) in the 2015 elections. Among those registered, only 40% had exercised their franchise. The other graduates constituency of Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda too witnessed a poor voter registration and turnout. Officials blamed the pattern of poor voting to what they called ‘urban lethargy.’ Officials said this trend was particularly seen in Greater Hyderabad. They recall that 39% of the voters utilised their franchise in Hyderabad-RR-Mahbubnagar. The second biggest graduates constituency of Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda saw only 51% turnout in the previous elections. BJP MLC from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency N Ramchander Rao said the party is trying to create awareness among the people on enrolment. “Urban voters do not show interest in the voting process. While the voter turnout is usually 70% in the general elections, it does not cross even 50% in urban areas, especially in Hyderabad,” the MLC explained. GHMC officials said illiterates commit mistakes while voting, especially on EVMs. “Though voters in MLC polls are graduates, nearly 9,000 votes among 1.11 lakh votes polled in 2015 polls turned out to be invalid due to wrong exercise of franchise,” a GHMC official said. Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency population has nearly 50 lakh graduates. Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency has 30 lakh graduates. The ECI has begun an exercise to register voters for both the graduates’ constituencies.  Interestingly, aspirants from various parties began the enrolment exercise by visiting houses of voters and sending messages. “My target is to enrol at least one lakh voters in the upcoming polls. So far, 38,000 people have submitted their names after we provided them forms. We will achieve the target of one lakh voters by October-end,” Kasani Veeresh, TRS leader and an aspirant from Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar constituency, told TOI. Some party leaders are appointing volunteers to register the voters through websites and apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-blame-urban-lethargy-for-poor-voting/articleshow/78482134.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress appoints poll in-charges in Dubbak villages||HYDERABAD: Congress on Sunday appointed a leader each for the 140-plus villages in Dubbak assembly segment and directed the leaders to stay put in the villages and ensure the party’s victory. The party said that the results of the Dubbak bypoll will have an impact on the ensuing elections to the two MLC graduate constituencies. “Go and meet the voters. Work in villages as you work while contesting for a sarpanch seat. People are watching us. Show them that Congress is the only alternative to TRS that can fulfill their aspirations which have remained unfulfilled in KCR’s Telangana,” AICC general secretary in-charge of Telangana, Manickam Tagore said while addressing party leaders. Tagore and Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy appointed senior leaders as in-charge for seven mandals in Dubbak. “The in-charges should not leave the villages and launch a door-to-door campaign between October 7 and October 11. The in-charge must start taking farmers’ signatures against the farm bills and enrol voters for graduates MLC seats for a week starting October 12. Mandal in-charge leaders should monitor all activities and submit reports on a daily basis,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-appoints-poll-in-charges-in-dubbak-villages/articleshow/78482109.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘Critical’ arrivals made up 60% of Sassoon hospital’s September toll||PUNE: About 60% of Covid-19 patients who succumbed at Sassoon hospital were referred to the facility in critical condition by hospitals across Pune’s urban and rural areas. Experts said the data, from an analysis of casualties at Sassoon between September 1 and September 20, reinforces the need to overhaul the patient referral policy in the region. Currently, it has been observed that some private hospitals send Covid patients off to Sassoon as soon as they develop serious complications. Experts and health activists said this is being done to regulate the number of casualties at their own facilities. Experts said if a private hospital has facilities such as ICUs and access to good doctors, treatment should be carried out on-site, instead moving a patient. “Of the 375 patients who died here between September 1 and September 20, 228 patients were referrals from other hospitals. They were in critical stages, when their condition had already deteriorated. We could have saved them if they were referred to us in time,” said a senior official from Sassoon. A large number of these 228 referrals (123) were patients sent to Sassoon by hospitals from the rural areas and the outskirts. “These patients were brought in from a few private and government hospitals across Shirur, Wagholi, Uralikanchan, Purandar, Ambegaon, Yevat, Bhor, Daund and Junnar,” the Sassoon official said. But experts said the increasing number of referrals from rural hospitals is also an indicator of how widespread Covid is now in these parts. “We need to immediately strengthen healthcare services in the rural parts. A patient should not lose time in transit,” said health activist and medical practitioner Abhijit More. More added that private hospitals should now be barred from referring patients to other facilities simply because chances of survival are low or families have run out of money. Sanjeev Wavare, the assistant medical officer of health (AMoH) with the Pune Municipal Corporation, said, “A private hospital with ICU facilities should see if a patient can be accommodated under a state or PMC health scheme rather than moving them in critical condition. As for referrals from civic hospitals, only two PMC-run hospitals — Naidu and Dalvi — have ICUs with a total capacity of 24 beds. So referral of critical patients from them is inevitable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/critical-arrivals-made-up-60-of-sassoons-sept-toll/articleshow/78482194.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Sealdah flyover opened to traffic 13 hours early||Kolkata: The Sealdah flyover was thrown open to traffic at 5pm on Sunday, 13 hours ahead of schedule as the giant tunnel boring machine (TBM), Urvi, safely crossed the 25m distance below at 8am instead of noon. By evening, cars and buses were rolling as usual and traffic was back to normal. At its optimum speed, it was possible for Urvi to cross the flyover well before time without having any impact on the structure. On Sunday, Urvi was 19m from the breakthrough point or the diaphragm wall of the East-West Metro’s Sealdah station. This breakthrough will complete the link between the Howrah and Sealdah Metro stations.The breakthrough will happen on Friday when the machine punches through the 1m thick diaphragm wall and enters the under-construction station. Thus, the first transportation tunnel between Howrah and Sealdah stations will be built. Engineers of ITD ITD-Cementation, the company contracted to build the last leg of 2.45km underground tunnels between Esplanade and Sealdah, monitored the flyover — formally called Vidyapati Setu — for another five hours before declaring the structure safe for use. Accordingly Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency of the 16.55km East-West Metro that will eventually connect Sector V with Howrah Maidan, approached Kolkata Police and vehicles were allowed to ply from 5pm.According to KMRC’s request, Kolkata Police had notified on Tuesday that the central part of flyover would be closed from 6am on Friday till 6am on Monday to facilitate East-West Metro’s underground tunnelling. With the TBM having safely dug the 25 metres early on Sunday, the construction agencies decided to reschedule the closure time and open the flyover to commuters 13 hours earlier. For the last two days, vehicles headed for the Sealdah flyover from the north were being diverted from Shyambazar, Maniktala and Rajabazar while those moving towards it from the south were re-routed from the Exide and Moulali crossings.Traffic movement wasn’t affected much because Friday was Gandhi Jayanti and the scene was more like that of a long weekend. Since suburban trains in Sealdah are not running and buses are few, the vehicular load was less and the traffic rejig plan was easier to implement, cops said. Engineers involved in the project said Urvi, which is digging the east-bound tunnel, had gone full throttle, building and burrowing at a speed of 10m-15m per day. As the flyover remained out of bounds for vehicles, around 50 officials and engineers had been camping below and around the flyover day and night.But more stress is on the 24×7 instrumentation or real-time monitoring. Sensors had been installed at various optic points of the flyover to provide real-time data on how the structure was responding to the TBM’s movement 10m below the ground. The sensors point at the slightest structural change on physical parameters — such as strain, displacement, tilt and vibration — caused by the moving machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sealdah-flyover-opened-to-traffic-13-hours-early/articleshow/78482192.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||NCRB data on city crime depicts mixed picture||Nagpur: The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data of 2019 released this week underlined the fact that city’s security quotient may be improving but still has room for improvement compared to state’s other cities like Mumbai and Pune. While the number of crimes registered in city were less than Mumbai and Pune, city’s crime rate (331.3) per one lakh population was higher than Mumbai’s (165.7) and Pune’s (243.7). Some city police officials argued that the crime rate was based on the population of only municipal limits which as per the 2011 census was around 24 lakh. However, later inclusion of Kamptee, adjoining villages and other police stations in the commissionerate has increased it susbstantially to almost 40 lakh. Thus the present calculations do not reflect the correct picture, they said. As per 2019 data, Nagpur police had registered 9,426 cognizable offences under Indian Penal Code (IPC) which is behind Mumbai’s 34,840 and Pune’s 13,159. Earlier considered as ‘crime capital’, city’s share of crime percentage to the national rate is also lower at 1.7 behind Pune’s 2.3 and Mumbai’s 6.4. A less populated city has also registered less murders (103) than Mumbai’s 170 and Pune’s 129. In all, 91 rape cases were registered in the city while in Mumbai the number was 391, Pune 171 and Thane 182. Cases of molestation were 1,163 in Mumbai, 304 in Pune, 467 in Thane and 209 in city. Former city police chief BK Upadhyay said a stringent check on the crime was kept with relentless preventive measures including invoking of MCOCA and MPDA against dreaded goons and also keeping the other anti-social elements under check. “Apart from crime, the city also did not witness any communal disturbances as community policing was stepped up as a measure having multifarious effects,” he said. “Stress was laid on the detections too and improving overall policing,” said the former CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ncrb-data-on-city-crime-depicts-mixed-picture/articleshow/78483326.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Residents become green parents to save roadside trees in New Town||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has launched an initiative for residents to adopt grown-up trees across the township. To begin with, the authority has given the responsibility to four residents’ welfare associations, whose members will take care of a row of trees in front of their housing complexes. The authority has put up official boards on the trees as part of the drive and this will help people report to a tree’s “green parent” if they find anything wrong. Officials said the idea is to involve residents of the township in taking care of the trees by voluntarily adopting them without any financial burden. The duration of the adoption is 11 months, after which an assessment will be done to decide whether the maintenance of a tree will remain with the same “green parent” or it will be handed over to someone else. The “green parents” will look after the health of the trees, cleanliness and check if any pruning is required and give feedback to the NKDA about maintenance issues. The photos of the adopted trees will have to be mailed to the authority at an interval of every three months. The NKDA has also started developing urban forest areas in New Town with the help of various organisations. An acre of land has been granted to ‘Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage’ in Action Area IIE of the township recently to develop an urban forest of memories to be named as ‘Arvori’. The project aims at combating pollution by enhancing the green cover in urban areas. The authorities have also started developing an Amlaki grove on an acre of land in Action Area III with the help of New Town Kolkata Care Foundation. Around 200 Amlaki saplings will be planted there. The NKDA has already planted 10,000 trees and saplings across the township post Amphan. “It has been our continuous effort to make up for the loss of greenery due to the cyclone and develop greenery in New Town,” said NKDA and Hidco chairman, Debashis Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/residents-become-green-parents-to-save-roadside-trees-in-new-town/articleshow/78482200.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Around 30,000 appear for Civils prelims in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Close to 30,000 aspirants from Telangana appeared for the Union Public Service Commission’s (UPSC) civil services preliminary examination that was held in two shifts at over 100 centres in Hyderabad and Warangal. This year, 46,121 candidates from Telangana had registered for the prelims exam. While 65 percent attendance was recorded in the morning session, only 45% attended the afternoon session. In view of Covid-19 protocols, each exam centre in the city had around 300-500 candidates. Many candidates found the difficulty level to be moderate this year. “There were a lot of questions on agriculture, including the minimum support price, eco-friendly agriculture practices, agriculture procurements etc.,” said an aspirant. Experts said that the questions were in-depth this year. “Paper 1, which determines the shortlisting of the candidates to the main, had more questions from teconomic and social development and history. In order to be able to answer the questions correctly, any prospective aspirant would need at least good two to three years of in-depth preparation,” said Gopala Krishna, director, Brain Tree, an IAS coaching institution. Experts felt the minimum qualifying mark is expected to be lower than the previous years. Total 796 vacancies are notified this year, 100 lesser than the vacancies notified last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/around-30k-appear-for-civils-prelims/articleshow/78482208.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Worker found dead in gutted mattress factory||LUDHIANA: A day after a factory on Bahadur Ke Road was destroyed in a major fire, its 25-year-old worker was found dead on the premises on Sunday. Muhammad Mukarram, who hailed from Bihar, lived in the unit – PVR Exports – where quilts, blankets and mattresses were made. Earlier in the day, the family of Muhammad pressed for a case against the factory owner for negligence and lying to them by claiming that he was not inside the unit. But later, both the parties struck a compromise. The factory had a huge stock of highly-inflammable hosiery waste, which caught fire on Saturday afternoon. The cause of blaze is yet to be ascertained. At the time, about 20-25 employees, who were working inside the factory, ran out to save themselves. After some time, relatives of Muhammad reached the site and said he was probably trapped inside. A team of fire officials, led by sub-fire officer Atish Rai, started a search operation, but to no avail. On Sunday morning, people from nearby areas and relatives of Muhammad found his charred body under the burnt hosiery waste near the gate of the factory. Rai said, “It is very unfortunate that a life has been lost in the incident. After being approached by the relatives of Muhammad, we, along with them, looked for him in the unit, but could not find him. It seems huge piles of burning hosiery waste fell on him and trapped him. Some people told us that he was unwell and resting inside a factory room at the time of the incident.” Basti Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal said, “Muhammad lived in the factory. The factory owner, Rajiv Ranjan, did not inform the police and the fire brigade in time that a worker could be inside. He instead maintained that Muhammad had rushed out. As the deceased’s family and the factory owner have struck a compromise, we have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/worker-found-dead-in-gutted-mattress-factory/articleshow/78481310.cms||Mohit Behl
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept employee, woman friend ‘kill themselves’ in Samrala||TNNLudhiana: A health department employee and his married woman friend allegedly ended their lives in a Samrala village on Saturday evening. Gurpreet Singh, who worked at the Samrala civil hospital, and the woman were found dead at his house in Baliyan village.Police officials said Gurpreet worked as a Class IV employee and the woman would often go to the civil hospital to get medicines and met him there. Samrala SHO inspector Kuljinder Singh said as per the initial probe, Gurpreet, who had been living with his mother and brother here since 15 days, had left the hospital around 2pm on Saturday. At the time of the incident, his mother, a MNREGA worker, and his brother, a painter, were at work. When Gurpreet’s mother returned, she found the door closed from inside, so she peeped from the neighbour’s wall. Police officials said she was shocked to see her son hanging from a ceiling fan in one room, while the woman was lying on the floor of the other. She informed the police, who reached the spot and started a probe.The SHO said they have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC and the cause of the incident would be known in a few days. Cops said Gurpreet, lived with his parents-in-law in Mushkabad village, had been married for the past 11 years and didn’t have a child. The woman was married for five years and had a two-year-old son. They added though the police suspected that both were having an affair, Gurpreet’s family have refused to identify the woman. They told the cops that they had seen her for the first time and did not know why both of them ended their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-employee-woman-friend-kill-themselves-in-samrala/articleshow/78481306.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Woman who jumped from hotel dies||Jaipur: The woman, who jumped from the second floor of a hotel in Pratapnagar, succumbed to her injuries on Sunday morning. Cops are yet to determine as to the reason behind what appears to be a case of suicide. The deceased woman hailed from Tonk district and cops have started an investigation into the matter. According to initial investigation, cops found that she had come from Tonk with a taxi driver to Jaipur and the police are looking for him as he was allegedly her pimp. She also has a child who lives in Tonk while for last one year, she was living in Jaipur with the taxi driver. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-who-jumped-from-hotel-dies/articleshow/78482895.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ventilator occupancy reduces to 81%||AHMEDABAD: After nearly a week of 90% or more occupancy of ventilator beds in Covid-19 hospitals, on Sunday the occupancy dropped to 80.8% — out of 156 available beds, 126 were occupied. The overall occupancy was at 75.5% with 1,413 beds occupied out of 1,871 available. Occupancy for isolation beds was 75%, high dependency units was 75.5% and ICU beds without ventilator was 74%, according to Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) website, showing position of occupancy at 9.30am on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ventilator-occupancy-reduces-to-81/articleshow/78482148.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid: HIV patient among 10 dead, 161 test positive||LUDHIANA: Ten residents of Ludhiana, including an HIV patient, died of Covid-19 and 161 tested positive on Sunday. The district casualties included a 62-year-old man with HIV and acute kidney infection; a 73-year-old man of Jassiyan Road; a 62-year-old woman of New Sabzi Mandi with hypothyroidism; a 67-year-old man of Govindpura, who had coronary artery disease and diabetes; a 47-year-old man of Samrala with coronary artery disease and hypertension; a 53-year-old diabetic woman of Lohara; a 32-year-old man of SBS Nagar; a 57-year-old woman of Prem Vihar Colony; a 78-year-old man of Vikas Nagar; and a woman, 64, of South City, who had hypertension. As per the local media bulletin, the day also saw a Sangrur resident succumbing to the virus here and 29 outsiders testing positive. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has climbed to 770 and that of outsiders to 265. To date, 2,94,230 suspects have been tested. Of the 161 positive cases, 63 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 16 positive cases’ contacts, 49 from OPD, one health-care worker, one domestic / international traveller, 29 through tracing process, one severe acute respiratory infection case and one pre-operative case. The Ludhiana case count now stands at 18,494 and that of outsiders has increased to 2,345. So far, 16,872 patients have recovered, which constitutes 91.23% of the total cases. There are 849 active cases in the district. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,921. On Sunday, 132 persons were home isolated. On the day, 4,542 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-hiv-patient-among-10-dead-161-test-positive/articleshow/78481313.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi Sanjay Kumar questions Telangana CM's letter ahead of council meet||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday questioned chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s letter to Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat just two days before the apex council meeting. The state unit chief alleged that even though there was a chance to discuss the water disputes with Andhra Pradesh in the apex council meeting, the CM wrote the letter only to show off to the public. Sanjay said that TRS regime has made an agreement with AP, and has agreed for 299tmc water to be utilised by Telangana and 512tmc by AP. “This is not at right, because 68% of the catchment area of Krishna basin lies within Telangana, and accordingly it should get 555tmc (68.5% of 811tmc) as its due share,” he said. Even the 299tmc water is not being utilised by Telangana as Andhra is drawing more water every year than the agreed 512tmc, he said. He alleged an active connivance between both chief ministers for the benefit of irrigation contractors, thereby earning kickbacks. He said they took many decisions, but only the Centre is being blamed. He said that the Centre is bound by Supreme Court order on Krishna water sharing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-questions-cm-kcr-letter-ahead-of-council-meet/articleshow/78482210.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Rahul drives over farm laws with his tractor rally||LUDHIANA: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who kickstarted his anti-farm Bills campaign in Punjab on Sunday, addressed public gatherings at three different places on the first day. He started from Badhni Kalan in Moga, then reached Chakar village and in the end addressed a gathering at Jattpura (the last two in Ludhiana district). He attacked demonetisation and GST and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of playing in the hands of corporates, Adani and Ambani. Rahul, who was accompanied by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, travelled from Badhni Kalan to Chakar on a tractor, which was fitted with special seats and driven by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar. As Chakar was not in the itinerary, he reached his final destination Jattpura late and apologised to the gathering. At Chakar, where he addressed the people from the trolley, he was gifted a model of a tractor-trolly and mitti (soil) of Punjab by Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu. Bittu urged Rahul to fight for the mitti of Punjab. At Jattpura, Rahul said it was Ambani and Adani who were running the government. “Rojgar chote business wale dete hai, middle size business wale dete hain, bhojan kisan aur mazdoor dete hai, lekin Hindustan ki sarkar poore ka poora fayda Hindustan ke 10-15 sabse bade udyogpatiyo ko deti hai. Aaj kal to sirf do hai, Adani aur Ambani. Narendra Modi ki wo madad karte hain, TV pe unka chehra dikhate hai, aur Modi ji unke liye rasta saaf karte hai. (Small and middle size businessmen give jobs, farmers and workers give food, but the government of India gives benefits to only to 10-15 big businessmen. But nowadays there are only two, Adani and Ambani. They help Narendra Modi, they show his face on TV and he paves the way for them.” Calling farmers of Punjab the backbone of the country, Rahul said that Modi was trying to break the backbone to benefit two to three persons. “But the Congress will not let this happen at any cost. Be it MSP, Food Security Bill or MNREGA, all these laws were made by the Congress for the protection of the farmers and we will not let anyone destroy them. Modi says these Bills will benefit farmers, then why Punjab peasants have closed the roads? Why there was no debate in Parliament? Why were we gagged? When the Congress government comes to power, we will tear these Bills and throw them in the dustbin.” Rahul also said demonetisation and GST were brought to benefit the corporates. Earlier, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh also addressed the gathering and said his government was with the farmers and would take whatever steps were needed against the anti-farmer laws and expose the Akalis’ double standards. The CM said people of the state would take care of these “gaddars”, but the real fight was with the BJP-led Central government, which was out to destroy the farmers with their draconian laws. “We will handle the Akalis here, but I urge Rahul to fight the Central government to scrap the new laws,” he said.  ‘If mandi system is abolished, there will be no roads’ During his address, Rahul Gandhi claimed that if the mandi system was abolished in India, then no roads would be left anywhere. He said, “Today we rode the tractor on the roads which farmers use to go to mandis to sell their produce. Who has made these roads? Have Adani or Ambani made these? No, these roads were made from the tax from the mandis. But if the mandis are closed, then there will be no roads. If there are no roads, how will farmers sell their produce? Will they go by air to sell it?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rahul-drives-over-farm-laws-with-his-tractor-rally/articleshow/78481322.cms||Mohit Behl
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||10 injured in Bypass and Hedua Park accidents||Kolkata: Two accidents on Saturday night, which took place on EM Bypass and near Hedua Park after the withdrawal of four-hour special night checks across the city, put the focus back on some of the most accident-prone areas in the city. Though no death was reported, the accidents left 10 people injured. Around 1.10am on Sunday, a car hit a divider and overturned at the Beliaghata Building More crossing. The car, in which three women and two men were travelling, swerved to the right immediately after the signal turned green. Cops suspect that the accident might have occurred as Micaela Gomes (21) had become distracted while driving the car. Cops who were checking on Chowpatty Road rushed to the spot and rescued the five persons. They were rushed to Apollo Hospital, from where they were discharged after treatment. In the other accident reported from Hedua Park in the wee hours of Sunday, a truck hit a car heading from the Bhootnath Temple area to New Town. Five people were injured in the accident. “Both the accidents happened after checking got over,” said a police officer. Cops said 13 fatal accidents had been reported last month, less than the city’s average of 22 a month. Going by the statistics, this was one of the highest accidental death figures since the lockdown and the areas in and around Bypass, Dalhousie and the Shyambazar-Shyampukur have accounted for 80% of deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-injured-in-bypass-and-hedua-park-accidents/articleshow/78482241.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||R value of Covid infection in Telangana dips to 1 in Sept||HYDERABAD: Even as Telangana inches towards two lakh cumulative Covid-19 cases, the R value (reproduction rate which measures how infectious the virus is) has fallen from 1.27 in third week of August to just 1 in the third week of September. Though the number is slightly higher than Indian average of 0.86 in the third week of September, experts say the infection spread in the state is not at an alarming stage and is steadily decreasing. The R value across India was 1.8 in the third week of August. R value, the effective reproduction number estimates the average number of people that are infected by a single infected person over the course of his/her infection and measures the rate of spread of the infection. The values estimated by the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) in Chennai show that Andhra Pradesh, despite having more cases than Telangana, has a relatively lower R value. The R value for AP stands at (in the third week of September) below one, which was more than 1 in the third week of the August. “The decline in the percentage increase, instead of a decline in absolute numbers, is the first indication of a possible flattening of the curve of the pandemic,” said Sitabra Sinha professor, computational biology and theoretical physics at Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. In Telangana and AP, each Covid-19 infected person is infecting less than one person, on an average, which World Health Organization (WHO) prescribes as R value below 1,” an expert said. There are other values like R>1 that means the number of infections will keep growing exponentially (as is the case in the early part of any epidemic). R<1 means that the number of infections are decreasing with time if the R is maintained at same value. The decline is well corresponding to increased testing and decreased positivity rate in Telengana. “It means infection is not going exponential,” pointed out Dr Kiran Madala, certified researcher with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and associate professor, Government General Hospital, Nizamabad said.More share of asymptomatic infections is also pointing towards R slowly decreasing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/r-value-of-covid-infection-in-state-dips-to-1-in-sept/articleshow/78482251.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 5, 2020||Pune||PCMC to procure 4k antigen test kits||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) plans to buy another 4,000 rapid antigen test kits. One such kit can test 25 samples therefore 4,000 kits are expected to achieve 1 lakh test samples. According to officials from the civic body, in case a person gets a negative result on the rapid antigen test yet s/he is symptomatic or elderly, they will have to undergo an RT-PCR test as well. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said the civic body had ordered around 8,000 kits until September. The kits can achieve 2 lakh tests, while 1.40 lakh samples have been tested. “We have completed around 1.40 lakh rapid antigen tests so far and 60,000 tests remain. We can continue with it for the month of October, but we will need to buy another lot of rapid antigen test kits for the future. The festive season is also upon us so it is much more important for the civic body to keep a backup of the tests, which can give a result within half an hour,” he said. Patil said that they are aware of the false-negative results that the test could show. But they have ensured that symptomatic persons with a negative rapid antigen test result will have to undergo the RT-PCR test. “We have seen a steady drop in the number of patients in the past few weeks but the upcoming festive season poses a risk,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-to-procure-4k-antigen-test-kits/articleshow/78482216.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Thai black kite flies over 4,000km for a carcass feast at Jorbeer bird area in Bikaner||JAIPUR: Jorbeer, an Important Bird Area (IBA) which attracts voracious raptors for a feast from across the globe, is witnessing a unique migration pattern this season. For the first time, the presence of a black kite (Milvus migrans), which was tagged in Thailand, has been recorded at Jorbeer. This medium-sized bird of prey flew a total of 4,066km to reach the carcass dumping site, located nearly 12km away from Bikaner. The migration has astonished bird enthusiasts and researchers as the kite is predominantly synurbic, one that prefers close proximity to humans in cities, in order to sustain itself and not migrate. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) member Dau Lal Bohra said, "Black kites are a non-migratory species of wild bird and do not cross any country’s borders for food. Moreover, raptors from Southeast Asia do not come to Rajasthan as it is not on their flyway. Rajasthan hosts raptors from Central Asia. The new pattern indicates that an open dumping site is preferred by raptors." Experts claim the black kite is commonly found in Indian subcontinent and Jorbeer is teeming with hundreds of black kites. However, the migration came to light when researchers from Thailand contacted local birding groups to know its whereabouts after it reached Jorbeer. A message received from Chayian Kasorndorkbua, assistant professor, veterinary medicine, Kasetsart University, said, "The juvenile black kite designated as R96 was tagged with GSM/GPS logger. It was hatched in Nakhon Nayok province, central Thailand, in Feb 2020, where it was tagged and fledged. It reached India after crossing borders of three countries, including Thailand, Myanmar and Bangladesh. It entered West Bengal in India on June 10. On September 7, it reached the Thar desert and is staying there soundly." Largest vulture site in Asia must be promoted: ExpertEnvironmentalists say that as Jorbeer is the largest vulture site in Asia and falls on the migratory route of raptors from Eurasia and Mongolia, systematic dumping of carcasses should be promoted in this small protected forest area. "The birds of prey in Jorbeer, the preferred vulture habitat, are alarmingly falling prey to medicines administered by veterinarians. The government should ban such medicines and invest more efforts for conservation and attracting more raptors," said Vijay Singh, an avid bird watcher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thai-black-kite-flies-over-4000km-for-a-carcass-feast-at-jorbeer-bird-area-in-bikaner/articleshow/78482899.cms||Ajay Singh
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||False allegations by BJP, says TRS||HYDERABAD: State planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar on Sunday said the BJP-led Union government has the responsibility of resolving water disputes between the states. In a press statement, he said that the Union minister of state for home affairs as well as BJP state chief Bandi Sajay are making false allegations even though they have no knowledge about the issues. When Uma Bharati was water resources minister, she tried to solve the disputes, but BJP MPs from Maharashtra and Karnataka created a ruckus in Parliament and stalled the process, Vinod said. He said that even after one year, there was no solution shown by the Centre on water sharing, and state had to approach the court as per the Section of interstate water disputes Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/false-allegations-by-bjp-says-trs/articleshow/78482235.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Nearly 2,900 patients discharged in 24 hours||Pune: As many as 2,870 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in Pune Metropolitan Region to over 2.5 lakh. Also on Sunday, PMR recorded 2,373 fresh cases, taking the total progressive tally (overall positive cases) to 2,94,011. As many as 2,50,801. patients have recovered in the region. The number of active cases fell for the third straight day. There were 36,543 active patients — 20,512 being treated in hospitals and 16,031 under home quarantine. The Pune Municipal Corporation limits reported 933 new cases on Sunday, while 544 people tested positive in Pimpri Chinchwad. Other areas (municipal councils, cantonments and rural parts) recorded 596 fresh positives, according to the daily report issued by district health officer Bhagawan Pawar. Sixty-six people succumbed to the contagion on Sunday — 38 in PMC limits, 13 in PCMC areas and 15 in other areas. A majority had underlying conditions, such as diabetes, hypertension and heart problems. As per data released by PMC, 2,965 patients were being treated on beds with oxygen support and as many as 899 people were in a critical condition, of whom 395 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nearly-2900-patients-discharged-in-24-hours/articleshow/78482211.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Gang rivalry claims one more life||Kochi: A 36-year-old man was stabbed to death at Kayyalappadi near Nedumbassery on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as Antony alias Jissmon, son of Varghese Thekkineth, of Angamaly Thuravoor. Nedumbassery police registered an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Police suspect that the deceased, a history-sheeter, was murdered by rivals who nursed grudge against him. “The deceased had a few cases against him including for peddling ganja. We suspect that disagreement over ganja trade led to the murder. A probe is on to find the accused,” said an officer with Nedumbassery police. Police said the attack happened at 10am on Sunday. Police are on the look-out for history-sheeters who had dealings with the deceased. The body would be handed over to the kin after formalities, including Covid test and autopsy, police said. District has been witnessing violence in connection with drug trade. Earlier, a 19-year-old had died when ganja rackets clashed at Nettor on September second week. As many as 14 gang members who were part of ganja rackets were arrested in the case. Police had found out that gangs based in Ernakulam, Alappuzha and Idukki took part in the clash at Nettoor. According to the state crime records bureau, despite Covid-19 restrictions, 3,109 cases were registered under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act till June in 2020. In 2019, over 9,272 cases were registered under the same act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gang-rivalry-claims-one-more-life/articleshow/78481327.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||N-S Metro’s 1st Sunday run sees over 14k riders||Kolkata: Metro Railway on Sunday resumed its Sunday services on the north-south stretch, exactly 196 days after it had shut down. Only 14,560 rode on the first Sunday against 30,000 e-passes issued, even as Saturday’s passenger count had been 52,105. The last Metro ride, on March 22, before the Covid-induced lockdown was a Sunday.In another 24 hours, from Monday, the carrier will introduce a new slot to the existing 12 as six more trains are being added and timings extended to 8.30pm. E-passes are mandatory to access the north-south stations to limit the passenger count per rake at a time to 400. “The colour on the e-pass for the last slot — 8pm to 9pm — is a shade different from the green that identifies the 11am-12noon slot. But you can easily differentiate between the two shades of green,” said Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state government has assigned to develop the e-pass system for Metro Railway. Officials said RPF personnel, who have been entrusted with check-ing the downloaded e-passes on smartphones, have been trained to identify the two shades of green to avoid any confusion. When the first trains started rolling at 10.10am, there were queues in front of Dum Dum station, which has been one of three most crowded stations. The first train on Sundays will start at 10.10am, unlike weekdays when services begin at 8am. The last train on Sunday will leave the Kavi Subhas and Noapara terminal stations at 7.30pm. Trains will ply at 20-minute intervals and there will be 58 trains on Sundays.With a little more than a fortnight left for Durga Puja, many seemed to be emboldened to step out of their homes in the run up to the festivities, on learning that the Metro was back on Sundays. Prasanta Saha and his wife Anima were among those who thought it might be a good idea to go to New Market on Sunday. “We will be getting off at Esplanade and return by afternoon,” said Saha, a government employee who hadn’t had the time for shopping during weekdays.Meanwhile, starting Monday, Metro will add another six trains and extend services along the north-south section from 7.30pm to 8pm. “The last train from Kavi Subhas will leave at 8pm and from Noapara at 7.53pm. Services, therefore, are now from 8am till 9pm,” a Metro official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/n-s-metros-1st-sunday-run-sees-over-14k-riders/articleshow/78482196.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 5, 2020||Bareilly||Man refuses to become police informer, arrested for selling illicit liquor||BAREILLY: Days after a man was arrested and sent to jail for allegedly selling illicit liquor in Singahi area of Lakhimpur Kheri district, his wife alleged that her husband was framed as he refused to become a police informer. Rashid said to buttress her claim, she shared with Nighasan circle officer Pradeep Kumar Verma an audio clip in which “Singahi police station SHO Pradeep Singh could be heard forcing my husband Chotenne, a small farmer, to become a police informer against local liquor mafia”. Confirming the development, the CO said, “We have received a complaint on Sunday. We are looking into the matter. If the complaint is found to be correct, then we will recommend action against the guilty.” Rashida alleged that a police team barged into her house three days ago and took Chotenne along with them. “When I tried to stop them, they misbehaved with me. Many people witnessed the incident. Later, police framed him for selling illicit liquor and he was sent to jail,” alleged Rashida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-refuses-to-become-police-informer-arrested-for-selling-illicit-liquor/articleshow/78478992.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 5, 2020||Pune||Enthusiasts suffer cooking burnout 6 months into stay-at-home life, look for fresh ideas||Pune: After participating in various social media challenges that gained momentum when the lockdown began, enthusiastically baking, plating and taking ‘Insta-worthy’ images, people are at their wit’s end trying to keep things interesting in the kitchen. Six months after staying home, people are going through a cooking burnout. “I love to cook, but thinking of what to make has become frustrating of late. We’ve tried many different recipes from various cuisines — Mexican, Spanish, African, and so on, to shake things up between regular Indian home food. But even that has become boring now,” said a cooking enthusiast in the city. Chef and restaurateur Rachel Goenka said, “It’s unfair to burden one person with deciding what to cook. We usually plan a menu in advance for the week. We think about splitting up the week into vegetarian and non-vegetarian days or deciding on what day you would like to cook certain protein. At my house, Sundays is always about biryani.” A meal plan can also help a person alternate between carbohydrates — rice and roti. Introduce variety by adding ground oats, ragi, buckwheat, grated paneer or vegetables to the dough, the play of colours and textures could spruce up a meal. Chef Irfan Pabaney added that sticking to a weekly meal plan takes effort. “And the family isn’t helpful at all,” he said, adding, “The key is to be fairly well-stocked so you can wing it. Challenge yourself to make three things a week that you’ve never made before. Make a heavy-ish lunch with Indian food and a lighter dinner that could be anything from a stir fry, pasta or a salad. Cold cuts, sausages and eggs help tremendously. Finish your dinner prep between 4-6 pm so that putting everything together doesn’t take time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/enthusiasts-suffer-cooking-burnout-6-months-into-stay-at-home-life-look-for-fresh-ideas/articleshow/78482254.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Only 55% candidates appeared for civil service prelims in state||Kochi: Civil services examinations 2020 (preliminary), conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), was held on Sunday. According to state government sources, around 17,000 candidates appeared for the exam in 78 centres located in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode. Even though, around 30,600 candidates from Kerala has registered for the examination, which is the qualifier for civil services mains, only less than 55% attendance was reported in most centres. Elaborate arrangements were made to ensure smooth conduct of the exam. Besides the UPSC’s observer, five observers at the designation of additional/joint secretary, were given the charge by the state government. Two observers each were deputed in Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram and one in Kozhikode. “An officer at the level of under secretary was given the charge of local inspection in each venue to ensure implementation of protocols. A minimum of five police officers were deployed in each centre. The Covid-19 fear has affected the number of candidates appearing for the exam,” said state protocol officer Shine Haq. While, frisking of candidates was avoided due to the pandemic, thermal scanning and hand-sanitisation were made mandatory. Number of candidates was reduced to half in each classroom to ensure social distancing. Wearing mask throughout the exam was also mandatory for candidates and invigilators. While symptomatic and quarantined candidates could write the exam from isolated rooms, Covid-19 positive candidates were denied permission to write the exam. Meanwhile, the question paper continued its unconventional nature this year too giving moderate to difficult levels for candidates. “Even current affairs questions demanded a conceptual clarity to solve them and the cut-off is likely to be similar to that of previous year. More questions were from polity and covered conventional topics like preamble, fundamental rights, basic structure etc., History section was difficult with more weightage to ancient and medieval ages,” said Midhun Ramesh, a candidate in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/only-55-candidates-appeared-for-civil-service-prelims-in-state/articleshow/78481334.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Same-sex union: Fight on for an equal marriage||Transwoman G Oorvasi got married to her partner, a transman, at a temple in Coimbatore this March. But they have not yet been able to register it."Hindu mythology has references to transgender and same-sex relationships but our legal system still doesn’t recognise it," says Oorvasi, a transgender activist, who along with three other members of the LGBTIQ community — Delhi-based Abhijit Iyer Mitra, Giti Thadani and Madurai-based Gopi Shankar — had filed a PIL in the Delhi high court requesting the legalisation of same-sex marriages under the Hindu Marriage Act.The solicitor general opposed the petition, stating that marriage between same-sex couples was "not permissible" as it is not recognised by "our laws, legal system, society and our values". The bench has asked the petitioners to file affidavits from members of the community who are aggrieved by the refusal of authorities to register same-sex marriages and the next hearing is scheduled on October 21.Two years ago, the Supreme Court read down section 377, decriminalising gay sex. And now, LGBTIQ community members are demanding legal recognition of same-sex relationships, as it will give them all the legal rights that a heterosexual couple would have."Just because gay sex is decriminalised, doesn’t mean the entire structure of rights that other people take for granted is extended to the gay couple and their dependents, and that’s why we want this to happen," says Abhijit Iyer Mitra, co-petitioner, and senior fellow, Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies. Apart from the emotional and social benefits of having one’s union officially recognised, right to property or inheritance is one of the practical benefits same-sex couples would enjoy. "I have been living with my partner for 10 years but though my company’s medical insurance covers spouses, it can’t cover him," says Niranjan*, a software engineer. "And though our families have finally reconciled themselves to our relationship, I worry about what will happen to him in case I die."The rights of adopted children are also at stake, says Mitra. "If we can adopt as a couple, then the child’s right of inheritance is automatic. India allows single parent adoption. In that case, your property goes to the child in case of your demise, but the child is denied the right to property of the other parent."Meenakshi* and her partner, who have been in a committed relationship for seven years, says they have to keep their relationship under wraps in front of society though their families have accepted it. "Gay sex is decriminalised but society is still harsh on lesbians," says the 35-year-old. "I agree attitudes will take time to change but a legal acceptance and right to live with my partner would go a long way. And we definitely want to be parents one day."Activists insist on broadening the scope of the Hindu Marriage Act, as the language of the act is gender neutral. "In Tamil Nadu, the term ‘bride’ was redefined by the Madurai bench of the Madras high court in 2019," says intersex activist Gopi Shankar Madurai. The case pertained to Arun Kumar and Sreeja, a transwoman, had moved the court after the registration department refused to register their marriage held at a temple in Tuticorin. In the landmark ruling, the court held that the term ‘bride’ as per the Hindu Marriage Act would also mean a transsexual and not just refer to someone born as a woman. Justice Swaminathan, quoting from Supreme Court judgments and epics like Ramayana and Mahabharata, said the expression ‘bride’ in the Hindu Marriage Act could not have a static or immutable meaning. "We don’t want dummy rituals but marriages that are legally recognised so that we ca live with dignity with the person we love, and enjoy the same rights as other couples," says Gopi. (*Names changed)Email feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/same-sex-union-fight-on-for-an-equal-marriage/articleshow/78483329.cms||Priya Menon
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Father, two-year-old son killed in Brahmpuri fire accident||JAIPUR: Two persons, including a toddler, were burnt alive when the house in which they were staying caught fire in Brahmpuri police station area in Jaipur on Sunday afternoon. There were a total of seven people in the house when the incident happened. While two were killed, five of them were injured and are currently undergoing treatment. The deceased have been identified as Shahrukh Khan (30) and his two-year-old son, Sufiyan. Tragically, while Shahrukh had initially managed to escape, when he realised that his son was still trapped inside the house, he went back in to save him. But unfortunately, both of them failed to come out alive. “The fire occurred around 12.15pm, very close to the police station, in the house of a family who ran a cotton business and are into making pillows, etc. Preliminary investigation indicated that the fire started due to a short-circuit, but a detailed probe will confirm the reason”, said an official with Brahmpuri police station. The fire was doused using two fire tenders and a water tanker. According to officials, the fire started on the ground floor of the house. Fire started on ground floor of building"When the fire started, the father was working on the ground floor. The remaining people, including the child, were on the first floor. When we reached the spot, it was engulfed in flames. We went to the neighbour’s house and then broke into the burning building by cutting the wire mesh on the window and rescued those trapped inside,” the official said. Although the autopsies have been done, the Covid-19 results are awaited before the bodies can be handed over to the families. All those injured, who are undergoing treatment, are in a stable condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/father-2-yr-old-son-killedin-brahmpuri-fire-accident/articleshow/78482921.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: PCMC’s 200-bed dedicated Covid hospital fully operational||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The autocluster facility of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in Pimpri, which has been turned into a 200-bed Dedicated Covid Hospital, is fully operational now. The facility, inaugurated on August 28, now has 150 oxygen beds and 50 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. The number of beds was increased in a phased manner. “With autocluster facility now operational, the civic body has managed to create a self-sufficient medical infrastructure. The auto cluster unit has 200 beds, whereas the Pimpri jumbo unit has 800 beds. This combined number adds up to 1,000 beds, out of which 250 are ICU beds and 750 are those with oxygen support,” PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI. Patil said the twin town’s first dedicated Covid hospital, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) Hospital, too has a capacity of 630 beds, including 100 ICU beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmcs-200-bed-dedicated-covid-hosp-fully-operational/articleshow/78482229.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nirmal hospital in dock for promising cut to RMPs||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Medical Council has taken up the case of a neuro hospital in Nirmal reportedly conducting a meeting with registered medical practitioners (RMPs) to send patients to their hospital for a cut (50% of the bill). Incidentally, Sri Krishna Neuro Super Speciality Hospital is registered with Nirmal district health and medical authorities. The hospital is owned by a B Com graduate, who employed a neuro physician, an All India Institute of Medical Sciences alumnus. Based on a complaint filed by Indian Medical Association, TSMC took up the issue after a video of the meet with the RMPs was submitted as evidence. A 15-member team of IMA visited the hospital and collected details. TSMC chairman Dr E Ravindra Reddy said, “We have taken notice of the Nirmal incident about quackery. The video clearly shows that hospital owner was asking quacks to send patients for neuro treatment and he said he would pay 50% of bills on outpatient and diagnosis. This is an unethical practice. “Council will initiate action. We have asked Nirmal DMHO to take necessary action. The public can bring to our notice about quacks, who are practising rampantly in tribal hamlets,” IMA vice-president Dr T Narsinga Reddy said, adding either quacks or non-medical graduates were setting up hospitals and employing doctors. “The unethical part of this is they are taking the help of quacks, who are known as RMPs to refer patients,” the IMA representative said. In the video, the RMPs were informed that the doctor would given an injection that is worth Rs 30,000 each, which will help paralysis patients if they were brought to the hospital in the first hour. Sri Krishna Neuro Super Speciality Hospital owner Santosh Kumar said: “I am a B Com graduate and I am not an RMP. I have all permissions, including registration with DMHO Nirmal. I got fire NOC and all other requisite licences. We have a 10-bed hospital. We don’t have in patients now. Our doctor treats only out-patients.” Regarding the video, he said, “I was interacting with RMPs to talk about our hospital’s medical facilities. Our competitors bore a grudge and lodged a complaint with IMA to cause damage to our hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nirmal-hospital-in-dock-for-promising-cut-to-rmps/articleshow/78482269.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 5, 2020||Jodhpur||For seven days in a row, Jaipur reports 400-plus Covid cases||JAIPUR: The city has reported over 400 cases daily for the past seven days in a row and is witnessing the worst Covid-19 outbreak. On Sunday, 421 people tested positive for the virus. Breaching 23,000 mark, the city’s overall tally reached 23,179 cases. In the past seven days, the city has reported 2,965 cases, accounting for 13% of the total cases reported since first person was found infected in the city in March. Health department officials said that they have been continuously expanding Covid treatment facilities in the city. “We have now 40 hospitals in Jaipur which are providing Covid treatment. The number of ICUs and ventilator beds have also been increased,” a senior health department official said. Jagatpura reported the highest number of Covid cases on Sunday, with 51 persons infected by the virus. Jodhpur registers 352 new infectionsIt was followed by Mansarovar (45) and Durgapura (42). Active cases in Jaipur also touched a new high of 8,415 cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,769) and Kota (976). Including 421 new cases from Jaipur, the state reported 2,184 cases on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 1,44,030. Fifteen persons died too, taking state’s toll to 2,090. Alwar reported two deaths, taking its toll to 45, Karauli too reported two fatalities that took its toll to 13. Jodhpur reported its 148th death, Ajmer 109th, Bharatpur 82nd, Nagaur 49th, Sikar 35th, Dholpur 26th, Bhilwara 23rd, Churu 15th, Jhunjhunu 14th, Dausa 10th and Bundi its eighth Covid fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (421), Jodhppur (352), Bikaner (216), Udaipur (158), Alwar (148), Sriganganagar (132), Ajmer (120), Bhilwara (78), Dungarpur (57), Jalore (55), Sikar (53), Kota (46), Bharatpur (42), Jhunjhunu (35), Hanumangarh (30), Pali (28), Rajsamand (25), Jaisalmer (21), Churu (20), Dholpur (18), Banswara (17), Chittorgarh (15), Dausa (15), Jhalawar (13), Tonk (12), Barmer (12), Karauli (11), Nagaur (10), Sirohi (9), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (5) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/for-seven-days-in-a-row-jaipurreports-400-plus-covid-cases/articleshow/78484190.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||PMC to buy five cardiac ambulances for Rs 80 lakh||PUNE: The civic body has decided to procure five cardiac ambulances for a total cost of Rs 80 lakh. Citizens can avail themselves of these ambulances via a helpine, Pune Municipal Corporation said. PMC officials said these ambulances were the need of the hour due to spread of the coronavirus. Shifting patients from one hospital to another is a major issue, especially for those suffering with heart problems, officials said. “The decision was made to ensure the facility is available to needy and critical patients. These vehicles will soon be made available,” PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said. Those in need of these ambulances can call 108 or 9689939381 — PMC’s 24x7 ambulance helpline. Of 125 ambulances — regular and with oxygen support — attached to this service, 20 are used to transport bodies from hospitals to crematoria or burial grounds. The ambulances are stationed at different locations — the jumbo hospital, Covid-19 Care Centres, isolation centres and municipal hospitals. “Cardiac failure is one of the major concerns when it comes to dealing with Covid-19. Non-availability of a cardiac ambulances can delay the transportation of patients with heart problems, causing more complications. These vehicles can prove lifesavers,” a senior PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-buy-five-cardiac-ambulances-for-rs-80-lakh/articleshow/78482285.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Udaipur||For seven days in a row, Jaipur reports 400-plus Covid cases||JAIPUR: The city has reported over 400 cases daily for the past seven days in a row and is witnessing the worst Covid-19 outbreak. On Sunday, 421 people tested positive for the virus. Breaching 23,000 mark, the city’s overall tally reached 23,179 cases. In the past seven days, the city has reported 2,965 cases, accounting for 13% of the total cases reported since first person was found infected in the city in March. Health department officials said that they have been continuously expanding Covid treatment facilities in the city. “We have now 40 hospitals in Jaipur which are providing Covid treatment. The number of ICUs and ventilator beds have also been increased,” a senior health department official said. Jagatpura reported the highest number of Covid cases on Sunday, with 51 persons infected by the virus. Jodhpur registers 352 new infectionsIt was followed by Mansarovar (45) and Durgapura (42). Active cases in Jaipur also touched a new high of 8,415 cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,769) and Kota (976). Including 421 new cases from Jaipur, the state reported 2,184 cases on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 1,44,030. Fifteen persons died too, taking state’s toll to 2,090. Alwar reported two deaths, taking its toll to 45, Karauli too reported two fatalities that took its toll to 13. Jodhpur reported its 148th death, Ajmer 109th, Bharatpur 82nd, Nagaur 49th, Sikar 35th, Dholpur 26th, Bhilwara 23rd, Churu 15th, Jhunjhunu 14th, Dausa 10th and Bundi its eighth Covid fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (421), Jodhppur (352), Bikaner (216), Udaipur (158), Alwar (148), Sriganganagar (132), Ajmer (120), Bhilwara (78), Dungarpur (57), Jalore (55), Sikar (53), Kota (46), Bharatpur (42), Jhunjhunu (35), Hanumangarh (30), Pali (28), Rajsamand (25), Jaisalmer (21), Churu (20), Dholpur (18), Banswara (17), Chittorgarh (15), Dausa (15), Jhalawar (13), Tonk (12), Barmer (12), Karauli (11), Nagaur (10), Sirohi (9), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (5) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/for-seven-days-in-a-row-jaipurreports-400-plus-covid-cases/articleshow/78484192.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ajmer||For seven days in a row, Jaipur reports 400-plus Covid cases||JAIPUR: The city has reported over 400 cases daily for the past seven days in a row and is witnessing the worst Covid-19 outbreak. On Sunday, 421 people tested positive for the virus. Breaching 23,000 mark, the city’s overall tally reached 23,179 cases. In the past seven days, the city has reported 2,965 cases, accounting for 13% of the total cases reported since first person was found infected in the city in March. Health department officials said that they have been continuously expanding Covid treatment facilities in the city. “We have now 40 hospitals in Jaipur which are providing Covid treatment. The number of ICUs and ventilator beds have also been increased,” a senior health department official said. Jagatpura reported the highest number of Covid cases on Sunday, with 51 persons infected by the virus. Jodhpur registers 352 new infectionsIt was followed by Mansarovar (45) and Durgapura (42). Active cases in Jaipur also touched a new high of 8,415 cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,769) and Kota (976). Including 421 new cases from Jaipur, the state reported 2,184 cases on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 1,44,030. Fifteen persons died too, taking state’s toll to 2,090. Alwar reported two deaths, taking its toll to 45, Karauli too reported two fatalities that took its toll to 13. Jodhpur reported its 148th death, Ajmer 109th, Bharatpur 82nd, Nagaur 49th, Sikar 35th, Dholpur 26th, Bhilwara 23rd, Churu 15th, Jhunjhunu 14th, Dausa 10th and Bundi its eighth Covid fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (421), Jodhppur (352), Bikaner (216), Udaipur (158), Alwar (148), Sriganganagar (132), Ajmer (120), Bhilwara (78), Dungarpur (57), Jalore (55), Sikar (53), Kota (46), Bharatpur (42), Jhunjhunu (35), Hanumangarh (30), Pali (28), Rajsamand (25), Jaisalmer (21), Churu (20), Dholpur (18), Banswara (17), Chittorgarh (15), Dausa (15), Jhalawar (13), Tonk (12), Barmer (12), Karauli (11), Nagaur (10), Sirohi (9), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (5) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/for-seven-days-in-a-row-jaipurreports-400-plus-covid-cases/articleshow/78484193.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Farmer held on charge of manhandling doctor in Pune||PUNE: The rural police arrested a 44-year-old resident of Kalamb village and booked three others on the charge of manhandling a doctor at the sub-district hospital in Manchar, around 80km from here, on Friday night following the death of a 65-year-old woman from Covid-19. The arrested man was the son of the deceased woman, police said. An offence under Section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of IPC and Sections 4 and 5 of the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (prevention of violence and damage or loss to property) Act has been registered. Ambadas Deomane, the hospital’s medical superintendent, told TOI that the patient was admitted on September 27 in a critical condition with her blood oxygen saturation level at 67%. “We had to put her on ventilator and during treatment, we found that the patient had high-level of sugar and liver problems. On October 2 night, she succumbed to the contagion. As protocol, one of our doctors, Mahesh Gude, called and informed the son about the patient’s demise,” Deomane said. He added that the son started abusing the doctor over phone. “We thought he reacted out of frustration. Around 10.30pm, he reached the hospital with three others, in violation of the entry restrictions, and starting slapping and beating Gude. Some of the Covid-19 patients tried to pacify the son and his three accomplices, but they even pushed them. Sequence of events has been recorded in CCTV camera footage and we have given it to the police,” Deomane said. Sub-inspector Arjun Shinde, who is investigating the case, said, “Arrested person is a resident of Kalamb, around 15km from Manchar. He is a farmer. Hesaid the doctor did not take care of his mother and so, he assaulted him. His accomplices are missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/farmer-held-on-charge-of-manhandling-doctor/articleshow/78482281.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 5, 2020||Hubballi||Traffic woes return to haunt commuters on Hubballi roads||HUBBALLI: The sight of thoroughfares in the twin cities devoid of vehicles during the lockdown now appear to belong to another age all together with gridlock on several arterial roads of Hubballi-Dharwad returning to haunt commuters and traffic cops alike. The issue of defunct traffic signals is back in the spotlight, with motorists and pedestrians calling on the authorities concerned to repair them to ensure the safety of road users. In all, there are 26 traffic signal poles across Hubballi, and cops admitted to many of them not being operational. Hubballi-Dharwad deputy commissioner of police (crime and traffic) RB Basaragi cited work on infrastructure projects, such as widening of roads, among the reasons for the signals not being functional. However, Basaragi is optimistic about the twin cities’ traffic woes ending soon. “Signal lights along the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS) corridor have been upgraded. Traffic congestion will reduce once the flyover at the Rani Chennamma Circle is completed,” he told TOI. Directions had been issued to cops in all traffic stations across Hubballi-Dharwad to ensure hassle-free traffic movement at all key junctions, Basaragi said. “We have resumed towing of vehicles parked in ‘No Parking’ areas. This practice had been stopped when the lockdown was enforced,” the DCP said. Cops are also mulling over turning many arterial roads into ‘one-way’ in order to ease traffic management. “Commuting on roads of central business district of Hubballi has always been a problem. Some cops tried to initiate stringent action, and there were also attempts to decongest Dajibanpet, which has some of the busiest streets in Hubballi,” said Rajendra Patwardhan, manager of a textile store in Dajibanpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/traffic-woes-return-to-haunt-commuters-on-hubballi-roads/articleshow/78480896.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana SEC likely to draft over 80,000 personnel||HYDERABAD: Over 80,000 officials are likely to be drafted for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) is not taking any chances and has asked for additional staff, who will be on standby and could be deputed in case officials on poll duty test positive for Covid-19. These staff would be in addition to thousands of police personnel to be deputed on poll duty in and around the city. At least five officers are needed at each polling booth. Of the five, one would be the presiding officer followed by assistant presiding officer and remaining polling officials. Even if there are 12,000 polling booths, the minimum polling staff required would be 60,000. In addition to the, compulsory number of polling staff, another 20,000 would be reserved for election duty. Some officials in the election wing did not rule out the possibility of poll duty officials number touching even a lakh. As the numbers are huge, officials from various departments of not only the state government but also from central government from the districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Malkajgiri-Medchal city surrounding districts of Medak, Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda would be drawn for election duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-likely-to-draft-over-80k-personnel/articleshow/78482290.cms||Roushan Ali
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||For seven days in a row, Jaipur reports 400-plus Covid cases||JAIPUR: The city has reported over 400 cases daily for the past seven days in a row and is witnessing the worst Covid-19 outbreak. On Sunday, 421 people tested positive for the virus. Breaching 23,000 mark, the city’s overall tally reached 23,179 cases. In the past seven days, the city has reported 2,965 cases, accounting for 13% of the total cases reported since first person was found infected in the city in March. Health department officials said that they have been continuously expanding Covid treatment facilities in the city. “We have now 40 hospitals in Jaipur which are providing Covid treatment. The number of ICUs and ventilator beds have also been increased,” a senior health department official said. Jagatpura reported the highest number of Covid cases on Sunday, with 51 persons infected by the virus. Jodhpur registers 352 new infectionsIt was followed by Mansarovar (45) and Durgapura (42). Active cases in Jaipur also touched a new high of 8,415 cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,769) and Kota (976). Including 421 new cases from Jaipur, the state reported 2,184 cases on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 1,44,030. Fifteen persons died too, taking state’s toll to 2,090. Alwar reported two deaths, taking its toll to 45, Karauli too reported two fatalities that took its toll to 13. Jodhpur reported its 148th death, Ajmer 109th, Bharatpur 82nd, Nagaur 49th, Sikar 35th, Dholpur 26th, Bhilwara 23rd, Churu 15th, Jhunjhunu 14th, Dausa 10th and Bundi its eighth Covid fatality. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (421), Jodhppur (352), Bikaner (216), Udaipur (158), Alwar (148), Sriganganagar (132), Ajmer (120), Bhilwara (78), Dungarpur (57), Jalore (55), Sikar (53), Kota (46), Bharatpur (42), Jhunjhunu (35), Hanumangarh (30), Pali (28), Rajsamand (25), Jaisalmer (21), Churu (20), Dholpur (18), Banswara (17), Chittorgarh (15), Dausa (15), Jhalawar (13), Tonk (12), Barmer (12), Karauli (11), Nagaur (10), Sirohi (9), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (5) and Bundi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-seven-days-in-a-row-jaipurreports-400-plus-covid-cases/articleshow/78482943.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Resting in peace in a crate is his inseparable friend Neelie||KOCHI: Placing a tray on the ridge of a medium-large plastic crate in which Neelie was laid to rest, Arun filled mud in small pots for his nursery. This has been his routine for the past one month. “She is watching me work, she likes it you know,” said Arun, feeling his pet dog’s presence every single moment. Neelie, a cross-breed pug, was euthanised on August 27 as she was suffering from chronic kidney disease. But Arun T R, who runs an ornamental nursery at his house in Eroor, didn’t bury his pet dog’s body. Instead, he placed her in a crate filled with leaves of medicinal plants like tulsi, vetiver, neem and cinnamon and mud in layers and has been working sitting next to it since her departure. Neelie was just four months old when Arun adopted her eight years back. Soon, they became so inseparable that sometimes even his family members envied their bonding. “Be it in my garden or my room, we could never stay away from each other. She would sit on my bed facing me whenever I sat with my laptop attending mails,” said Arun reminiscing every moment with her. “Whenever I was away on business tours, Neeli used to stay n my room till I returned. I always found her on my clothes or slippers when I returned,” he said. When she stopped taking food suddenly, I took her to a veterinary doctor. He said Neelie was suffering from chronic kidney disease and was in the final stage. Dr K J Kishore Kumar, who is part of Kochi corporation’s animal birth control programme and who attended Neelie, remembers how Arun broke down when the dog was euthanised. “I think she knew her death was not far. She had started distancing herself from me, which I could not bear anymore. My world came crashing down when the doctor recommended euthanasia. But holding all courage, I agreed to it to bring down her pain,” recollects Arun, who is planning to make a sculpture of Neelie using her bones after six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/resting-in-peace-in-a-crate-is-his-inseparable-friend-neelie/articleshow/78481361.cms||T C Sreemol
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||After fighting three years with Naxalites, families of 146 officers eagerly await their return||Nagpur: An officer posted in Maoist-affected Gadchiroli received a message from his family — residing elsewhere in the state — telling him to continue in his present location, as his absence had made them strong enough to be able to live without him. The officer is among 146 who are waiting for their transfer out of the district since April. It’s learnt the deadline for the transfers has been deferred around six times since April, and the new one issued is in the second week of October. Though the routine tenure of an officer at a place is two years, the present lot of Gadchiroli has been fighting the Naxalites for more than three years now. In the past too, similar situations had arisen in Gadchiroli. Former Gadchiroli superintendent of police (SP) Shailesh Balkawade, too, was transferred this month after completing his two years of tenure. Some of the young sub-inspectors (SIs) had to remain bachelors as the brides’ families said they would go ahead with the marriage only after the posting at Gadchiroli was over. In the past, several young sub-inspectors, including one this year, were martyred fighting the Naxalites. Posted in August 2017, the 130 SIs, 16 assistant inspectors and one inspector of Gadchiroli seem to be the forgotten lot for state police headquarters and home ministry, which have so far issued transfer orders for the officers of the ranks of deputy SP and above. Another 25 sub-inspectors in Gondia, also partially affected with Naxalites, are waiting for their transfer order. Sources stated one of the officers’ newborn baby is suffering with some illness, and the family is trying to get it treated in his absence. Another officer is anxious for his family, that is left alone to face the brunt of the pandemic. Deputy inspector general of police, Naxal range, Sandeep Patil said the transfers of the SIs and asstt PIs have been delayed across the state and not only in Gadchiroli. “I would take up the issue with the state police headquarters to expedite the transfers of the current lot of the officers. We will try to keep them motivated and not lose hope,” he said. Growing frustration is palpable among the officers who are compelled to stay in the inhospitable condition for a prolonged period. “We cannot go for leaves too, as the duty is demanding here. Each day comes with a different risk and danger here, but we have served without worrying about our lives and showing least possible concern for our families. At least, the government should consider our dedication,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-fighting-three-years-with-naxalites-families-of-146-officers-eagerly-await-their-return/articleshow/78483333.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Six Covid-19 survivors donate plasma in Kolkata’s first camp||KOLKATA: Six persons, who had recovered from Covid-19, donated plasma in the first ever plasma donation camp organised in the city on Sunday. Though more than 21 voluntary donors turned up at the camp that collected whole blood, only six were found eligible for plasma donation. The blood units and plasma collected during the camp have been banked at Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK). “This was a learning experience as we have never had an open plasma donation camp before. We see a better prospect in future as we could network with a few individuals who showed interest in being a part of organising such camps,” said Ajay Mittal, director od Project Life Force (PLF), an NGO that has been working in voluntary blood donation drives. “We are also thankful to MCHK for their kind support. We will attempt to organise another camp soon,” added Mittal. Doctors and technicians from MCHK screened the donors. While whole blood from those eligible for plasma donation was collected in one section of the camp, blood from the ones, who could not donate plasma, was collected in another section. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the setting up of a plasma bank at MCHK in July this year. The immunohaematology and blood transfusion department at this tertiary level Covid hospital has been collecting plasma since May when the first donor Monami Biswas had donated it on May 28. A major chunk of the plasma unit collected at the bank is being used in the ongoing clinical trial on convalescent plasma at Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General Hospital. “We are grateful to all the efforts of our organisers who are continuously standing by our side. It’s really a great motivating force. We also urge people to practice all the physical distancing norms, use of mask and avoid overcrowding to restrict the pandemic,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, immunohaematology and blood transfusion medicine head at MCHK. Apart from the plasma collected during the camp, the bank at MCHK has had about 76 donors, mostly healthcare professionals and cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/six-cov-survivors-donate-plasma-in-citys-first-camp/articleshow/78482293.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Raj Bhavan to be part of cancer drive: K Sujatha Rao||HYDERABAD: A comprehensive action plan for behaviour change towards lifestyle modifications and effective service delivery is the need of the hour, said medical experts during a virtual event organised to observe international breast cancer awareness month here on Sunday. The Union health decretary, K Sujatha Rao said, “Breast cancer is the most common cancer affecting women in India. If diagnosed early and treated early, many lives can be saved. It is for this reason that the government is focusing on raising awareness, early screening and diagnosis among women.”  An action plan for behavior change towards lifestyle modification is the need of the hour, she added while speaking at the event organised by the city-based Ushalakshmi Breast Cancer Foundation (UBF). Telangana governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan, the chief guest of the event said, “I am very happy to know that Dr Ushalakshmi, an 87-year-old breast cancer conqueror and a renowned obstetrician and gynecologist has been the inspiration behind the genesis of KIMS-Ushalakshmi Centre for Breast Diseases & Ushalakshmi Breast Cancer Foundation, both of which are based out of Hyderabad.” She announced that the Raj Bhavan will be illuminated in pink on the last day of October as a mark to create awareness about breast cancer. The governor appreciated Dr Raghu Ram and his wife, Dr Vyjayanthi for taking the call to leave behind their careers in the UK and relocating to India to take care of his mother who was diagnosed with breast cancer and help several other people fighting with cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-raj-bhavan-to-be-part-of-cancer-drive/articleshow/78482300.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals plan to ramp up RT-PCR tests||KOLKATA: Even as the state is contemplating a further cap on the RT-PCR test price, most private hospitals in Kolkata has seen a spurt in number of people queueing up for Covid-detection test over the last fortnight. This follows a brief early-September lull and is consistent with the sharp spiral in number of Covid positives post-Mahalaya. It has prompted some hospitals to augment their testing capacity by installing new RT-PCR machines, anticipating a further jump in demand. At AMRI Hospitals, that has an existing capacity of 350-400 tests daily, the number had dropped to around 250 in early-September. It has jumped again and the spurt in demand has been the sharpest since the pandemic, according to AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. “We are being flooded with calls seeking tests at home and at outpatient department. So, we have already augmented capacity and invested to raise the daily number to 700. We are yet to start using additional capacity, though, but will begin shortly,” said Barua. He said AMRI would begin collecting samples from home and around 30 nursing homes next week. “We have installed a new RT-PCR machine, an automatic virus extractor, which will help us test more samples,” said Barua. Peerless Hospital, too, has installed an automatic virus extractor for Rs 50 lakh that can raise testing capacity to 500 samples a day from the existing 300. It has been using two RT-PCR machines since demand for tests saw a spurt in mid-September. But the proposed cap, that seeks to limit the cost of a test to around Rs 1,220, could be a deterrent, said CEO Sudipta Mitra. “There had been a short lull but the demand has rolled up sharply again. We need to conduct more tests but may have to stop using two machines if the cap is enforced. It must be accompanied by a drop in the price of test kits to make RT-PCR viable at that price,” said Mitra. The new machine has allowed Peerless to increase the number of sample ‘batches’. “We use one at a time and keep the other on standby,” said Mitra. Number of tests has been varying between 400 and 500 at Medica Superspecialty Hospital, without much fluctuation. “We didn’t see a dip but are getting ready for a spurt,” said chairperson Alok Roy. More tests will also depend on the availability of manpower, according to Barua. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) has seen an increase in RT-PCR tests but ‘it has been in line with the number of patients visiting the hospital for non-Covid related treatments and therapies’. “These patients are subjected to RT-PCR tests before admission and hence the increase in the number of tests,” said zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/private-hospitals-plan-to-ramp-up-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/78482306.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||No drop in attendance for Civil Services exam despite Covid||Nagpur: Contrary to assumptions, Covid-19 pandemic did not dent attendance for Sunday’s Civil Services examination. Centres in Nagpur witnessed just over 46% attendance, which authorities claim is pretty much in line with figures of previous years. The exam is conducted by Union Public Services Commission (UPSC). Ravindra Khajanchi, resident deputy, collector said, “At the most the attendance would touch 50% mark. This three to four percentage points drop could be due to anything,” he said. He added that the exams went off without a glitch across all 45 centres. “There were no issues at all since proper protocol was being followed. The system was perfectly in place to deal with any problems,” said Khajanchi. The assumption for low attendance was based on what happened during the previous exam which UPSC conducted. The National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA) exams held in September saw only 30% attendance, though in normal year the attendance would have easily touched the 70%-mark. Manoj Musale, centre coordinator for Government Polytechnic Nagpur, said that age factor of candidates also plays a role. “This year NDA got affected due to fear of Covid-19. Also, those candidates are hardly 17 or 18 years old. But for Civil Services, they are all in their 20s. Fear of travel and logistical management is more for the younger kids,” said Musale, who is faculty of GPN’s electrical engineering department. The Civil Services exam’s annual attendance averages around 50% because of ‘intent’, according to Musale. “Lot of candidates register for the exam just for the sake of it, with no serious intention for appearing. Hence, the attendance has always been low. This time it’s dropped just a little bit, but that could be due to Covid-19 or other reasons as well,” said Musale. Civil Services Exam (Prelims) Candidates registered | 17,683 Appeared Paper I | 8,209 Paper II | 8,168 Attendance (%) Paper I | 46.4 Paper II | 46.2 (Figures for Nagpur only)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-drop-in-attendance-for-civil-services-exam-despite-covid/articleshow/78483336.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Students from UK, US join UG course in NUJS||Kolkata: Three foreign nationals from the US and UK have been selected for the undergraduate programme of the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences (WBNUJS). The announcement was made on Sunday and the university said that while earlier foreign nationals from neighbouring Asian countries have joined the programme, this is the first time that nationals from the UK and US have chosen NUJS. The university has four reserved seats for foreign nationals and in the past only one or two of these seats would get filled. However, this year all four are getting filled. While the university has already announced three names, the fourth name, likely to be that of a candidate from Nepal, will be announced soon. Since these seats would be difficult to fill, the university would convert them into general seats earlier. Interestingly, all the three selected foreign candidates are of Indian origin, though they have citizenship of another country. Meha Ramesh and Aditya S Desai are two American candidates of Indian origin, while Srivalli V Kondapalli is from UK. They have confirmed their admission to the university. The university awaits the confirmation of the fourth candidate. “We are indeed happy that for the first time we have been able to generate interest among so many foreign nationals. Though two are Americans and one is British, they are of Indian origin and it would be interesting to find out why they want to study law in India. These are signs of reverse brain drain. It is possible that their parents are repatriating to this country or they might be seeking to work in India because the country of their roots has generated interest in them,” said vice chancellor of the university, Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty. Foreign nationals do not have to seek entry to the university through CLAT, which is the national level entrance test to the 22 law schools of the country. “We have a different and equally competent method of choosing these candidates where we consider their board marks, school performance records and past citations,” Chakraborty added. The announcement of foreign seats was made a day prior to the declaration of CLAT results. There are seats reserved for NRIs and NRI-sponsored candidates, too. These candidates, however, have to come in through CLAT. Two seats are also reserved for students from Jammu and Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-from-uk-us-join-ug-course-in-nujs/articleshow/78482312.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two contacts traced for every Covid-positive person||NEW DELHI: A review of contact tracing in each district has revealed that on average only two people linked to Covid-positive patients were tested since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Out of two lakh patients, only 4.3 lakh contacts were traced. The positivity rate among the traced contacts was 6.6%. The data revealed that while in some cases, five contacts of a patient were tested, in some only one person was traced. Contact tracing is very important in controlling the spread of the virus and those in touch with infected individuals need to be located and isolated immediately. North district led the 11 districts by tracing 43,864 contacts of 10,724 positive cases. In South district, only 26,300 contacts were traced for 19,980 patients. In South East district, 32,102 people were traced for 20,382 positive cases. In East district, 21,440 people tested positive and 35,010 of their contacts were traced. Of these, 3,376 were found infected with Covid-19, while the rest were asked to isolate themselves. In West district, 23,760 people tested positive and the authorities traced 50,399 of their contacts, of which 3,501 tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In the overall contact-tracing exercise, the authorities reached out to 4,29,766 contacts of 2,05,014 Covid-positive people to check if they were also infected with the virus. Only 28,624 people among the contacts tested positive. “All those who tested negative for Covid-19 were asked to go on home quarantine for 14 days. Posters of home quarantine were pasted on their homes to alert their neighbours,” said an official. In various meetings, including the recent one of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), district officials were asked to increase contact tracing. DDMA has asked the committee of experts headed by Dr VK Paul of NITI Aayog to prepare a report on revising the Covid-19 strategy in which the focus would be on contact tracing. The government will revise the contact tracing strategy accordingly. Sources said that in the initial months of contact tracing, up to 15 people were traced for each positive individual. However, the numbers started going down after Covid-19 cases increased manifold and inched towards the community transmission stage. “By June, it became difficult to trace the chain of infection because in more than 50% cases the source was not known. People started moving around a lot after unlocking started. Some of the Covid-positive people were found doing extensive outdoor activities. This made it even more difficult to trace all their contacts,” said an official. Contact tracing is executed by front line health workers who reach out to the close contacts of infected individuals. They check if the contacts have also been exposed to the virus and isolate them so that they do not end up spreading the disease to more people even before Covid-19 symptoms develop in them. A health official said contact tracing was a proven strategy to fight infectious diseases and was important at the beginning of the outbreak of a pandemic. Delhi’s Covid-19 response strategy is largely based on testing, tracing and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-contacts-traced-for-every-covidve-person/articleshow/78481427.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka took 5 months for first 3-lakh cases, 5 weeks to add 3- lakh more||BENGALURU: With Covid-19 cases continuing to surge, the pandemic may not have reached its peak in Karnataka yet, making the next few weeks critical for authorities managing healthcare infrastructure, especially in the districts. The state, which took five months to add the first 3 lakh cases — the grim milestone was breached on August 26 — added more than 3 lakh new cases in just about five weeks between August 26 and October 3. Five districts— Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Ballari, Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi — contributed more than half (57%) of those new cases. And among these, Bengaluru Urban clearly has the heaviest burden as cases continue to rise in the city. Experts say that overall, Karnataka will continue to see a surge in the next few weeks, although some specific areas/regions may see cases plateau. They argue that each district or specific region must be looked at individually. Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, state Covid-19 expert committee, said: “We are in a peaking phase, particularly in some districts like Bengaluru, but we must wait and watch some districts where the pandemic is yet to peak. We will see a surge in the next couple of weeks again, and the focus must remain on reducing the fatality rate. We must try and get down by at least 0.25%.” As on October 3, Karnataka had more than 6.3 lakh cases, only 18% of which were active. The state has tested more than 51.7 lakh samples, including through rapid antigen tests (RAT) which accounted for more than 30% of tests in the past two months. With 9,219 deaths, the case fatality rate stands at under 1.5%, which is considered good. Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, said: “Zones of Bengaluru which had peaked earlier have stabilised, but zones like RR Nagar and Mahadevpura are witnessing a surge only post Unlock4.0. Similarly, there are many districts, and regions within the districts that are yet to see a surge. Although they may not see the same kind of burden that say Bengaluru has witnessed, we cannot say that the state as a whole has peaked until all cases in all these areas begin to plateau.” He added that making estimates that peaking may have happened by looking at the overall number of cases could be dangerous as it would give a false sense of security that can result in complacency. “Are we inching towards the peak? Yes. But that is only in some regions and at that level. Overall, people must continue to take precautions and follow all SOPs,” Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-took-5-months-for-first-3-l-cases-5-weeks-to-add-3-l-more/articleshow/78481419.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Rajkot||Teen drugged, gangraped by four in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: Amid nation-wide fury over Hathras horror, a teenage girl was allegedly gangraped by four persons including her boyfriend, in Jamnagar city.The 17-year-old girl was drugged by the trio who then took turns to rape her in the house of one of them on September 28. The girl lodged a complaint on October 2 after she started suffering from severe pain in the abdomen. The crime was committed in the house of Mohit Ambalia, who lives in Yadavnagar locality on Khodiyar Colony main road. While Ambalia is yet to be arrested, police nabbed Budha alias Darshan Bhatia, Milan Bhatia (21) and Devkaran Gadhvi (20) on Sunday. “While Budha Milan were arrested from Khambhalia, while Gadhvi was nabbed from Sihan village of Khambhalia taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district,” said R B Gadhvi, inspector with Jamnagar mahila police station. The survivor and Budha were in a relationship, said RB Gadhvi, inspector, Jamnagar Mahila police station. According to the complaint lodged by the survivor, Budha had called her at Ambalia’s house on September 28 where their two other friends were also present. “He offered a glass of soft drink that was spiked and the girl fell unconscious soon after drinking it. Later, all the four too turns to rape her,” said Gadhvi. The survivor had lodged the complaint with Jamnagar C-division police station, which transferred the case to the mahila police station. “Teams of special operation group (SOG), local crime branch (LCB) and mahila police station cops have been formed to track down Ambalia,” added Gadhvi. The survivor is under treatment at Jamnagar GG Hospital and her condition is said to be stable. Crime declared after 40 hours Rajkot: The police allegedly sat on the complaint for nearly 40 hours after the crime. It was only after the three accused were arrested that the police declared the crime and the complaint before the media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teen-drugged-gangraped-by-four-in-jamnagar/articleshow/78482366.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors warn against excessive use of herbal concoctions||HYDERABAD: As the use of homemade herbal and immunity boosting concoctions grew with the outbreak of Covid-19, medical experts have warned against taking these dietary supplements in excess. Doctors say that the natural characteristics of home remedies may help in treating minor infections and boosting immunity, but one must ensure that they exercise all caution. Dr Raghu Ram, a noted cancer specialist and president of The Associations of Surgeons of India said: “Since the effects of Covid-19 are likely to be higher for those who are immuno-compromised, these products are being taken in an overdrive. But we need to be aware that while these natural ingredients do have certain anti-viral properties, a lot of research is still needed to prove their efficacy in the long term.” “It is also important that the patients reveal the details of these supplements in case they are undergoing any treatment or scheduled for a surgery,” he added. A few doctors are also taking to Twitter to reveal the lesser known side-effects of homemade immunity boosters. Dr. Raghuraj Hegde, an eye plastic surgeon tweeted: “Yesterday my patient on the operating table bled buckets. He wasn’t on blood thinners. After surgery he told me he was taking a herbal concoction of Ginger, Garlic, Turmeric & Asafoetida thrice daily to prevent covid. (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-warn-against-excessive-use-of-herbal-concoctions/articleshow/78482316.cms||Moulika.KV
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two youngsters on way to exam centre run over by lorry in Miyapur||HYDERABAD: Two youngsters on their way to an examination centre at Moula Ali on a two-wheeler were run over by a lorry at Miyapur in the early hours of Sunday. The deceased were identified as E Swetha, 23, and P Srinivas, 24, both employees of Mahindra & Mahindra and residents of Bagareddypalli in Zaheerabad. According to police, the duo was on their way to Moula Ali as Swetha had to appear for an online entrance exam, Diploma in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test (DEECET) 2020. “Swetha was scheduled to appear for DEECET and they left home around 4.30am to reach the exam centre. A lorry driver was attempting to overtake them at Miyapur. The heavy vehicle first hit their two-wheeler. When they fell on the road, the lorry went over them,” a cop from Miyapur police station said. They came under the left front wheel of the lorry. “The accident occurred on National Highway 65 (Hyderabad-Mumbai highway) in close to Bajaj Showroom at Miyapur around 5.45 am. They were travelling on Srinivas’s scooter,” Miyapur inspector Venkatesh Shamala said. “They sustained severe injuries on lower part of the body, including thigh, waist etc. Their bodies were shifted to Osmania Hospital for an autopsy,” the inspector added. The lorry driver abandoned the vehicle and escaped from the spot after the accident. According to police, the lorry driver was identified after the vehicle was seized from the spot. “We have launched a manhunt to nab the driver. Teams have been formed to track the accused,” the officer said. A case was registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. In the recent past, close to 100 accidents, including non-fatal ones, were reported in the Cyberabad police commissionerate limits last month. “The NH-65 stretch in the city witnesses at least 10 accidents, both fatal and non-fatal ones, in a month,” a police official from Cyberabad traffic wing said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-youngsters-on-way-to-exam-centre-run-over-by-lorry-in-miyapur/articleshow/78482331.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tolly director alleges fraud; 3 detained||KOLKATA: Director Raj Charaborty has lodged a complaint with Kasba police station, alleging that a gang was using names of his film and production company to dupe some parents by promising them payment after casting their wards as child artists in his upcoming films. So far, cops have detained three persons, Barnai Ghosh, Raju Nath and Deepam Kundu, following the complaint and are questioning them. The director also took to his Facebook page and warned people that they should not fall into such trap. The DC (SSD) Rashid Mumir Khan said they had received the complaint from Chakraborty on Saturday and registered a case. The accused posed as the employees of Raj Chakraborty Entertainment Pvt Ltd and induced some parents to pay them money. A few of them became suspicious and informed the company about the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tolly-director-alleges-fraud-3-detained/articleshow/78482338.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Man gets -ve report, then +ve in 2 hrs and -ve in retest||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) handed over Covid-19 negative report to a 44-year-old man, but later informed him that he was positive. The baffled man went for retest and the report came negative within 24 hours. The man is working at a grocery shop in Khamla and moving in his residential area. The man had first given his swab samples at a special camp held by NMC Jaitala Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) under Laxmi Nagar Zone at Khamla on September 29. He continued to work at the grocery shop after giving swab samples. The camp was organized with support from corporator Prakash Bhoyar and Pujya Sindhi Panchayat Khamla. An employee from the UPHC handed over reports to the Panchayat at around 1pm on Saturday (October 3). The reports mention swab collection date as September 29 while date of reporting was given as September 30. The man’s report was negative. But after couple of hours, another employee from the UPHC reached the man’s house and informed that his report was positive. The man did not return the neagtive report when the employee demanded it back. The man’s name also featured in the daily list of positive cases which is available with Laxmi Nagar zone. One of the relatives told TOI, “We had no option but to ask him to get tested at NMC’s RPTS centre. This report has come negative,” the relative said. Earlier and latest tests were done through RT-PCR. TOI has copies of all the three reports. In the latest report, the spelling of the man’s surname was altered along with age. As reported by TOI earlier, the operator at RPTS testing centre is reportedly doing alterations as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) website does not accept registration of person with same name and age for the second time. The ICMR website has provision for repeat testing but why the centre isn’t going for it is not known. A shopkeeper at Khamla said that the man is till working in the grocery shop and moving freely, meeting others. A 70-year-old woman, who had given samples at the same camp, was given Covid-19 positive report by the NMC. The test result mentioned as negative was scratched and positive written on the line below. On noticing this, the woman got retested at a private laboratory and the report came negative on Sunday. Earlier and latest tests were done through RT-PCR. In her case, the operator of the private laboratory had altered spelling of her name and age. RTI activist TH Naidu said, “Discrepancies in reports and goof ups by NMC are main reaons why people aren’t coming forward for tests. Inquiry should be into alternations in names and age,” he said. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi will examine in detail and take appropriate action. “These are sporadic cases and cannot be reason for not people not getting tested,” he said. Few days ago, two women from a family, who got tested at Nara UPHC with rapid antigen, were given negative reports. But an hour later, they were given positive reports. TOI had also reported cases where private laboratories first gave negative report and later changed it to positive for the same sample.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-gets-ve-report-then-ve-in-2-hrs-and-ve-in-retest/articleshow/78482343.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Priest and his team construct 25 low-cost homes for homeless people during lockdown||IDUKKI: An Idukki-based Capuchin priest and his group have constructed around 25 low-cost cabin homes during lockdown for marginalised people in the state. Fr Jijo Kurian and his team constructed the homes with the support of their Facebook friends and other good-hearted souls. The houses were mainly given to economically backward families who were not covered under government schemes, Fr Kurian said. The cost of a single-bedroom house with kitchen, toilet, sit-out and bathroom is only Rs 1.5 lakh; whereas, a two-bedroom one can be constructed at Rs 2.5 lakh. “Now, we are constructing two- to three-bedroom homes costing Rs 3-3.5 lakh so that they can be given to big families.” The time to construct each home is 15 days to one month. The V boards are used for walls to reduce the construction cost and the roofs are paved with tiles to reduce the weight. The speciality of the homes is that minimum quantity of cement and other high-cost materials are used. The homes are strong and provide homely ambience to the families, the priest said. The priest said the project to construct cabin homes started after 2018 August floods. “Till date, more than 65 homes were handed over to eligible families and eight are under construction,” the priest said. “After the lockdown, the price of the construction materials increased and we had to invest an additional of Rs 10,000-15,000 in every family,” Fr Kurian said. While giving away the houses, the organisers also ensure the privacy of beneficiaries and sponsors. “Only beneficiary concerned knows that the sponsor of their home. There is no housewarming ceremony or photo session before handing over the homes to the families. We plan to construct more such homes in various parts of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/priest-and-his-team-construct-25-low-cost-cabin-homes-for-marginalised-people/articleshow/78481446.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Activists, citizens unite against Dy SP transfer||Kolhapur: Activists from Kolhapur on Saturday demanded cancellation of transfer of city deputy superintendent of police Prerna Katte. She has been transferred as assistant commissioner of police for Nagpur city. Activists and local workers of all political parties met minister of state for home and district guardian minister Satej Patil demanding immediate cancellation of Katte’s transfer. They said that her transfer is premature (before end of the three-year tenure). They also said that her efforts to bring down the crime rate in the city are remarkable. The activists claimed she has put 44 criminals involved in organised crime behind bars and has successfully wiped out matka dens. Durgesh Lingras, an activist from the Rajarampuri area of the city, said, “The city needs good police officers. Despite our political and other differences, we have come forward in support of Katte. She has proved that criminal elements can be stopped from creating a menace in the society. We have also written to top officials asking them to cancel the premature transfer order. If she is transferred, then it will give wrong image of the system.” Patil assured the activists that he will take up the issue with home minister Anil Deshmukh and see what can be done to stop the transfer. Speaking to TOI, Katte said, “I have received the transfer order. If I get to serve the city for some more time, I will be happy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/activists-citizens-unite-against-dy-sp-transfer/articleshow/78480459.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Opinions differ over EWS benefits for Marathas||Kolhapur: Reservation for the Maratha community under the socially and educationally backward category (SEBC) will be in danger if, for temporary benefits, reservation is accepted under economically weaker section (EWS) now, said Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati while speaking at a conference of Maratha lawyers to analyse the legal aspects of the quota. Recently, the Supreme Court had put an interim stay on the implementation of the law providing reservation to Maratha community under SEBC. The state government had then decided to allow the Maratha community to avail of benefits under the 10% EWS quota. The community leaders, however, are divided over whether to continue with the SEBC, which has an interim stay, or to get the benefit under EWS till the legal battle is settled. Maratha leader Pravin Gaikwad said that to avoid loss due to the stay, the Maratha youth should accept EWS for admissions and jobs. Sambhajiraje, however, dared Gaikwad and those supporting this view to give in writing that if the EWS is accepted, it will not affect the battle for SEBC adversely. “I will be happy if they put it in writing before the community that their demand to seek EWS reservation for temporary benefit will not hamper our fight for SEBC. The Maratha community has already been termed socially and educationally backward by the Backward Classes commission. Therefore, if the EWS is accepted, the SC will set aside the SEBC. We are demanding addition of more seats in educational instituted by the supernumerary method so that the Marathas are accommodated till we get our rightful reservation,” said Sambhajiraje. The conference passed several resolutions. The resolutions will be submitted to the state government. Jayant Patil, senior corporator of Kolhapur and convenor of the conference, said, “We demand that the state government call a special session of state legislature and pass a resolution asking the Centre to pass a law to do away with the 50% ceiling put on the reservation and extend it further to accommodate other castes and communities. Also, we have demanded the extension of benefits of OBC reservation to Marathas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/opinions-differ-over-ews-benefits-for-marathas/articleshow/78480470.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: University students worried as hostels remain closed||HYDERABAD: As the state universities brace for the semester examinations, lack of hostel facility or private accommodation has emerged as the major cause of concern for thousands of students. Close to four lakh students are set to appear in the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTUH), Osmania University (OU) and Kakatiya University semester-end examinations from mid-October. Students who hail from other districts are now in a tizzy over lack of hostel facilities on both the campuses. Private accommodation is also quite difficult to get. “Our college has informed us that the hostel facility will only be made available once physical classes commence. No private hostel or paying guest facility is allowing accommodation for 15 days. We cannot afford to live in a hotel for 15 days,” said Venu Gopal, a student, questioning how do students like him appear for the examination. The JNTUH had allowed students to appear for examination at a nearby affiliated college. Students were given the option to pick three preference centres to take the exams, of which one will be allocated randomly. Despite this, many students living in villages have raised concerns over accessibility to such colleges. “Even the nearest affiliated college from my village is 120 kms. Neither do I have a proper transport facility nor accommodation to go there and appear for the examination,” said a student of Jinnaram village in Mahbubnagar district. Students rue that university authorities have put them in a tough spot by not considering the lack of accommodation facilities for out-station students. Officials said that the hostel facilities are currently open only for research scholars and accommodation cannot be provided for regular students as standard operating procedure for reopening of hostels is not yet issued by the state government. “We don’t expect the hostels to open before January. Even if they do, we will have to reduce the number of students allocated in each room as we can no longer accommodate three students in one room,” said an official from the OU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/univ-students-worried-as-hostels-remain-closed/articleshow/78482351.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 5, 2020||Delhi||With Covid norm violators refusing to pay up, NDMC decides to go to cops||NEW DELHI: Facing difficulty in enforcing anti-Covid norms, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to seek help of local police stations to deal with resistance or misbehaviour of violators. According to the data covering September 26 to October 3, officials even had to pay challans from their own pockets six times after some violators refused to cough up. Field staff had dialled 100 at least 63 times, visited police stations 26 times and argued with visitors in markets 77 times, revealed the data released by NDMC’s health department. At Khanna Market, even an FIR was filed. “After repeated complaints from staff regarding altercation with people not wearing masks or maintaining social distance, and spitting in public places, we asked them to submit reports under four categories. Maximum violations were found at Connaught Place, where 100 was dialled at least 29 times, staff visited police station 20 times and altercation took place 49 times,” said an official. Atul Bhagava, president of New Delhi Traders’ Association, said people were violating norms despite deployment of NDMC teams at specific spots such as PVR Plaza and B Block parking. In the wake of the recent spurt in Covid-19 cases, NDMC is conducting regular drives in markets and prominent areas such as Mandir Marg, Shankar Road, Bengali Market, Bapa Nagar, Pandara Park, PM’s House area, Khanna Market, Sarojini Nagar, Netaji Nagar, India Gate, Laxmi Bai Nagar, Jor Bagh and Chanakyapuri. In September, the enforcement and health departments had issued 1,577 challans but many violators didn’t reply or pay fine, said an official. Teams will now take such people to the nearest police station. Traders, however, are a little worried. “We also want action against violators but sometimes photos are clicked and challans issued when shopkeepers are having lunch or drinking water,” said Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders’ Association. Often couples are fined for not maintaining social distancing while shopping, Randhawa said, adding that some shops had been fined Rs 3,000-6,000. “The attitude will irritate people and reduce the footfall. Rather than issuing challans, they should sensitise people,” Randhawa said. However, the official said NDMC had organised nukkad nataks and would multiply sensitisation programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-covid-norm-violators-refusing-to-pay-up-ndmc-decides-to-go-to-cops/articleshow/78481451.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur district reports 10 deaths and 240 cases, lowest in single day||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district reported further drop in Covid-19 cases and casualties with only 240 patients and 10 deaths reported on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 45,595, of which, 1,489 have succumbed to the infection so far. At present, the district has 8,503 active patients while 35,603 have been discharged from various Covid care facilities after successful recovery. Of the total number of cases reported on Sunday, 72 were identified from the limits of the Kolhapur municipal corporation. With this, the total number of cases in the city has reached 13,803. However, the cases in hotspots have reduced significantly, said civic officials. At present, Kasba Bawda and Rajarampuri are tagged as major Covid-19 hotspots due to a large number of active cases in these areas. Sangli dist reported 299 cases, 19 deaths Sangli district reported 299 coronavirus along with 19 deaths on Sunday. Officials of the district administration said that though the cases are dropping significantly, the death rate continues to be on the higher side. So far, the district has registered 38,881 Covid-19 cases, of which, 1,422 have succumbed to infection. In addition, the district has witnessed 31,301 people undergoing successful treatment and getting discharged from various facilities. At present, 6,094 Covid patients are currently undergoing treatment in the district. On Sunday as many as 795 patients were discharged, making it the highest daily discharge so far. Currently, most cases are found in rural parts of the district. District guardian minister Jayant Patil said, “I have told the district administration authorities that the protocol followed by hospitals to treat Covid patients must strictly be scrutinised by the team deployed for treatment audit. The focus should be on bringing down the death rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-10-deaths-and-240-cases-lowest-in-single-day/articleshow/78480485.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Crime and kids: Cases up in Tamil Nadu, most involve school dropouts||CHENNAI: Juvenile delinquents who dropped out of school were involved in more crimes in Tamil Nadu than those who never attended school, according to the 2019 NCRB data. Also, those living with parents committed more crimes than the homeless. In 2019, 3,305 children were apprehended across the state. Of them, 2,470 ‘educated’ juvenile offenders -- those who had studied up to primary and secondary levels – resorted to crimes. The number of ‘illiterate’ juveniles caught for criminal activities was just 97. Among the 3,305, 2,899 were living with their parents and those who were homeless or were living with their guardians were among the rest. The number of cases involving juvenile went up by 16% with the state recording 2,686 cases in 2019 compared to 2,304 in 2018. Chennai recorded 647 cases in 2019 in comparison to 502 in 2018 – up by 28%. Police sources said not all juvenile offenders were sent to correctional facilities or rehabilitation if the crimes were deemed ‘petty’. Among those apprehended, 2,099 were let off with a warning. A total of 448 were sent to correctional facilities and 124 were fined. Also, 968 of them were acquitted in the cases. Counsellors who work with children said juvenile delinquency can be complex. “It is crucial to understand the kind of education the children are receiving and the kind of schools they are attending,” said child psychologist Rama Srinivasan. “Factors such as absence from school, under achievement and low school bonding are likely to get the children attracted to and associated with deviant groups and get involved in violent and criminal acts,” she said. On more juveniles from a family set-up taking to crime, Rama said some are likely to commit crimes owing to the “poor family background”. “There is also a tendency to take after their parents if they are previous offenders,” she said. A senior police officer said the trend was worrying. The law tends to be lenient towards juvenile offenders and many of them become repeat offenders, he said. The city police have taken up preventive and reformative measures to deal with children in conflict with law. Police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said the department has adopted a skill development programme in which juvenile offenders from each area are identified and are imparted training that helps them find a job. “We have identified more than 100 children in conflict with the law and are providing them training every week,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/crime-and-kids-cases-up-in-tn-most-involve-school-dropouts/articleshow/78481452.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Poll staff start scouting for booths in GHMC limits||HYDERABAD: Nearly 50 building in which polling booths were located in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections in 2016 have either been demolished or have been rented out to various parties. Election authorities found out this ground reality while scouting for new polling booth locations in the city. Now, the challenge before GHMC officials is to not only scout for 50-plus new polling station locations, but also a few thousands more as the number of polling booths are set to increase. As against 7,802 polling booths set up in GHMC 2016 elections, their numbers might go up to 12,000 or even more keeping in view Election Commission’s guidelines on Covid-19 norms to be followed while conducting elections. In tune with the EC guidelines, the Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) has proposed to reduce the number of voters from the average 1,500 per polling booth to anywhere between 800 and 1,000 voters per polling booth. This move is aimed at decongesting polling booths to allow voters to follow physical distance norms while standing in a queue to cast their vote. “As the election authority, we will take all precautionary measures to check the spread of Covid-19 during elections and on polling day. But it is important for the voters to realise that it is their health and that they have to take all precautions on their part too to keep themselves and society at large safe from the pandemic,” state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi said. The SEC would soon take a final decision on whether voters per polling booth would be 800 or 1,000. In any case, the number of polling booths would increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-staff-start-scouting-for-booths-in-ghmc-limits/articleshow/78482370.cms||Roushan Ali
October 5, 2020||Hubballi||Attenders of all patients at KIMS, Dharwad dist hospital to be tested||HUBBALLI: Hot on the heels of authorities conducting tests on apartment dwellers to curb the spread of the virus, the Dharwad district administration has now decided to test all attenders of patients visiting Karnataka Institute of Medical Science (KIMS) and the Dharwad district hospital. Doctors at KIMS said, “Kin or friends who stay with non-Covid patients could be infected and may be spreading the infection. Also, those who admit Covid patients and return could also catch the infection. It’s essential to test them also.” District deputy commission Nitesh Patil said the need of the hour is testing. “The administration has asked hospital staffers to test attenders of non-Covid patients and primary and secondary contacts of Covid patients,” Patil said. “If diagnosed early, we can prevent patients from spreading the disease and chances of a complete recovery are also higher. We are not leaving any stone unturned, but we also need the support of people.” He more measures will be introduced depending on how things unfold. A doctor at KIMS said public response to testing has been poor. “People are afraid of being tested and it’s a fear which should be eradicated. Because of this, many patients are being admitted to hospital at a very late stage,” he said. Meanwhile, all government officials and staffs working in Hubballi city limits will all undergo tests, said Hubballi Urban tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal. “Many officials are working at the Mini Vidhana Soudha in Hubballi and they come in contact with many people every day. They are high risk of contracting the virus,” Madyal said. “To catch the infection early and to ensure quick treatment, the government has decided to test these officials regularly. Samples will be collected at Mini Vidhana Soudha.” The taluk administration will take care of treating those found infected. Asymptomatic patients can opt for home isolation, he said, insisting there is “no need for them to panic”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/attenders-of-all-patients-at-kims-dharwad-dist-hospital-to-be-tested/articleshow/78481461.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata school activities shift to virtual platform||KOLKATA: City schools have gone beyond online classes, exams and school programmes. Enthused at the progress of teaching-learning for over six months, many have extended the virtual route to hold student council polls, inter-school meets, investiture ceremonies and the list is long. Many have explored new virtual platforms to make these initiatives successful. Be it going through the elaborate process of nomination in students’ council elections, virtual group discussions, where each candidate puts forth his/her point and manifesto, campaigning videos and even swearing-in, every bit of the real feel was brought in. The same can be said for some of the inter-school meets, where even international schools participated. Schools from Germany, Argentina and Russia participated in this year’s annual fest of Heritage School — Youthopia — that happened on September 12 and 13. There were 32 schools from across the country and the city that were part of the fest with events like poster making, dance and musical recitals, elocution, creative writing, chess competitions and fashion shows. There were guest performances by Sachet Tandon and Parampara Thakur on Instagram, while the school took to online platform — Discord — that brought in that real feel, said principal Seema Sapru. “We collaborated and spoke so much that we actually forgot the distance,” said Yash Kejriwal, prefect. Not only six Loreto schools here but those from Delhi, Shimla, Shillong, Ranchi and Lucknow also participated in the inter-Loreto meet, Vibrant Hues 2020, hosted by Loreto Entally. This year’s theme was “artidote”, a take from the word antidote and the focus was art and creativity, said principal Jessica Gomes Surana. The students’ council has been elected virtually and is in place in schools like DPS Ruby Park and DPS Howrah. “The entire process was done on Zoom,” said vice principal of DPS Ruby Park, Indrani Chattopadhyay. “Our IT department created an online voting portal where students cast their votes. We ensured that there is no compromise or dilution anywhere,” said principal Sunita Arora. Even participation in the International School Awards (ISA), a widely acclaimed programme of the British Council among schools, happened online this time. Take the case of St Augustine’s Day School, Barrackpore, where the project ‘Ode to Loyalty’ has been successfully concluded as a part of ISA. “Students of the middle school learnt about the origin, history and meanings of the national anthems of South Africa, Bangladesh, UK and India. Students from a British school, Priory School, sang the Indian national anthem, for example,” explained Sharmila Chaudhuri, a teacher of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-activities-shift-to-virtual-platform/articleshow/78482355.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur’s royal family head joins in cleanliness drive||Kolhapur: The 75th cleanliness drive organised by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on October 4 received tremendous response from a large number of people. After taking over the post of municipal chief, Mallinath Kalshetti had pledged to make the city, streets, public places, nullahs and drains clean. For the purpose, he decided to start Sunday cleanliness drive. As part of the recent drive, over 6 tonne solid waste was removed from various places. The initiatve also witnessed the participation of head of Kolhapur’s royal family Shrimant Shahu Chhatrapati Maharaj. “Our consistent efforts have helped us to stop spread of diseases, make public places habitable. Ever since we started the drive, every single person from the city has contributed in it. It is now a public movement and will continue forever,” Kalshetti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapurs-royal-family-head-joins-in-cleanliness-drive/articleshow/78480493.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 dip deceptive, don’t be fooled: Experts||Nagpur: Declining number of new Covid-19 cases and increasing recovery rate has already started creating a notion that the worst phase of the pandemic is over in city and Vidarbha region. This has created a false sense of security and people have started taking the virus very casually. Nearly zero response to the janata curfew in Nagpur, rush in markets and people enjoying weekends at nearby tourist destinations, including jungle safaris, are some of the indicators of citizens taking the virus lightly. With Unlock 5 allowing restaurants, bars and tourism, people may think that authorities are now sure about Covid-19 spread is receding. But experts have warned that this slowdown of spread might be temporary. Festive season is round the corner and region may witness a fresh wave of Covid-19 cases if people stopped following distancing, mask and other regulations. “There is no data to support the so-called claim that we have passed over the peak or the curve has moved towards plateau. The present rate of reduction of cases must continue for some more weeks before we come to any conclusion,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade. According to her, there could be many reasons behind the slowdown of cases in Nagpur. These include less tests, and a lull before festive season. After Ganeshotsav, there was no major festivity for a month. “We must remember that cases started increasing during the festive season earlier. Now, after a long gap, the festive season will resume and it’s going to be longer,” said Dr Tayade. Navratri will start from October 17, followed by Vijayadashami on October 25, Eid-e-Milad on October 30, and Diwali in second week of November. According to doctors, people must follow the Covid regulations if they don’t want to spoil the festive season. “Markets and businesses are fully opened now. It’s our responsibility to maintain Covid distancing, wearing mask, washing hands frequently and avoid unnecessary crowding. Thanks to administration and support of private hospitals, beds are now available for Covid patients. So, we must also avoid unnecessary panic,” said physician Dr Vikram Bhagat. Doctors from Nagpur as well as other districts in Vidarbha have also observed that people are not coming forward to test themselves as the fear of Covid-19 has lost somewhere. “Many with symptoms believe that they can recover at home, like 70% of the Covid patients, and hence there is no need to get tested. They avoid tests and stay home following medicines suggested on social media. Many of them get cured too. But, some of them develop serious symptoms,” said Dr Dhanashree Gawande from Akola. Data from Vidarbha also supports Dr Gawande’s claim. In Vidarbha, despite reduced number of new cases and a fewer deaths in first four days of October, case fatality rate is still hovering around 2.7%. “Death rate is not reducing at all is an indicator that people are not coming to hospitals at the right time. Avoiding tests is the main reason for this,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-dip-deceptive-dont-be-fooled-experts/articleshow/78482365.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 5, 2020||Nashik||52-year-old constable dies of Covid||Nashik: A 52-year-old head constable attached to the city traffic branch’s Unit 2 died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Adgaon on Sunday. Nivrutti Nimba Jadhav’s son had tested positive for the contagion last month, following which the head constable was sent on a leave. However, a few days later on September 26, Jadhav began experiencing Covid-like symptoms and was admitted to the facility in Adgaon. PI Sadanand Inaamdar of Unit 2 said that Jadhav go admitted to the Adgaon Covid facility since his daughter works there. However, he failed to respond to the treatment. This is the sixth Covid-related death of a police personnel in the Nashik city police commissionerate. Police personnel posted at the frontline during the Covid-19 pandemic are very susceptible to the virus, said senior officials, adding that currently, 28 policemen are hospitalized at various facilities. Meanwhile, taking into account the rising coronavirus cases among policemen, commissioner of police Deepak Pandey had set up a 100-bed Covid Care Centre along with oxygen facility on September 18. The facility has been also made available for the family members of police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/52-year-old-constable-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78480499.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Nashik adds 40,000 new broadband connections after lockdown||Nashik: The work from home and online education adapted by people during the Covid-19 pandemic has led to an increase in the number of broadband internet connections in the city by 30% in the last five months between May and September. If the sources from the broadband internet companies are to be believed, the city has added over 30,000 broadband internet connections in the last five months. There are around 15 major players in the broadband internet sector, including Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) with 30% market share in this segment in the city and remaining 70% taken over by private players. According to sources, the number of internet broadband connections have increased due to work from home and online education. With the addition of new connections, the city has now 1.70 lakh broadband internet connections. “There has been a rise in demand for broadband internet connections in the city after the outbreak of Covid-19. We have added over 9,000 broadband connections in the city after the lockdown. Now, we have over 40,000 broadband connections in the city,” said Nitin Mahajan, general manager of BSNL, Nashik. “We have daily booking for 50 broadband connections, but we are only catering to around 30 connections a day due to various reasons,” added Mahajan. According to Mahajan, some complexes and buildings in the city have been sealed due to Covid-19 positive patients. Therefore, they are unable to provide services in such places on an immediate basis. “Some of our contract workers have also tested positive which is also causing problems while rendering services to a large number of people as per bookings,” Mahajan further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-adds-40000-new-broadband-connections-after-lockdown/articleshow/78480504.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Why these areas in Punjab, Haryana are most to blame for your toxic air||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the crop stubble-burning season, a study by IIT-Delhi has identified which districts in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana contribute the most to Delhi’s air pollution in October and November. The study — based on wind direction, intensity of farm fires and their proximity to the capital — stated that Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Firozpur, Ludhiana, Faridkot, Bathinda, Mansa, Patiala and Sangrur in Punjab and Hisar, Sirsa and Kaithal in Haryana were the biggest contributors.  Track the pollution level in your cityThe team at IIT-Delhi’s Centre for Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA) used multi-year satellite data from VIIRS and SUOMI-NPP at a resolution of 375m, integrating it with meteorological data to not only track open biomass burning in districts, but the route taken towards the capital to spike the pollution level. Sagnik Dey, associate professor at IIT-Delhi’s Centre for Atmospheric Sciences and coordinator at CERCA, said the study began at the district level. However, as it was a large geographical area, they needed to narrow it down to the village level to make it easier to curb stubble burning. “We have prepared a detailed report so that the situation doesn’t turn bad this year and preventive action can be taken. The report has been shared with the state governments of Punjab and Haryana, as well as NITI Aayog,” Dey claimed, adding that most farmers were helpless and unaware of alternative technologies and methods available. To facilitate ground-level action, the researchers identified 500 villages each in both Punjab and Haryana, based on higher prevalence of burning and its contribution to the NCR’s air. This was then narrowed down to 246 villages in Haryana and 308 villages in Punjab, which were found having high fire counts consistently over the past three years. “We have recommended strict monitoring in these villages this year as they have emerged as problem areas over the past three years. Consistent stubble burning has been recorded in the identified 554 villages,” Dey said. Delhi’s air quality has been deteriorating and is forecast to touch the poor category over the next few days as early stubble burning has been recorded in both Punjab and Haryana from the second week of September. “The overall AQI in Delhi is at the higher end of the moderate category and a marginal improvement is forecast for Monday. AQI is likely to stay in the moderate range for the next two days. An increase in stubble burning was observed on Saturday in Punjab and Haryana and bordering regions, which is likely to start impacting Delhi’s air in the coming days,” said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). Historical data recorded on satellite imagery, however, showed there had been a steady improvement in reduction of farms fires. Data from Council on Energy, Environment and Water for October and November from 2017 onward showed there were 56,758 fire counts in Punjab, which increased slightly to 56,835 in 2018 before dropping to 44,076 in 2019. Similarly, according to Nasa’s VIIRS satellite system, Haryana recorded 10,970 fire counts in October and November in 2017, 8,827 in 2018 and 5,900 in 2019. Data submitted by both Punjab and Haryana to EPCA showed that 37.4% and 17.7% of paddy cultivated area was burnt last year, but both states said this was a drop from the previous year. Punjab stated that the area under paddy cultivation was also coming down, dropping to around 27 lakh hectares compared with 31.3 lakh hectares in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-these-areas-in-punjab-haryana-are-most-to-blame-for-your-toxic-air/articleshow/78481478.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Restaurants to open today, with caution||NAGPUR: Restaurants are set to welcome guests from Monday, expecting them to take off the masks only to eat. Geared up to start again, restaurateurs are wary of getting footfall so soon, as they are also muster back waiters who were laid off during lockdown. TOI talked to nearly half a dozen of restaurant owners who were keen to start from Monday. Not much is expected in the initial days as they prepare to follow strict protocols laid down by the government. Restaurants will be allowed to operate at half the capacity and must follow other norms like temperature screening and distancing. Bhavani Shankar Dave, who heads the restaurant owners association, said each of their 350 members has been sent guidelines on norms to be followed. At the Indian Coffee House, Sadar, the manager Balakrishnan is not sure if the crowd would like to spend hours over a cup of coffee. “The menu will be the same, and of course, we will be taking all precautions. Customers will have to cover their face as they enter,” he said. “Joints in Mominpura, famous for biryani, too are preparing reopen. Of course, the festive days would hold back patrons of the non-veg dishes. Otherwise fear is slowly fading,” said Tanveer Ahmed of Azeem Baboo restaurant. Ashok Hansles of Ashokas said they may take a day or two more to open as preparations have to be done. “We will be taking all the care. The plates will be sterilized and cutlery will be served in packets to avoid touch,” he said. Dilip Kamdar of Naivedyam Group said he will be starting with only one of the joints as not enough manpower was available to run the second one. Kamdar said he was not sure whether the response would be favourable in the initial days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restaurants-to-open-today-with-caution/articleshow/78482389.cms||Shishir Arya
October 5, 2020||Chennai||Education system shuns young offenders||CHENNAI: For young offenders, education has been a long struggle. Many juvenile delinquents who come out of detention centers reformed find it difficult to get readmitted in schools because teachers feel that they would ‘corrupt’ other children and ‘tarnish’ the name of the institution. "Every time a juvenile completes his or her sentence and wants to go back to school, schools often refuse. And we have to keep intervening until they agree," said a member from the juvenile justice board. The member said they have written letters and have summoned school principals for not readmitting the children, "While some of them agree, the others cite vague reasons or bring up the child’s past violations and find reasons to not admit them." Many of these children study in government or corporation schools. Officials said this forces the child to discontinue education and they take to crime again. Radhika*, a mother of three, has been having a tough time trying to control her youngest son. The 14-year-old was sent to a juvenile home for the third time in two years. The school refused to readmit him. "They insulted him. Now he doesn’t want to go to school," she said. Unlike others, a juvenile delinquent requires special education, mental health services, family programmes and community integration. "The community often looks at them with contempt and they need to be counselled first," said Andal Damodaran, president, Indian Council for Child Welfare (TN). "While there is no one solution, but ensuring that they are all enrolled in schools is the first step."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/education-system-shuns-young-offenders/articleshow/78481489.cms||Aditi R
October 5, 2020||Mysuru||Tusker that was troubling South Kodagu villages captured||MADIKERI: Foresters of the Virajpet division on Sunday managed to capture a tusker that had been causing much trouble in Hosuru, Bettageri, Kalathmadu, Devapura and Gottada villages in Kodagu district. The 45-year-old tusker, which had rampaged across many agricultural fields and caused much damage to property in South Kodagu, was captured in Devarapura and shifted to an elephant camp in Chamarajanagar. Foresters had been tracking the elephant for the past week. They commenced the operation to nab the tusker around 9am on Sunday. The elephant was spotted four hours after they started the rescue mission. The elephant was first tranquillised – the tusker reportedly ran for 100m before the tranquilliser dart kicked in and it fell. Arjuna, Gopalaswamy, Ganesha, Harsha and Krishna were among the elephants that assisted the foresters in capturing the rogue tusker. Veterinarian Mujeeb and sharpshooter Akram were also part of the operation, which was led by chief conservator of forests Heeralal, while Virajpet deputy conservator of forests Chakrapani and assistant conservator of forests Roshni were among the officials who participated in the mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tusker-that-was-troubling-south-kodagu-villages-captured/articleshow/78480657.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hubballi||Vision group submits document on setting up FMCG cluster in Dharwad||HUBBALLI: Contingent on the state government’s approval is the possibility of Dharwad becoming home to the largest Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) cluster in South India. A group of stakeholders from the industrial sector headed by Ullas Kamath, joint managing director of Jyothy Labs, have submitted a feasibility report titled ‘Transform Hubballi-Dharwad: Vision 2020-25’ to the government, wherein the members have pointed out that the Mummigatti Industrial Area in the district is conducive for the setting up of an FMCG cluster. Kamath told TOI that FMCG products were hauled to Karnataka mostly from Puducherry, Himachal Pradesh and Assam. He said that, if the state government greenlighted the project, the vision group would work in the earnest to set up an FMCG hub that would be the biggest in South India. The idea of setting up an FMCG cluster in Dharwad entered into the deliberations of stakeholders and policy-makers following the Investors’ Meet held in February in Hubballi. If all goes well, the government will provide 1,500 acres for the FMCG hub in Mummigatti Industrial Area in phases. In the first phase, a parcel of 500 acres will be allotted for the project. The 12-member vision group worked on the feasibility report for three months, and the document was finally submitted to Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar. Kamath said that the document submitted by the group highlights the imminent need to give a fillip to Dharwad in order to provide an impetus for the growth of North Karnataka. “The FMCG cluster aims at generating five lakh jobs and accelerate economic growth in Bombay Karnataka. Hubballi-Dharwad will be the flagbearer for the next industrial revolution in the state,” he said. The report submitted by the group posits the possibility of the cluster registering an annual turnover of Rs 25,000 crore by 2025. The other highlights of the document include preference for women entrepreneurs at the cluster and priority for locals in jobs. Shettar said that the vision group had been constituted as part of the state government’s efforts to fulfil its pledge to boost industrial development in North Karnataka. “The government will study the document and deliberate on the same with various stakeholders and see if work on setting up the cluster can be expedited,” said Shettar, also minister for large- and medium-scale industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vision-group-submits-document-on-setting-up-fmcg-cluster-in-dharwad/articleshow/78480255.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
October 5, 2020||Mysuru||Teenager thwarts bid to abduct her||Hassan: Exhibiting a presence of mind, a 19-year-old girl foiled a bid to abduct her at Hecchodalu village in KR Pet, Mandya. According to police, Lakshmi, a degree student from Rangenahalli village, Hally Mysuru hobli, Holenarsipur taluk of Hassan was abducted 25-year-old Prathapa from Kalenahalli village of Kikkeri hobli, KR Pet taluk, her cousin Abhi from Rangenahalli, Venu and Venki from Hassan. As many as 14 people including six from her village are instigators, said police. “Three months ago, Prathapa had visited Lakshmi’s house seeking to marry her. She had rejected the proposal. She refused to marry him despite multiple attempts to convince her over calls and messages. Subsequently, he threatened to kill her parents if she doesn’t agree to the proposal. After this attempt too failed, Prathapa sought help from her uncles, cousin Abhi and other villagers. “They kidnapped her in a four-wheeler while she was fetching drinking water near her house on September 29 afternoon. Lakshmi’s sister and another uncle tried to save her but they failed. They tied her hands and legs, and gagged her to stop her from screaming and physically assaulted her. “She was taken to a house after reaching Hecchodalu village of KR Pet at 6pm. Under the pretext of attending nature’s call, she fled the house. After running for some time, she sought help at a house and gave her father’s contact. The family immediately informed Lakshmi’s father. However, Prathapa landed there an threatened to kill her before the villagers reached and attacked him,” said police. The accused immediately fled the scene in their vehicle, said police. Following her complaint, a case under several sections of IPC was at Hally Mysuru police station. “The prime accused were bnabbed on Saturday. The remaining accused will be caught soon. Of the 18 accused, those who have played a major role in the crime will be identified and subjected to legal action,” said SP R Srinivas Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/teenager-thwarts-bid-to-abduct-her/articleshow/78480357.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Trichy||Ponmalai Sunday market back in biz after 6 months||Trichy: Business has resumed at the Ponmalai Sunday market, the largest open-air market in Trichy, more than six months after it was temporarily shut down due to Covid-19. Traders, however, said that the reception was below-par on Sunday as people are hesitant to visit the market amidst the pandemic. The market attracts customers from various parts of the city and suburbs owing to its low-pricing. The market has been closed since March 22. Piggybacking on the relaxations issued by the state government recently, the market resumed commercial activities on Sunday. Although the market usually functions with 500-600 shops including the makeshift stalls, only 200-250 stalls opened on Sunday. The market normally sees business for Rs 20 lakh, however, the business was down by 50%, traders said. As the weekly market functions on the property owned by Railways, Trichy Corporation officials said that the Southern Railway will take up the responsibility of ensuring standard operating procedures. “As more shops resume operations in the coming weeks, the patronage will gradually increase. With authorities carrying out inspections, both traders and customers are wearing facemasks and following safety measures,” said M Ashokan, a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ponmalai-sunday-market-back-in-biz-after-6-months/articleshow/78483041.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Vets demand Covid insurance cover||Nagpur: With at least 300 veterinary employees in animal husbandry department contracting Covid-19 and 13, including an assistant commissioner and livestock development officer, succumbing to the infection, Maharashtra State Veterinary Council (MSVC), the apex body of veterinarians, has demanded insurance cover and better healthcare facilities for its employees. President of MSVC Dr Ajay Poharkar said, “Like doctors, veterinarians too are working as Covid-19 warriors by looking after the healthcare of animals. In the advent of zoonotic diseases, which are transmitted to humans from animals, our role cannot be neglected. We are offering uninterrupted services.” “Veterinarians have been given a 100% vaccination target for foot-and-mouth disease. With meagre staff, it is difficult to achieve the target. It also exposes to Covid-19. A day before yesterday LDO Dr YB Waghmare died of coronavirus,” said Dr Poharkar and demanded insurance cover for employees on the lines of police department. Dr Ramdas Gade, president, Maharashtra State Gazetted Veterinary Association, said, “In April, we had urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to provide insurance cover and ex gratia, but the demand has not been fulfilled yet.” Gade said, “Even during the lockdown, veterinary cadre worked relentlessly on foot-and-mouth disease front. Vets continued to offer their services even during the spread of lumpy skin disease in cattle in Vidarbha and Marathwada. While treating these diseases, it is difficult to follow Covid distancing. Yet, no sanitizers, masks, and gloves have been given to the staff.” Secretary of the association, Dr Santosh Wakchoure, said, “The state government has left veterinary staff high and dry. Hence, we have decided to work only in OPD and decided not to go to the field for vaccination. We also want the vaccination drive to be suspended.” What Vets Want? Defer foot-and-mouth vaccination drive Distribute masks, sanitizers, gloves to staff Provide insurance cover/ex gratia to affected employees Cover expenses towards Covid-19 treatment Provide independent leave for quarantine period||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vets-demand-covid-insurance-cover/articleshow/78482395.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur admin warns against taking coercive measures to recover loans||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district administration has warned financial institutions against taking any coercive measures to recover loans from people.This comes after hundreds of complaints were registered against the financial institutions especially microfinance institutions for adopting coercive measures like threatening to recover loans. Strict action will be taken against the financial institutions.Rahul Mane, the lead bank manager said, “It is wrong if the loans are recovered when the defaulter has no capacity to repay the loan. We are going to ensure the decision to act against the financial institutions for adopting coercive methods will help those loan takers who have genuine problems. We will also make sure the recovery from those having capacity is not hindered.”Mane said the action against the microfinance institutions is not under the lead bank’s purview, however, strict action is proposed to keep a check on the errant loan recovery agents. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has issued an internal circular asking the authorities to take legal action over the complaints he has received. District guardian minister Satej Patil said anyone harassed by loan recovery agents should approach the local police station. “We have asked the police to file such complaints. The recovery has been slow due to the pandemic. The Reserve Bank of India has given moratorium for six months. However, many continue to reel under economic distress.”Rural development minister Hasan Mushrif has recently proposed the idea to study the reasons for women falling prey to the microfinance institutions. Despite the efficient network of banks, some women of self-help groups tend to get loans from microfinance companies. According to primary estimates around Rs 1,000 crore of loans issued by the microfinance companies have defaulted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-admin-warns-against-taking-coercive-measures-to-recover-loans/articleshow/78503418.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Cong opposing farm laws to protect interests of its leaders’||Kolhapur: Union minister Raosaheb Danve on Monday alleged that the Congress is opposing farm reform laws to protect the interests of its leaders ruling over agri-produce market committees.Speaking in Kolhapur, Danve said the farm laws will help farmers get more price for their produce due to the opening of the market. The market committees will not be abolished at all, he said.“Congress is opposing the bills, which are now converted into laws, mainly to protect the interests of their leaders. The APMC’s will not be abolished. Congress and NCP leaders are eyeing the market tax collected from farmers. We want the farmers to compete in an open market. The laws will help double the income of the farmers by 2022 as stated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said Danve.Recently, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the farm laws will not be implemented in Maharashtra. To which Danve said, “They will have to face the consequences if the laws are denied to the farmers in the state. When Congress was in power, it did not accept the recommendations to double the income of the farmers. The farm laws have the potential to do so. We have pledged to double the income in the law itself,” added Danve.BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said denying the farmers their rights is ‘dadagiri’ by the ministers in state government. “I dare the state government to pass a law to opposing the laws made by the central government,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cong-opposing-farm-laws-to-protect-interests-of-its-leaders/articleshow/78503379.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Madurai||Only special Pocso courts can hear related advance bail pleas||Madurai: A special bench of Madras high court has held that only special courts designated under the Pocso Act and not sessions courts are empowered to entertain anticipatory bail petitions for offences under the Act. The court was hearing a reference sent by Karur district judge seeking clarification from the bench after the special court designated under Pocso Act in the district returned an anticipatory bail petition stating it had no jurisdiction to entertain the case registered under Pocso Act and Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. When the anticipatory bail petition was filed before the sessions court, the public prosecutor contended that it wasn’t maintainable as the special court had exclusive jurisdiction to entertain it.A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and V Bharathidasan observed that according to a 2013 GO, the state government, in consultation with the HC, had designated fast track mahila courts as special courts under the Pocso Act. According to section 28(1) of the Pocso Act, a court of session already existing in each district can be designated as special court to try offences under the Act.Under section 33(1) of the Act, a special court may take cognizance of any offence, without the accused being committed to it for trial, upon receiving a complaint. Under Section 33(9), a special court shall have all powers of a court of session and try such offences. In such circumstances, the special court has to be treated as a court of original jurisdiction and it has all the powers of the court of original criminal jurisdiction as provided under the Cr.PC.The judges observed that Section 31 of the Act makes it very clear that the provisions of Cr.P.C including the provisions as to bail and bonds shall apply to the proceedings before a special court. Hence, the judges observed that the special court alone is empowered to entertain the anticipatory bail petitions as per Section 31 of the Act and sessions court cannot entertain anticipatory bail applications in respect of offences under Pocso Act. Hence, the judges remitted back the anticipatory bail petition to the special court designated under the Pocso Act to deal with the petition on merit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/only-special-pocso-courts-can-hear-related-advance-bail-pleas/articleshow/78482400.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 5, 2020||Chennai||50gm pongal for Rs 80? Pour water, make it 220gm, says railways||Chennai: Southern Railway is yet to start all passenger and express trains, but complaints about quality and overpricing of food have started to come in. On Sunday, a video posted by a senior citizen went viral. The man complained about a ready-to-eat box of pongal served to him. The box, priced Rs 80, had only 50 grams of the food item. The passenger said the pongal was overpriced and that it would be cheaper at big hotels. The passenger said the box showed that the product would be fit for consumption for the next eight months. He asked how pongal, a freshly cooked rice dish, could remain in good condition for such a long time. The particular pongal-sambar combo box had an expiry date of March 30, 2021. Inquiries with Southern Railway revealed that the complainant was travelling on train number 02606 Pallavan Express from Karaikudi to Chennai. “The complaint pertains to ready-to-eat pongal which was sold at the MRP on the train. The quantity referred to in the complaint was of the pre-cooked granules. Now as per railway board’s guidelines, no cooked food is allowed on trains. IRCTC can only sell ready-to-eat items, coffee, tea and Rail Neer water bottles on trains,” a spokesperson for Southern Railway said. A railway official said the box contained 61g of granules. The official video of the IRCTC-appointed meal maker M/S Triguni Foods has instructions that the preparation has to be consumed eight minutes after adding hot water. After adding hot water, the 61 gram content becomes 220-230 grams approximately, a railway spokesperson said, adding that this detail was left out in the video. Later in the evening, Southern Railway released a press statement saying that in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, railways has taken several measures to make travel safe. “Railways stopped serving cooked food in trains to minimise the health risks. Passengers were advised to make their own arrangements for bedrolls and to bring their own food,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/50gm-pongal-for-rs-80-pour-water-make-it-220gm-says-railways/articleshow/78481541.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn releases gambusia fish in open wells to fight dengue||Trichy: Trichy corporation has started introducing gambusia fish in open wells of houses, in potential hotspots, in its drive against dengue fever amidst Covid-19. As the fish feeds on larvae of dengue mosquitoes, officials said that the move shall help in preventing dengue outbreak in the city.Also called mosquito fish, gambusia affinis prey on the larvae of aedes mosquitoes. In recent inspections, officials have found aedes mosquito larvae in a significant number of open wells in houses. The corporation purchases the fishes from the health department and has been releasing three male and three female fishes in each open well. Officials said that the fishes are harmless, gambusia will further reproduce by feeding on the mosquito larvae. “Only open wells will be focussed not the overhead water tanks. Hotspots are being identified in the ongoing drive to cover households in such localities,” a health official with Trichy Corporation said. The gambusia drive has been implemented in Ariyamangalam zone and will be further expanded to the other three zones. The civic body workers will drop the fishes into the open wells after informing the residents concerned. “The method of dropping gambusia in open wells is proven effective and safe in tacking dengue fever. Other anti-dengue drives including fogging and use of abate solution shall also continue simultaneously,” said S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner. Four dengue fever cases including one in Gandhi market vicinity were reported in the city in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-releases-gambusia-fish-in-open-wells-to-fight-dengue/articleshow/78483042.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 5, 2020||Trichy||AC on, doors shut, ATMs in Trichy give users the creeps||Trichy: While unlock measures have enabled people to venture out frequently, the number of people using bank ATMs has also gone up. However, many residents have been hesitating to enter the ATM rooms as the air-conditioners have been turned on of late and the doors also remain closed in violation of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The district has 445 bank branches including those in the private sector, apart from ATM rooms attached to branches and dozens of satellite ATMs in commercial streets. After the Covid-19 outbreak in March, the district administration had instructed banks to provide hand sanitizers at ATMs and conduct frequent disinfection drive. But the SOPs have not been properly enforced. Even as other commercial outlets including salons were told to avoid turning on air conditioners, multiple ATM rooms here have been functioning with ACs turned on. With the doors of the rooms remaining closed, people push and pull the doorknobs resulting in physical contacts on the surface. “I use the ATM only after keeping the doors open. I also find hand sanitizers missing in many of the ATMs,” Mohamed Isham, a resident of Uyyakondan Thirumalai, said. As many ATM rooms have more than one machine, people are jittery while sharing the congested space with other people who may not be wearing facemasks even as the AC will be running. “Ventilation should be there in ATM rooms, doors should be kept open. Before and after using the ATMs, hand sanitisation is must,” district epidemiologist Aravind Kumar told TOI. Health officials in the district administration said that the banks will be asked to ensure proper ventilation in the ATM rooms and provide hand sanitizer. Residents said that only a few ATMs have kept hand sanitizer while those which have security guards provide hand sanitizer only when asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ac-on-doors-shut-atms-in-trichy-give-users-the-creeps/articleshow/78483043.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 5, 2020||Madurai||Police report sought on quack’s ‘MBBS certificate’||Madurai: Madras high court has sought status report in a case registered against a man who was practising medicine with bogus certificates in Karur. Taking cognizance of the fact that Tamil Nadu Medical Council (TNMC) had preferred a complaint against the petitioner, Justice D Krishnakumar suo-motu impleaded the inspector of police of MMDA police station at Arumbakkam in Chennai as the fourth respondent in the petition and directed the police to file the status report. The court was hearing a petition filed by K Jayapandi in 2018 asking the authorities to remove the sealing of his clinic stating that he was not an MBBS graduate. During the hearing, the petitioner’s counsel submitted that the registrar of Annamalai University at Chidambaram had issued an MBBS certificate to the petitioner and hence he is entitled to practise as a medical practitioner. The registrar of TNMC stated that the provisional medical registration certificate possessed by the petitioner was not issued by TNMC and it was fabricated. C Karthik, who is standing counsel for the TNMC, submitted that the certificate relied on by the petitioner was bogus and the registrar of TNMC had also verified the same from the university. After a communication sent by the controller of examinations to registrar of TNMC was submitted before the court, the petitioner’s counsel sought permission to withdraw the petition. However, the court said it is not inclined to permit him to do so and adjourned the case to October 14 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-report-sought-on-quacks-mbbs-certificate/articleshow/78482406.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Madurai||Crimes against kids on rise in Madurai; 90% are Pocso cases||Madurai: Crimes against children are on the rise in Madurai city, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) recently. A total of 89 crimes against children were reported in 2019, with 90% of them booked under Protection of Children Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.Meanwhile, crimes against women have come down in the city. While 190 crime incidents against women were recorded in 2018, it has come down to 177 in 2019, according to NCRB. A sizable number of complaints were against cruelty by husbands and relatives.Those under the age of 18 are considered as children, while recording cases. Two cases pertaining to murder of minors and attempt to murder have also been recorded. In 2017 the crimes against children was 38, while it was 59 in the city in 2018.Among the major cities in the state, Madurai is second in the number of crimes committed against children. There were 731 cases registered in Chennai, which was followed by Madurai with 89 cases, Coimbatore-45 and Trichy 36 cases.A police officer from the city police unit said that increasing awareness among children and parents could be a reason why the cases are increasing. They have been conducting awareness programs involving school authorities and college students. Moreover, increasing awareness among parents also leads to cases being reported to police.“We are working closely with various other agencies such as Social Welfare Department, Childline, Child Protection Unit and Child Welfare Committee to prevent crime against children. Strict possible action is being taken, when a crime is reported,” he said.A woman police inspector from the city said, “Earlier, many parents would not come forward to lodge complaints, but now people are forthcoming. We are encouraging them by maintaining secrecy of the details of complaints. Recently, a couple of AWPS were converted into child-friendly stations,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crimes-against-kids-on-rise-in-madurai-90-are-pocso-cases/articleshow/78482409.cms||V Devanathan
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Patole awards topper girl, who skipped dad’s funeral, Rs1 lakh||Yavatmal: State assembly speaker Nana Patole fulfilled his promise to a young village girl Sanika Pawar on Sunday, when he visited her house and handed over a cheque of Rs1 lakh. Patole had been moved by the story of young Sanika, who bid farewell to her father’s dead body lying at their home in village Hivri, about 15km from the city, as she went to Yavatmal for her Sanskrit paper of the SSC exam. She secured 100 per cent marks in Sanskrit and 97 per cent aggregate marks in the exam. On hearing her story, Nana Patole had spoken to her on phone and promised to visit her house when in Yavatmal. On Sunday, Patole met Sanika at Hivri and handed over a cheque of Rs1 lakh. He has also given her Rs24,000 cash to pay the mess fee of her hostel at Latur, where he has arranged admission for her in Std XI. He advised the girl to aim for the IAS exam after her graduation and become a bureaucrat to serve the public. Congress Kisan Cell Vidarbha president Devanand Pawar and other local Congress leaders were also with Patole when he visited Hivri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patole-awards-topper-girl-who-skipped-dads-funeral-rs1-lakh/articleshow/78482408.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: HC dismisses panchayat prez plea against removing encroachment||MADURAI: Dismissing the petition filed by a panchayat president who sought to forbear the authorities from removing an encroachment in the form of a temple at North Ilanthaikulam village in Tuticorin district, Madras high court observed that though the petitioner himself could have removed the encroachment in his capacity as executive authority, he himself filed the petition after being issued notice by the block development officer (BDO). Earlier this year, one P Marimuthupandian filed a petition against authorities as well as against Shanmugaraj, Chellappa and the panchayat president, Ganapathi, seeking steps to remove the alleged encroachment by the trio in the village. Pursuant to an earlier order of the court, the BDO had issued notice on September 3 to the individuals to remove the encroachment in 15 days. Special government pleader M Muthugeethaiyan submitted that the petitioner appears to support, from his affidavit, encroachment of the temple on public land. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that the primordial submission made by the petitioner is that since the temple is located from time immemorial, some right has been created. It is open to the concerned people, in charge of the temple, to seek appropriate remedy as the said issues cannot be adjudicated by this court. “Nowadays, it has become a fashion to argue that the authorities alone shall follow due process of law, overlooking the fact that the petitioners / private persons are also in equal obligation to follow the law, rules and regulations,” observed the judges. Saying that there is no necessity to offer an opportunity of personal hearing as the BDO had exercised his statutory powers within the four corners of law, the court dismissed the petition .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-panchayat-prez-plea-against-removing-encroachment/articleshow/78482403.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 5, 2020||Madurai||Cataract worsens for many who delayed surgery||Madurai: Ophthalmologists across the state have urged cataract patients not to delay their surgeries any further due to fear of Covid-19. This was because the cataract has worsened for many patients who were scheduled to undergo surgery in March, making it more difficult to perform the surgery. “In India, 55% of all blindness caused is due to cataract. If surgery is delayed, the cataract becomes harder and difficult to remove,” said Dr Amar Agarwal, chairman and managing director, Dr Agarwal’s Eye Hospital. Doctors said that with cataract surgeries completely halted during lockdown, now there are more chances of patients turning up with late-stage cataract. “Cataract surgery is an elective procedure and it can be delayed for up to 1-2 years since it is first diagnosed. But, often people come to us only after the cataract has significantly affected their vision. So when surgery is postponed further after that, it becomes high risk. Further, cataract effects elderly people who also have conditions like diabetes or hypertension, which can also worsen it if it is uncontrolled,” said Dr Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director, Rajan Eye Care Hospital. In districts like Madurai, Trichy and Coimbatore, some patients with a more advanced form of cataract are now walking in for surgery. Dr D Ramamurthy, chairman, The Eye Foundation, Coimbatore, said that cataract should not be taken lightly. Dr Madhu Shekhar, chief, Intraocular Lens and Cataract Services at Aravind Eye Hospital, Madurai, said that in the past 15 days, more number of patients are coming in. “Patients don’t have to fear as we safely perform the surgery taking all precautions for Covid-19, including screening the patient for symptoms, temperature and travel history. It is a simple procedure and even a Covid-19 test is not required as per government guidelines since the surgery takes only few minutes,” he added. Meanwhile, in government facilities, cataract surgeries are yet to be resumed. Doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai said that the operation theatre is being prepared for such surgeries and it will be readied for functioning by next week following government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cataract-worsens-for-many-who-delayed-surgery/articleshow/78482410.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Test once a fortnight or lose licence, authorities tells Mysuru traders||Mysuru: In a bid to ramp up testing to arrest the spread of the pandemic in the district, Mysuru City Corporation has hit upon several new measures including making tests compulsory for all traders at Devaraja Market, Vani Vilasa Market, Gandhi Nagar and Mandi Market. Traders will have to take the test — which will be conducted free of charge — once every fortnight. If a trader does not undergo the test, his/her shop will be shut, the MCC has warned. Also, a 24x7 Covid-19 testing facility has been launched at KR Hospital, a designated Covid hospital in the city. Beside this, the district administration has also launched mobile testing teams to test, trace and treat those infected. MCC said three officers will be appointed as ‘testing officers’ to oversee testing in the four major markets and they will report to the nodal officers. All traders will be tested using a mobile testing squad. The decision comes in the wake of city markets witnessing huge footfall for the past few days, which has coincided with a spike in infections among shop owners and employees. MCC, with its mobile testing squads, will also conduct tests in slums and industrial areas following a sharp rise in cases reported from these places. MCC authorities said, 22 free testing centres have been notified across the city. People can get their swabs tested in any of these centres. MCC has urged all those suffering symptoms to MCC authorities have also decided to focus on education and awareness on Covid-19 instead of mere fine collection from those found not wearing masks or not maintaining social distance. In the city Rs.1,000 fine is collected from those found flouting the mask rule. Gurudatt Hegde, MCC commissioner, pointed out that the fine is only a deterrent and insisted that people should be made aware that they are risking their lives and that of others by not wearing a mask. “We cannot collect Rs 1,000 fine from all as many are poor and cannot pay,” Hegde said. “Our idea is to spread awareness among all about Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/test-once-a-fortnight-or-lose-licence-authorities-tells-mysuru-traders/articleshow/78481095.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Goa||In Canacona, age-old fishing method makes a comeback||Poinguinim: In Gotcamolem, Canacona, passers-by are met with an unfamiliar sight. A makeshift bundh using tree foliage stands over the Talpona river as seven boys, who put together the mechanism, await a catch. On Saturday night, they were able to catch fish worth Rs 6,000. On closer inspection, the workings of the trap become clear. The water is channelled into the bundh towards a contraption made of a wire mesh called ‘tatt” in which the fish is caught. To the uninitiated this might appear novel, but such is not the case. “This traditional method has been used by generations for more than 100 years, and I am happy the youngster are using it,” Joaquim Pereira, a nonagenarian, told TOI. The preparation for constructing this makeshift bundh, which costs around Rs 10,000, takes about 3-4 days. “We first have to go in search of some strong sticks from the forest. These sticks are then laid on side tracks to build the makeshift bundh to which tree foliage is attached, so that fish are channelled towards the tatt, which is made to rest on some strong sticks,” said Ackroyd Fernandes, who is an active participant in this temporary project. Peter Fernandes, who is leading the group, feels that they will get a better catch once the makeshift bundh stabilises. “It is not an easy task, as the makeshift bundh has to be built in running water and this takes a lot of time and requires a lot of patience,” Fernandes said, adding that it has to be constantly checked whether the bundh is intact and that the foliage has not washed away by the strong current. “Now that our project is complete, we pray that there is no incessant rain,” said Arliston Fernandes, who is also engaged in the rustic fishing venture. Iganatius Fernandes, who is also part of this project, said they have to keep a watch in shifts during the night to collect fish which lands in the tatt before the otters get to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-canacona-age-old-fishing-method-makes-a-comeback/articleshow/78482559.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 5, 2020||Madurai||53% take UPSC prelim exam in Madurai, Trichy||Madurai/Trichy: Over 4,000 candidates wrote the UPSC preliminary exams at 18 exam centres in the district on Sunday. All Covid-19 safety precautions were followed at the centres. Meanwhile in Trichy district, 53% of those who registered appeared for the examination on Sunday. Out of the total 5,620 candidates, 3,019 candidates appeared for the exam at 14 centres. For the forenoon session from 9.30am to 11.00am, out of 7,627 registered candidates in Madurai, 4,087 attended. For the afternoon session from 2.30pm to 4.30pm, 4,042 candidates were present. The overall attendance was 53%. “This year, for the main paper, the question paper was relatively tough said our students. The pattern was different this time. In topics like history of modern India and geography less number of questions than usual was asked. Unless if a candidate had good knowledge of several different subjects, answering questions would be difficult. This year, the cut-off can be expected to be on the lower side,” said N Rajesh Kumar, trainer at an IAS coaching centre in Madurai. Candidates were at the same time relieved to finally complete the exams instead after delays due to the Covid-19. They also expressed no complaints with the arrangements. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, for those who could not travel to their exam centres, option to change to nearest centre was provided. Further, wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and use of hand sanitisers was made mandatory at exam centres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/53-take-upsc-prelim-exam-in-madurai-trichy/articleshow/78482423.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn to begin drive to sterilise stray dogs||Trichy: A day after TOI reported a surge in stray dog menace in the city and the need for resuming the sterilisation process, Trichy Corporation has invited eligible animal welfare organisation to take up the animal birth control drive at the earliest.Since the Covid-19 lockdown was announced, residents had complained of a significant rise in the population of stray dogs across the 65 wards here. With lack of food plaguing dogs, the animals have turned hostile towards the passersby. With complaints by residents about stray dogs mounting, Trichy Corporation on Sunday invited eligible NGOs recognised by Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to initiate the sterilisation drive for the canines.The civic body has said that the animal birth control (ABC) centre in Konakkarai built at a cost of Rs 93 lakh can be utilised for neutering at least 30 dogs per day. “This is a much-needed move from Trichy Corporation. There is an AWBI-recognised NGO in Trichy whose service can be availed to control the population of stray dogs,” M Sekaran, president, Litigants Welfare Association, said. The interested NGOs eligible to oversee the sterilisation drive have been told to submit a request letter with the corporation on or before October 16, 2020. Once a suitable NGO is identified, the civic body said that the sterilisation cum rabies vaccination drive shall resume. TOI on October 2 carried a report about surge in population of stray dogs during the lockdown. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-to-begin-drive-to-sterilise-stray-dogs/articleshow/78483068.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Mohan Bhagwat asks office bearers to work for social harmony||Jaipur: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat held a series of meetings with gatividhi shreni (office bearers) of Jaipur Prant (state) at Sewa Sadan here over the last two days. Bhagwat is on a four-day visit to the state from October 3-6. He asked the office bearers to work for social harmony, cow sewa, de-notified tribes, village upliftment programmes, environment conservation and family guidance. “He said communication within the family should improve and weekly meetings should commence as a result of Parivar Prabodhan Gatividhi. He also counselled the office bearers that the teaching of social harmony should be engrossed in family values. The congregation discussed various ways to engage families in a meaningful manner leading to nation-building,” said an official of Sewa Sadan.During the meetings, he heard about the experiences of social work by different RSS and its affiliated organisations. He underlined the importance of weekly family meetings in strengthening social work. The chief was told about considerable work done for de-notified tribes in Jaipur and Rajasthan in uplifting their overall development. The next two days, Bhagwat will spend in Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mohan-bhagwat-asks-office-bearers-to-work-for-social-harmony/articleshow/78482452.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Driving home a point: Two friends to travel 22,000km to spread awareness||NEW DELHI: To recreate the plight of migrant workers and the journey to their hometowns from metro cities, two friends have decided to drive for 54 days on the highways and kuccha roads taken by the labourers to raise awareness about the Covid-19 pandemic and provide assistance to the needy. Siddhartha Dutta, who began the journey from Delhi’s Jahanpanah city forest on October 4, said they would travel to all major states, including the Northeast, and finish their journey in Uttarakhand. They would cover the entire country collecting and distributing relief material to the poor and the needy. Calling their initiative “Road Ashram”, the duo would be travelling along the borders covering nearly 22,000 km in 30 states and Union Territories. Ahmer Siddiqui, the second member and driver of the car, said, “The idea is to stay on the road in our personally crafted car. Through our 54-day stint on the kuccha-pucca roads along the borders, we want to raise awareness and money to help people facing difficulties due to the pandemic. We will also share video stories of the diverse cultures, places and everything else that makes India, India.” “All funds raised will go to NGO Give India, which will distribute food kits to the worst-affected communities and families across the country. The non-profit sector is doing whatever is possible with the available resources. But that is not enough. Grassroot-level NGOs need immediate support to continue their life-saving work. Through Road Ashram, we appeal to everyone to make a generous contribution to the cause,” Dutta said. He added, “Many of us were fortunate to not worry about our daily bread, but those who walked hundreds of kilometres faced a lot of trouble. That’s why we decided to do something to show solidarity with the migrants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/driving-home-a-point-two-friends-to-travel-22000km-to-spread-awareness/articleshow/78481610.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Power lines pose threat to birds in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The network of high-tension electric wires at the famous Degrai pasture land in Jaisalmer is proving fatal to migratory birds and the Great Indian Bustard. In the last 10 days, a Great Indian Bustard died and a Vulture Lagar Falcon and a Toni Eagle were seriously injured after hitting these wires.Degrai Oran active member Bhati said the falcon’s wings were damaged after hitting the wires. Later, shepherds handed it over to the rescue team of the forest department.Degrai temple pasture land is spread over 60,000 bighas in between four gram panchayats and is a habitat for a variety of wildlife. Shri Degrai temple priest said the pasture land is more than 600 years old and 36,000 bighas are not yet registered in revenue records due to which this area is now full of supply lines of various energy companies.He said that in 2004, 24000 bighas were registered in the revenue record, but 36,000 bighas were still to be registered for which the villagers and environmentalists keep agitating.Famous environmentalist Parth Jagani said villagers since 2001 have been demanding to register this land in revenue records. He said that looking at increasing incidents of birds hitting the high tension wires, the environmentalists and villagers demanded to put electric wires underground and had also staged a sit-in but till now no concrete action had been taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/power-lines-pose-threat-to-birds-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78482449.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Bhilwara demands more doctors, oxygen plant to fight against Covid||JAIPUR: Bhilwara’s district collector has demanded more doctors and paramedical staff to strengthen the healthcare facilities in the textile town. Health minister Raghu Sharma was in Bhilwara on Sunday to review the pandemic situation. Sharma assured district collector Shivprasad M Nakate that the health department was recruiting more doctors and in coming days more heralthcare staff would be posted there. Sharma directed the officials to remain prepared in case more Covid dedicated beds, oxygen supply and staff are required. Officials at the meeting demanded that Bhilwara should have a liquid oxygen plant for ensuring continuous availability of oxygen and to cater the increasing need of oxygen for Covid patients. Sharma flagged-off a bike rally in Bhilwara for creating awareness and kicked off a campaign, ‘no mask, no entry’ at market places. Bhilwara came to light when the state government had imposed ruthless containment model to contain the spread of the virus in March-April. The situation has now completely changed and increasing number of Covid cases are being reported daily. The textile town reported 78 new infections on Sunday taking its overall tally to 4,643 cases. In the last four days, Bhilwara has reported 534 new infections. The health department is planning to convert the MGH Hospital in Bhilwara into a Covid facility. Also, a proposal for purchasing equipment for the hospital worth more than Rs 67crore has also been tabled in the governing council meeting of Bhilwara district miniral foundation trust headed by Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhilwara-demands-more-doctors-oxygen-plant-to-fight-against-covid/articleshow/78482486.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mysuru||Notice served to illegal homestays atop BR Hills||Mysuru: The district administration has taken measures to curb illegal homestays and lodges in Biligirirangana Betta (BR Hills). Notices have been issued to owners of five such facilities and documents have been sought. Yelandhur tahsildhar Sudarshan told TOI: “Tourists book accommodation in these homestays online. We have sought land conversion records from the owners and the permission taken from the district administration for commercial activities,” he said. The wildlife sanctuary on the BR Hills, abundant with animals including tigers, elephants and other species, attracts thousands of tourists every year. The rich biodiversity of the hilly region in Chamarajanagar district, which is 170kms from Bengaluru, is under threat due to mushrooming of illegal homestays and lodges, most of which have come up without obtaining permission from the authorities concerned. Shankarappa, a resident of the hill, said: “The place, which was once visited only by devotees to pray at the temple, is slowly turning into a tourism spot. To lure tourists, many homestays and other accommodation facilities have come up on revenue lands and farmlands without permission and they charge around Rs 3,000 per day. As there were complaints from residents, the district administration officials have initiated action against such illegal units,” he said. The deputy commissioner had issued closure order to two such illegal homestays atop the hills a few days ago. Due to the pandemic, homestays had stopped their activities for a few months. But once the lockdown was relaxed, tourists began to flock to the homestays in the region. The revenue and forest departments have also launched a joint survey of the region to identify illegal structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/notice-served-to-illegal-homestays-atop-br-hills/articleshow/78480554.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 5, 2020||Trichy||654 new Covid-19 cases and 7 deaths in central TN; 11 dead in southern districts||Trichy/Madurai: Thanjavur district continued to report high number of Covid-19 cases as the central districts recorded 654 fresh cases on Sunday taking the total tally to 54,613. The district saw 242 cases even as the region registered seven deaths, taking the toll so far to 744. Eleven deaths were reported in the southern districts according to the daily bulletin, taking the overall toll in the region to 1,881. With 587 fresh cases, the Covid-19 cases so far in south Tamil Nadu rose to 1,13,910, including 1,07,322 recoveries. Meanwhile, the number of active cases in central districts stood at 5,232 as against 4,707 in the southern districts. Thanjavur has registered 12,143 cases so far out of which 10,367 have been discharged. Next was Tiruvarur which recorded 148 cases with a total of 7,746. Pudukottai reported 72 cases and a total of 9,407 so far. Trichy witnessed 68 fresh cases, taking the tally of the district to 10,842, and three deaths on Sunday. Karur recorded 52 cases and Ariyalur 41. Nagapattinam recorded 20 cases and Perambalur 11 new cases with the total so far at 5,410 and 1,906 respectively.In southern TN, most cases were reported in Kanyakumari (117), followed by Madurai (82) and Tirunelveli (76). With 803 active cases, Kanyakumari is only behind Tirunelveli (819) in terms of active cases in the region. Madurai district has by now recorded 16,914 cases and 393 deaths. The 11 deaths reported were from Tenkasi (3), Theni (2), Madurai (2) and one each at Tuticorin, Kanyakumari, Dindigul, and Ramanathapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/654-new-covid-19-cases-and-7-deaths-in-central-tn-11-dead-in-southern-districts/articleshow/78483090.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Udaipur||Over 100 arrested so far in NH-8 violence case||UDAIPUR: Udaipur and Dungarpur police have so far arrested over 100 people in connection with the violence, loot, and blockade that had created ruckus on National Highway-8 last month. Two persons were killed in police firing and many policemen, officers and civilians had sustained injuries due to the stone pelting. Several cases that were registered in Bicchiwada and Sadar police stations have been clubbed and 759 people have been accused under 23 different sections of IPC, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act (1984), The National Highway Act (1956) and Disaster Management Act (2005). Around 45 people have been arrested in Dungarpur while 56 people have been arrested from three places in Udaipur district. Bicchiwada police seized 60 pairs of footwear from the agitators. Policemen are scrutinizing and scanning the video recordings of the incidents and identifying the real culprits responsible for the act. According to sources, police are said to have got hold of some video clips in which tribal leaders are seen inciting people for the movement. The candidates of the 2018 teachers’ recruitment exam had protested for a fortnight to press for their demand of filling 1,167 general category posts with ST candidates. Hundreds of men and women who had been camping on the Kankri Doongri hill in Bichhiwada block of Dungarpur district suddenly resorted to violence and besieged the highway on September 24. They attacked police forces, pelted stones, looted vehicles, ransacked liquor shops, hotels and dhabas during the four-day rampage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-100-arrested-so-far-in-nh-8-violence-case/articleshow/78482473.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Salon biz trimmed as wary customers stay away, paying rent or EMIs now difficult||Nagpur: Salon owners and staffers are having difficult time as customers are staying away from the shops for fear of contracting Covid-19 infection. Many are finding it difficult to pay rent and those who have availed bank loans are facing more trouble. Even as the business is yet to see normalcy returning, salons have been forced to increase charges for haircut as they have to recover the cost of disposable gloves and sanitizers from customers. Many people have bought hair trimmers, scissors online and started experimenting with hairstyling on their own or getting it done with the help of family members. Rajendra Shriwas, owner of Rajiv’s Panchtarka salon. According to Shriwas, hairstylists earned the most in doing facials. “However, we are not allowed to indulge in skin care. This has hit business badly,” he said. The hairstylist said 90% salon owners were unable to pay rent. “Power bills have increased a lot in the past few months. I consumed only 30 units, but got a bill of Rs2,000,” said Panchtarka. Mangesh Pardhi of Kool Kuts said very few customers are coming to his salon and he is finding it difficult to pay the rent. “My old customers ring me up and ask about the safety precautions we take. Those who are satisfied come to my shop, but others cut hair at home. Secondly, marriages are not taking place. People used to get their hair styled for attending receptions. Now this is also not happening,” said Pardhi. Richa Mandhania of Hair Habits, however, said business was bad but still going on. “Number of customers has reduced but this is the trend in every sector. We are still managing the show. Customers come to us because we take safety precautions very seriously,” she added. Sanjay Singh, a retired marketing professional, said he had not gone to a salon since March. “You have to spend at least 20 minutes there. The hairstylists and other customers are very close to you. It is an ideal place to get Covid, no matter what precautions you take. My wife cuts my hair after every 30 to 40 days. As I don’t go out, it doesn’t matter much,” said Singh with a smirk on his face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/salon-biz-trimmed-as-wary-customers-stay-away-paying-rent-or-emis-now-difficult/articleshow/78482513.cms||Ashish Roy
October 5, 2020||Agra||Evidence of physical assault on dalit girl: Forensic report||HATHRAS: Ten days after a preliminary medico-legal report (MLR) on the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died last Tuesday found “signs of use of force”, the department of forensic medicine at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JNMCH) of Aligarh Muslim University on Saturday wrote to the circle officer of Sadabad police station that in its “final opinion, there are no signs suggestive of vaginal/anal intercourse” while adding “there is evidence of physical assault (injuries over the neck and the back).” In the MLR, which TOI is in possession of, the doctor conducting the exam had written, “On the basis of local examination, I am of the opinion that there are signs of use of force. However, opinion regarding penetration and intercourse is subject to the pending availability of FSL (forensic science lab) reports.” When TOI contacted the doctor, he declined to comment, citing the confidentiality of the report, and said the document would be produced in court. All sections marked for the presence of semen had “do not know” written against them. It had also noted the patient had “loss of consciousness at the time of the incident” and “pain during or after the incident”. A UV exam was not done “because (the) body (had been) wiped several times”. The examination was carried out on September 22, the day the girl spoke to the police for the first time since regaining consciousness in hospital. According to the MLR, the “informant alleged that the survivor was sexually assaulted by four known persons of the same village when she (was) doing some work in the fields”. The same day, the chairman of the college’s neurosurgery department wrote to the casualty medical officer of the hospital’s emergency and trauma centre, saying, “Patient is critical so kindly arrange magistrate dying declaration.” In that, the girl said she was gang-raped. The MLR, which is recorded by a doctor, was the first to document her state. It had found no “injuries” or “abnormality” of the pudenda, and ruled that the cervix and vagina were “healthy”. The forensic report, prepared by a lab, was based on samples that had been sent 11 days after the incident, as earlier reported by TOI. The delay was partly on account of the fact that the first FIR had only mentioned attempted murder because the victim had not gained consciousness to be able to give her statement, according a senior police officer. When she did, additional charges of gang-rape were added to the FIR and samples taken. Eight days had already passed by then. The samples were finally sent to the lab another three days later. On the basis of that forensic report, which did not find the presence of semen, ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar had ruled out rape. The postmortem report from Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, where she died on September 29, had attributed the death to “trauma”, noting that her private parts and “anal orifice” had “multiple old healed tears”. The AMU medical college resident doctors association president Dr Md Hamza told TOI, “Samples for FSL analysis were collected on September 22 and were tested on September 25. Hence they can’t substantiate rape. But a preliminary medico-legal report, which was prepared on September 22, clearly stated ‘signs of force’. The girl had given her statement before a medical officer and magistrate.” Union health ministry guidelines for collecting samples for central or state forensic science labs in cases of sexual violence state, “The likelihood of finding evidence after 72 hours (3 days) is greatly reduced; however it is better to collect evidence up to 96 hours in case the survivor may be unsure of the number of hours lapsed since the assault.” Evidence on the outside of the body and on materials like clothing can be collected even after 96 hours. The MLR had said the girl’s clothes and undergarments had been “changed at the time of admission in the hospital”, adding that “clothes worn at the time of incidence (sic) are collected and sealed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/evidence-of-physical-assault-on-dalit-girl-forensic-report/articleshow/78481614.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 5, 2020||Trichy||Coconut tree plantation drive on to revive Trichy dist’s green cover||Trichy: Shine TREEchy, a non-governmental organization (NGO), has started planting coconut trees across Trichy district to revive the green cover. Based on farmers’ request, volunteers started planting coconut trees at farmers’ grove. So far, the members of the organization have planted hundresds of coconut trees.After the unprecedented drought that hit the state in 2016, the green coconut trees and groves in Trichy district became dry and wilted. Farmers lamented that they lost their steady income because of the loss of crop. Subsequent Gaja cyclone, too, destroyed a considerable number of coconut trees in the district. By helping the aggrieved farmers, the NGO is attempting to bring back the lost sheen of Trichy, said Manoj Dharmar, founder of the NGO.In the first phase of their mission, volunteers planted 250 coconut trees in Devarayaneri on the outskirts of the city last week and 300 at Irungalur village near Lalgudi in the district.“With the help of our volunteers, we identify the eligible farmers, who are in need of coconut trees free of cost. After confirming the beneficiaries and the number of trees, we inform the farmers to ready the pit as per the mandatory measurements a week in advance. Then we reach the village and plant the trees,” Manoj told TOI.They buy the trees with the help of sponsors. Last week, they bought it from a government coconut nursery in Srirangam. However, stock was not there for the second phase of the plantation, he said.“We have decided to continue the mission for the coming years. So, we request the authorities from the government nursery to make the required number of coconut trees available,” he said. This group had already taken up various initiatives in the city including ‘My tree my Trichy plantation’, ‘Forest in the city’ and ‘Wall painting at Thennur flyover’, added Manoj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/coconut-tree-plantation-drive-on-to-revive-trichy-dists-green-cover/articleshow/78483093.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Kids, teenagers to get deworming tablets across Rajasthan from today||JAIPUR: Children aged between 1 and 19 years in the state will be administered deworming tablets albendazole by anganwadi workers and ANMs from Monday. The medicines will be given at all anganwadi centres, sub-centres and urban health centres. Because of the pandemic, the health department has changed its strategy in administering albensazole tablets to children. Earlier, the state government administered the tablets in schools. Since schools are closed, the tablets will be distributed from anganwadi centres, urban dispensaries and sub-health centres. Health minister Raghu Sharma has directed all the chief medical and health officers to ensure compliance of all guidelines for prevention of corona infection while administering deworming tablets. Health department has roped in the education department and the Integrated Child Development Services department for successful implementation of the National Deworming Programme. Directions have been given to ensure supply of medicines at all the places. He said as children are not coming to schools and anganwadis due to the pandemic, the programme will be implemented through anganwadi centres, sub-centres and urban health centres. Local ASHA sahayoginis will bring the children to these centres for the medicines. NHM mission director Naresh Thakral said worm infection in children is a leading public health problem. It also affects the physical and mental development of children. There is also a risk of anaemia and malnutrition. Regular deworming can contribute to their physical and mental development. He said the drug is approved by the World Health Organisation, which is used to prevent intestinal worm infections in children. In some cases, children may experience mild abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, diarrhoea and fatigue. These side effects are usually temporary and can be easily handled. Arrangements have been made to manage any adverse events during the National Deworming Programme. Family welfare director Dr RS Chhipi said, “Children up to two years will get half tablet in powdered form mixed in clean water, children in age group from 2 to 3 years will get a full powdered tablet with clean water and children more than three years will be given tablet which they will consume it by chewing with water.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deworming-tablets-will-be-given-to-children-from-today/articleshow/78482492.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur to receive 15 evacuation flights from Dubai via Delhi||JAIPUR: As part of arrangement for evacuation flights, Air India will operate around 15 flights to Dubai via Delhi-Jaipur this month. The flights have already started since October 1 and will continue till October 25. India has entered into a pact with Dubai and some other countries through ‘air bubble’ which has allowed passengers from these countries to fly to India. Authorities at Jaipur airport said the flights from Dubai to Jaipur are running packed and many people are availing these facilities. “We will handle at least 15 evacuation flights till October 15,” said a senior officer of Airports Authority of India (AAI) in Jaipur on Sunday. Flights are coming from Abu Dhabi to Delhi and Jaipur. “At least six flights are slated for Abu Dhabi where we have an air bubble arrangement,” said an officer. It may be recalled that Jaipur had witnessed evacuation flights from the countries including United Kingdom, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Kuwait, Kazakhstan, Tazakistan and Russia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-to-receive-15-evacuation-flights-from-dubai/articleshow/78482516.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Trichy||BDU syndicate rejects NMC plea to conduct MPhil, PhD programmes||Trichy: Sending strong message to colleges making money through research programmes by resorting to unfair means, Bharathidasan University (BDU) has refused to give relief to Nehru Memorial College (NMC) in Puthanampatti, which was barred from offering MPhil and PhD programmes for two years. A syndicate sub-committee, which probed the irregularities last year, found that NMC had enrolled candidates in excess numbers in M Phil and PhD programs for 2018-19. Accepting the recommendations of the committee, BDU barred the college from offering MPhil and PhD programmes for two years, 2019-2021. The NMC management, however, gave a representation to the university in January this year seeking relief. The college sought permission to offer MPhil and PhD for the academic year (2020-21). Research departments at the college are unable to engage in new research activities. While it is affecting the academic development of the research guides, its prospects in NIRF and NAAC are likely to be affected as the college is unable to show better details in the absence of MPhil and PhD programmes. The subject was placed in the recently-held syndicate meeting for discussion. While vice-chancellor P Manisankar put forth the request from the college in the syndicate, higher education secretary S Apoorva stressed that such colleges should suffer for the irregularity they had committed. The syndicate later decided to defer a decision on the request from NMC. NMC made use of the demand for MPhil and PhD programmes, especially among government school teachers. While they get paid incentives for additional qualifications, there are brokers who lure teachers to get admitted to the college. The college gets faculty from outside who come to just sign the paper and the colleges admit students. Many among the faculty members were retired staff. As per the revised UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of MPhil./PhD Degrees) regulations, 2016, a professor can guide 4 MPhil students, associate professors can guide two students and an assistant professor guide only one student. But the college with roughly 40 eligible faculty members can ideally guide 160 MPhil students, but it has enrolled more than 500 candidates. Brokers get teachers registered to colleges for MPhil for Rs 50,000 and ensure that they complete it without much effort. While this would help teachers get additional incentive of Rs 5,000 per month for the rest of their service, the deal is lucrative for them anyway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-syndicate-rejects-nmc-plea-to-conduct-mphil-phd-programmes/articleshow/78483091.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corona patient’s car stolen near Jodhpur village||AHMEDABAD: The car of a Covid-19 positive patient, who along with his son were hospitalized, has been stolen from Sudha Kalash Society near Jodhpur village in Satellite locality of the city. In his FIR, Poonam Modi, who is a driver by profession, says that he and his son were hospitalized at SVP Hospital in Ellisbridge after testing Covid-19 positive. His family members, following the government protocol, were in isolation. “After I was discharged from the hospital on September 14, I went to buy milk on the morning of September 15 and found that my car was not parked near the house. I tried searching for it and later realized that it had been stolen,” alleges Modi in his FIR. Modi filed a complaint in this regard on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-patients-car-stolen/articleshow/78481620.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Mfg placement almost zero; Ed-Tech companies shimmer||Pune: The placement season for 2020-21, underway since the past two months at city engineering colleges, has seen manufacturing and civil engineering placements hit a rock bottom, while IT placements have been better since last year, said college training and placement officers. One major change this year have been the large number of placements in educational technology (Ed-Tech) companies, with some set-ups visiting the campus multiple times and paying salaries amounting to around Rs8 lakh per year.Karthick Subramanian, head of training and placement at Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said, “Currently, IT placements are going on very well but manufacturing and civil placements are almost zero. Due to the lockdown and the ongoing pandemic situation, the manufacturing sector has been hit really hard and hence there is no placement there. Another new entrant in the market are educational technology companies. We have had two such major companies coming in twice for placements paying a decent salary of Rs8 lakh or so, per annum.”Amit Rajurkar, training and placement officer at MKSSS Cummins College of Engineering for Women, also said that mechanical and civil engineering placements were at their lowest point due to the pandemic affecting manufacturing and real estate sector. “But Computer/IT students are getting placed as before. In fact, banking has picked up and companies are hiring big,” said Rajurkar.However, training and placement in-charge of College of Engineering Pune said that the placement season has begun well and they had companies lined up even for mechanical and civil engineering students.Meanwhile, Dr Anurag Kashyap, principal of MKSSS’s Dr Bhanuben Nanavati College of Architecture for Women (BNCA) explained that there are two aspects of placement — first are the internships that are currently underway, next will be job placement that will take place after two months once internships end and the thesis is submitted . “All of our students have got placed for internships. The sector is expecting a bounce back sooner or later. Architecture requires a lot of work in the drawing stage, which is currently underway, before the actual on-ground work starts. Also, the fact that most architecture firms today have adopted high technologies and are able to work online has also enabled such a situation that may not have been possible a decade ago. Once students complete their internships, some go for postgraduation while some opt for work. Those with internship experience and a good record automatically get placed and this year seems to be surprisingly exceptional from that perspective,” said Kashyap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mfg-placement-almost-zero-ed-tech-companies-shimmer/articleshow/78481633.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Trichy||MKU ex-registrar may be senate nominee for BDU VC search panel||Trichy: Former registrar of Madurai Kamaraj University, V Alagappan, is most likely to be the senate nominee for the three-member vice chancellor search committee of Bharathidasan University (BDU).A section of senate members has planned to nominate his name, which is expected to be supported by most other members. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu government college teachers association (TNGCTA) has decided to field a candidate for senate nominee in the VC search panel.The search panel will have a nominee each from syndicate and senate of the university. Following which the state government will appoint a convener for the committee to start the selection process.A special meeting of the syndicate was held on Thursday in which S Mohan, retired professor from Alagappa University, was selected unopposed as nominee of the syndicate for the search panel.A TNGCTA member said that even last time they had fielded a candidate as they expect someone to represent them in the panel. Since some of the members including the university administrators have already shortlisted a name, let the voting decide on the senate nominee, said the member.A special meeting of senate is scheduled for Friday, in which senate nominee is expected to be selected. The three-year tenure of the incumbent vice chancellor P Manisankar ends in January next year. With only three months left for the tenure to end, the process for the selection of the next vice chancellor started a few days back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mku-ex-registrar-may-be-senate-nominee-for-bdu-vc-search-panel/articleshow/78483096.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 5, 2020||Surat||100 fresh Covid-19 cases; 3 deaths in Surat Rural||Surat: Surat rural reported 100 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 8,084 in Surat district. Three more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 258 in Surat district. Out of the 100 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, a large number of cases were reported from semi-urban talukas like Choryashi (24), Bardoli (18), Kamrej (16), Palsana (15) and Olpad (12). Till now, 6,770 patients have been discharged after they recovered from the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/100-fresh-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-in-surat-rural/articleshow/78481629.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard that killed 11-yr-old trapped||Pithoragarh/Dehradun: Days after an 11-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard in Pithoragarh’s Chhanna village, the big cat was trapped in a cage installed here on Sunday morning. Later in the day, the leopard was shifted to Almora’s rescue centre. Earlier, the forest department had installed cages in Badauni and Chhanna villages to trap the two leopards on prowl in Pithoragarh. This was done after Uttarakhand’s chief wildlife warden, on September 24, had ordered either to kill or trap the two big cats. It is worth mentioning that the other big cat was killed by a hunter on September 30. These big cats had, in separate incidents, killed two persons and injured another in the district. “On Sunday morning, Chhanna village locals informed the forest department that a leopard had got trapped in a cage. Soon after, the animal was transported to Almora’s rescue centre,” said Dinesh Joshi, forest ranger. Meanwhile, another leopard, which had attacked a nine-year-old girl in Almora village on September 19, was declared a man-eater. Additionally, a team of forest officials and sharp shooters have reached the spot on Sunday to either kill or tranquilise the big cat. Mahatim Yadav, DFO, Almora, said, “We had been scanning the area ever since the attack to find out and cage the leopard but it has not been tracked so far.” According to TOI sources, shooter Lakhpat Rawat has been deployed to eliminate the big cat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-that-killed-11-yr-old-trapped/articleshow/78480664.cms||Prem Punetha
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Case lodged for posting obscene content on FB||Haridwar: City police on Sunday registered a case against an unidentified person for uploading obscene content involving child pornography on Facebook, a social media platform. The crime came to light when the Facebook team lodged a complaint regarding the offensive content. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “A complaint was received from the National Cyber Crime Reporting. Facebook had filed a complaint there regarding the objectionable content. The preliminary probe has revealed that content was posted from Haridwar city and a case has been registered against the unknown person under the IT act and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is going on.” It is the second such case to be registered in Haridwar after February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/case-lodged-for-posting-obscene-content-on-fb/articleshow/78480651.cms||MS Nawaz
October 5, 2020||Trichy||Understanding tax law is understanding economy: HC judge||Trichy: Understanding tax law is akin to understanding economy, which is to be understood from a society’s underlying structure – its health, wealth, productivity, defense mechanism and civil order, said Justice M M Sundresh, judge of Madras high court. Delivering the valedictory address at the XVI Nani Palkhivala Tax Moot Court competition, the judge appreciated the level of commitment and deep research done by the participants. The virtual five-bench jury headed by the judge comprised retired Justice R V Easwar, senior advocates and additional solicitor general N Venkataraman, Vikramjit Banerjee and senior advocate and additional advocate general (AAG) of Tamil Nadu Arvindh Pandian. The student team from Tamil Nadu National Law University, Trichy was adjudged winners while the team from Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) Punjab was runner-up. They were awarded trophies, certificates and a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000 respectively. Student participants in all the 16 teams were presented a copy of the book “Nani Palkhivala – Courtroom Genius” by Sastra which is also celebrating the Nani Palkhivala Centenary Year. Ashwani Nag and Sridatta Charan of Symbiosis Law School Pune were presented best speaker and researcher awards respectively while best memorials award went to National Law University, Delhi. The moot problem was designed by Lakshmikumaran and Sridharan Attorneys which also offered internships to Sastra students Sai Sashank and Shreya Gopal, the moot conveners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/understanding-tax-law-is-understanding-economy-hc-judge/articleshow/78483094.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||E-challans over seatbelts to resume soon in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Nearly three years after the issuance of e-challans to car drivers for driving without wearing seatbelt was halted, the city traffic police will resume the process with more advanced technology, claimed cops. After a hue and cry over the wrong issuance of e-challans, the city traffic police had in September 2017 stopped sending these digital memos. “At that time, people were issued e-challans in cases where the CCTV camera footage could give clear evidence, but some memos were also issued on basis of assumptions. Besides, the CCTV cameras, in many cases, could not capture violations of the seatbelt rule. So, it was then decided not to send e-challans to car drivers for not wearing seatbelts,” said Tejas Patel, deputy commissioner of police, traffic (admin). In one such instance a man from the Ambawadi was issued an e-challan of Rs 1,000, because the CCTV camera failed to detect his white seatbelt, which was strapped on. Earlier, e-challans were issued by cops who monitored real-time traffic activities. But now with the more advanced surveillance system, the cameras will track offenders, identify their vehicle details and the e-challans will be sent to them automatically, said a traffic police officer. “With more advanced city surveillance and intelligent traffic monitoring system, the camera images will be analysed by a software which will ascertain whether a person is wearing a seatbelt from the crease on clothes,” claimed an officer. He claimed that this will also result in higher collection of fines and better safety of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-challans-over-seatbelts-to-resume-soon-in-city/articleshow/78481628.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 186 fraud cases in sending people abroad||AHMEDABAD: The state government informed in the recently concluded monsoon session of the Gujarat assembly that as many as 186 cases of people being cheated with the lure of sending them abroad have been registered against 436 persons during the past five years. Between January 2015 and December 2019, there were 186 complaints filed across the state, in which 305 persons were arrested, while 131 are absconding, stated a written reply by the chief minister (who holds the home department portfolio). The CM replied to a question by Kalol MLA Baldevji Thakor, who also sought to know the reasons why many accused in such cheating cases continue to remain elusive. Stating the reasons why the culprits have not been arrested yet, the government replied that a number of accused have got a stay from the high court on their arrest, while some accused are from other states and repeated attempts to trace them have been futile. The government also said that there have been instances where names and addresses of the accused were incomplete and many have fled the country after selling off their possessions. Vadodara city, Surat city, Ahmedabad city and Anand top the state in the number of cases where people have been duped in their attempt to go abroad. Apart from cases registered in regular police stations, the state government also provided the numbers of cases registered, arrests made, and absconders in cases registered by the CID crime, Ahmedabad railway police and Vadodara railway police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/186-fraud-cases-in-sending-people-abroad/articleshow/78481642.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||4 arrested by UP police for creating fake mining portal||LUCKNOW: A 20-year-old youth, who created a fake website of the mining department, and his three aides were arrested by the cyber cell of the UP police on Sunday. Those arrested were identified as Mukesh Kumar Kesari, Manoj Kumar Kesari, Ankit Kumar Kesari and Vishal Kumar Kesari, all natives of Prayagraj. Mining officer Subhash Ranjanhad lodged a case in this connection on January 11. The team recovered five android phones, two laptops and a computer from the accused. Explaining the modus operandi of the accused, superintendent of police, cyber cell, Triveni Singh said that the gang used a spoofed website. They copied source code from the original site of the mining department and pasted it in a new spoofed domain to create eMM11 papers by using QR studio software created barcoded QR code. After that it was pasted on fake eMM11 paper so that it appeared authentic when scanned through the barcode application. Singh further said that Vishal Kumar, who was the mastermind, hinted at the nexus of mining officers and lessees of the mining field which is being investigated. Singh said as per rules mining activities are possible only after generation of eMM11 pass from the website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-arrested-for-creating-fake-mining-portal/articleshow/78483095.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Teacher helps PCMC school students keep in touch with learning||Pune: Students of Sonawane Wasti school number 93 in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have their own cellphone application to get study material or to keep track of their homework. It has homework for students, interactive tests and information about the school for students and their parents. The school, which has standards I to VII, has 270-odd students mostly from the nearby industrial area. Dayanand Yadav, a teacher, developed the application for the school which is on the outskirts of the municipal limits with help from an IT firm. Yadav’s initiative has garnered support from parents who praised his efforts to facilitate digital learning. Suryakant Torangi, a supervisor at Talawade industrial area and a parent, said their wards are learning online in a corporation school without spending any extra money. “In times when private schools insist on more money, such corporation schools restore the faith in education and teaching,” he said. Digambar Rathod, another parent said such is the bond between the teacher and students that the wards can call the teachers at any time in case of any difficulty, and teachers solve it. Yadav said they created the application last June, but the actual use of the application started this year. “We did not think that the application would prove so useful for students, especially in the lockdown. The interactive nature of the application makes it fun to use for the students, who prefer to explore it more rather than playing video games,” he said. Jyotsna Shinde, administrative officer in PCMC, said such initiatives are necessary for civic schools. “We will encourage such initiatives in other schools as well,” she said Several corporation schools are engaged in extra-curricular activities that are enhancing the learning of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teacher-helps-pcmc-school-students-keep-in-touch-with-learning/articleshow/78481648.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 5, 2020||Jaipur||North Western Railway may get at least 10 pairs of trains from October 15||JAIPUR: North Western Railway (NWR) authorities are upbeat following a decision by the Indian Railways to operate 100 pairs of trains from October 15 to cater to the festival rush. Though the railways has not yet announced the list of trains, NWR said they were expecting at least 10 pair of trains exclusively for the region while hoping passage to trains of other zones through NWR. TOI on Sunday spoke to the authorities on their preparedness for the festival rush. “We are expecting enhancement in inter-state connectivity, especially Jaipur to Jodhpur, Jaipur to Bikaner and Jaipur to Sriganganagar. Also, trains to Delhi from Jaipur are likely to be increased,” said a senior officer of NWR. Authorities said there was a huge demand of trains especially to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and parts of southern India. “Trains to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and parts of southern India, including Tamil Nadu and Kerala, are very few. We are expecting announcement of some trains for these states too,” the officer added. NWR chief public relations officer Sunil Beniwal said, “We are hopeful to get at least 10 pairs of trains. Actual status would be known only after arrival of final list.” There is a possibility to have trains to Lucknow, Chennai, Varanasi and other places from Jaipur. “I think Indian Railways has planned the trains from October 15 to November 20, which will facilitate passengers planning to travel from Navratra, Durga Puja and towards Diwali and Chat Puja seasons. Hopefully, we will also get more trains to West Bengal and Gujarat,” said an officer. Presently, NWR is running nearly 19 pairs of trains to various inter-state and intra-state destinations which are not only running packed, but are showing no room vacant situation especially for the Navratra week and during the upcoming festive season. “Trains are all running packed. Every day we are getting queries from the passengers to know about the status of running of trains to the destinations where no trains are available right now,” said a railway ticket booking agent at Gopal Bari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-may-get-at-least-10-pairs-of-trains-from-oct-15/articleshow/78482543.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Parents protest on JM Road over school fees||Pune: Parents of school-going children in the city staged a protest on Sunday morning at Jhansi Ki Rani (Balgandharva Rangmandir) Chowk demanding a reduction in fees by schools as many of the infrastructure facilities were unused. The protest was led by the city unit of Aam Admi Party (AAP) along with a group of parents of school-going children called 'Pune Parents United' on immediate action to be taken by the government.Mukund Kirdat of AAP said, “The schools are ignoring the parents' demands and are forcing them to pay fees on the pretext of online education. Considering the given situation, by now it must be clear that even if our battle is against the schools, they will not pay us any attention. So now, parents are forced to come to the streets in protest bearing the brunt of the Covid pandemic.”Parents from various schools participated in the protest demanding ‘immediate ordinance regarding fee regulation.’ Kalpana Katariya, a participant, said, “During this pandemic, a majority of the businesses and enterprises in our state have come to a grinding halt and citizens are faced with massive economic losses. Students cannot attend schools and some schools are conducting online classes. Parents need some respite from the fees pressure.”The Pune Parents United said parents are compelled to pay school fees. “Fearing harassment of their children, parents are helpless to raise their voice against this. The parents are sensible enough to understand that the schools have to pay salaries to the teachers and the non-teaching staff. Some schools are forcing the parents to pay the fees by threatening to deny access to online classes in case the fees are not paid,” added Kirdat.Grievances On The Plate Parents want fees be cut down as expenses on gymnasiums, labs, school lunch, transport, deposit, examinations and repairs are savedBarring the expenses related to salaries of teachers and non-teaching staff, other expenses have not been incurred State education minister Varsha Gaikwad had issued an order on May 8 prohibiting a fee hike and to give concession in feesHowever, the Bombay high court has stayed this order||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-protest-on-jm-road-over-school-fees/articleshow/78481650.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana cops to leverage building plan database for anti-terror operations||HYDERABAD: To make the anti-terror operations in the city more efficient, Telangana police has planned to integrate the building plans approved by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) with the database of police. The integration is expected to help the anti-terror Octopus commandos, who can handle a crisis by tapping the building floor plans. Infrastructure for the database will be set up at the upcoming twin-towers that will house both Hyderabad police commissionerate and command control centre. The police have planned to place a repository of information in the towers. The command control centre will help officials tackle any crisis without a long delay. “The plan is being executed as part of our preparedness to tackle extreme crisis. When the terror strike took place in Mumbai’s Taj Hotel and surrounding areas in 2008, non-availability of building floor plans led to major delays and issues for security teams. To overcome such problems, integration of data between GHMC and Telangana police has been taken up, so the command control centre will be able to monitor and give instructions to the teams on the ground,” sourced in the office of DGP told TOI. The database is also expected to be of help in case of fire in high rise buildings. The fire department will have prior knowledge about about all entrances that are viable to them, the location of water sources and piping network. The twin towers of 5.5 lakh square feet are under construction since 2015 and expected to come into operations from next year. The towers, which was proposed in 2014 by then Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahendar Reddy, was accepted by Telangana government and the construction contract was given to Shapoorji Pallonji. One tower will be of 20 stories while the other building will be of 15 stories. Initially, Mahendar Reddy had approached Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) to design the twin-towers structure and elevation. Officials expect that the twin towers will help in better inter-departmental coordinated meetings while organizing bandobust for mega events during different festivals, public meetings and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-to-leverage-building-plan-database-for-anti-terror-ops/articleshow/78482545.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Thane builder’s only son caught with 7 stolen phones||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch held the only son of a builder of Thane, Maharashtra, and his accomplice with seven stolen cellphones from Ellisbridge on Sunday. Mohammednawaz Shaikh, 22, the builder’s son, currently resides in Labbaik Park in Juhapura and did TyBCom in Mumbai. His accomplice, Faisal Khan, 27, is a resident of Shahibaug. Both were accused of snatching cellphones from pedestrians. Shaikh is fluent in English and used to work in a bank. He fell in love with his team leader there and married her in 2019. However, after the love marriage his father threw him out of home, and he came to Ahmedabad and started living in a rented house in Juhapura. ACP, crime branch, D P Chudasama said after running out of money Shaikh started snatching phones from pedestrians. “He was arrested once in Mumbai for phone snatching in 2020. We have informed out Mumbai counterparts of Shaikh’s arrest,” Chudasama said. Crime branch sources said that during the last one month the accused had snatched phones in Shahibaug, Madhavpura and Shahpur. “The accused used to target people talking on the phone while walking, and snatched away their phones. We have detected four cases of phone snatching in Shahibaug. While the other offences have not been reported to the police,” said a crime branch source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thane-builders-only-son-caught-with-7-stolen-phones/articleshow/78481651.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Woman steals jewellery from her home in Lucknow, arrested||LUCKNOW: Police probing jewellery theft were shocked, and so was the family, when the domestic help, who was spotted carrying a ‘dholak’ suspiciously in the CCTV footage, revealed on grilling that her employer had made her conceal the jewellery in it. During the probe, when police scanned the CCTV footage and saw unusual behavior of domestic help Upasana Shukla and grilled her, she revealed that she concealed jewellery worth Rs 40 lakh in the ‘dholak’ cavity on insistence of her employer Anju Mishra, the lady of the house. After the confession, police arrested Shukla, Anju Mishra, Salman, Amir and Poonam. SHO Saadatganj M P Singh said one Harishshankar Mishra, a petrol pump owner and property dealer, had on Friday filed a complaint about theft of jewellery worth Rs 40 lakh from his house. “A team reached the house and began a probe. When CCTV footage was checked, Upasana and Amir were seen walking in an unusual way while holding a ‘dholak’ and made us suspicious,” said Singh. When Upasana was rounded up, she spilled the beans, he added. “She revealed that Harishankar kept all the jewellery in a briefcase and did not allow anybody to enter that room. His wife Anju emptied the briefcase in his absence. The jewellery was hidden in the cavity of ‘dholak’ that was moved to the house of a neighbor Poonam,” the SHO said. The dholak and jewellery were recovered from the house of Poonam but the motive of the theft could not be ascertained, the police said. TOI tried to contact Harishankar but he did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-steals-jewellery-from-her-home-arrested/articleshow/78483097.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||FTII, NFAI take winter film course online||Pune: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) and the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) will take their flagship winter film appreciation course, similar to their well-known summer course, online, over four weeks in November and December. The course will be directed by the filmmaker and editor Arunaraje Patil, who is also an alumni of the FTII, and will run from November 23 to December 19, with four hours of lessons each day. Only 50 participants will be admitted and the admissions are dependent on applications that the organisers want before October 12. According to the FTII, while the winter course was supposed to go ahead, the push came from the worldwide response to the summer course, which received many times the number of applications to its maximum strength. “Around 170 applications were received for the summer film appreciation course from all over the world, and a few also came in after the deadline. So this will be an opportunity for many people to apply for the course again, if they did not get selected the previous time, as well as for new ones, who learnt of the course now,” FTII director Bhupendra Kainthola said. The course is structured around classic Indian and world cinema, including landmark films by auteurs of cinema, across the prominent film industries in India. Participants will have to watch the films to be discussed, and then be pointed out the intricacies of the film, with regard to their structure, the screenplay, music, and other tools that makes a film a classic. Also included is the socio-political analysis of the films, including its backdrop, or the role of gender and the portrayal of women by certain filmmakers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-nfai-take-winter-film-course-online/articleshow/78481653.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beaten up in Bapunagar||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Odhav, Rajesh Nishad, lodged a complaint with Bapunagar police on Saturday that he was stabbed and beaten up by the husband and two brothers of the woman he was staying with for the past two years. Police have registered a case under sections 324, 323, 294(b) and 114 against the accused and are searching for them. Nishad stated in the FIR that he had been staying with a woman whose husband had gone to Azamgadh, Uttar Pradesh for the past three years. In September, the woman’s husband returned and found Nishad in his house. On the same day he and the woman’s two brothers came and beat him up on the roadside. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-up-in-bapunagar/articleshow/78481660.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Agra||Ex-BJP MLA hosts gathering of upper caste men seeking ‘justice’ for Hathras gang rape accused||AGRA: A large gathering of upper caste men converged at former Hathras Sadar legislator from BJP Rajveer Pehalwan’s residence in Hathras on Sunday “in support of the four accused” in the gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old dalit girl. Former MLA Rajveer Pehalvan organised a panchayat at his residence in #Hathras. He said the 4 accused can not be pr… https://t.co/6IhWUFMPnS— Anuja Jaiswal (@Anuja_Jaiswal11) 1601820333000“The Constitution says the four accused in the case cannot be pronounced guilty until charges are proven,” Pehalwan told the gathering. His house is some 10km from that of the victim. Later, he told TOI, “People feel they are innocent. I spoke to the family of the accused. The victim’s family is constantly changing its statement. The entire hue and cry is being fuelled by political parties.” Referring to the decision to order a CBI inquiry, he added, “Now they want a judicial inquiry. CBI is the top investigation agency in the country and they don’t trust it.” Within the village, there have been protests by the upper caste community who have been saying they are seeking “justice for the accused.” Some have begun mobilising support for the accused. About 90 km from Hathras, at Etah, an upper caste outfit visited 25 villages across Hathras on Saturday. “Parties are politicising this … Narco tests should be mandated for everyone involved,” a representative of the outfit said. The family had on Saturday said it would not agree to a narco test because they are not the ones “who are lying”. So, the outfit wants a counter-probe: “There should be an investigation to find out if this was a conspiracy to create differences. If any innocent person is falsely accused, a large panchayat will be organised in Lucknow … We will stage Samman Yatra in phases after October 27.” Another fringe right-wing outfit, which has been staging protests outside the victim’s village, took exception to Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad’s demand for judicial oversight of the inquiry. Its representative, Pankaj Dhuriya, has stayed put outside the village, protesting for “justice” for the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault) Watch Hathras rape case: Ex-BJP MLA holds gathering of 'upper-caste' men, says arrested accused not that guilty as shown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-bjp-mla-hosts-gathering-of-upper-caste-men-seeking-justice-for-hathras-gang-rape-accused/articleshow/78481654.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||4 peddlers held with 21 kg ganja in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The excise enforcement team arrested four peddlers and seized 21 kilogram of ganja from their possession on Sunday. The peddlers were identified as K Manoj Singh, 42, a resident of Bayamma Galli in Tilak Nagar, K Mahesh Daniel Reddy, 24, of Parsigutta and G Venkata Sai Shashank, 22 of Ramnagar at Tilak Nagar. Around 1.2 kilogram of ganja was seized from their possession. Manoj told excise sleuths that Srujan Kumar of Vidya Nagar had supplied the ganja to them. The team raided Srujan’s house and seized 20 kg of ganja. The accused were handed over to Kacheguda excise station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-peddlers-held-with-21kg-ganja/articleshow/78482579.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Nashik||Nashik is kerosene-free||Nashik: The district is now ‘kerosene-free’ as there is no supply of subsidised kerosene given to any family beneficiary of BPL (BPL), as they now have LPG connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-is-kerosene-free/articleshow/78608209.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 5, 2020||Mysuru||Wife, paramour held for killing husband||GUNDLUPET: A woman and her paramour, who together plotted and killed the former’s husband in Chamarajanagar district were arrested on Saturday. According to the police, the woman identified as 26-year-old Padma from Raghavapura village had lodged a missing complaint for her husband, 40-year-old Nagarajanaik, in September. Padma and her paramour identified as 26-year-old Manikanta allegedly killed Nagarajnaik after the former found them in compromising position in a farm late on September 11, said police. The duo, after beating him to death, threw the body into a canal near Kalale village, they added. The police, who had registered a case of missing person, have now booked a case of murder. A search has been launched to retrieve Nagarajanaik’s body from the canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wife-paramour-held-for-killing-husband/articleshow/78480697.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||8 from city held boozing in Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: Gandhinagar police raided a birthday party of a man from the Sabarmati area of city, and caught him and seven of his friends, all from Ahmedabad, drinking liquor at a house in Adhana village in Kalol taluka of the state capital. According to an FIR filed by Santej police of Gandhinagar, cops got an input that eight persons were holding liquor party at house in Karmbhoomi Society in Adhana village of Kalol on Saturday. When cops reached there, they found five men and three women drunk. Cops said that the accused were aged between 21 and 23 and were residents of Navrangpura, Sabarmati, Astodia, Vejalpur, Chandkheda, Bopal, Usmanpura and Vastrapur. A man from Navrangpura owns the house in Kalol where he had held party for his friend from Sabarmati. Police booked eight persons under charges of prohibition act and seized articles worth Rs 21 lakh from the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-from-city-held-boozing-in-gnagar/articleshow/78481669.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Goa||DoE tells aided schools to follow recruitment rules||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked aided schools to strictly adhere to the norms laid down for them for recruitment of teachers and other staff. The directorate has told schools that the chief fields of evaluation for appointment of teachers should be experience and qualification, written test on subject knowledge and a lesson demonstration. “Under Rule 74 of Goa School Education Rules 1986, the recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff for aided schools is carried out by selection committee constituted by valid school management committee, which has to follow the rules applicable to corresponding posts in government schools,” said director of education Santosh Amonkar in a circular to aided schools. He said that despite the timely instructions in this regard issued to schools, ‘deviation is seen in the selection criteria followed by different schools’. “It is therefore decided to issue revised criteria sheets to be followed by the selection committee at the time of interview while selecting candidate for teaching and non-teaching posts in government aided schools,” said Amonkar. In the case of non-teaching posts, the main criteria for evaluation should be skill test for LDC, practical and written test for laboratory assistant, and written test for librarian, the circular states. While selecting teachers, most of the weightage will be given to their qualifications and experience with 50 marks allotted to this criteria. During lesson demonstration with 25 marks weightage, the teacher will be tested for subject knowledge, communication skills and language, class control and teaching methodology. The additional qualifications the teacher possesses, over and above the basic qualifications required for the post as per recruitment rules, will also be taken into consideration during selection. Norms have been laid down by DoE even for appointment of ayah or helper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doe-tells-aided-schools-to-follow-recruitment-rules/articleshow/78482631.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||G Kishan Reddy inaugurates 280 CCTV cameras in Amberpet||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Sunday inaugurated 280 CCTV cameras from East Zone DCP’s office in Amberpet. The cameras were purchased with Rs 2.45 crore funds sanctioned by Reddy when he represented Amberpet in the assembly. The 280 CCTV cameras with night vision ability were installed at various places in Kachiguda, Amberpet, and Malakpet. Kishan Reddy said that due to urbanisation, crime in cities is increasing and police are using technology to prevent and solve these cases. “Telangana and Andhra police are the best in using technology and I keep hearing praises for them from various central agencies,” Reddy said. Hyderabad is one of the eight cities selected for the safe city project. Centre provides direct financial assistance to promote better policing in these cities. “The new technology is useful for patrolling teams, She teams and in the identification of crime hot spots. We are setting up the world’s first forensic science university in India and the 41% posts, lying vacant in forensic labs, will be filled up soon. Rashtriya Raksha University is also being set up,” Kishan Reddy said. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said that CCTVs are used in the investigation of important cases and Hyderabad currently has 5 lakh of them. Kumar also said that 30-40% of complaints are coming through social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-inaugurates-280-cctv-cameras/articleshow/78482609.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Parents in UP want schools shut till October 31||LUCKNOW: Demanding that students should physically attend classes only if there is a considerable fall in Covid-19 cases, members of ‘Abhibhaavakam’ — a parents’ association in UP — said that the government’s decision of reopening schools from October 15 should be postponed till October 31. The members made the appeal during a webinar ‘Whether schools should open from October 15 in UP?’ organised on Sunday. Parents, who joined from the across the state, said that it’s difficult to monitor each child in a school and whether they are following Covid-19 guidelines. “Hence, schools should not reopen until the spread of Covid-19 is controlled.” The association also demanded that the schools should charge only 50% of the fee as they are not incurring any expenditure on maintaining infrastructure and other facilities. On the other hand, parents are bearing expenses of facilities like an internet connection and electricity which are required for students to attend online classes. Abhibhaavakam’s general secretary Pradeep Srivastavasaid, “In a school where there are common taps, washrooms and only a few entry and exit gates, it’s tough to maintain social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parents-want-schools-shut-till-october-31/articleshow/78483108.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Agra||5 cops test Covid positive, 47 new cases in Agra||AGRA: At least 47 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 5,943. They included five policemen on duty at Chatta police station. Other patients were six suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, five of influenza-like illness, four of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two of kidney ailments. Also, 74 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 5,943 cases, 87.7% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 598 active Covid-19 cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 5,217 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/5-cops-test-covid-ve-47-new-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78481667.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Levies make up 1/3rd of building cost, may be halved||MUMBAI: Building construction in Mumbai is costliest in India with developers paying 22 kinds of premiums and charges that constitute at least a third of the project sale price, according to the state-appointed Deepak Parekh committee report for the sector. But there could soon be some relief for city builders. Last week, civic chief Iqbal Chahal wrote to the state urban development department, suggesting that all premiums, levies and cess charges by BMC be reduced by 50% for one year or up to December 31, 2021. “All political parties in BMC are on board,” he told TOI. According to the Deepak Parekh committee report, in Bengaluru, developers have to pay 10 kinds of premiums and charges, in Delhi five, and in Hyderabad three. It is learnt that based on the committee’s recommendations, the state government is likely to reduce by 50% the hefty premiums and charges paid by builders for a period of one year. The proposal is likely to come up for discussion in the state cabinet meeting on Thursday. This reduction, said developers, will help boost construction activity as many building projects became financially unviable for them because of the high premiums. A builder developing a plot on Pali Hill in Bandra said that while the land cost is Rs 30 crore, he had to pay premiums and cesses amounting to a mind-boggling Rs 60 crore. Another developer who wanted to construct an office building in Chembur found that the premiums he would have to pay the BMC totalled Rs 6 crore when the plot value itself was Rs 5 crore. The Parekh committee report said, “The premium and charges collected in Mumbai is significantly higher than other comparable cities. The number of heads increases based on the type of project and land holding. Thus, for Mumbai, the hefty premium translates into significantly higher costs, resulting in deep inefficiencies and increased working capital requirements in a market where lenders are risk averse and reluctant to fund developers.’’ “When compared to the land value in each city (on the basis of the stamp duty ready reckoner values), the multiple of premium payments to value of land in Mumbai ranges from 1.96x land value for residential developments in the suburbs to 4.23x land value for commercial developments in Mumbai City,’’ it added. Suggesting reduction and rationalisation of charges, the committee said that premium for staircases, lift well and lobbies, amongst several others be reduced by 50% under the Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR) which is payable to the municipal corporation/state government. “These premiums/charges should be paid at the time of granting the occupation certificate, without any interest being levied. In respect of any on-going project where part instalment of the premium has been paid, these projects too should be eligible for reduced charges,’’ the report recommended. “If a developer gets approval of say, a 10-storey building, but has constructed only two storeys, he will be charged only for those two floors.’’ In the last financial year, the BMC collected Rs 2,500 crore through various premiums on construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/levies-make-up-1/3rd-of-bldg-cost-may-be-halved/articleshow/78483110.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Mandya brass keep tabs on functioning of CCCs through Zoom||MANDYA: In a unique initiative aimed at ensuring quality care for patients in Covid Care Centres, the Mandya district administration is using videoconferencing app ‘Zoom’ to monitor functioning of CCCs. Dr Dhananjay, district surveillance officer, said officials are directly interacting with patients, doctors and lower-rung staff in CCCs over the app and it is yielding good results. He said it not only helps the district administration learn firsthand about problems in centres, but also helps it find solutions quickly. “We hit on the idea of using videoconferencing when we found out that some officials and doctors were not providing accurate reports about the functioning of CCS,” Dhananjay said. “There work was not up to the mark. Instead of relying on inputs from officials, we decided to see ground realities for ourselves, albeit through virtual mode.” Dhananjay said that through videoconferences, the administration is now been able to get firsthand information about problems patients, doctors and non-medical staffs face in CCCs. “It even helps us monitor cleanliness at centres and keep tabs on the quality of food being served to patients in real time,” he said. Videoconferences with patients and medical staff are being held at regular intervals, he said. “In one such interaction, patients in Malavalli Town complained that substandard food was being served to them,” Dhananjay said. “We immediately changed the agency. In another instance, patients alleged poor hygiene as sweepers failed to clean toilets regularly. We immediately warned the chief of that centre and the problem was solved. There are hundreds of such examples to show how video conferencing with patients and medical staffs come in handy in improving care and facilities at CCCs.” Mandya deputy commissioner Dr MV Venkatesh said videoconferencing also helps boost morale of lower-rung staff at CCCs as they can air problems such as shortage of staffs, working hours, shortage of medical equipment and even mental stress to the brass. “We do not only interact with patients and doctors. We directly talk with Group D employees and hear their grievances,” Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mandya-brass-keep-tabs-on-functioning-of-cccs-through-zoom/articleshow/78481036.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Gomtinagar residents seek CM help to check monkey menace||LUCKNOW: The residents in some parts of Gomtinagar Extension are grappling with monkey menace for past many months. After their repeated pleas to Lucknow Municipal Corporation went unattended, the resident have now lodged a complaint through Gomtinagar Jankalyan Maha Samiti (GJMS) at the chief minister’s grievance portal, seeking directions from the state government to LMC and the forest department to carry out a monkey catching drive. In its complaint, the Samiti has explained how monkeys damage the electricity poles and TV cable lines, attack people and snatch food items. As a result, children and elderly are forced to stay indoors, while those stepping out in the vicinity remained scared. In some cases, local residents suffered injuries after being chased by the monkeys. GJMS secretary Roop Kumar said “We have asked the government to direct LMC and forest department to catch monkeys and shift them to forests.” Pankaj Gupta, a local resident, said,“Monkeys climb atop the electricity poles and damage wires, leading to power disruptions.” Deepa Bansal, another resident, said monkeys often attack and snatch away food items. People have stopped sitting in their balconies and terrace, she added. (With inputs from Vidushi Agarwal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/residents-seek-cm-help-to-check-monkey-menace/articleshow/78483109.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man mistakes stranger’s body to be dad’s, cremates it||Thiruvananthapuram: In a bizarre case of identity mix-up, a man who mistook an unclaimed body to be his father’s, carried it home and conducted the funeral. Apparently, the man, a resident of Venniyoor near Vizhinjam had not seen his estranged father for a year and identified the stranger to be his father, sources said. The mix-up was revealed when the hospital authorities conducted a routine check and found that nobody has claimed the body of the man from Venniyoor. Both the men had died of Covid on Thursday and their bodies were kept at the mortuary of Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital. The body of the unknown person was the first one to be released. The son of the Venniyoor resident turned up along with the panchayat health inspector to receive the body on Friday. When the mortuary staff showed him the body, he mistook it for his father and took it home and cremated it the same day. Once the hospital officials came to know about the mix-up, they immediately informed the family and requested them to receive the body. “At first, they were not ready to accept our request as they firmly believed that they had cremated the right man. Eventually, the son turned up again after repeated requests and received the body,” a staff member of the hospital said. The family has reportedly refrained from complaining as primarily it was a mistake from the part of the son, who misidentified the body. Old age and the illness might have caused changes in the man’s appearance, the hospital source said. Eventually, the body of the Venniyoor man, was released to the family on Sunday who conducted another funeral, this time for the right person. Though the family has maintained that they do not have any complaints, the hospital authorities have launched an internal probe to find out whether there was any procedural lapse that amounted to the mistake. The probe is conducted by resident medical officer Dr G Mohan Roy. Dr Roy on Sunday visited the family and recorded their statements. Meanwhile, MCH superintendent Dr M S Sharmad said irrespective of whose fault it was, it was a mistake that should not have happened. “If our staff has committed any mistake, they will be held responsible. Hence a probe will be conducted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-mistakes-strangers-body-to-be-dads-cremates-it/articleshow/78481672.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Meerut||Cong functionary announces Rs 1cr on Hathras accused’s ‘head’, arrested||Meerut: A Congress functionary in UP’s Bulandshahr district was on Sunday booked and arrested for allegedly announcing Rs 1crore reward on “the head of Hathras gang-rape and murder accused.” Nizam Malik, a local Congress functionary and district vice-president of the minority cell, told media persons on Saturday, “On behalf of my people and community, I demand that the accused in the case be hanged. Anyone who brings the head of the accused, our community will reward him with Rs 1crore.” Local police took note of the video and registered a case against him on Sunday. Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar said that an FIR under section 505 (2) (statements conducting to public mischief) and 153 (a) (promoting enmity between different group) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Nizam Malik at Khurja Nagar police station. “Malik was later arrested and produced before a magistrate,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cong-functionary-announces-rs-1cr-on-hathras-accuseds-head-arrested/articleshow/78480704.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Mobile app to book zoo tickets||HYDERABAD: To avoid crowding at the ticket counters and ensure safety during the pandemic, the Nehru Zoological Park on Sunday launched its official mobile application where visitors can book their tickets. The facility will be available to the visitors once the zoo resumes its operations from October 6. The mobile app, Nehru Zoological Park, also provides information about the zoo, its activities, animals and adoption details. Besides the app, the authorities also informed that those interested in visiting the zoo can book tickets on the zoo’s official website www.nehruzoopark.in. Reiterating the precautions to be taken by the zoo staff as well as the visitors, a senior forest department official said, “We have advised children below 10 years and adults above 65 years age to avoid visiting the zoo specially on weekends and public holidays when more footfall is expected. Also, in the first phase, only the open enclosure and moats can be visited.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mobile-app-to-book-zoo-tickets/articleshow/78482620.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cigarettes, roses to please Dadhichi Ashram’s Aghori Dada||AHMEDABAD: Hundreds of devotees – most of them wanting their wishes to be fulfilled – line up at the ‘samadhi’ of Aghori Dada every Thursday, offering a cigarette and a rose. Located at the Dadhichi Rishi ashram on the banks of the Sabarmati river, hundreds of devotees visit the shrine every Thursday, even during the pandemic. What’s unique about the shrine is that people cannot offer costly cigarettes or flowers to Aghori Dada. A cheap brand of cigarettes and flowers are offered free by the trust, which devotees offer. “Whether a person comes in a luxurious car or by foot, the same cheap brand of cigarette is offered to Aghori Dada. People cannot offer expensive cigarettes here,” said Hitesh Sevak, managing trustee of Dudhadhari Mahadev Trust. He added that the ‘samadhi’ of Aghori Dada is open for devotees all through the year. “When Covid-19 had not struck, thousands would visit the ‘samadhi’ every Thursday,” Sevak said. The Dadhichi ashram, trustees say, was set up much before Ahmedabad city was founded. “The ashram has a mention in the Bhagavad Gita as well. Much later, Aghoris inhabited the ashram and this shrine of Aghori Dada is very old,” Sevak said. “Items like ‘charas’ and ‘ganja’ are offered to Aghoris, but since these items are prohibited under the law, the practice of offering cigarettes began,” explained Sevak. “Some of the biggest names of Gujarat have visited this shrine and offered cigarettes to Aghori Dada to get their wishes fulfilled. I will not name them though,” Sevak said. Devotees light up a cigarette from a flame that is burning at the shrine and offer it to Aghori Dada by placing it in a rack located next to the shrine. “Devotees experience Aghori Dada puffing on the cigarette, and then their wishes get fulfilled,” Sevak explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cigarettes-roses-to-please-dadhichi-ashrams-aghori-dada/articleshow/78481682.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kochi||KU receives 90k plus applications for 42k odd seats||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala University has witnessed a huge spike in the number of candidates seeking admission to undergraduate (UG) courses, for which centralised-allotment process is in progress. The spike is mainly attributed to the slump in demand for courses elsewhere in the country due to Covid-19 pandemic. According to varsity authorities, the university has received more than 90,000 applications against a total of 42,000-odd seats vacant in university departments and affiliated colleges. The varsity had to reject around 7,500 applications for various reasons. “During the first phase of the allotment, 25,000 seats have been allotted and a little over 16,000 candidates have taken admission by remitting fees and completing other formalities. The second phase of the allotment is likely to take place in the second week of October. The university would also give a supplementary chance for those who have failed to take admission despite having figured in the allotment lists,” university sources said. The impact of Covid-19 was pointed as the major reason for the unprecedented increase in the number of students seeking admission to UG courses in colleges within the state. “Owing to the pandemic, many are not keen on seeking admission in colleges outside the state. This must have triggered the demand for UG admission here. We hope the higher demand could be met, at least partially, when formalities for starting a set of new-generation courses are completed,” said syndicate standing committee on finance K H Babujan. A draft ordinance to the effect of amending the university statutes for the introduction of new set of ‘cutting-edge’ courses was submitted to governor Arif Mohammed Khan for his approval. If the governor, in his capacity as the chancellor of state universities, gives his stamp of approval to the statute amendments, there could be an increase of close to 3,000 additional UG seats under Kerala University. Admission process to such courses, for which several self-financing institutions have already approached the university, would be conducted separately. An expert committee appointed by the government had recommended a bouquet of 150 new-generation courses, courting both applause and criticism for the speed with which the committee had come up with new course proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ku-receives-90k-plus-applications-for-42k-odd-seats/articleshow/78489390.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 5, 2020||Kochi||LSGD insists on compliance with rules||Thiruvananthapuram: The local self-government department (LSGD) has issued directives to secretaries of local bodies on ensuring safety guidelines pertaining to installation of glass doors and partitions in buildings. As per the order issued by principal secretary of urban affairs Biswanath Sinha, lapses in complying with guidelines on installation of glass partition have been posing serious safety hazards. The secretaries of local bodies need to ensure that toughened or laminated glass are used for glass partitions and doors. Besides, there shall be appropriate indicators in the form of message, labels or stickers to denote the presence of glass. Proper marking on direction to which the glass door opens should also be ensured. The order has mandated that in high rises use of glass shall be governed by the document ‘guidelines on use of glass in buildings-human safety 2015’. In June, a woman had succumbed to injuries after shards of glass from the door in a bank pierced her body in Ernakulam. She had rushed out of the bank to grab the keys from her two-wheeler and she ran straight into the door, shattering the glass and injuring herself fatally. As per the document, some materials like glass may break under impact and cause injury. Most people are aware of this and treat such materials with due care. However, a person’s ability to perceive this potential risk and to cope with it can vary. Safety standards are therefore based on many factors, including the assumption of a reasonable level of awareness and behaviour and suitable product design and choice of materials, the document notes. The document says that the designer should take precautions to reduce the risk of injuries from accidental human impact in these locations by selecting glass of a suitable type, thickness and size, primarily with reference to impact behaviour and safety characteristics and providing mechanical protection to glass in critical locations to prevent fall of glass under impact. Chief town planner (planning) had sent a letter to LSGD citing the need for compliance with guidelines to prevent accidents from unscientific installation of glass doors and partitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lsgd-insists-on-compliance-with-rules/articleshow/78480725.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||2 held for illegal sale of gutkha in Hyderabad||Hyderabad: The task force sleuths raided two houses in Chandrayanagutta and Fateh Nagar and seized gutkha and illegally imported foreign cigarette worth Rs 10 lakh. HYDERABAD:Police took two persons into custody. The accused were handed over to local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-for-illegal-sale-of-gutkha/articleshow/78482623.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Agra||RLD, SP workers lathicharged in Hathras||AGRA: After a day-long reprieve, in which media and politicians were allowed into the village where the 19-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped lived, Hathras was virtually sealed again on Sunday. When RLD workers, led by former MP Jayant Chaudhary, were approaching the village, they were lathicharged by the police on the main access road. “I am safe but my workers, who tried to save me, were beaten up by the police,” Chaudhary said, adding, “There was no need for this inhuman action. We had gone there in a disciplined manner. We know the case is sensitive and we don’t want to make anything worse.” Joint magistrate Prem Prakash Meena said only five-person delegations are being allowed into the village: “Despite being told, RLD workers tried to break the barricades, in which some women constables and the circle officer were injured … An FIR will be registered against them.” Around that time, Samajwadi Party workers also gathered at the main access to the village. “Around 2.30pm, there were hundreds of workers from RLD and SP, violating prohibitory orders. They pelted stones on the police, so police had to use force on the mob,” Meena added. An RLD delegation and a delegation of 11 Samajwadi Party workers led by president of the state unit, Naresh Uttam Patel, were allowed to meet the family. Shortly after that, Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad also reached Hathras to meet the girl’s family. “Section 144 is in place only for those who want to meet the victim’s family. People from the other community are meanwhile holding panchayats with a large number in attendance to support the accused,” he said after meeting the girl’s family. He added that the girl’s father had told him that the family “is not feeling secure, pressure exerted from all sides ... The family should get Y-level security.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rld-sp-workers-lathicharged-in-hathras/articleshow/78481684.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 5, 2020||Meerut||Runaway girl, 11, rescued moments before being 'sold' into into flesh trade||Meerut: An 11-year-old girl who fled from her home after being scolded by parents was on Sunday freed by police from the clutches of human traffickers in Meerut. The rescue came in the nick of time. According to city police, an auto-rickshaw driver-- who had befriended the girl and had brought her home-- was about to “sell” her. “Once sold, it would have been difficult to trace her,” a police officer said. The girl went missing on September 28. “The auto-rickshaw driver had brought the girl home and was holding her captive. A woman, the driver’s friend, was also involved in it. They were planning to sell her and would have most-likely changed the location of the girl. The case would have taken a turn for worse had we not received the inputs about the girl’s location on time,” said Anand Mishra, station house officer at Partapur police station. The girl was rescued from a house in the city's Ganganagar area. The driver and his woman friend have been arrested. Police also said that the accused driver has been involved in several such crimes in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/runaway-girl-11-rescued-moments-before-being-sold-into-into-flesh-trade/articleshow/78480721.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Travel agents on 18,000 km expedition to revive tourism get warm welcome in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: In an attempt to revive and promote domestic tourism which has taken a hit in the last few months in view of coronavirus lockdown, a group of six travel agents from Surat, Ahmedabad and Mumbai have embarked on an 18000-km expedition across the country. The team, which started its 36-day expedition from Surat on September 18, reached Lucknow on Sunday where it was welcomed by the office-bearers of Travel Trade Association of Uttar Pradesh (TTAUP). The team comprises four members from Surat and one each from Ahmedabad and Mumbai. The association’s president Vivek Pandey, vice-president SMA Sheeraz, general secretary Mohd Azam, joint secretary Sandeep Srivastava, treasurer Rajiv Arora and managing committee members Arshad Zaidi and Makki Ameen were also present on the occasion. “Tourism plays an important role in employment generation and contributes in the country’s economic growth. The sector should be revive soon for the country’s growth,” TTAUP vice-president SMA Sheeraz said. Rajiv Shah (56) from Surat said, “No sector has remained unaffected from the economic slowdown due to the pandemic and travel industry is no exception. As we are in Unlock phases now, everything is returning to normal. Travel industry should also needs a boost.” “We have started this road trip to support the message of ‘Vocal for Local’ and urge locals to travel domestically,” he added. Other members of the team are Ritesh Parekh (45), Sanjay Patel (45), Nitin Gupta (37) from Surat, Thomas Koshy (48) from Ahmedabad and Pawan Dubey (38) from Mumbai. During the expedition, the team is visiting Koteshwar in the west, Leh in the north, Tezu in the east and Kanyakumari in the south and capitals of 34 states and Union Territories. This expedition aims at encouraging people to slowly begin travelling. Updates of their movement will be available on Facebook page ‘vocalforlocalexpedition’ and Instagram page ‘vocal_for_local_expedition’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/travel-agents-on-18000-km-expedition-to-revive-tourism-get-warm-welcome-in-city/articleshow/78483115.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KU receives 90k plus applications for 42k odd seats||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala University has witnessed a huge spike in the number of candidates seeking admission to undergraduate (UG) courses, for which centralised-allotment process is in progress. The spike is mainly attributed to the slump in demand for courses elsewhere in the country due to Covid-19 pandemic. According to varsity authorities, the university has received more than 90,000 applications against a total of 42,000-odd seats vacant in university departments and affiliated colleges. The varsity had to reject around 7,500 applications for various reasons. “During the first phase of the allotment, 25,000 seats have been allotted and a little over 16,000 candidates have taken admission by remitting fees and completing other formalities. The second phase of the allotment is likely to take place in the second week of October. The university would also give a supplementary chance for those who have failed to take admission despite having figured in the allotment lists,” university sources said. The impact of Covid-19 was pointed as the major reason for the unprecedented increase in the number of students seeking admission to UG courses in colleges within the state. “Owing to the pandemic, many are not keen on seeking admission in colleges outside the state. This must have triggered the demand for UG admission here. We hope the higher demand could be met, at least partially, when formalities for starting a set of new-generation courses are completed,” said syndicate standing committee on finance K H Babujan. A draft ordinance to the effect of amending the university statutes for the introduction of new set of ‘cutting-edge’ courses was submitted to governor Arif Mohammed Khan for his approval. If the governor, in his capacity as the chancellor of state universities, gives his stamp of approval to the statute amendments, there could be an increase of close to 3,000 additional UG seats under Kerala University. Admission process to such courses, for which several self-financing institutions have already approached the university, would be conducted separately. An expert committee appointed by the government had recommended a bouquet of 150 new-generation courses, courting both applause and criticism for the speed with which the committee had come up with new course proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ku-receives-90k-plus-applications-for-42k-odd-seats/articleshow/78481692.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More teeth to road safety authority||Thiruvananthapuram: State government is considering providing more teeth to Kerala road safety authority by amending the Kerala Road Safety Authority Act, 2007, for transforming KRSA as an enforcement agency to ensure effective implementation of road rules. The draft amendment prepared by former DGP and road safety commissioner N Shanker Reddy before he retired from the service, proposes to bring the 300-plus staff under the motor vehicles department (MVD). This includes 85 enforcement squads, 14 control rooms and the 14 motor vehicle inspectors manning them and 14 RTOs under the direct control of the road safety commissioner. The draft has also recommended highway police to be brought under direct control of the authority. In addition to these, the proposed amendments have also recommended that the control of cameras of both MVD and the police along highways in the state (230 cameras of MVD and 100 of the police) be vested with the road safety authority, which will be responsible for slapping fine on vehicles violating traffic rules and detected through the cameras. The amendments have been forwarded to the government and the government is planning to set up a committee to examine the proposal. “If these amendments are made, it can be ensured that road safety rules are implemented properly as KRSA will be a dedicated agency to ensure that. Also, it will not result in additional financial burden as the amendments seek only redeployment of existing manpower in the police as well as MVD,” Reddy said. Presently, the agency has only a miniscule administrative staff who are either on deputation or have been appointed on contract basis. Also, there are no field staff for KRSA, making it a funding agency alone unlike how it was originally envisaged. KRSA was created with an aim to formulate road safety policy and enforcing road safety standards and procedures. Interestingly, the organization not only lacks sufficient manpower, successive governments have also not provided any funds to it — even funds which are mandatorily to be shared with the organization as per rules — in the last several years. As per Kerala road safety authority act, the government shall contribute to the road safety fund every year, 50% of the compounding fee collected in the previous year under section 200 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. Also, the government levies a road safety cess from all new vehicles registered in the state exclusively towards road safety fund. The funds collected by way of compounding and cess that goes to a general pool are to be then granted to the road safety authority. This was not being strictly complied over the years, except in 2008-09 when the authority came into force. In 2008-09, the government transferred Rs 24.4 crore which was the fund to be allocated. But since then, the allocation has been steadily decreasing, with no allocation during 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18. The government should have earmarked Rs 380.6 crore in the three years. The authority is a major body that is headed by the transport minister as chairman of the authority, and the public works department minister as vice-chairman. It also consists of chief secretary, law secretary, secretaries of transport, home, finance, public works, health and family welfare, general education and local self-government departments, DGP, director of health services, IG (traffic), chief engineer of roads and bridges, chief engineer of national highways, director of Natpac and secretary of state transport authority as its members. The road safety commissioner is the chief executive officer of the authority. The government has appointed IAS officer B Ashok as the new road safety commissioner of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-teeth-to-road-safety-authority/articleshow/78480732.cms||KP Saikiran
October 5, 2020||Meerut||Cops fine commuters on buses for not wearing mask||Muzaffarnagar: During a surprise check in the district, police teams slapped fine on commuters travelling without mask on private and government buses. The commuters were asked to deboard, fined and strict instructions were given to commute wearing a mask. According to police sources, the drive is being conducted for people who refrain from wearing a mask. On Sunday, police fined more than 12 people for travelling without masks in buses. The offenders were slapped with a fine of Rs 100 and were asked to buy a mask before boarding the bus again. Drivers and conductors were also asked to stop those without masks from boarding the bus. Kakrauli SHO Mukesh Solanki said, “As many as 90 challans were issued on Sunday. Drivers and conductors have been asked to keep the mask available for purchase should a commuter enter the bus without a mask.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-fine-commuters-on-buses-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/78480728.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 5, 2020||Kochi||UDF set to relaunch protests against govt||Thiruvananthapuram: The UDF, which had decided to end all agitations and protests due to the pandemic situation prevailing in the state, has decided to relaunch the strikes, strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocols. UDF convener M M Hassan said on Sunday that the UDF has decided to begin strikes against the state government. The first such protest will be held on October 12 wherein UDF workers will take part in every assembly constituency, strictly following the protocols. “During strikes the government directive that not more than five people should gather will be strictly complied. All the agitations will be done strictly under Covid protocol,” said Hassan. On September 28, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala declared stoppage of all agitations in the backdrop of rising Covid-19 caseload in the state. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself had welcomed UDF’s decision. The government and CPM were propagating that agitations had become a major cause for spreading the disease especially in the state capital. Several Congress, Youth Congress and KSU workers tested positive along with policemen who were put on law and order duty before the government Secretariat. However, this decision was not well received within Congress and senior leader K Muraleedharan had openly objected the decision. He alleged that such decisions are being taken without proper discussions within the party. Muraleedharan was unhappy that the UDF was not capitalizing on opportunities against the government which is facing several charges. Even BJP had flayed UDF’s decision, and BJP leaders alleged that UDF had entered into a secret understanding with LDF to suspend agitations.  “UDF is not interested in getting into the good books of the government or CPM. If UDF strikes were the cause of the virus spread, how come the state ministers became positive,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-set-to-relaunch-protests-against-govt/articleshow/78480731.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||World Bank-funded skilling project to benefit apparel unit workers||Tirupur: Apparel Training and Design Centre (ATDC), the training wing of Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), would be training workers from apparel manufacturing units under a World Bank project.AEPC said that it has tied up with 77 apparel manufacturing units in Tamil Nadu for the skilling project titled Strengthening for Industrial Value Enhancement (STRIVE) funded by World Bank.“We have received support letters from 77 factories based in Tirupur and Chennai apparel cluster for STRIVE project,” AEPC and ATDC chairman A Sakthivel said. ATDC will impart the three-month classroom training to 240 apprentices in five different courses followed by a 12-month on-the-job training under the apprenticeship scheme in the partner factories.“This is a win-win for both industry and workers. Courses were designed after consulting with the industry so that they can have an upgraded workforce. While the apprentices will earn a stipend of Rs 4,500 to Rs 9,000 per month during the 12-month training period, they also stand a good chance to get absorbed in the same factory,” Sakthivel said.STRIVE is a World Bank funded project implemented by the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship aimed at improving the productivity at MSMEs in various industrial clusters.The project is expected to address the shortage of skilled workforce in various areas of apparel making sector while seeking to improve the livelihood of the workers who undertake the training by ensuring them better jobs.A statement from AEPC said that ATDC has further planned to establish Industry Apprenticeship Initiative Cell and expand the work of Training of Trainers (ToT) through Apparel Made-Up and Home Furnishing Sector Skill Council (AMH-SSC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/world-bank-funded-skilling-project-to-benefit-apparel-unit-workers/articleshow/78481707.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Eight men trapped into sending nude videos and blackmailed||PUNE: The cyber crime department of the Pune police has received complaints from eight men over the last two weeks alleging that they were being blackmailed by `women’ who lured them into posing in the nude on screen video call recorders between June and August. The men are educated, salaried persons or students between 25 and 40 years of age. The ‘women’ blackmailed them by threatening to upload the recorded video calls on different social networking sites, the police said. Senior inspector Jayram Paygude said, “The complainants have stated that they got video calls on their WhatsApp numbers from women seeking friendship. Following an exchange of a few video conversations, the women convinced them into posing in the nude after sending their own pre-recorded videos to these men. The complainants fell for the trap. Later, they started getting calls that their recorded video calls would be posted on social media platforms if they did not transfer money to specific bank accounts using the UPI payment apps.” Paygude said some of these victims have so far made online money transfers on two to three occasions while some have paid once before approaching the police after receiving the threat calls. The victims have been duped this way in the range of Rs5,000 to Rs20,000 each, he added. The investigators are not ruling out the possibility of more men being blackmailed in a similar fashion. “Many feel that lodging a complaint will bring ignominy. Many went back after reaching the police station instead of registering their cases,” he said. The cyber police have secured the IP addresses from where the video calls were made and pre-recorded videos were sent to the victims, and have sought all transaction details of the accounts from banks where the victims had transferred the money. “The suspects seemed to have used specialized software – screen video call recorder – which records the entire video call. These calls are saved and then threat calls demanding money are made,” Paygude said. When TOI contacted two of the victims, they were hesitant to talk. Lawyer Gaurav Jachak, who specialises in cyber crime cases, said, “A 26-year-old youth recently approached me with his case. He told me that he received a friend request from a woman on a social networking site and he accepted it. After they exchanged phone numbers, they started chatting on WhatsApp. The woman then took the lead and shared her nude video and told my client to pose in the nude on the video call. Following this, he started receiving extortion calls from her.” Jachak said the victim in this case is reluctant to file a complaint, but people should file them because no one knows how it will be used on the internet sites or on the social networking sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-men-trapped-into-sending-nude-videos-blackmailed/articleshow/78481698.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 5, 2020||Pune||Three more arrests in Maratkar murder case||Pune: Three more men, including one of the prime assailants, were arrested on Sunday in connection with the murder of Deepak Vijay Maratkar (36), deputy chief of Shiv Sena’s youth wing in the city. Maratkar was assaulted on Friday in Gavali Aali in Budhwar Peth. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Faraskhana police told TOI, “We have arrested Sunny Kolte, Rohit Kamble and Rahul Ragir on Sunday. Kolte is one of the prime assailants while the other two aided him in the attack.” On Saturday, the police had arrested Rohit Dattatray Kshirsagar of Bhavani Peth and on Friday the police had arrested prime suspect Ashwini Kamble along with Mahendra Saraf and Niranjan Mhankale. According to the police, all the arrests were made on the charge of murdering Maratkar over a festering “old rivalry” the woman had with his father on elections and property matters. Kamble had contested the 2017 civic polls against Maratkar’s father and former Shiv Sena corporator Vijay Maratkar. Both lost. Deepak was being groomed after Vijay succumbed to Covid-19 in July. “We have registered a murder case against eight persons, including those arrested. We have also identified the role of each person in the crime,” Kalaskar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-arrests-in-maratkar-murder-case/articleshow/78481723.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Patna||Ex-RJD neta shot in Purnia, Tejashwi & Tej Pratap booked||Patna: The murder of a Mahadalit and former RJD leader on Sunday sparked a political controversy as the wife of the deceased has accused RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav, Anil Kumar Sadhu and three others of hatching a conspiracy to kill her husband. She has named them in the FIR lodged with Khajanchi Haat police station in Purnia town. Sadhu is the son-in-law of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and also the RJD’s state scheduled caste cell president. RJD has rubbished the allegations. The deceased, Shakti Kumar Mallik (38), was to contest the assembly election from Raniganj (SC) seat as an independent candidate after having been expelled from RJD, his family members told the police. Mallik was earlier state general secretary of RJD’s scheduled caste cell. Three unidentified armed criminals barged into Mallik’s house at around 6.30am and shot him dead. Purnia SP Vishal Sharma told TOI over phone that Mallik’s wife Khushbu Devi, in the FIR, has accused Tejashwi, Tej, Anil, Kalo Paswan, his wife Sunita Devi and Manoj Paswan of hatching a conspiracy to kill her husband as he was planning to contest assembly election from Raniganj as an independent candidate. Khushbu also alleged that her husband was asked to pay Rs50 lakh for an RJD ticket to contest election and later he was expelled from the party for not meeting the demand, the SP said. Sharma said she has provided Mallik’s video to the police in which he labelled several allegations related to party ticket and money. The SP said preliminary investigation revealed that Mallik had political rivalry with Kalu. “However, several messages in Mallik’s cellphone indicate that both had reached a compromise,” he said. He said there was no direct evidence against the accused leaders in the case, but investigation was on. “Mallik was shot twice in his chest and once in forehead,” Sharma said. He told the local media that a loaded countrymade pistol and an empty cartridge was seized from Mallik’s room. “Another firearm was also recovered from Mallik’s residence. His family said it was his licenced firearm. Verification is going on,” the SP said. Reacting over the incident, RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said police should tear such an FIR. Tiwari said he actually has no knowledge of any such FIR against the two RJD leaders and was reacting only over the question asked to him. “They (Tejashwi and Tej) are busy in election and police in registering such an FIR against them. This is all nonsense. How can police register such an FIR against them? Do these leaders have any criminal records?” he asked. But BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand accused RJD of selling party tickets for election. “The RJD people are doing politics just to safeguard their family interest and earn huge wealth through illegal activities, including selling tickets for election,” Anand said. “Shakti Mallik and his family must be ensured justice while all those named in the FIR should be put behind bars,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-rjd-neta-shot-in-purnia-tejashwi-tej-pratap-booked/articleshow/78481743.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Forex firm ordered to compensate Rs 2 lakh||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed the Matrix Forex Services Private Ltd to refund Rs 1.5 lakh and pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation to a consumer, who had to struggle in a foreign land as his forex card was not activated. Pradeep Kumar, the complainant, submitted that he and his family members planned a foreign tour from Hyderabad to Kuala Lumpur to Singapore and back to Hyderabad. He approached the Matrix Forex Services Private Ltd and paid Rs 2,000 for booking tickets and foreign exchange. Kumar said that he transferred a little over Rs 1.5 lakh to the firm’s account on April 21, 2018, as they promised to deliver the currency card within 48 hours. He said that although he received the forex card, it was not activated. Kumar said that he had immediately intimated the firm about the non-activation of the card. By the time the card was activated, he had come back to India. He filed a complaint seeking refund and compensation. The forex firm submitted that it was true that there was some technical problem, but added that the card was activated after he raised the complaint. They said that they are not liable for loss or damage as Kumar used the card subsequently. During the trial, the bench noticed that although the firm has said that they activated the card, it failed to submit any documentary proof as to when the card was activated and what was the amount the complainant has used while using the said card. The bench ordered the company to refund Rs 1.5 lakh paid by the complainant and compensate him with another Rs 2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forex-firm-ordered-to-compensate-rs-2l/articleshow/78482643.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||‘Low-cost schools in UP lost 75% fee, new admissions’||LUCKNOW: Low-cost private schools in Uttar Pradesh were hit hard by coronavirus-induced lockdown as their fee collection dipped to less than 25% of the normal, according to the findings of National Independent School Alliance (NISA), a federation of such institutions. Even worse, such schools recorded their lowest ever enrolments this year. Low-cost or budget private schools are set up in areas inhabited by people with low income and provide education at affordable fee. At least 235 schools with 1,21,677 students participated in the study which found that only 5,027 new students were admitted, which roughly translates to 21 new students per school. The study showed that all 235 schools part of the survey, received fee from less than 50% of their students during lockdown. President of the Association of Private Schools (UP) Atul Srivastava said, “The survey was done to understand how coronavirus has affected private budget schools. Classes are suspended due to the pandemic which has affected financial condition of schools. Low-cost schools which usually rely on fee for their sustenance and upkeep are left with no means to pay their staff.” Srivastava, who also runs a low-cost private school in Lucknow and was part of the survey, said 80% of the budget private schools in UP have stopped online classes. “New enrolments are usually in pre-primary classes. On an average, it is 10-20% of the total student strength. Loss of students has also left schools in a lurch,” he added. NISA’s UP convener Sushil Gupta said, “The survey was conducted to understand the condition of schools and to identify the challenges faced by teachers during pandemic. Budget schools are often unheard and through this survey, we want the authorities to listen to their woes and provide an amicable solution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/low-cost-schools-lost-75-fee-new-admissions/articleshow/78483123.cms||Isha Jain
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Hope springs eternal for women running water ATM at Ukkadam||Coimbatore: The city corporation’s water ATM project, run by a self-help group (SHG) at the Ukkadam bus stand, has started getting business orders six months after the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19.Under the project, inaugurated in January, people can collect a litre of water for Rs 1 and 20 litres for Rs 7 from the plant. The SHG members also deliver water cans at doorsteps for just Rs 20. “When we started the business, we visited shops and hotels in and around Ukkadam and Town Hall area to market our product. We used to sell up to 200 cans per day. But towards the end of March, when the state government sealed drinking water plants that were functioning illegally, we sold 400 cans every day,” said S Krishnaveni, leader of SHG Thendral Sikana Nanaya Sangam. “If the lockdown was not imposed, we would have attracted more customers. Our business took a huge hit after shops and hotels were closed for over three months.”“Before the lockdown, we used to earn Rs 1,000 every week from people who collected water from the plant for Rs 1. But after the bus service was terminated, we earned only Rs 5,000 in the last six months,” Krishnaveni told TOI.“We have been selling 50 to 60 cans every alternative day for the last few days. From Saturday, we visited shops and eateries in the locality to explain about the project and to convince them to purchase our water cans,” she said.She is hopeful of reviving the business, Krishnaveni said. “I visited the collector’s office and requested them to purchase water cans from the plant. We had obtained a loan for Rs 10 lakh to invest in the project. We have to pay Rs 30,000 every month to repay the amount within three years. But we could not pay in the last six months. Now, we have no choice but to work hard to repay the amount. We are also planning to request the bank officials to give us more time to repay the loan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hope-springs-eternal-for-women-running-water-atm-at-ukkadam/articleshow/78481745.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana saw 8,500 domestic abuse cases in 2019, fifth highest in India||HYDERABAD: Crimes against women have risen in Telangana as the state reported 8,500 cases of domestic abuse in 2019, according to the latest National Crime Record Bureau’s (NCRB) Crime in India 2019 report. The state has seen fifth-highest number of cases of cruelty by husband or his relatives. There has been a 35% increase in cases of domestic violence in the state, as compared to the 2018 data. The NCRB revealed as many as 163 dowry death instances were reported in the state, while only one case was reported under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. With the number of domestic violence cases is increasing, experts have pointed out that the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act provides only a little help to women. “The DV Act is toothless and can only avail maintenance to the victim, ranging from as low as Rs 1,500 to Rs 10,000. The act’s definition of domestic violence includes not just physical, but also verbal, emotional, sexual and economic violence. However, it does not provide any penal provisions for the offender,” said Dr Mamatha Raghuveer from the NGO Tharuni. According to She Team, over 3,000 domestic violence-related cases, including cruelty by husband and in-laws, have been registered in the past two years in the city. “The couples are initially asked to undergo counselling sessions. If the results are not fruitful, they either opt to go their separate ways or lodge a harassment case. If the harassment is severe, an FIR is registered directly,” said a source from She team. “We urge victims to reach out to cops and dial 100, some districts have a separate patrolling vehicle to reach out to help such victims. In some cases we had rescued women from their house when they dialled 100 after facing severe harassment during the lockdown,” said Swati Lakra additional DGP of women safety wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-saw-8-5k-domestic-abuse-cases-in-2019-fifth-highest-in-country/articleshow/78482653.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Ramakrishnan’s condition improves, support pours in||Thrissur: The condition of dancer and actor RLV Ramakrishnan, who had reportedly attempted suicide on Saturday evening, is improving, doctors at the hospital at Karukutty where he is undergoing treatment, said on Sunday. “He is under observation in the ICU. He could be shifted to the room on Monday,” said K V Sinesh, the son of Ramakrishnan’s elder brother. Ramakrishnan was found lying unconscious in a room at Kunnissery Raman Memorial Kalagriham, set up in memory of his father, on Saturday evening. Ramakrishnan, the brother of the late actor Kalabhavan Mani, had raised a banner of revolt after the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi reportedly rejected his application to present a Mohiniyattam performance as part of the ongoing online arts festival. Meanwhile, several organizations and cultural personalities have come out in support of Ramakrishnan’s stance that male artists should also be allowed to present Mohiniyattam. Ramakrishnan had alleged that his application was rejected as the Akademi secretary was of the view that Mohiniyattam cannot be performed by male artists. “It’s wrong to say that male artists cannot perform Mohiniyattam. Ramakrishnan is a highly talented artist who has proved himself in Mohiniyattam,” said Purogamana Kala Sahithya Sangam president Asokan Cheruvil. “Art has no such male or female or transgender discrimination. It is most unfortunate and probably for the first time in the state that an artist had to attempt suicide because of the shoddy treatment he had received from the Akademi. The atmosphere in the Akademi is not at all artist-friendly, it works like any other government office,” said Network of Artistic Theatre Activists Kerala general secretary J Shailaja. Akademi secretary Radhakrishnan Nair said he would issue a clarification on Monday Meanwhile, BJP activists held a protest in front of Akademi chairperson KPAC Lalitha on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ramakrishnans-condition-improves-support-pours-in/articleshow/78480738.cms||T Ramavarman
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Four killed, three injured in road accident in Sirumugai||Coimbatore: Four people were killed and three others were injured when their vehicle collided head-on with another car near Rangampalayam in Sirumugai in the district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Aravindh Ponnusamy, 26, a resident of Kalikanaickenpalayam, Mohanraj subbaiyan, 47, a resident of Bilichi, P Naveen Kumar, 45, a resident of Veerakeralam and D Rajan, 47, a resident of Thondamuthur.The injured were identified as S Suresh, 27, a resident of Thudiyalur, A Belgin, 25, a resident of Sirumugai and N Devanth, 27, a resident of Sirumugai. They are in stable condition. On Saturday, the deceased, who were all friends, had visited Sathyamangalam and were returning in their car when the accident occurred. Naveen Kumar was driving the car. When they approached Rangampalayam around 9.30 pm, their vehicle collided with another vehicle, coming from the opposite direction, police said. The injured are undergoing treatment at Sathyamangalam government hospital.Police officials have booked a case and are further investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-killed-three-injured-in-road-accident-in-sirumugai/articleshow/78481728.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Dehradun||Not more than 3k pilgrims allowed in a day at Badri, Kedar each||Dehradun: In view of the increased footfall of Char Dham pilgrims, the Devasthanam board on Sunday increased the daily limit of pilgrims allowed in Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri temples. While the limit was almost doubled for each temple, the board kept the rules of “registration on the website” and “no prasad” intact. Other mandatory Covid-19 norms will also stay. Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Devasthanam board, said that the daily pilgrim limit has been increased to 3,000 at Badrinath, 3,000 at Kedarnath, 900 at Gangotri, and 700 at Yamunotri. He added that the decision is based on the availability of accommodation, food, toilets, and other arrangements, including social distancing, as assessed by the respective DMs. “Those travelling via helicopter will be exempted from the daily pilgrim limit as they don’t stay in the temple area. Besides, people will have to ensure proper social distancing norms in the temple and use of hand sanitisers and masks are a must. The devotees will not be able to bring any prasad or anything from outside to the temple. Touching of the idols or anything inside the temple premises will not be allowed as well,” said Raman. Though the board has increased the daily limit of pilgrims in the temples, it maintained that people shouldn’t bring children below 10 years of age and those above 65 years for the yatra. Also, the pilgrims will be allowed to stay just for one night in the town of the respective temple which can be extended by the district administration only in emergency cases like adverse weather conditions, landslides etc. During the start of Char Dham Yatra on July 1 this year, the maximum single-day pilgrim limit was 1,200 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri, and 400 for Yamunotri. In the last three months, Devesthanam board has issued 92,516 passes to Char Dham pilgrims. Of these, 50,000 people have already visited the shrines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-more-than-3k-pilgrims-allowed-in-a-day-at-badri-kedar-each/articleshow/78480740.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 5, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt bus operators take to moving cargo for survival||Nagpur: Struggling to get passengers during Coivd-19 times, the private bus operators are resorting to transporting cargo along with passengers for their survival. Though the state government has allowed public transporter MSRTC to run its fleet with 100% capacity, private bus operators are only allowed to run with 50% occupancy, which is making operations unviable. Passengers who traveled from Pune to Nagpur said, “The bus operators are not getting sufficient passengers on the return journey and hence they are transporting cargo perhaps to meet their expenses.” “Two days ago while traveling on the luxury bus of RB Travels, Nagpur, there were six passengers who boarded the bus from Pune. Along the way, the bus staff loaded cargo on the floor near passengers' seats. Though there was no inconvenience caused to the passengers as such, it only showed the desperation during Covid-19,” said passengers. RB Travels spokesperson said, “From Nagpur, we are getting passengers, who are traveling in an emergency. On the return journey, the demand is less. The government has allowed one passenger per seat, which comes to 15 travelers, which is not sufficient to meet the cost. Still, we are operating buses in public interest. Cargo is not transported regularly.” However, a section of private bus operators said, “Transporting cargo is not new. It is the usual practice. Most of the time it is part of the luggage of passengers. You cannot do it illegally as the e-way bill is generated for all goods in GST regime.” Baba Dawre of Baba Travels said, “Cargo is transported in very small quantity and this may be done for survival. The state government has one passenger per seat. If you consider the cost of diesel and toll alone, at this capacity it is difficult to operate buses. Even if capacity has been reduced, tax is charged for all seats.” Bobby Saini of Saini Travels said, “We are not operating buses due to lack of passengers and capacity restrictions. For a to and fro trip between Nagpur-Pune, our costs are Rs 38,000 which includes 440 litres of fuel worth Rs 34,000, Rs 2,500 allowances, etc. Capacity restrictions and poor passenger flow mean it makes no sense to run the buses.” Saini added, “Traffic is not expected to increase even if curbs are removed as most of the IT companies have asked their staff to work from home. Besides, education institutes are also closed. A large chunk of travelers is from these two sectors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-bus-operators-take-to-moving-cargo-for-survival/articleshow/78482669.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Opposition parties seek ouster of Hathras DM||LUCKNOW: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and BSP chief Mayawati came together to corner the BJP government accusing it to protecting the DM of Hathras, Praveen Kumar Laxkar. In a tweet, Gandhi said that according to the family of 19-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and killed in Hathras, it was the behavior of DM which was most condemnable. “Who is saving him...he should be immediately removed and his role in the entire episode be investigated,” Priyanka said in a statement. BSP chief Mayawati said the family of the victim has accused the district magistrate of threatening them. “Yet the discreet silence maintained by the state government is surprising,” Mayawati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/opposition-parties-seek-ouster-of-hathras-dm/articleshow/78483136.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Agra||45% Covid patients in age group of 21 to 40 in Agra||AGRA: Out of the 5,825 Covid-19 cases reported in Agra district till October 2, 45 percent cases were related to people in the age group of 21 to 40. While only 14 percent people above 60 years of age and two percent in age group zero to 10 were infected. Taking cognizance, the health department is going to increase the testing of youngsters for Covid-19 infection. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “There is a surge in spread of Covid-19 among youngsters. The main reason behind this is violation of Covid-19 protocol. People in the age group of 21 to 40 usually go out for work. To prevent getting infection, they need to strictly wear face masks and maintain social distancing. We have planned to increase Covid-19 testing among youngsters." According to health department data, the number of patients in the age group 21 to 40, getting Covid-19, was 1,184. In just one month the number of patients in this particular age group increased more than twice. Till October 2, the number of Covid-19 cases in age group 21 to 40 increased to 2,545. The second most number of cases - 1,970 - were reported in age group 41 to 60. It is followed by 862 in the age group of 60 above, 383 in age group 11 to 20 and 121 in age group zero to 10. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh has directed shopkeepers not to entertain customers without a face mask. He also emphasised the need to ensure that a group of people do not gather outside the shop and maintain at least two feet of social distancing. In case of any negligence, the shop can be kept shut for 48 hours. The DM also constituted special teams for strict enforcement of social distancing protocol and penalising those not wearing a face mask. The teams have been directed to operate daily from 12pm to 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/45-covid-patients-in-age-group-of-21-to-40-in-agra/articleshow/78481736.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 5, 2020||Meerut||Gang that stole bikes to buy drugs busted||Muzaffarnagar: Muzaffarnagar police, on Sunday, busted an interstate gang of motorcycle lifters that used to steal vehicles to buy drugs. Police arrested two men and seized seven motorcycles, one country-made weapon and three cartridges. The accused have at least 12 cases filed against them. According to police sources, the incident occurred in Budhana area where the police were conducting a vehicle search drive. They arrested two suspects and recovered an illegal weapon and three bullets from their possession. According to police, the accused started lifting motorcycles due to their addiction to drugs. The stolen bikes were sold in different parts of the state. Budhana deputy superintendent of police Girija Shankar Tripathi said, “We are trying to locate where the bikes were sold. A case has been registered and the accused have been sent to jail. Further investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gang-that-stole-bikes-to-buy-drugs-busted/articleshow/78480743.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 5, 2020||Kochi||Fr Chiramel opens Cloth Bank||Kochi: Fr Davis Chiramel, popularly known as the ‘Kidney Priest’ for his efforts to promote kidney donation, has launched a Cloth Bank to collect used clothes and distribute them among the underprivileged. In a video message delivered on September 30 to mark the 11th anniversary of the launch of the kidney donation drive, Fr Chiramel urged people to courier him used clothes for the Cloth Bank and the initiative has been getting a warm response from across the globe. “In countries like the US and Australia, I happened to see shops like Goodwill. I asked around and found that there were more establishments like that which grade used clothes, upgrade them and sell them at very cheap rates for the needy. I am planning to set up such a store in our state on those lines,” said Fr Chiramel adding that the initiative would help those who are struggling financially due to the pandemic. The priest added that he has been getting a good response. “In three days, I received over a thousand calls. So many kind hearted and generous people have come forward to donate clothes which are very much reusable. Some have offered to donate machinery with which we can upgrade the clothes as well,” he said. He pointed out that many hoard a lot of clothes even if they are not using them. One woman called me and said her wardrobe was full and that she wanted to lessen the guilt of her fashion fickleness. She was happy to donate them for the cause. It is okay to own things but to own and not use them, that is not right. If you are not using them then try to help someone who need them, said Fr Chiramel. He added that he is planning to set up outlets in all districts. “In any endeavour, there might be some who get involved to exploit the situation. They might want to make profit for themselves even while engaging in a charity activity. We have to steer clear of such people. That is why we are carefully planning to implement the project in every district by coordinating with reliable volunteers, so that such elements can be weeded out,” said Fr Chiramel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fr-chiramel-opens-cloth-bank/articleshow/78481750.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Pune||Former Army officer faces culpable homicide charge||Pune: The Chandannagar police on Saturday booked a retired Army officer on the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder for thrashing a 26-year-old intruder in his Wadgaon Sheri home in August. Police said their investigation showed that the deceased, a resident of Latur, was suffering from schizophrenia. The retired officer mistook him for a thief and thrashed him, before letting him go. The man walked a short distance to cross the nearby Mula-Mutha bridge and fell unconscious on a road in the Mundhwa police jurisdiction. The police shifted him to a hospital, where he died. Initially, a case of accidental death was registered, but the Mundhwa police started investigating the matter after a postmortem report revealed that the man died of multiple injuries. They used CCTV footage to trace the man’s steps to the officer’s bungalow, which is in the jurisdiction of the Chandannagar police. The police contacted the officer, who told them that he had beaten a “thief” and let him go. The case was transferred to the Chandannagar police. “The officer told police that he had no idea what happened after the man left his bungalow,” senior inspector Shankar Khatke of the Chandannagar police said. “The Mundhwa police identified the victim from some documents recovered from his pocket. They contacted his family in Latur, who said they were not aware of how he travelled to Pune. They handed over documents relating to his treatment for schizophrenia and said he would often leave home for days and return. They did not lodge a missing person’s complaint for the same reason,” A case has been registered under IPC section 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-army-officer-faces-culpable-homicide-charge/articleshow/78481741.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||17-yr-old boy charged with sexual assault||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a 17-year-old boy on Saturday for sexually assaulting a minor girl at Podanur. The accused was the neighbour of the 14-year-old girl when her family stayed at Ukkadam a year ago and contacted her again through a social media platform, police sources said. “He offered to marry her and she accepted the proposal. On September 28, they got married at a temple and left for Chennai, where the accused sexually assaulted the girl. They returned to Coimbatore on Friday after running out of money,” a police officer said.The girl’s mother registered a complaint at the all women police station (east) and police registered a case under sections 366 (kidnapping) and 376 (3) (punishment for rape) of Indian Penal Code, 5(l) read with 6 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and 9 (punishment for male adult marrying a child) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.The boy was produced before the judicial magistrate and sent to a juvenile home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-yr-old-boy-charged-with-sexual-assault/articleshow/78481732.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for killing neighbour||Coimbatore: The Tirupur north police on Sunday arrested a man for bludgeoning his neighbour to death.The accused was identified as T Selvam, 36, a resident of Golden Nagar. “On Saturday night, his neighbour S Sureshkumar, 36, tried to misbehave with Selvam’s wife. Selvam confronted him, picked up a boulder and smashed Sureshkumar’s head,” a police officer said.Police sent the body to the Tirupur Government Hospital for postmortem and arrested Selvam under Section 302 (murder) of IPC. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-killing-neighbour/articleshow/78481742.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Lucknow||Probe crimes against SC/ST, women with sensitivity: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Amid the opposition’s attack on BJP government over the rape and murder of Dalit girl in Hathras, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed the police to investigate matters relating to women and SC/STs with utmost sensitivity and seriousness. A state government spokesperson said the government follows zero tolerance policy against the outlaws. “It is due to the government’s action that the crime against women has registered a significant dip in the state,” the spokesperson said. He recalled how after coming to power in 2017, his government had constituted anti-Romeo squads to check incidents of eve teasing in the state. The CM has already issued instructions to make these squads more effective. Citing the National Crime Records Bureau 2019 data, the spokesperson said the conviction rate in crime against women was about 55%. In 2019, conviction was reported in 8,059 cases of crime against women, which was the highest in the country. UP was followed by Rajasthan with 5,625 cases of conviction and Madhya Pradesh with 4,191 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/probe-crimes-against-sc/st-women-with-sensitivity-cm/articleshow/78483131.cms||---
October 5, 2020||India||Tapping of journalists’ phones reprehensible: Editors Guild||NEW DELHI: The Editors Guild of India on Sunday condemned the manner in which the media was prevented by the law enforcement agencies of the Uttar Pradesh government from “reporting on developments in and around Hathras”, after the brutal assault on a woman who later died in the national capital. Condemning the “hurried cremation” of the girl’s body without the presence of her family members, the Guild, in a statement released on Sunday said, “Equally reprehensible is the way the government has tapped the telephones of journalists engaged in covering the Hathras incidents. Worse, the tapped conversation of the journalists has been selectively leaked, leading to a social media calumny against them.” “Not allowing the media to visit the incident spots and tapping the phone conversation of journalists undermine and obstruct the functioning of the media. The Guild demands that the government create conditions in Hathras that do not obstruct journalists in any way,” the Guild statement added. “Hathras is the worst such case in the scale of interference, but the Guild also notes with concern that such attacks against the media are becoming part of a growing trend seen in recent months, in which a few other state governments have also indulged in such harassment of journalists. The Guild condemns these and demands corrective action,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tapping-of-journalists-phones-reprehensible-editors-guild/articleshow/78483715.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||Congress to organise Satyagraha today to protest Hathras case||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) will organise a Satyagraha-like sit-in near the Gandhi statue at Bapu Vatika in Morhabadi on Monday to protest against the ‘gangrape’ and death of a 19-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month. On Sunday, senior party worker Alok Dubey held a meeting to take stock of the preparations for the sit-in. “The Satyagraha sit-in, which will be led by state party president Rameshwar Oraon, will be held from 8am-10am. Similar type of protests will be organised in other districts too,” said Dubey. The protest will also to uphold the country’s democratic values “which the BJP-led Union government has increasingly ignored”. Congress spokesperson Kishorenath Shahdeo accused the BJP-ruled states, especially Uttar Pradesh, of failing to curb crimes against women and children. “The manner in which the UP government and the police tried to silence the media and prevented our leaders (Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi) from visiting the family members of the victim speaks volumes about the growing lawlessness in the BJP-ruled states,” he said. The saffron party, on the other hand, accused the Grand Old Party of using the incident for its own political gains and called it out for its “hypocrisy when lawlessness has assumed immense proportions in Jharkhand ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government assumed power in December last year”. BJP spokesperson Misfika Hassan, who hails from Santhal Parganas, said, “In the last few months, more than 1,000 cases of rapes and other crimes against women have been reported in Jharkhand. In CM’s constituency in Barhait, a woman was brutally beaten up at a police station couple of months back while incidents of minors being abused are at an all-time high in the state. Instead of working on improving the law and order situation, they (Congress) are busy shedding crocodile tears.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/cong-to-organise-satyagraha-today-to-protest-hathras-case/articleshow/78490392.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||NTPC seeks admin support to move coal after fire breaks out at Pakri Barwadih mine||Hazaribag: A major fire, which broke out at the coal dump yard of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) in Pakri Barwaidh mining site on Saturday, continued to singe on Sunday, prompting authorities of the public sector undertaking to seek help from the district administration. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. NTPC authorities said about 5.5 lakh metric tonne of coal is kept the dump yard but they are unable to transport them because of protests by landowners (raiyyats) led by Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad in the area since September 1. The protestors are demanding increased compensation and compliance of other norms for the land acquired by NTPC for the Pakri Barwaidh coal mining project. The PSU’s executive director, Prashant Kashyap, said, “A fire broke out at our dumping site here since Saturday, but we aren’t able to move the coal due to the protests. About 5.5 lakh metric tonnes of coal produced till August 31 is stored here. We have informed the district administration about the situation and requested to talk to the protesters and allow us to transport the coal to a safer place. Any delay will lead to huge losses.” Hazaribag DC Aditya Kumar Anand said, “Efforts are on to convince protesters to at least allow the NTPC to move their stocks, which will take 25 days, to prevent a major mishap. A team headed by Hazaribag SDO Vidya Bhushan Kumar are holding the negotiations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ntpc-seeks-admin-support-to-move-coal-after-fire-breaks-out-at-pakri-barwadih-mine/articleshow/78481907.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Class 12 boy taken to a forest, stripped and thrashed by juniors||GHAZIABAD: A Class XII student of a prominent English medium school was allegedly bundled into a car, taken to a forest in Govindpuram and beaten with sticks and belts after being made to strip by a group of Class X students of the same institution. The accused also recorded a video of the alleged assault and threatened to post it on social media if the Class XII boy went to police. The cops are trying to find out the motive behind the attack. They suspect it could be the fallout of a tussle over a girl with whom the boy had developed friendship recently. Though the alleged assault took place on September 28, the boy’s family approached the cops only on Saturday. According to the complaint, the 17-year-old boy — son a builder from Ghaziabad — had gone to meet a Class X girl of the same school in Kavi Nagar around 1pm on September 28. Two if his friends accompanied him in his car. As soon as the boy stepped out and started talking to the girl, the group of four students pounced on him. His friends came to rescue, but they, too, were beaten up. The boy was then forced into his own car and made to drive towards a forest in Govindpuram. “They had stuffed my mouth with a handkerchief. One of the students snatched my phone and transferred some of the pictures into his device. They also deactivated my social media accounts,” the complaint said. “They then made me take off my T-shirt and started beating me with belts and sticks. All this while, one of them was recording a video of the assault on me. They made me say on record that I was in a relationship with a girl of my school. They threatened to post the video online if I reported the matter to anyone,” it added. A cop said the four students might have planned the attack on the boy when they saw him talking to the girl. “We are scanning CCTV footage of the area. In one of the clips, the students can be seen beating up the boy. We are also checking if the girl who had called the boy to the spot is involved in any way,” the officer said. The Class XII student has said he knows only two of the four accused by name. Nagendra Chaubey, the SHO of Kavi Nagar police station, said an FIR had been registered against two named and two unmanned students under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) and 506 (criminal intimidation). “We will soon contact the school and seek details about the accused students,” Chaubey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/class-12-boy-taken-to-a-forest-stripped-thrashed-by-juniors/articleshow/78481646.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Congress to organise Satyagraha today to protest Hathras case||RANCHI: The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) will organise a Satyagraha-like sit-in near the Gandhi statue at Bapu Vatika in Morhabadi on Monday to protest against the ‘gangrape’ and death of a 19-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras last month. On Sunday, senior party worker Alok Dubey held a meeting to take stock of the preparations for the sit-in. “The Satyagraha sit-in, which will be led by state party president Rameshwar Oraon, will be held from 8am-10am. Similar type of protests will be organised in other districts too,” said Dubey. The protest will also to uphold the country’s democratic values “which the BJP-led Union government has increasingly ignored”. Congress spokesperson Kishorenath Shahdeo accused the BJP-ruled states, especially Uttar Pradesh, of failing to curb crimes against women and children. “The manner in which the UP government and the police tried to silence the media and prevented our leaders (Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi) from visiting the family members of the victim speaks volumes about the growing lawlessness in the BJP-ruled states,” he said. The saffron party, on the other hand, accused the Grand Old Party of using the incident for its own political gains and called it out for its “hypocrisy when lawlessness has assumed immense proportions in Jharkhand ever since the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government assumed power in December last year”. BJP spokesperson Misfika Hassan, who hails from Santhal Parganas, said, “In the last few months, more than 1,000 cases of rapes and other crimes against women have been reported in Jharkhand. In CM’s constituency in Barhait, a woman was brutally beaten up at a police station couple of months back while incidents of minors being abused are at an all-time high in the state. Instead of working on improving the law and order situation, they (Congress) are busy shedding crocodile tears.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-to-organise-satyagraha-today-to-protest-hathras-case/articleshow/78481797.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||State reports 9 coronavirus deaths, 933 fresh cases||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Sunday reported nine Covid deaths, taking the toll to 743, and 933 fresh infections along with 907 recoveries. The cumulative caseload in the state now stands at 87,210, of which 10,936 are active and 75,531 have recovered. Among nine deaths on Sunday, Ranchi reported three followed by East Singhbhum and Latehar with two each while Chatra and West Singhbhum reported one casualty each. Though the number of fresh infections shot past the recoveries for the first time in the last week, the positivity ratio remained low at about 4.7% as 933 out of total 19,563 samples tested returned positive for the virus. However, the state capital continued to report a spike with 374 cases, making it the only district with a three-digit figure of fresh infections and contributing to over 40% of the total cases reported on Sunday. East Singhbhum, another worst-hit district along with Ranchi, reported only 74 cases. Recoveries in both the districts were high with Ranchi reporting 291 cured cases and East Singhbhum reporting 119 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-reports-9-coronavirus-deaths-933-fresh-cases/articleshow/78481673.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Boating at PTR shelved before its start||Daltonganj: A plan to begin boating services from October 2 at Kamaldah lake at Palamu Tiger Reserve’s Betla range was put off after the authorities could not find an appropriate waterbody. PTR’s deputy director of north Kumar Ashish said, “We are looking for other lakes instead of Kamaldah as announced earlier and have deferred the date of starting the facility.” Sources said the move followed a letter from the secretary of Nature Conservation Society and wildlife expert D S Srivastava to PTR director Y K Das explaining why the project could prove to be a threat to the existence of the lake and wildlife. Srivastava said Kamaldah lake, a huge waterbody, is often frequented by elephants and other wild animals for drinking water and starting a boating services could hamper and threaten their natural movement. Srivastava said, “It will be disastrous to start boating in Kamaldah lake.” Latehar administration had given two pedal driven boats to PTR post which the authorities wanted to use in order to woo tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/boating-at-ptr-shelved-before-its-start/articleshow/78481873.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Covid-19 infections in children raise concerns over reopening of schools||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even as the state government is mulling reopening of schools in November, Covid-19 infections reported among students of two schools in Vizianagaram district on Saturday and one tuition centre in Guntur two days ago have raised concerns over the safety of the kids in the crowded environment. The Union ministry of education on Saturday released guidelines for the reopening of schools outside the containment zones after October 15. However, the states were given the flexibility in the reopening and preparation of a standard operating procedure. Currently, children aged under 10 make up for only some 3.5% of the total Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh. This can be mainly attributed to the kids confining to the safety of their homes for the last six months. According to the American Academy of Paediatrics, children’s contribution to the Covid-19 caseload in the USA now increased to 10% compared to 2% in April after reopening of schools. Even though children don’t become visibly sick or severely infected as in the case of adults who contracted the novel coronavirus, the kids – being the silent carriers – can equally transmit the virus to others, which would in turn pose risk to the elders in their homes. The partial reopening permission given for the classes 9 to 12 under the home ministry’s Unlock 4.0 guidelines from September 21 had received only lukewarm response from parents in Andhra Pradesh as the majority of them preferred online learning over conventional classroom teaching. The schools have been witnessing only some 20-30% turnout of the students for the doubt clarifying sessions. After several students tested positive in Gantyada high school on Saturday, Vizianagaram district collector M Hari Jawaharlal said that a permission from the district medical and health officer is mandatory to open any school in the district. The district officials also conducted Covid-19 tests on the parents, teachers and other primary contacts of the infected students on Sunday. Narava Prakasa Rao, state convener, Right to Education Forum-AP, in a letter to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and education minister A Suresh, requested the government to reconsider its proposal of reopening the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-infections-in-children-raise-concerns-over-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/78480785.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Miscreants damage TDP leader’s car||Vijayawada: Miscreants vandalised TDP spokesperson Kommareddy Pattabhiram’s car on Saturday night. The car was parked outside Pattabhiram’s house at Gurunanak Colony. Miscreants used a heavy stone to break the windshields of the car. Pattabhi said the attack was the handiwork of YSRC goons. Pattabhi has been a critic of the government and levelled allegations of corruption and misappropriations in various schemes. Former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu spoke to Pattabhi over the phone and assured him of all support. YSRC rubbished TDP’s allegations and called it a desperate attempt to win sympathy. Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh said YSRC had nothing to do with the incident. He said TDP was trying to politicise every small incident by linking it to YSRC. Vijayawada police have launched an investigation and the clues team verified the spot for possible leads to identify the miscreants. Police are verifying CCTV footage from the neighbourhood.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/miscreants-damage-tdp-leaders-car/articleshow/78480797.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 5,000 aspirants turn up for UPSC prelims||VIJAYAWADA: The Union Public Service Commission’s (UPSC) civil services examination (CSE) preliminary was held at 27 centres across the city on Sunday. Of the 12,533 aspirants who applied for the examination from the city, only 5,421 appeared for the first paper (General Ability Test) of the examination while only 5,376 candidates appeared for the second paper (C-SAT). Officials had put in place arrangements for the examinations following Covid-19 protocols. Social distancing was maintained at exam centres and seating arrangements were with a one-metre distance between candidates. Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz and joint collector Madhavi Latha inspected some examination centres in the city. Senior IAS officers Rama Gopal and Ravichandra monitored the examination arrangements and also inspected some centres. Meanwhile, APSRTC operated special city bus services from Pandit Nehru Bus Station, Benz Circle, Ramavarappadu Ring and other key areas to examination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-5k-aspirants-turn-up-for-upsc-prelims/articleshow/78480815.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Unsafe to reopen schools: Activists in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Activists working in the education sector said on Sunday that it is unsafe to open schools at the moment after a number of children tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Samyam Hemanth Kumar, an education activist, said, “Earlier, we met the district education officer asking him to not reopen schools. Cases in Vizianagaram and Guntur prove that it is not safe yet to reopen schools.” Schools in Andhra Pradesh have been shut since March 25. On September 22, the government allowed students of classes 9 and 10 to go to school voluntarily to clear doubts after obtaining parental consent. On Sunday, 27 class 9 students and 10 class 10 students tested positive for Covid-19 in two zilla parishad high schools in Vizianagaram. 24 children, all below 12 years of age, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Guntur. These children reportedly went for tuition to a teacher couple’s home who tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/unsafe-to-reopen-schools-activists/articleshow/78480823.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||VMC inspects meat stores in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Following the seizure of a large stock of stale mutton at the railway parcel office in Vijayawada on Saturday, officials of the veterinary wing of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) conducted surprise inspections at meat shops across the city on Sunday. Moreover, the orders passed by VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh restricting meat sale were strictly implemented. The veterinary wing of VMC, led by veterinary assistant surgeon (VAS) Ravi Chand, swung into action following complaints of stale and frozen meat being sold in the city. Officials were divided into teams and they verified the stock on display at meat shops. Officials also identified a few meat and fish sellers violating VMC’s restriction on sale timings. Dr Ravi Chand said, “Covid-19 cases are increasing across the city. Gatherings in large numbers will increase the risk of infection. We have decided to control crowds at non-veg markets.” “We have strictly directed meat shop owners in the city to close their shops by 11am on Sundays. But many of them ignored our directions. We conducted inspections at BRTS Road, Ajith Singh Nagar, Kandrika and other areas,” Dr Chand added. The VAS further said, “We collected Rs 8,200 as fines from meat shop owners who violated the rules. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-inspects-meat-stores-in-city/articleshow/78480838.cms||Venu Lanka
October 5, 2020||India||‘Physical assault’ but ‘no signs of intercourse’: Forensic report||HATHRAS: Ten days after a preliminary medico-legal report (MLR) on the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died last Tuesday found “signs of use of force”, the department of forensic medicine at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital (JNMCH) of Aligarh Muslim University on Saturday wrote to the circle officer of Sadabad police station that in its “final opinion, there are no signs suggestive of vaginal/anal intercourse” while adding “there is evidence of physical assault (injuries over the neck and the back).” In the MLR, which TOI is in possession of, the doctor conducting the exam had written, “On the basis of local examination, I am of the opinion that there are signs of use of force. However, opinion regarding penetration and intercourse is subject to the pending availability of FSL (forensic science lab) reports.” When TOI contacted the doctor, he declined to comment, citing the confidentiality of the report, and said the document would be produced in court. All sections marked for the presence of semen had “do not know” written against them. It had also noted the patient had “loss of consciousness at the time of the incident” and “pain during or after the incident”. A UV exam was not done “because (the) body (had been) wiped several times”. The examination was carried out on September 22, the day the girl spoke to the police for the first time since regaining consciousness in hospital. According to the MLR, the “informant alleged that the survivor was sexually assaulted by four known persons of the same village when she (was) doing some work in the fields”. The same day, the chairman of the college’s neurosurgery department wrote to the casualty medical officer of the hospital’s emergency and trauma centre, saying, “Patient is critical so kindly arrange magistrate dying declaration.” In that, the girl said she was gang-raped. The MLR, which is recorded by a doctor, was the first to document her state. It had found no “injuries” or “abnormality” of the pudenda, and ruled that the cervix and vagina were “healthy”. The forensic report, prepared by a lab, was based on samples that had been sent 11 days after the incident, as earlier reported by TOI. The delay was partly on account of the fact that the first FIR had only mentioned attempted murder because the victim had not gained consciousness to be able to give her statement, according a senior police officer. When she did, additional charges of gang-rape were added to the FIR and samples taken. Eight days had already passed by then. The samples were finally sent to the lab another three days later. On the basis of that forensic report, which did not find the presence of semen, ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar had ruled out rape. The postmortem report from Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, where she died on September 29, had attributed the death to “trauma”, noting that her private parts and “anal orifice” had “multiple old healed tears”. The AMU medical college resident doctors association president Dr Md Hamza told TOI, “Samples for FSL analysis were collected on September 22 and were tested on September 25. Hence they can’t substantiate rape. But a preliminary medico-legal report, which was prepared on September 22, clearly stated ‘signs of force’. The girl had given her statement before a medical officer and magistrate.” Union health ministry guidelines for collecting samples for central or state forensic science labs in cases of sexual violence state, “The likelihood of finding evidence after 72 hours (3 days) is greatly reduced; however it is better to collect evidence up to 96 hours in case the survivor may be unsure of the number of hours lapsed since the assault.” Evidence on the outside of the body and on materials like clothing can be collected even after 96 hours. The MLR had said the girl’s clothes and undergarments had been “changed at the time of admission in the hospital”, adding that “clothes worn at the time of incidence (sic) are collected and sealed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/physical-assault-but-no-signs-of-intercourse-forensic-report/articleshow/78483733.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Three bodies recovered from canal in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: Rescue teams on Sunday recovered three bodies of people who washed away in a canal at Royyuru of Thotlavalluru mandal in Krishna district. A group of five people had gone on a fishing trip to the canal on Saturday evening and was washed away. While 19-year-old Bezawada Sai Kumar managed to swim back to the canal bund, the remaining four washed away in the current. Fire brigade and National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) teams launched a rescue operation on Saturday night but could only recover one body, that of 36-year-old Kolavennu Veeraiah. The remaining three could not be traced on Saturday as the operation could not proceed further into the night. However, the rescue teams found the three other bodies, those of Enuga Ranjith (33), Jonnalagadda Venkateswara Rao (29) and Bezwada Surya Prakash (18) by Sunday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-bodies-recovered-from-canal/articleshow/78480850.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Fake placement agencies cheat aspirants in the name of IT jobs||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fake placement agencies are cheating hundreds of youngsters across the state in the name of IT jobs, according to Information Technology Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITAAP). Speaking to TOI, ITAAP president Sreedhar Kosaraju said that some IT companies in Kakinada and Visakhapatnam have approached cybercrime police seeking action. What fake placement agencies do is that they first download candidates’ database from popular job portals. Then they generate fake offer letters matching the candidates’ profile on duplicate company letterheads by pretending to be authorised placement agencies of genuine IT companies. Then, calls are made to targeted candidates and to conduct fake interviews and collect certificates to offer fake jobs. Kosaraju said that due to the impact of Covid-19 on the global economy, there was a temporary slowdown in hiring in IT industries across state. These fake placement agencies exploited this opportunity by charging candidates Rs1,000-5,000 as fees for these fake positions, he said. These fake placement agencies conduct fake interviews and charge candidates while sending the fake offer letters. Candidates are asked to pay through digital wallets and after the payments are made, then the agencies simply block the candidates’ phone numbers. “Since they charge less than Rs5,000 per offer, candidates have not yet approached the police. We spoke to six such fake agencies over the last few weeks and they cut our calls. Such cases are increasing,” Kosaraju said. He added that ITAAP is going to register a formal complaint with the cybercrime police soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fake-placement-agencies-cheat-aspirants-in-the-name-of-it-jobs/articleshow/78480873.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Gaslighting on the rise amid pandemic: Experts||VISAKHAPATNAM: On the occasion of Mental Health Week between October 4 and 10, psychologists expressed concern at the increasing instances of ‘gaslighting’, in which one’s family, friends or acquaintances attempt to manipulate someone with slightly variant behaviour or suffering from depression that their behaviour is not normal. The phenomenon has assumed importance in the wake of socioeconomic stress caused by the pandemic. Additionally, doctors pointed out that at times, persons without clinical experience or training and holding an academic degree in psychology are advising psychiatric medication for siblings, friends and family, putting the affected person at risk. Specifically, the term ‘gaslighting’ refers to mental manipulation in which a person or group stealthily makes an individual doubt themself, their memory, perception or judgement and mental balance. The origin of the term can be traced to the 1938 play and 1944 film adaptation ‘Gaslight,’ in which the protagonist’s husband slowly manipulated her into believing she was losing her sanity. Speaking to TOI, Dr C Radhakant, professor of psychiatry at NRI Medical College and consultant at Apollo Hospital, said, “From the cases that I see, it is disturbing to note that for slightly deviant behaviour, an individual’s sanity is questioned. In one case, owing to job-related issues, a wife had been crying and was slightly depressed. In another instance, the husband was shouting in the house out of misplaced anger after suffering losses in business. In both cases, the spouses were referred to psychiatrists. The stressed spouses were made to believe that their behaviour was abnormal and they must be treated. In reality, the partners should have patiently listened to their spouses about their problems and assisted in the release of stress rather than being intolerant and gaslighting them into believing they needed psychiatric help.” On those without clinical experience but attempting to counsel patients, Dr Radhakant said, “They even prescribe unnecessary anti-anxiety and anti-depression medicines for stressed out family members, relatives and friends.” Dr S Radharani, medical superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Care, said, “Just an academic/college degree holder in psychology will not have the required expertise and training to deal professionally with mental health issues and may complicate the problem by suggesting medicines or forcefully counselling and not correctly identifying the problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gaslighting-on-the-rise-amid-pandemic-experts/articleshow/78480888.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai sees 2nd highest 24-hour October rain in a decade||MUMBAI: Two spells of thundershowers accompanied by lightning overnight led to 55.8mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30am on Sunday, at the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Santacruz observatory. This is the second highest 24-hour October rainfall in a decade. The highest 24-hour October rainfall in the last ten years was 71mm, recorded on October 13, 2011. The all-time high record for the same is 140.8mm recorded on October 04, 1988. The city experienced loud claps of thunder, lightning and moderate showers between 5pm and 8pm on Saturday, and 3.30am to 5am on Sunday. Several Mumbaikars took to social media to post images and videos of the lightning and thundershowers. In the last 24 hours (Saturday-Sunday), the Colaba observatory recorded 15mm rain. The automatic weather systems at various locations in the city showed that some suburbs of Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Kalyan received between 70mm and 100mm rainfall overnight. The showers brought relief as temperatures dipped. Santacruz recorded a minimum temperature of 22.6C, 2.1 below normal and down from 25.6C on the previous day. Similarly, the maximum temperature of 29.5C on Sunday was lower than Saturday's 32.8C. The minimum and maximum temperature at Colaba was also lower, at 24C and 28.4C respectively. The city did not record any rainfall on Sunday. "The weather systems were indicating movement of intense echoes over coast from the East to West. This is the cycle of thundershower clouds formation and maturing," said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sees-2nd-highest-24-hour-october-rain-in-a-decade/articleshow/78493393.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Noida||By October, NBCC to start work on all 19 Amrapali projects||NOIDA: The government-backed National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) said on Sunday it had doubled its workforce from 6,000 to 12,000 to expedite the completion of 19 pending Amrapali projects. While work on 17 projects is underway, one more was handed over to a construction company last week. The last one is expected to be handed over to a company by the end of October. Since these 19 projects are in various stages of completion, NBCC would take from nine to 36 months to finish construction. In total, 43,518 flats are left to be handed over to buyers. The responsibility of constructing Dream Valley Phase 2 was handed over to a firm last week. The 19th pending project — Leisure Valley Verona Heights — is likely to given to a construction firm on October 28. While the company managing Dream Valley has to construct 8,302 flats, Verona Heights has 4,964 flats pending. In projects that are partly complete and residents have already occupied flats, work on finishing them will go on simultaneously. “We will be handing over the keys simultaneously and not wait for the entire project to complete. By October, we expect to award the completion of Leisure Valley Verona Heights too. Before Diwali, work on all pending projects should be in progress,” said PK Gupta, the NBCC chairman. NBCC has already handed over Eden Park and Castle projects. In the 17 ongoing projects, the government company has to roughly complete 30,715 flats. In the two other projects in which NBCC has now started work or will do so in a month, it has to deliver around 13,000 flats.On August 7, NBCC had announced it would complete and hand over at least 150 flats every month. On Sunday, the company informed that by the end of September, it had handed over 463 flats. NBCC had started handing over flat keys since July. “We welcome this announcement by the company. But just as it is pushing for completion, the quality of construction is equally important for us. Attention should be paid to it as well,” an Amrapali buyer said. Watch NBCC to start work on all 19 Amrapali projects||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/by-oct-nbcc-to-start-work-on-all-19-amrapali-projects/articleshow/78481978.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
October 5, 2020||India||511 less Covid-19 deaths than last week in India||NEW DELHI: India’s weekly tally of Covid-19 cases has dropped by 15% from its peak during the September 7-13 period. This week’s tally, at 5,50,545, was also 6.8% lower than the count in the previous week. In absolute numbers, some 39,000 less cases were reported this week as compared with the previous one. Last week (September 21-27), the fall was higher at nearly 50,000. The highest number of new cases recorded in India during a week was 6,45,014 (September 7-13). Similarly, this week’s death toll was lower by 511 (6.6%) as compared with the last. The drop was similar in the previous week at 521 (6.4%). Overall, deaths were down nearly 13% this week from the peak seen two weeks earlier. On Sunday, 77,100 new infections were registered in the country, a slight rise from 75,186 recorded on the previous day. These are the lowest daily numbers reported on any day except Mondays in the end of August. While the long weekend — Friday, Gandhi Jayanti, was a public holiday — may have played a role in keeping the numbers low, a clearer picture on the scale of the decrease in infections could emerge from Tuesday onwards. Maharashtra reported 13,702 fresh cases and 326 deaths on Sunday. This was the eighth consecutive day that the state had recorded less than 20,000 cases. There were 14,348 infections reported on Saturday. The toll, however, had risen from the previous day’s count of 278. Mumbai continued to record more than 2,000 daily cases, with 2,109 on Sunday, along with 48 fatalities. However, the virus continued to surge in several parts of the country despite the overall dip. Karnataka logged 10,145 fresh cases on Sunday, the third time in a week that the daily tally had exceeded the 10,000-mark. Kerala added as many as 8,553 cases to its overall case count, taking the number of active cases to 84,497 and the test positivity rate to 14.56%. The day also saw the highest single-day recoveries of 4,851. Among the infected were 99 health workers. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,489 new Covid-19 cases and 66 deaths on Sunday, taking the case tally to 6,19,996 and cumulative toll to 9,784. There are 46,120 people still under treatment for the viral infection. While all districts recorded new cases, five of them had more than 200 cases each||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/511-less-covid-19-deaths-than-last-week-in-india/articleshow/78483754.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Woman, 25, raped and beaten up by four inside broker’s office in DLF-2||GURUGRAM: A 25-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by four men inside the office of a property dealer in DLF Phase 2 area on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The woman, originally from West Bengal, was also beaten up and her head banged against the wall when she tried to raise an alarm. The woman eventually managed to escape from the office and run to a private security guard who was sitting nearby. Within 24 hours of the crime — coming against the backdrop of the Hathras gang rape — the four accused were arrested from different areas of the city. While one of them works as a cleaner in the office of the property dealer, the three others are delivery agents engaged with various online food platforms. Police said that the woman knew one of the accused, Rajan, and met him outside Sikanderpur metro station for some work around 12.30am. Rajan wasn’t alone. The other accused — Govind, Pawan and Pankaj — were with him. The woman was taken to the office of High State Properties on Bougainvillea Marg, where Rajan works as a cleaner. According to the police, she had an argument with the four inside the office, following which they took turns to rape her. Since it was 1.30am, there was hardly anyone in the entire building. “The woman told us she was beaten up first and then gang-raped. She suffered multiple injuries and is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital,” a police officer said. Assistant police commissioner Karan Goel said the woman was kicked and punched repeatedly by the four, who also banged her head against the wall, when she put up a resistance. She tried to escape, but crashed against a glass door, which caused her further injuries. However, the woman managed to run out and narrate her ordeal to a guard who was sitting nearby. “The guard called up the police control room and a PCR van from a police outpost on MG Road reached the spot. They took the woman to a private hospital nearby. From there, she was taken to a Sector 10 hospital and then to Medanta for treatment,” Goel said. Police said they were trying to find out details about the woman and her occupation. Sources said she lived in Delhi’s Kalkaji. An FIR was registered at DLF Phase 2 police station under IPC sections 376D, 323 and 506, accounting for gang rape, voluntarily causing hurt and criminal intimidation, respectively. By Sunday evening, the cops had managed to arrest all the four accused. Pankaj, a delivery executive, was picked up first from Chakkarpur. He spilled the beans on the location of the others. All the accused are in their mid-twenties and are originally from Bihar. “We have registered a case and arrested all the four accused,” Goel said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Gurugram: Woman raped and beaten up by four inside broker’s office in DLF-2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/woman-25-raped-and-beaten-up-by-four-inside-brokers-office-in-dlf-2/articleshow/78482946.cms||Shubhra Pant
October 5, 2020||Delhi||Akshardham Temple in Delhi to reopen on October 13||NEW DELHI: The Swaminarayan Akshardham Temple is going to reopen from October 13 amid the Covid pandemic. To begin with, people will be allowed entry into the temple between 5pm and 6.30pm. All the visitors will be able to enjoy the mandir darshan, evening water show at 7:15pm, gardens, food court and the books and gifts centre. However, the abhishek puja and the exhibition hall will remain temporarily closed. Visitors entering the temple will have to strictly follow guidelines like wearing masks, as well as taking care of social distancing in the complex. Before entering the temple, people will have to go through the process of thermal screening and hand sanitisation. Anyone found to have a higher than normal temperature or symptoms of Covid-19 will not be permitted inside. The temple will remain closed on Monday. According to reports, millions of people from Delhi-NCR and other parts of the country visited the temple daily before the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/akshardham-to-reopen-on-october-13/articleshow/78483771.cms||---
October 5, 2020||India||Ace shooter in BJP, may fight Bihar election||NEW DELHI: Commonwealth games gold medallist shooter Shreyasi Singh, whose father Digvijay Singh was a seasoned socialist functionary from Bihar, joined BJP on Sunday. Singh joined the party at its headquarters here in the presence of its general secretaries Bhupender Yadav and Arun Singh. The 29-year-old Arjuna Awardee, who won a gold medal in the 2018 Commonwealth games in Gold Coast, is likely to be fielded by BJP in the assembly polls. Her father was elected to Lok Sabha many times from Banka and had also served as a member of Rajya Sabha. His wife Putul Singh also represented Banka as an independent in Lok Sabha following his death in 2010. She later joined BJP but was expelled from it last year after she filed her nomination as an independent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ace-shooter-in-bjp-may-fight-bihar-election/articleshow/78483782.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Goa||After ‘misadventure’, pvt hospitals sensitised over Covid death SOPs||Margao: Much to the chagrin of the authorities dealing with Covid deaths in South Goa, an organisation is believed to have falsely claimed credit for conducting the final rites of a Covid victim in Margao, thereby breaching the SOPs put in place by the South Goa district administration. With a view to ensuring that such types of “misadventure” do not recur, the South Goa administration has now tightened the screws on those breaching the guidelines governing deaths. Sources said that a city-based private hospital inadvertently handed over the body to the kin, who arranged for conducting the funeral with the help of an external agency. However, the Covid funeral team took over the task no sooner it was notified about the death and disposed of the body as per the SOPs for Covid deaths. However, the move of the organisation to claim credit for conducting the funeral has left the ESI-Covid hospital administration embarrassed over the episode. Referring to reports appearing in a section of both mainstream media and social media, Prasanna Acharya, in-charge of the ESI-Covid hospital representing the South Goa district administration, expressed his displeasure over the incident. “It’s totally false. We haven’t allowed any organisation to conduct Covid funerals,” Acharya told TOI. “There are SOPs in place which state that every Covid death occurring in a private hospital needs to be notified to the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), who will ensure that funeral is conducted as per the laid down SOP governing Covid deaths. This has been done to prevent any further contamination. In this particular case, the funeral, as usual, was conducted by our body handlers trained for the purpose.” With a view to ensuring that private hospitals admitting Covid-19 patients adhere to the guidelines in force, the South Goa district administration has now sensitised them about Covid death SOPs. “The SOPs were in place since the ESI hospital was designated as the Covid hospital. However, since the issue of possibility of violations has cropped up after private hospitals began admitting Covid patients, we will now ensure that the SOPs aren’t breached by them,” Acharya said. The South Goa district administration has since July 22 streamlined the system for handling funerals of Covid deceased. As per the system, a district administration official coordinates with a hearse van service provider while a medical officer gets in touch with the family of the deceased and explains to them the protocol for conducting the last rites. The ESI-Covid hospital team for funerals also handles disposal of bodies of residents of South Goa who die at the Goa Medical College. The hospital provides PPE units for those handling the body and for family members attending the funeral. The cost of the hearse van, the PPE suits and the wages of labourers handling the body are borne by the government. The Mathagramastha Hindu Sabha that runs the Hindu crematorium at Pajifond, Margao, has allowed the district administration to use two pyres for Covid victims of any faith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-misadventure-pvt-hospitals-sensitised-over-covid-death-sops/articleshow/78482297.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Engineering students giving up seats late may pay 5 times fee in fine||MYSURU/BENGALURU: To curb the seat-blocking menace in private engineering colleges in the state, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has proposed major changes in the seat allotment and student reporting process this year. According to the proposal, if a student allotted a government seat in a private engineering college does not report to the institute or surrenders his/her seat after the completion of the casual-vacancy round, he or she will forfeit the fee paid and is liable to pay five times the fee as a penalty. The fee for engineering seat is Rs 58,808 and Rs 65,360, depending upon the college. The penalty could, therefore, be around Rs 3 lakh. Additionally, if any private college fails to inform KEA about vacant seats in their institute (due to the non-reporting of the student) well in time for KEA to get them filled, the college shall be liable to pay the penalty of five times of the fee. The proposal has been made in draft notification dated October 1, which seeks to amend the Karnataka Selection of Candidates for Admission to Government Seats in Professional Educational Institutions Rules 2006. Public can file objections to the new admission rules in the next 15 days. According to the notification, the colleges shall collect the originals from the students at the time of admission. If any student wants to surrender his or her seat, original documents will be released to the student only after obtaining a permission from the KEA. The colleges will have to collect the penalty from the students and transfer it to the KEA in a week. Else, the colleges are liable to pay the fine. Students hail KEA moveAll these years, only the fee paid by students used to be forfeited in case they failed to get admissions. There was no penalty clause. Private colleges were also not penalised for not reporting students who would surrender their seats and leave government quota engineering seats unfilled. G Kumar Naik, principal secretary, higher education department, said the idea behind the proposed amendment is to discourage seat blocking in colleges. Aspiring engineering students hailed the move. “Hefty fine will discourage engineering seat blocking mafia as the illegal gains involved are equal to the fine amount proposed,” said Pratheek C, who is awaiting engineering admission this year. Panduranga Shetty, president of Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges’ Association, said he will have to consult his legal team before making a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-engineering-students-giving-up-seats-late-may-pay-5-times-fee-in-fine/articleshow/78483783.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 5, 2020||Goa||Long weekend ups airline sales||PANAJI: Airlines saw a pick-up in demand over the long weekend which began on October 2, with most flights operating at close to full capacity. With lockdowns being eased across the country, leisure travellers made a beeline to Goa. Goa International Airport saw flight movements jump up with 27 flights landing on Sunday. Before the Covid-19 pandemic grounded global aviation and shook-up the industry, the airport used to handle 85-90 domestic and international flights per day. “These days we have seen a lot of passengers. The airport handled 25-28 arrivals and an equal number of departures in the last few days,” airport director Gagan Malik said. Malik said that on Gandhi Jayanti, over 3,100 passengers entered the state. Goa, along with Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Himachal Pradesh have lifted all restrictions on entry. However, with the monsoon still active in north India, Goa and Karnataka are the only states available for those looking for a weekend getaway. “On Sunday, arriving passengers were around 2,000 and passengers leaving the state were more than 3000,” said Malik. Airports Authority of India expects 10 more flights to connect with Goa in the coming week with private airlines adding connections to Delhi, Bengaluru and other tier II cities. While passenger footfalls stand at around 35% of pre-Covid levels, AAI expects Goa airport to hit 80% of its pre-Covid passenger footfalls by December. Tourism stakeholders expect domestic tourist arrivals to only increase in the coming months as north Indian tourist hotspots close for the winter and as more and more Indians become confident about travelling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/long-weekend-ups-airline-sales/articleshow/78482305.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 5, 2020||Goa||Covid deaths up by 58% in Sept, infections by 40%||Panaji: Covid-related deaths rose by 58% and new infections by almost 40% in September compared to August. The positivity rate too scaled to a worrisome 31% in September, well above the national average of eight percent. A total of 235 deaths, an average of 7.8 each day, turned September into the deadliest month for the state. Almost half the total cases till date too were reported in September. August in comparison witnessed 149 deaths, an average of 4.8 each day. Majority of the mortalities in September were reported among the elderly with deceased in their 60s and 70s alone constituting more than 50% of fatalities. Average daily infections in September stood at 533 compared to a daily average of 371 in August. Consulting physician Dr Oscar Rebello says the peak isn’t over yet. “New infections must drop to 50 to 100 a day to know that the worst is over. New infections vacillating between 400 to 600 each day are not a good sign,” he says. “What’s worrying is the large volume of patients turning critically ill and developing severe pulmonary infections. Once Covid ravages the lungs, it becomes challenging to treat them. There is no definitive treatment. Some patients respond to the drugs and others don’t. Doctors are doing their best they can under the circumstances but the number of deaths are a big concern for Goa,” he said. According to the DHS several of those who succumb have underlying conditions of hypertension and diabetes and die after developing bilateral Covid pneumonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-deaths-up-by-58-in-sept-infections-by-40/articleshow/78482310.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 5, 2020||Goa||Everyone at risk of developing severe infection: Ex-IMA prez||Panaji: Six more Covid-related deaths took place in the state taking the toll to 456. Cumulative infections crossed the 35,000 mark on Sunday with 428 new cases reported. Two of the six deceased, both males aged 70 from Canacona and Merces, expired within an hour of being admitted to Hospicio Hospital and Goa Medical College. One was reported to have hypertension as a cormorbid condition while the other had hypertension and diabetes. The others were all women aged, 79, 45, 73 and 67 from Paithona, Salvador do Mundo, Socorro and Curchorem. All developed Covid pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Three of them had diabetes and hypertension. One also had COPD and the other also had chronic kidney disease. The youngest of the four didn’t have any comorbidities and died after two days of admission. Chest physician and past IMA president Dr Anil Mehndiratta said no one is being spared of severe infection. “A big number of younger people in their late 20s as well as those in their 30s and 40s are have been reporting with severe Covid infection. Many are reporting late. There is a sudden drop of oxygen saturation and they get admitted when the infection had already done considerable damage to their lungs,” he said. A total of 30,003 patients have recovered and the state has a recover rate of 85.01 percent. Five hundred persons recovered over the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/everyone-at-risk-of-developing-severe-infection-ex-ima-prez/articleshow/78482320.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 5, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tourism business hit as staff can’t return||CALANGUTE: Non-Goan staff of beach shacks, water sports and other tourism-related businesses like restaurants and guest-houses are finding it difficult to reach Goa, said tourism stakeholders. “It’s a big problem,” hotelier and Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said. “Those staying in small towns and villages and are not able to get buses to reach the nearest railway station because the bus service has not started. There are also no trains in some parts,” he said. “All the trains are fully booked till mid-November,” John Lobo, general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS), said. “There is only one train a day coming from states like Odisha, Bihar and the eastern states and they’re all running full. Those from Himachal Pradesh are unable to move because there are no buses to Delhi, from where they can get a train to Goa,” Lobo said. With uncertainty also over how the new tourism season will pan out, Lobo said most stakeholders have decided to call back only a few of their regular staff. “There is no point calling back all my regular staff as there may be hardly any boat trips permitted,” a water sports operator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-biz-hit-as-staff-cant-return/articleshow/78482339.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
October 5, 2020||Goa||At least 10-bed hosp for Ribandar: Locals||Panaji: The 11-member Ribandar Health Care Committee met on Sunday and rejected chief minister Pramod Sawant’s proposal to convert the Old Ribandar hospital into a primary health centre. Local councillor Rupesh Halankar said that they would not settle for anything less than a full-fledged medical facility. “The health centre should be a 24-hour well equipped facility, which should be at least a 10-bedded male and female ward medical centre with X-ray, sonography, CT scan, MRI, laboratory and other facilities,” advocate Aires Rodrigues said. The committee also wants the facility to be affiliated and managed by the Goa Medical College. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate had, in his May 2019 by-election manifesto, promised to set up a 24X7 health care centre with a casualty unit in Ribandar. A delegation will call on Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, Sawant, health minister Vishwajit Rane, Monserrate and chief secretary Parimal Rai to seek their intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-least-10-bed-hosp-for-ribandar-locals/articleshow/78482346.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 5, 2020||Goa||‘Forest department must set up norms for marine ecosystem’||Panaji: There is a need to have an informal rescue network for marine life much along the lines of snake rescue squads in Goa, Puja Mitra, founder of Terra Conscious said in a webinar on Sunday. She was speaking on ‘Safer Seas: Enabling Community-based Conservation Action in Goa’ as part of the wildlife week. “The forest department must set up guidelines for the marine ecosystem in Goa. We also require veterinary care by building CRZ compliant clinics at the beaches with tanks to keep the rescued turtles,” she said. Mitra said that there have been 339 individual strandings recorded up to June 29 across Goa’s beaches. Of these, turtles usually wash up dead, while whale calves wash up with injuries. “We need to find out what is driving these deaths because the oceans are impacted by so many things. With climate change, Goa’s coastline is vulnerable,” she said. She also encouraged community involvement in the rescue and conservation of marine animals. Mitra stressed on the need for responsible tourism given that Goa has dolphin trips, turtle hatcheries, crocodile spotting and other activities involving marine life under its water sports activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-department-must-set-up-norms-for-marine-ecosystem/articleshow/78482368.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Goa||Failure to settle forest claims is leading to tree-felling||Keri: Trees near and even inside protected areas in Goa are becoming casualties of strained relations between forest officials and the dwellers of these areas. Post Goa’s liberation, concrete efforts were not taken up to rehabilitate the residents living near and inside protected areas in the state. For ages, villagers of Sattari, Sanguem, Dharbandora and Canacona engaged in slash-and-burn cultivation known as kumeri sheti. After 1961, these practices were banned in the forested regions, but simultaneous effort to rehabilitate those dependent on such cultivations was not taken up. This resulted in kumeri farmers developing cashew plantations in the areas. In recent years, increasing incidents of deforestation in various parts of forested areas and also inside the wildlife sanctuaries are being found, which pose a threat to wildlife. “The villagers, who are owners of the properties inside the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, are not allowed to enjoy the fruit of their hard work and this is resulting in unrest among them,” Ranjeet Rane from Sonal-Sattari told TOI. Activities of deforestation inside wildlife sanctuaries and other forested areas result in soil erosion, causing siltation and sedimentation in the rivers and rivulets. Though forest settlement officers were appointed to settle claims and rights of the forest dwelling communities, so far no concrete steps have been taken to resolve the issue. In Caranzol, in Satre and surrounding areas, already incidents of tree felling and burning of vegetation have come to light. At Bodttar in Tambdi Surla, forest patches have been cleared. In Cotigao too, such activities of deforestation have surfaced. “We have already instructed forest officials to investigate the matter and take steps at the earliest to curtail further activities of deforestation,” deputy conservator of forest Anisha Kalkoor said. Recently, Goa government has taken up measures afresh to appoint forest settlement officers to settle the claims and rights of such forest dwellers. “As more forested areas are being brought under cashew and horticulture plantations, wild animals are coming out of the forests and destroying the crops. If no stringent action is taken to stop the deforestation, it will create problems for wild animals,” a volunteer of Vivekanand Environment Awareness Brigade, Keri, Subodh Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/failure-to-settle-forest-claims-is-leading-to-tree-felling/articleshow/78482387.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Minister Ravi quits, BSY gets more room to expand cabinet||BENGALURU: Karnataka tourism minister CT Ravi has tendered his resignation to chief minister BS Yediyurappa to take up his new role as BJP’s national general secretary, and he may continue to remain a minister until early November to handle the twin jobs of Dasara and Kannada Rajyotsava. With the new vacancy, the CM gets more room to induct one more disgruntled legislator from the party, but the cabinet-expansion exercise will be on the backburner till Bihar assembly election results are announced. Ravi, who handed in his resignation to the CM on Saturday morning, told TOI: “I quit after I was informed by the central leadership to concentrate on strengthening the party organisation. I have done my duty.” Sources said Yediyurappa’s decision to cancel his proposed Delhi tour to push for cabinet expansion comes in the wake of the central leadership concentrating on the Bihar elections. “Hence, the CM did not have a confirmed appointment and had to postpone his Delhi visit,” a CMO official said. Sources said Yediyurappa may get an appointment after Bihar elections and Karnataka bypolls are completed. The delay in expansion would mean that Ravi may continue in his post till November, with Dasara celebrations and Kannada Rajyotsava coming up. If Ravi’s resignation is accepted, then the portfolio and responsibility of conducting Dasara and selecting Rajyotsava awardees (Ravi is also Kannada and culture minister) will fall on the CM. Asked when he will be relieved of his post, Ravi said: “It is up to the CM -- it may be tomorrow or later this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/minister-ravi-quits-bsy-gets-more-room-to-expand-cabinet/articleshow/78483797.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Safer, comfy ride on train that got 1st AC coach in 1934||MUMBAI: The Golden Temple Mail rolled out with "better and safer" features runs since Saturday. All coaches on Golden Temple Mail trains are now "lighter in weight, can accommodate more passengers and can run at better speed, said a railway official. This Mail has been given LHB coaches. The acronym stands for the name of the German company which has developed the coaches of these trains. Besides, these LHB coaches have "anti-climbing" features. What it means is that in case of a collision, coaches of this train will not climb on top of one other. "The coaches are lighter in weight, have higher carrying capacity and higher speed potential," said chief spokesperson of Western Railway, Sumit Thakur. "...The upgrade will make a journey safer and comfortable." The coaches also have modular interiors and require less maintenance, claimed Thakur. This train, formerly called The Frontier Mail, was the first to get an air-conditioned coach in 1934, he said, adding that the LHB coaches are now another feather in its cap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-safer-comfy-ride-on-train-that-got-1st-ac-coach-in-1934/articleshow/78493605.cms||Somit Sen
October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Shuttered B’luru campuses shatter livelihoods||BENGALURU: When college campuses closed in March due to lockdown, it wasn’t just students and teachers whose lives changed. People who depended on these campuses by running eateries, hangout places, photocopier shops, internet centres, stationary and accessory shops, PG owners, autorickshaw drivers and even streetside bhel puri vendors took a huge hit. Many had been around for years and built a rapport with students and faculty. As they wait for campuses to reopen, TOI catches up with some of them. Raju and Mini, RR’s Blue Mount, near Mount Carmel College Located on Loafer’s Lane in Vasanth Nagar, this would be buzzing with college students at all times. “There are no people, only vehicles on the road,” said joint owner Raju. He and his wife Mini have served their speciality hot Mexican Chaat, snacks and desserts for 34 years. “I open the shop only between 4pm and 7pm, but business is not great,” Raju said, adding that they have started taking orders through Dunzo. Most customers place bulk orders. “We cater to them if they give us a few hours notice,” he said. His son Rounak R is helping them with their virtual presence on Instagram (@rajs.shop). “My sister and I want them to retire, but this shop and students keep them happy,” he said. Harish Shetty, canteen, National Law School of India UniversityHe used to work in an eatery near NLSIU and started a canteen inside the campus with students’ help in 2018. He has been serving to students for over 14 years. When the lockdown kicked in, he moved to his village near Mangaluru. It was tough to survive, but students helped. “Former and current students got together and helped me. They sent Rs 23,000 once, Rs 10,000 another time and later Rs 5,000. I’ve no income now,” he says. Shetty now works in a restaurant near NLSIU. “My wife says we should go back to our home town, but my life revolves around students. It would be incomplete without work I’ve been doing for so many years,” he added. Shivanna, photocopier shop, Jnanabharathi ComplexHe’s been running a photocopier shop inside the Jnanabharathi campus for the past 10 years. “We got a notice seven months ago to shut shop and since then, I’ve been at home. I visit the shop once in 15 days to restart the machines, that’s all,” he said. The shop was his only source of income and would fetch him around Rs 2,000 every day. “I miss the crowds and students who would rush to us June-July and during their projects. I can’t wait for all of that to return,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shuttered-bluru-campuses-shatter-livelihoods/articleshow/78483821.cms||---
October 5, 2020||---||After LJP decision, BJP to take fresh look at list of nominees||NEW DELHI: In the presence of PM Modi, BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday presided over the central election committee meeting to discuss candidates for the Bihar assembly polls and byelections for 56 assembly seats in 11 states and a Lok Sabha seat. Other members of the committee, including home minister Amit Shah and MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, were also present in the meeting which reviewed the recommendations made by the state election committee of Bihar and states where bypolls are to be held. Sources said the party will announce the candidates for Bihar in a couple of days as it will have to review the list of candidates afresh in view of changed political equations in the state after LJP decided to go it alone. Sahni-led VIP to fight all 243 seatsVikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) will contest all the 243 assembly seats in Bihar, its president Mukesh Sahni said on Sunday, reports Faryal Rumi from Patna. Sahni quit the Mahagathbandhan on Saturday after RJD, while announcing seat-sharing among the constituents, did not mention how many seats VIP would contest. Accusing RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of backstabbing him, Sahni said he could consider working with Tej Pratap if he heads RJD, but not with Tejashwi. Sahni said he would announce on Monday 71 candidates for the first phase of elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/after-ljp-decision-bjp-to-take-fresh-look-at-list-of-nominees/articleshow/78483829.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Mumbai||Number of vehicles in Mumbai to cross 4 million by March||MUMBAI: Even as it took almost two decades for Mumbai to go from 3.2 lakh registered vehicles in 1980-81 to a million, and another decade to cross 20 lakh in 2011-12, the city will cross the 4-million vehicles mark in just three years after surpassing the last million in 2016-2017. The present vehicle population of the city stands at 39 lakh, of which 11 lakh are private cars, 23 lakh two-wheelers and 5 lakh others like autos, aggregator cabs and buses, but with Mission Begin Again picking up steam, automobile sales are expected to see a rise and cross 40 lakh before the end of the financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/number-of-vehicles-in-mumbai-to-cross-4-million-by-march/articleshow/78483834.cms||Somit Sen
October 5, 2020||---||EC appoints expenditure observers for Bihar polls||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission on Sunday appointed two senior former IRS officers as special expenditure observers for Bihar assembly polls due to be held between October 28 and November 7. Madhu Mahajan, ex- IRS (IT):1982 and B R Balakrishnan, ex-IRS(IT):1983 will, as special expenditure observers, supervise and monitor the work being done by the electoral machinery and ensure that stringent and effective enforcement action is undertaken based on intelligence inputs and complaints received through C- VIGIL and voter helpline no. ‘1950’ against all persons/entities trying to induce voters by distributing cash, liquor and freebies etc.EC on Sunday said Mahajan was earlier appointed as special expenditure observer for Tamil Nadu and Karnataka during Lok Sabha Election, 2019 as well as for Maharashtra assembly election, 2019.Balakrishnan too had been asked to serve earlier as special expenditure observer for the byelection to Huzurnagar assembly constituency of Telangana in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ec-appoints-expenditure-observers-for-bihar-polls/articleshow/78483842.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: On NHRC nudge, state to hold talks on exams, syllabus||BENGALURU: Following a suggestion by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), the Karnataka government will hold meetings from Monday to redesign school curriculum and examination pattern for state syllabus for classes 1 to 9 for the Covid-impacted academic year. As the rising number of cases in Karnataka makes it tough for the government to decide on a date for reopening schools, stakeholders, educational experts and parents are seeking a further cut in the syllabus. A few have sought the academic year to be declared examination-free. While the state government has decided to cut short syllabi for students from classes 1to 10 by 30%, there is a demand to bring it below 50%. The NHRC advisory asks state governments to “redesign the curriculum keeping the extraordinary situation created by the pandemic. As per feasibility, exams for students from class 1 to class 9 may be forgone, and instead assessments based on academic and extracurricular performance throughout the year can be conducted.” Even if the earliest calendar is announced for November, which has 23 working days, the teachers will get just 100 days in the academic year that ends on April 10. Teachers have been pointing out it’s impossible to cover 70% portions as per the government proposal. “This is an extraordinary problem and the solution should be extraordinary,” said Niranjanaradhya VP, senior fellow and programme head at the Centre for Child and Law, National Law School of India University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/on-nhrc-nudge-state-to-hold-talks-on-exams-syllabus/articleshow/78483837.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: BJP leader Manish Shukla shot dead, party calls 12-hour bandh in Barrackpore||KOLKATA: A 28-year-old Barrackpore BJP leader and lawyer was gunned down by unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreants when he was entering the party office off BT Road in Titagarh on Sunday evening. Demanding a CBI inquiry, BJP declared a 12-hour Barrackpore bandh on Monday to protest against the murder of Manish Shukla. BJP alleged that Trinamool Congress-backed miscreants were involved in the shooting while Trinamool claimed the murder was a fallout of “severe infighting” in BJP ranks. Shukla, an outgoing councillor of Titagarh Municipality, was a close aide of BJP MP Arjun Singh. He was a Trinamool Youth Congress leader when he defected to BJP. On Sunday, Shukla attended a party meeting in Howrah’s Panchla along with Singh. After returning from Howrah, Shukla was entering the BJP office when he was shot. Sources said a group of people came on motorcycles and fired several rounds at Shukla; some bullets, they added, hit him at close range. Shukla was rushed to a Salt Lake hospital, where he was declared dead. “This was a pre-planned attack that took place right next to Titagarh police station. How can police not know? ” Singh said. Trinamool’s North 24 Parganas observer Nirmal Ghosh said: “This reflects the severe infighting that has gripped the BJP ranks in Barrackpore. TMC has nothing to do with this incident.” Trinamool MLA Partha Bhowmik too blamed the murder on BJP infighting. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has summoned additional chief secretary H K Dwivedi and DGP Virendra at 10 am on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-leader-shot-dead-party-calls-12-hr-bandh-in-barrackpore/articleshow/78482896.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Services of 3 trains from Tatanagar restored||Jamshedpur: The South Eastern Railway (SER) has restored the daily service of two long-distance special Covid trains via Tatanagar on the Howrah-Mumbai route to facilitate scores of the commuters of the three Kolhan districts ahead of the Durga Puja. Besides, the railways have decided to introduce Puri-Anandvihar Neelachal Superfast Covid special train (02875/02876) via Tatanagar and will run on Tuesdays, Fridays and Sundays. The special train will commence service from October 9. Barring the Puri-New Delhi Purushottam Express, no other passenger train stops at Tatanagar currently. The Chakradharpur division of SER said the Howrah-Mumbai Covid superfast special train (02810) will run daily from October 6 while the return service will commence from October 8. Similarly, the Howrah-Ahmedabad Covid special superfast train (02834) leaving Howrah will run daily from October 7 while the return train (02833) leaving Ahmedabad will start service from October 10. Both the trains will stop at Chakradharpur and Tatanagar railway stations. Currently, the trains are running tri-weekly and their stoppages at Chakradharpur and Tatanagar are suspended. “We have decided to increase the frequency of the two special trains from tri-weekly to daily and introduce the special trains to clear the huge rush of passengers in the festive season,” a Chakradharpur division official said. Passengers welcome the move but said services of more trains should be restored apart from increasing the number of coaches. “Railway should restore the service of few more passenger trains on the Delhi route along with the Howrah-Mumbai route daily as the commuters’ rush on these routes will increase during the Durga Puja and Chhath festival,” said Vijay Anand Moonka, a former functionary of the divisional railway passengers’ consultative committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/services-of-3-trains-from-tatanagar-restored/articleshow/78480927.cms||B Sridhar
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||44% aspirants appear for UPSC prelims in Ranchi; happy with Covid arrangements||Ranchi: Amid fears of Covid-19, around 44% of the total candidates appeared for the prelims of the civil services examinations conducted around 61 centres of Ranchi on Sunday. A total of 27,095 civil services aspirants vying for various services from the state were supposed to take the examination of which 12,400 aspirants from Jharkhan, Bihar and West Bengal appeared for the examination on Sunday. “The normal turnout is around 50% and 44% attendance amid the pandemic is a good response,” said Moinuddin Khan, an official with the South Chhotanagpur commission. The examination was conducted in two shifts for two papers which included general studies between 9.30am and 1130am and the second from 2.30pm to 4.30pm which contained questions on quantitative aptitude, reasoning and comprehension. As per UPSC guidelines to conduct the examination in a sanitized environment and to maintain social distancing, thermal scanning of every candidate was done at all centres and candidates were made to sit on alternate benches to maintain social distancing. Sanitizers were made available to students at regular intervals at the examination centres. The district administration also made elaborate arrangements at all the centres for the examinations and ensured queue management outside as well as inside the centres in order to ensure social distancing at all times and to maintain law and order. “We are satisfied with the way the examination was conducted. A total of 61 magistrates were on duty across the city. The magistrates ensured all safety norms were adhered to, including thermal scanning and sanitization of candidates. Masks were made available to students if anyone hadn’t turned up with one,” said Ranchi ADM (law and order) Lokesh Mishra. The district administration had also put medical teams on standby at six police stations to meet any kind of medical emergency. “We had kept one medical team each along with ambulances at Bariatu, Sukhdevnagar, Chutia, Dhurwa, Kotwali and Argora on standby to cater to any medical emergency due to the viral worry, but everything went smooth,” Mishra said. TOI spoke to a few aspirants who said they were very happy with the arrangements. On being asked about the paper, most of the aspirants said paper one was slightly difficult in comparison to the second one. “There were too many questions on agriculture, economy and environment in the first paper in comparison to questions on art and culture, government schemes constitutional bodies, education and security. The paper was a bit tough, but then it was balanced,” said Avinash Kumar who came from Koderma to write the examination. Swati Choubey, another aspirant said, “The first paper was a bit tricky, but then it wasn’t something which we hadn’t expected. The second paper was average and I didn’t find it difficult.” Several candidates had travelled from far off districts like Palamu, Garhwa, Godda, Giridih and a few districts of Bihar in private as well as public transports Anand Singh, who had come from Aurangabad in Bihar, said, “The examination was already postponed twice so there is no point cancelling it as Covid-19 has become a part of life and all we can do is protect ourselves from getting infected. The number of vacancies notified this year is 796, that is 100 candidates less than the 896 vacancies last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/44-aspirants-appear-for-upsc-prelims-in-ranchi-happy-with-covid-arrangements/articleshow/78481141.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Strict Covid protocols for CM’s admin meet||Midnapore: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will hold administrative meetings in West Midnapore and Jhargram on Tuesday and Wednesday, but district officials are taking steps to minimize the crowd in view of the rising Covid figures. Not more than 120 people will be allowed at each of the two venues at Vidyasagar Industrial Park in Kharagpur on October 6 and at Jhargram stadium the next day, a source said. On Sunday, RT-PCR tests were conducted on all those who are supposed to come in contact with the CM, a senior health official said. There will be minimum people around the stage and to facilitate the attendance of officials, five giant screens will be set up at the Kharagpur and Ghatal SDO offices, old and new DM offices and the SP’s office in Midnapore. Many officials, including zilla parishad functionaries, have been asked to attend the meeting through virtual mode to maintain social distancing norms, said Dr Rashmi Kamal, DM of Midnapore (West). She said those who would attend the meetings will be provided with face shields, masks, gloves and sanitizers. They will be allowed in only after a temperature check. On Sunday, TMC district president Ajit Maiti held a meeting with MLAs and party MP Manas Bhuniya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/strict-covid-protocols-for-cms-admin-meet/articleshow/78482954.cms||Sujay Khanra
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tenants make beeline out of New Town, flat-owners feel the pandemic pinch||KOLKATA: The pandemic has triggered an exodus from New Town, the fledgling township to Kolkata’s east, as young professionals, expats and students have returned home, leaving behind vacant apartments and horrified landlords. Several sprawling complexes — which were largely occupied by people from other states working in the IT companies in Sector V and New Town — lie half-deserted as tenants have returned to their hometowns, with many of them either laid off or instructed to work from home for the rest of this year and the beginning of 2021. Even professional institutes have shifted to online classes, making it unnecessary for students to stay in New Town. While there is no survey or data available on the extent of the impact of the pandemic on real estate yet, conversations with resident welfare associations do not paint a very encouraging picture. Shukhobrishti in Action Area III, with over 1,500 ready apartments, has always been a preferred choice for those wanting to rent an apartment in New Town, due to availability and affordability. It also spawned an ecosystem of its own, with bus and toto routes connecting the township with several IT clusters in New Town and Sector V. “Of all the apartments in the township on rent to young professionals from the IT sector and students, almost 50% are empty, as many of them have left for their hometowns in Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand and the northeast,” said Mainak Kanrar, joint secretary of the association. “Many students who usually rent apartments in a group, have also left.” The scene is similar at other housing complexes like NBCC Vibgyor, DLF Heights, Rameshwara Waterview, where several tenants have left. Over the last few years, New Town has emerged as a favoured destination for young professionals and students who work in IT companies in the township or study in one of the several professional institutes. Decent infrastructure, sprawling malls, an under-construction Metro network and green neighbourhoods have also att-racted several families. The current situation of lesser demand — and the consequent sudden supply surge — has driven down rental costs across the city and forced landlords to offer generous concessions, such as rent reduction and sharing of maintenance costs. Iman Gazi, a property broker in New Town-Rajarhat, said the inventory of apartments would most likely increase in the next few months as several tenants, struggling financially, have decided not to renew their rent agreements. “Earlier, the rent for a 2-BHK apartment in the heart of the township was anything between Rs 14,000 and Rs 16,000. Today, the landlords are willing to accept 20% to 25% lower rent, but are finding no takers,” said Gazi. This exodus has also started showing its impact on the local economy. Food vendors outside IT offices and residential complexes mostly sit idle and totos and buses on these routes don’t have enough passengers. Local bars, retail stores and even malls have reported depressing sales. “It has also dealt a huge blow to the local economy, with so many people leaving. Many people who worked as domestic helps, other service providers, local eateries, malls and public transport are bound to feel the impact,” said Samir Gupta, joint convener of the New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tenants-make-beeline-out-of-new-town-flat-owners-feel-the-pandemic-pinch/articleshow/78483162.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Min Haji laid to rest with full state honours||Dumka: State minority welfare minister and Mahdupur MLA Haji Hussain Ansari (73), who died of cardiac arrest on Saturday hours after recovering from Covid-19, was laid to rest on Sunday with full state honours and chief minister Hemant Soren attending the last rites at his native village. Attending the funeral at the burial ground in Pipra village in Deoghar district, Soren said, “The sudden departure of Haji Sahab is shocking for all of us. Although he is no more, his ideals will always be with us. Ansari’s last rites were performed as per Islamic traditions after offering Zanazah-ki-Nawaz (funeral prayers) while the state police gave a gun salute in the presence of Soren. Thousands of JMM workers and supporters also attended the funeral. His body, wrapped in Tricolour, was brought from Ranchi to his Pathalchapdi residence in Madhupur on Saturday night and was kept in the house for the public to pay their last respects. The body was shifted to his native village on Sunday. Ansari's health deteriorated on September 23 when he was shifted to Medanta hospital on the outskirts of Ranchi after testing positive for Covid-19. Hours before his death early on Saturday, his Covid test results returned negative, Medanta officials said. Born on July 23, 1947, Ansari was the MLA from Madhupur assembly seat for four times in 1995, 2000, 2010 and 2019. He was also the first Muslim minister of the state during the former chief minister Arjun Munda’s government in 2010. Leaders across party lines expressed grief over Ansari's death, who was a prominent minority face of JMM and Santhal Parganas. “It's painful to see the departure of a humble and conscious political person like Ansari ji,” BJP MP from Godda, Nishikant Dubey, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/min-haji-laid-to-rest-with-full-state-honours/articleshow/78480978.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Rlys seeks govt nod to resume 21 special express trains||Ranchi: The Ranchi railway division of South Eastern Railways (SER) sought the state government’s approval for resuming operations of 21 special express trains which originate from Ranchi and Tatanagar railway stations for six states. In a letter to transport secretary K Ravikumar on Saturday, the division also sought clearance for allowing stoppages of the two pairs of the Puri-Anand Vihar Express train at Gomoh, Parasnath, Koderma, Ghatshila, Bokaro Steel City, Chandrapura, Muri and Tatanagar stations for commercial, detraining and boarding of passengers. “A proposal has been received from the Indian Railways to resume operations for several pairs of express trains. The matter will be put up before the government next week. Final decision will be communicated to the railways,” Ravikumar said on Sunday. The letter, undersigned by additional divisional railway manager (infrastructure) Ajit Singh Yadav on October 3, proposed to resume five express trains from Tatanagar railway station under Chakradharpur division of SER. Seven trains will originate from Hatia while the rest will originate from Ranchi. The SER’s move comes weeks before a month-long festive season, which will commence with Navratri and end with Chhath. The stalled trains will connect Ranchi and Jamshedpur to Mumbai, Bengaluru, Amritsar, Ajmer Sharif, Bhagalpur, Patna, Jaynagar and Howrah. All these trains will run as special trains as railway services have not become fully functional nationwide. At present, there are 24 special trains that are stopping at different stations in Jharkhand, including the Ranchi, Bhubaneshwar, Howrah and Sealdah Rajdhani specials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rlys-seeks-govt-nod-to-resume-21-special-express-trains/articleshow/78481007.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad div prepares rakes for possible resumption of services||Dhanbad: As gradual restoration of train services begin under Unlock 5.0, the Dhanbad division of the East Central Railway started readying coaches of important trains originating from Dhanbad station. The first lot includes the 13329 Ganga Damodar Express, 13351 Dhanbad Alappuzha Express and 13348A Palamu Link Express. The advance preparation is being done in anticipation that the railway board may soon announce to restore the services, said senior divisional commercial manager of the Dhanbad Division Akhilesh Kumar Pandey. “Though we are prepared to operate the trains, we are yet to receive go ahead. We’ve also sent a proposal to resume services of the Black Diamond Express between Dhanbad and Howrah,” Pandey said. 11447 Shaktipunj Express running between Jabalpur and Howrah through different stations of the division, including Garhwa Road, Chaupan and Dhanbad, will once again roll out from October 7. Sources in the division said three rakes of the Ganga Damodar Express have already been prepared while preparation of six rakes of the Dhanbad Alappuzha Express is on. Ranjit Dutta, in-charge of Railway Coaching Complex (Yard) of Dhanbad said, “We are carrying out the safety maintenance and cleaning and sanitization of the coaches. Preparations have been completed for all the three rakes of Ganga Damodar Express comprising 24 coaches each.” Sources said preparations of coaches are being done based on the requirement sent by the headquarters of ECR at Hajipur and resumption of services is expected from October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-div-prepares-rakes-for-possible-resumption-of-services/articleshow/78481030.cms||Praduman Choubey
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Zoo to urge govt to allow reopening||Ranchi: The management of Ranchi’s Birsa Biological Park on Sunday said it will urge the Jharkhand government to allow its reopening for visitors by the end of October. “The park, which remains off limits for visitors since March 22, has been decked up with necessary arrangements to ensure social distancing among visitors once it reopens,” zoo director D Venkateshwarlu told TOI. “We have recently made operational our new website (www.birsazoojharkhand.in). Visitors can book tickets online through it. We have also installed a coin entry gate to do away with paper tickets, which can spread Covid-19,” the director said. Notably, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) had in June gave permission to zoos across the country to reopen their premises in adherence to the social distancing protocols. However, many states, including Jharkhand, did not allow the resumption. “In accordance with the CZA’s guidelines, we will write to the state department of forest, environment and climate change for considering the reopening of the premises and will follow the instructions thereafter,” Venkateshwarlu said. “We will study the risk factors involved in reopening the zoo and move a proposal to the government accordingly,” a senior official in the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/zoo-to-urge-govt-to-allow-reopening/articleshow/78481126.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool, Bengal leaders rip into UP MLA’s ‘reform daughters’ comment||Kolkata: Even as the Hathras incident led to sporadic protests in Bengal on Sunday, BJP’s Balia MLA Surendra Singh’s “reform-daughters” comment spurred aggressive retorts by all political parties in Bengal, the sharpest by Trinamool Congress, which dubbed BJP as a party with little respect for women. The UP MLA had said that parents should teach their daughters to behave and dress properly. “They can be MLAs but they are actually a bunch of uneducated lot. Neither do they care for India’s culture nor its heritage. They have least respect for women,” said Trinamool Congress secretary general Partha Chatterjee. He alleged that instead of condemning such barbaric acts, a section of UP lawmakers was trying to justify the action with such statements. “This is a shameful act and the nation is witness to the aftermath of the incident,” Chatterjee said, adding, “no expression is enough to criticise this”. Senior minister and Kolkata Municipal Corporation administrator Firhad Hakim said: “Such statements aimed to defend such a heinous crime like rape is in extremely bad taste. It only shows their mindset. First learn to respect your mother and daughters and then speak.” Adhir Chowdhury, leader of opposition in Lok Sabha and Pradesh Congress president, asked: “Is this the India BJP is trying to make? Is this the ‘vikas’ they speak about where a Dalit woman is raped and murdered and a section of politicians try to defend that?” Chowdhury, who spoke to the victim’s family members, said: “The first crime was rape and murder. The second crime was depriving the family of performing her last rites. I do not have words to express my shock.” Rajya Sabha MP and senior CPM leader Bikash Bhattacharya said, “They believe in a twisted Hinduism. They do not believe in Hinduism which speaks of women empowerment, which speaks of scientific temper and inclusivity. What else would one expect from them?” His party colleague and MLA Sujan Chakraborty said, “The Sangh and BJP leaders do not recognise the rights and honour of women. Women are merely inferior humans to males, they feel. Such statements from UP lawmakers reflect what they believe.” The sharp attacks prompted the state BJP to disassociate itself from the comments. Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu said: “I agree that such comments cannot be tolerated and the party doesn’t agree to such comments., but we have to equally condemn similar comments from politicians when a minor was raped in Jalpaiguri. A similar comment was made after the girl committed suicide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-bengal-leaders-rip-into-up-mlas-reform-daughters-comment/articleshow/78482892.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||MHA invites Bengal, GJM faction for Gorkhaland talks||Darjeeling/Kolkata: The Union home ministry has invited the Bengal government and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung faction) for a tripartite meeting on October 7 to discuss issues related to Gorkhaland. The invite dated October 3, signed by Renu Sarin, director CS-II, says: “The meeting will be held on October 7 at North Block under the chairmanship of G Kishan Reddy, Union minister of state for home, to discuss issues related to Gorkhaland.” The central government had planned a meeting on August 7 and invited the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), without specifying which faction of GJM, to review the GTA. Both factions of GJM and the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) refused to attend it, forcing the Centre to postpone the date. Even the Bengal government refused to attend the meeting. The Hills parties demanded a tripartite meeting to discuss Gorkhaland as the one-point agenda. Senior leaders of the Gurung faction did not immediately comment, but sources indicated it was a positive development. “A final call will be taken by the central leadership, maybe on Monday,” a source said. Binoy Tamang, leading GJM’s other faction, could not be reached for his reaction. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh was also not available for comment. Darjeeling’s BJP MP Raju Bista said, “I hope the Bengal government and Gorkha representative will participate in the talks called by the home ministry with an open mind.” Trinamool Congress found the talks invite to be a ploy by the BJP-led Centre to create trouble in the Hills before the 2021 assembly polls. TMC leaders described the move as a plot to divide the state. A senior Bengal minister said if the Centre was serious about the issue it should have taken up the matter with the Bengal government before seeking a tripartite meeting. GNLF, too, was sceptical. Ajoy Edwards, president of GNLF’s Darjeeling sub-division, said: “Our party will wait and watch to see the outcome of the meeting. Calling only the Gurung faction is quite surprising. For us, nothing less than Sixth Schedule will be acceptable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mha-invites-bengal-gjm-faction-for-gorkhaland-talks/articleshow/78483038.cms||Deep Gazmer
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Railways to be largest green network by 2023-end: Goyal||Kolkata: In about three years from now, Indian Railways (IR) will attain total electrification, becoming the only rail network in the world to achieve this feat, railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday. Given the extent of the IR network, it will become the world’s largest to run on electricity if this happens. Till now, about 40,000 route km have been electrified. This accounts for nearly 60% of the total route km under IR. “Even advanced nations have not been able to achieve this. We plan to achieve total electrification by the end of 2023. This will reduce carbon footprint and turn IR into a green transporter. We have already embarked on a mission to generate nearly 20,000MW of solar power using vacant land next to the tracks,” Goyal said while inaugurating the Phoolbagan Metro station in Kolkata through video-conferencing. Despite several measures adopted, IR continues to guzzle over 30 lakh kilolitres of high speed diesel annually to run trains through non-electrified sections. Not only does this impact railways’ efforts to lower its carbon footprint, it also reduces earnings significantly. While a decision has been taken that all new lines will be electrified ones, existing non-electrified stretches are being converted. According to a source, the aim was to electrify 6,000 route km of tracks in 2019-20. However, less than half was possible till December 2019. Goyal had told the Lok Sabha in February how the plan was to electrify 6,000 route km every year till 2021-22 and 6,500 route km in 2022-23. The remaining 4,310 route km is to be completed by December 2023, taking the total to 28,810 route km, thereby covering the entire network. “There has been some progress but achieving 6,000 route km every year may not be possible. For electrification of busy sections, trains have to be diverted. Routes are already congested and such diversions are not always possible. Cancellation or short-termination of trains is also not possible at all times. That is why achievement of targets becomes a problem. However, there is a major thrust towards electrification and this is a positive step. IR has also started ordering more electric locomotives,” a senior official said. In addition to electrification, several other steps too have been adopted by IR to reduce diesel consumption. Electric locomotives have started adopting the Head On Generation (HOG) technology that allows these to power lights, fans and air-conditioning units in coaches from electricity drawn from overhead equipment (OHE). New locomotives being developed for trains such as Tejas are also powerful enough to draw enough electricity and generate power for all coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/railways-to-be-largest-green-network-by-2023-end-goyal/articleshow/78483127.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Dhankhar reports fake emails, messages to cops||Kolkata: Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday reported to Kolkata Police that impersonators were sending fake emails and spam messages in his name. “Now fake mails after LOCUST MESSAGING and calls — reported @KolkataPolice,” he wrote on Twitter. The fake email, shared by Dhankhar, stated that the governor needed a favour and that the recipient must reply at the earliest. In his tweet, the governor pointed out that no action had yet been taken on those who had allegedly stopped his car or morphed his photo. TOI had earlier reported that multiple cops — even senior IPS officers — are being targeted by cyber crooks, who are creating fake profiles and trying to cheat social media users into paying them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhankhar-reports-fake-emails-messages-to-cops/articleshow/78483046.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jagarnath remains critical, on 100% oxygen support||Ranchi: State education minister Jagarnath Mahto remained critical on Sunday with non-invasive ventilator support supplying his 100% oxygen needs after he tested positive for Covid-19 last month. Doctors treating him at the Medical hospital here said the 53-year-old minister, who is also the JMM legislator from Dumri, showed signs of marginal improvement. Talking to TOI, medical director and critical care head of Medica hospital, Dr Vijay Mishra said, “Mahato was brought to our hospital on October 1 with 100% requirement of oxygen. For the first time since his admission here, Mahto has shown a slight improvement. Currently, we are maintaining his oxygen levels through the non-invasive ventilator.” Mahato has a history of cardiac ailments and underwent an angioplasty in 2018. He has been experiencing breathlessness since Monday after he tested positive on September 28 and taken to Rims for treatment. From Rims, he was referred to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital and has been suffering from severe Covid pneumonia leading to lung infections. “He has had a cardiac history but his heart is functioning well and we have conducted tests like electrocardiogram, Troponin T, echocardiogram to check the condition and there are no signs of contraction of any heart muscles,” Dr Mishra said. He further said doctors are also conducting his pathological tests daily to ensure that he is not suffering from other complications as per ICMR protocols. On the condition of his lungs, Dr Mishra said, “We have not been able to conduct a high-resolution CT scan yet as moving him from the isolated room is not advisable. However, we are conducting X-rays on a daily basis and found that around 50% of his lungs have been infected.” Asked whether Mahto will be shifted to a better medical facility, Dr Mishra said their hospital can provide all needs required by the minister but his family members had discussed the matter with them. “The matter of shifting him has been put on hold as it is not safe to move a severely ill patient,” Dr Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jagarnath-remains-critical-on-100-oxygen-support/articleshow/78480939.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 5, 2020||Ranchi||Koderma emerging as new breeding place for vultures, say bird experts||Koderma: Vultures are now being increasingly spotted in Koderma district, two bird experts said on Thursday. Satya Prakash, a bird expert in Koderma and state coordinator of the Indian Bird Conservation Network (IBCN), said: “The number of vultures dwindled over the decades in Jharkhand primarily because of the use of diclofenac medicines among the cattle population to increase their milk production. When vultures feed on the carcasses of such cattle, the toxic substance enters their body as well and leads to their deaths.” He said, “Nine species of vultures are found in the Indian subcontinent and five species have been recorded in Jharkhand. Recently, they have been spotted in Telaiya dam, Chandwara and Jamukhari areas of Koderma district, which raises hopes that these places can be developed as a good breeding ground for the vultures. As nature’s waste manager, these avian scavengers provide free consumption of biological waste.” Indrajeet Samanta, a keen bird watcher and environmentalist, said that vultures are getting food in certain areas of Koderma district, leading to an increase in their numbers. Samanta said, “It is important to provide them safer zones for breeding. Efforts are required to conserve the vultures that are now frequently seen in Koderma. Till some time ago, they were spotted mostly in the adjoining Hazaribag district.” Koderma divisional forest officer Suraj Kumar Singh said that they are planning to set up vulture conservation points. “Plans are afoot to develop conservation point for vultures in the district. Watch towers will be constructed near Telaiya dam area to protect them,” he said. The conservator of forest, Hazaribag, Ajit Singh, recently toured the area after he heard the news about the vultures. Talking to TOI , he said, “Sighting vultures in good numbers made my day. In Hazaribag, vultures can be seen but in Koderma, it was my first experience.” He said this critically endangered species needs to be protected. “Work has been done in Hazaribag to conserve vultures, now Koderma will be incorporated into the program. Vultures are important for the eco-system,” he added. Ajit Singh urged dairy farmers and veterinarians to not use diclofenac to treat cattle. “If vultures are not conserved, humanity will be in danger,” he said. Koderma DFO Suraj Kumar Singh said the administration was trying to phase out the use of diclofenac in vet population. He added that a census on vultures will be carried out in Koderma soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/koderma-emerging-as-new-breeding-place-for-vultures-say-bird-experts/articleshow/78480913.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Kolkata||Rose Valley: ED files forgery case against 2||Kolkata: The Enforcement Directorate has lodged an FIR against Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu and another accused, Sudipta Roy Chowdhury, for allegedly trying to forge the company’s documents with an “intent to cheat” investigating authorities probing the Rs 17,000-crore Rose Valley scam. The case registered with Bidhannagar Commissionerate has now been taken up by CID for further investigation. According to sources, a communication reached ED headquarters at Khan Market, New Delhi a few days back. The agency officials, after going through it, felt it was written under a forged or stolen identity. The investigators have reasons to believe that documents were tampered with and superimposed during the process before the communications were sent out to other authorities too. In the FIR, ED mentioned that they are apprehending that a section of people related to the case are trying extort others by showing forged documents. According to the central investigating agency sources, this isn’t the first time such forgery attempts were made. A few months ago, a purported letter from a Rose Valley group official reached the ED office. It mentioned names of officers conducting the investigation and instrumental in attaching property. Later, when questioned, the company official denied having sent any such letter. Certain anomalies came to the fore when at least three premium quality cars of the Rose Valley group were found to be sold to someone else. According to sources, while two cars were sold to buyers in Mumbai, another was sold to a person in New Delhi. It was also alleged that documents related to Adrija Gold Corporation, a Rose Valley company, were forged. The agency in its FIR said it suspects a racket of cheating and extortion. Kundu’s lawyer Biplab Goswami said the documents pertaining to the cars under question were already in the public domain. “There is no question of forgery. Kundu is behind bars for past five years and there is no way he can tamper with any document or fabricate it. The documents under question are already with the Registrar of Companies,” Goswami said. “Moreover, Kundu’s wife Subhra has submitted all her documents regarding joining and resigning from Adrija Gold to both CBI and ED. None of the information was hidden from investigating agencies,” Goswami added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rose-valley-ed-files-forgery-case-against-2/articleshow/78483029.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra leads in graft cases for 3rd year in row, but logs 15% conviction rate||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has reported the highest number of corruption cases against public servants for three years in a row, from 2017 to 2019. According to the latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), 891 graft cases were reported in Maharashtra in 2019; Rajasthan came a distant second with 424 cases. The conviction rate in Maharashtra, however, has been a measly 15% in both 2018 and 2019. TimesViewThe alacrity with which the anti-corruption bureau goes after low-ranking public servants caught accepting bribes should also extend to cases involving the big fish. When prosecution of those in charge of entire departments or handling plum assignments is delayed, it demotivates complainants from coming forward. However, as the data suggests, Maharashtra is relatively better at reporting corruption than most other states.According to the NCRB data, though corruption cases reduced by 5% between 2018 and 2019 in Maharashtra, the state still accounts for 21% of all graft cases recorded in India in 2019. Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officers attribute the high number to their policy of not dithering and setting up a trap soon after a complaint is verified as authentic. The north-eastern states of Sikkim, Mizoram and Nagaland reported the least number of corruption cases—zero, two and one, respectively—in 2019. But former Maharashtra ACB chief Pravin Dixit pointed out that just because a state reports fewer corruption cases does not necessarily mean its public servants are honest. “There’s a possibility that the people might not be sufficiently aware. The Maharashtra ACB has publicised its website, app and helpline. Online complaints are also recorded. People believe their grievance would be heard,” he added. The low conviction rate in Maharashtra is a result of delay in cases coming up for trial and quality of investigation found lacking, said legal eagles. “The most crucial part in a corruption case is establishing that there was a demand for money. Merely nabbing a public servant with currency is not enough,” said advocate VN Shinganapurkar. “The panchnama should record the exact sequence of events and even minutest details shouldn’t be left out. Not following procedural requirements could cost the case.” Lawyers said some complainants may be acting out of frustration or seeking vendetta. “As a case drags in court, the complainant either goes hostile or reaches a truce with the accused and gives statements that won’t help the case to be proven beyond reasonable doubt,” advocate Ashwin Thool said. “But scrupulous investigations, for instance, a demand of the bribe recorded on audio coupled with a redhanded acceptance of the bribe could secure a conviction.” Madhya Pradesh has done better than Maharashtra with a 73% conviction rate in 2019 out of the 333 cases where trials were completed. As far as departmental action in Maharashtra is concerned, 21corrupt public servants were dismissed from service, 28 were awarded major punishment and 42 were given minor penalties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-leads-in-graft-cases-for-3rd-year-in-row-but-logs-15-conviction-rate/articleshow/78483852.cms||Nitasha Natu
October 5, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: One in 4 Covid victims admitted 48 hours before death||MUMBAI: More than six months into the pandemic, at least one in four patients dying in Maharashtra seem to be reaching hospitals at too late a stage to be helped. Blame it on lack of awareness or reluctance to avail public healthcare facilities, but 10,299 of the 37,457 Covid victims (27.5%) in the state till October 2 were admitted in a critical state and died within 48 hours of reaching hospital. In September, the worst month in terms of caseload (5.5 lakh cases) and toll (9,910 deaths), more than 27% (2,681) patients died within 48 hours before doctors or medicines could make an impact. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in cases as well as fatalities. The state has reported 14.3 lakh Covid-19 cases till date. And the Centre has pointed to delay in reporting (on the part of citizens) during Covid-19 reviews held periodically. Public health minister Rajesh Tope admitted that six months into the pandemic, there is still lack of awareness about the disease and its symptoms in smaller cities and rural areas. "A large number of deaths from smaller cities and rural areas happen within a few days of being admitted due to this," said Tope. However, a review of deaths in the relatively urban Thane circle last month also revealed the same trend: up to 30% of patients died within two days of hospitalization. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean who heads the BMC panel analyzing Covid mortality, said while some delay testing due to fear, many do so because they believe their symptoms may be due to some other condition or virus. “But this leads to a costly delay,’’ added Dr Supe. A senior state government official said that there is still a lot of social stigma attached to being Covid-positive. “The state government’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign was launched on September 15 to tackle such gaps in our Covid response,” said a senior public health department official. Under the campaign, health teams visit homes for early detection and to ensure testing and treatment are carried out in time. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has also directed district administrations to boost public’s confidence in government-run Covid-19 facilities. “Even in smaller cities such as Beed and Latur, people look for private hospitals for two to three days before reaching government facilities in a critical state," said a senior official from Aurangabad. A state official said over 11 lakh people have been treated and discharged from public hospitals so far -- information that must be publicised to enhance confidence in the system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-one-in-4-covid-victims-admitted-48-hours-before-death/articleshow/78483886.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 5, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: One in 4 Covid victims admitted 48 hours before death||MUMBAI: More than six months into the pandemic, at least one in four patients dying in Maharashtra seem to be reaching hospitals at too late a stage to be helped. Blame it on lack of awareness or reluctance to avail public healthcare facilities, but 10,299 of the 37,457 Covid victims (27.5%) in the state till October 2 were admitted in a critical state and died within 48 hours of reaching hospital. In September, the worst month in terms of caseload (5.5 lakh cases) and toll (9,910 deaths), more than 27% (2,681) patients died within 48 hours before doctors or medicines could make an impact. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in cases as well as fatalities. The state has reported 14.3 lakh Covid-19 cases till date. And the Centre has pointed to delay in reporting (on the part of citizens) during Covid-19 reviews held periodically. Public health minister Rajesh Tope admitted that six months into the pandemic, there is still lack of awareness about the disease and its symptoms in smaller cities and rural areas. "A large number of deaths from smaller cities and rural areas happen within a few days of being admitted due to this," said Tope. However, a review of deaths in the relatively urban Thane circle last month also revealed the same trend: up to 30% of patients died within two days of hospitalization. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean who heads the BMC panel analyzing Covid mortality, said while some delay testing due to fear, many do so because they believe their symptoms may be due to some other condition or virus. “But this leads to a costly delay,’’ added Dr Supe. A senior state government official said that there is still a lot of social stigma attached to being Covid-positive. “The state government’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign was launched on September 15 to tackle such gaps in our Covid response,” said a senior public health department official. Under the campaign, health teams visit homes for early detection and to ensure testing and treatment are carried out in time. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has also directed district administrations to boost public’s confidence in government-run Covid-19 facilities. “Even in smaller cities such as Beed and Latur, people look for private hospitals for two to three days before reaching government facilities in a critical state," said a senior official from Aurangabad. A state official said over 11 lakh people have been treated and discharged from public hospitals so far -- information that must be publicised to enhance confidence in the system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-one-in-4-covid-victims-admitted-48-hours-before-death/articleshow/78483894.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 5, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: One in 4 Covid victims admitted 48 hours before death||MUMBAI: More than six months into the pandemic, at least one in four patients dying in Maharashtra seem to be reaching hospitals at too late a stage to be helped. Blame it on lack of awareness or reluctance to avail public healthcare facilities, but 10,299 of the 37,457 Covid victims (27.5%) in the state till October 2 were admitted in a critical state and died within 48 hours of reaching hospital. In September, the worst month in terms of caseload (5.5 lakh cases) and toll (9,910 deaths), more than 27% (2,681) patients died within 48 hours before doctors or medicines could make an impact. Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in cases as well as fatalities. The state has reported 14.3 lakh Covid-19 cases till date. And the Centre has pointed to delay in reporting (on the part of citizens) during Covid-19 reviews held periodically. Public health minister Rajesh Tope admitted that six months into the pandemic, there is still lack of awareness about the disease and its symptoms in smaller cities and rural areas. "A large number of deaths from smaller cities and rural areas happen within a few days of being admitted due to this," said Tope. However, a review of deaths in the relatively urban Thane circle last month also revealed the same trend: up to 30% of patients died within two days of hospitalization. Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean who heads the BMC panel analyzing Covid mortality, said while some delay testing due to fear, many do so because they believe their symptoms may be due to some other condition or virus. “But this leads to a costly delay,’’ added Dr Supe. A senior state government official said that there is still a lot of social stigma attached to being Covid-positive. “The state government’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign was launched on September 15 to tackle such gaps in our Covid response,” said a senior public health department official. Under the campaign, health teams visit homes for early detection and to ensure testing and treatment are carried out in time. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has also directed district administrations to boost public’s confidence in government-run Covid-19 facilities. “Even in smaller cities such as Beed and Latur, people look for private hospitals for two to three days before reaching government facilities in a critical state," said a senior official from Aurangabad. A state official said over 11 lakh people have been treated and discharged from public hospitals so far -- information that must be publicised to enhance confidence in the system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-one-in-4-covid-victims-admitted-48-hours-before-death/articleshow/78483893.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to increase domestic flights by 50% from next week||NEW DELHI: Mumbai will soon have improved domestic air connectivity with the state government agreeing to increase daily flights by about 50%. Currently, 100 daily domestic arrivals and as many departures are allowed from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA). This number is being increased to 150 daily domestic arrivals and as many departures from this month — taking the number of 200 domestic arrivals-cum-departures to 300, say people in the know. Airlines have been allowed to add flights to and from Mumbai whenever they can. The increase should kick in from early next week. Similarly, Chennai — which currently allows 50 daily domestic departures and as many arrivals — is doubling these numbers. Once these restrictions are relaxed, there is going to be a significant increase in domestic air travel base, said senior airline and airport officials. This extended weekend recorded healthy traveller numbers. While October 2 saw 1,76,601 domestic passengers — the highest daily number since scheduled flights resumed on May 25 with 30,000 people flying within the country on Day One. If the pandemic spread remains under control and states don’t re-impose restrictions, the aviation ministry expects domestic air travel to return to the pre-Covid level of over three lakh daily passengers between Diwali (November14) and the year-end. Delhi Airport has made terminal 2 operational from this month to allow more domestic flights. Recently Delhi and Mumbai airports made Covid testing facilities operational for incoming international passengers so that a negative test report can allow them to take connecting domestic flights. Airport operators have requested the government to allow testing against payment for any passenger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-to-increase-domestic-flights-by-50-from-next-week/articleshow/78483915.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 5, 2020||Vadodara||5 teens booked for crimes daily in Gujarat||VADODRA: Troubled teens in Gujarat are giving their families a tough time. Data released by the NCRB for 2019 has revealed that Gujarat is among the top five states when it comes to crimes committed by teenagers. Last year, five teenagers on an average were booked daily for committing various offences in the state. According to the data, 2,025 crimes were committed by the juveniles out of which 1,786 were cognizable crimes. With 6.3%, the state stood at number five when it came to the share in the country’s total crimes committed by juveniles. Though serious offences including murder and attempt to murder haven’t grown much in number, experts find the trend worrying. “One of the major reasons for teenagers taking to crime is easy availability of technology and exposure to the social media,” said Saroj Kumari, DCP (HQ), Surat who has done MPhil in sociology and taught the subject at a university in Rajasthan. A big reason that drives juveniles to commit crimes is money. “But other factors like the company they keep also play a key role in their behaviour apart from upbringing,” said advocate Komal Kukreja. Apart from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu too have a high number of juvenile crimes .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5-teens-booked-for-crimes-daily-in-gujarat/articleshow/78483906.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Surat||Man abandons son to spend ‘time’ with wife in Surat||SURAT: Caught between child and wife, 25-year-old man chose to repair his strained relation with his wife of six years and how! He ditched their only son, five-year-old Prince, in a bus depot and then to escape complications, staged fake kidnapping by lodging a complaint that the boy had gone missing around 3pm. But cops could see through the ruse and ended the drama by locating the boy, who by then was actually lost, in a children’s home nearly 15 hours later. According to GIDC police, Saheb Chaudhary, a native of West Champaran district in Bihar, wanted to woo his wife Saroj (23) with whom he had a love marriage six years ago. Both of them now are employed as textile workers in a unit in Sachin GIDC area and live in a rented accommodation with their son. However, the boy proved to be a hindrance to the couple especially during the lockdown period and this strained their relationship further. Finding himself alone with his son on Saturday, the man designed a ploy to take his son out and abandon him, but plan failed and the father tripped in his own trap. J K Pandya, assistant commissioner of police, F division said that the police are now planning to register an offence against the man for wilfully abandoning his child. After cops started searching for the ‘missing child’, they got a lead from the neighbours that Chaudhary had already been searching for his son since 12.30 pm, and also that he didn’t inform his wife at work in the afternoon. “This raised our suspicions,” said cops who forced him to spill the beans on the ‘missing’ drama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-abandons-son-to-spend-time-with-wife-in-surat/articleshow/78483862.cms||---
October 5, 2020||Business||Goods terminal at Sankrail gets a major makeover||Kolkata: A major goods terminal is being created at Sankrail in Howrah by South Eastern Railway (SER). Work at the terminal has been initiated at a cost of nearly Rs 124 crore and it promises to be one of the most important in the country, thanks to its connectivity to major business hubs around Kolkata. Apart from industrial cargo, foodgrains and parcel, hundreds of vehicles have also started arriving at Sankrail for onward movement to locations in eastern India. “Modernisation of the goods terminal is underway. Sankrail has an advantage as it is well connected by road to several destinations as well as Kolkata. World class facilities for rake handling have been provided to ensure faster turnaround. Eight full length lines along with full length wharf facilities have already been commissioned. Smooth approach roads with separate entry and exit (1.1-km concrete and a 1.2-km exit one) have also been commissioned. The terminal also has round the clock high-mast tower lighting facility for better productivity and surveillance,” said Sanjoy Ghosh, CPRO, SER. Among the other facilities being developed at Sankrail are a truck terminal, merchants’ room and goods office. With major development in progress, the volumes being carried by inward and outward rakes have gone up significantly. The main items being handled are cement, iron and steel, foodgrains, chemicals and automobiles. “There is huge demand for modern facilities such as these for items such as automobiles, including passenger vehicles and goods ones. Special, large storage spaces have to be created to unload rakes and ensure that vehicles are not damaged. A number of automobile manufacturers are now preferring to transport vehicles by rail as bulk movement is possible. This is less time consuming and cheaper in the long run. More importantly, this reduces pollution and the pressure on roads,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/goods-terminal-at-sankrail-gets-a-major-makeover/articleshow/78482009.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 5, 2020||Business||Electro Steel Castings, Srikalahasthi Pipes to merge soon||Kolkata: Two ductile pipe makers — Electro Steel Castings (ECL)and Srikalahasthi Pipes(SPL) of the same group — informed the stock exchanges on September 30 that they are merging soon. Electrosteel is Rs 2,521crore company, while SPL has turnover of over Rs 1,700 crore. ESL scrip was up by 19.3% to Rs 24.4 on BSE after the merger information. In separate announcements, the two companies said that the proposed amalgamation is “to be considered” on Monday by the Board of Directors of both the companies. However, the stock market disclosures, couched in compliance legalese, were primarily meant for “intimation for closure of trading windows” the promoters, their relatives and promoter entities. According to sources, the Boards of the two companies would meet tomorrow to decide on the merger ratio, already recommended by the transaction advisor Baker Tilly India. “The merger process is likely to take around three quarters to complete. The Boards would meet again on October 30 to review the Q2 and half yearly accounts of both the companies. The announcements further said “the Trading Window shall open 48 hours after the Unaudited Financial Results” of the companies for the quarter and half-year ending September 30, 2020 were submitted to the Stock Exchanges. SPL (formerly Lanco Industries Limited) was taken over by ECL in 2001. Now it holds 48% in SPL which has manufacturing facility in Andhra Pradesh. SPL also offers superior quality foundry grade pig iron, cement and low ash metallurgical coke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/electro-steel-castings-srikalahasthi-pipes-to-merge-soon/articleshow/78482003.cms||---
