October 6, 2020||Goa||Donachie looking forward to FC Goa’s Asian challenge||PANAJI: FC Goa defender James Donachie is ready to make his towering presence felt this season. The Australian centre-back is a perfect replacement for Senegalese Mourtada Fall, who followed former coach Sergio Lobera to Mumbai City FC. But more importantly, it is Donachie’s vast experience in the AFC Champions League that FC Goa stand to benefit. The 27-year-old has played in the Champions League for Melbourne Victory and Brisbane Roar. He now wants to leave a mark with FC Goa, who finished as league toppers last season and created history to become the first team from India to feature in Asia’s premier competition. “I like to play in that tournament (AFC Champions League) because you get to play against the best teams in Asia, especially from Japan and Korea. I’m really looking forward to try and do something in that tournament because it’s the first time an Indian team has qualified, so if we can go a long way it will be a big deal,” Donachie said during an online interaction arranged by the club on Monday. The former Australia U-23 player had never imagined playing in India, so soon in his career. He had left Melbourne Victory and signed a three-year deal with the Newcastle Jets, but was loaned to FC Goa after the Coronavirus pandemic prompted A-League clubs to reduce their budgets. He will be the fifth player to join Indian Super League (ISL) clubs from the A-League this season after Gary Hooper (Kerala Blasters), Brad Inman (ATK Mohun Bagan), Jacob Tratt (Odisha FC) and Joel Chianese (Hyderabad FC). Donachie has also played in South Korea for Jeonnan Dragons and has always wanted to play in Europe in the Premier League or the Championship. “It is still a dream of mine, but I don’t think going to Goa is something that will hurt my career. I can play lots of games that will benefit me. I’m hoping to get there with the team at least four to five weeks before the season starts to know the players,” said Donachie. FC Goa have already started their pre-season last week and are waiting for new coach Juan Ferrando and other new signings to arrive. Donachie is also waiting to fly and is mentally prepared to undergo his fourth quarantine in Goa after already going through the process in Australia on three separate occasions. The defender is aware of FC Goa’s attacking style of play and is comfortable with the ball at his feet. He will be a guiding force and will partner Ivan Gonzalez, a Real Madrid youth product. “In my last few years I have been an aggressive centre-back, but also someone who likes to coach on the field. Organising people I think it is a big thing because in the Asian Champions League sometimes you can’t always attack,” said Donachie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/donachie-looking-forward-to-fc-goas-asian-challenge/articleshow/78503310.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
October 6, 2020||India||Covid-19: India cases falling for 3 weeks but big surge in Kerala, Chhattisgarh||India has been reporting a steady decline in daily Covid-19 cases over the past three weeks but fresh infections in Kerala rose by 112% during this period, at three times the national rate, while Chhattisgarh saw a 93% rise, Uttarakhand 61%, and Odisha and MP 54%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); India registered a 37% growth in cases during September 13-October 4, a decline from the 56% growth in the previous three weeks. Daily cases in the country had peaked around September 13. Since then, as many as 21 states and UTs have grown at a higher rate than the national average, indicating that the country may continue to see the pandemic surging in some parts of the country while cases fall in other places. At the other end of the list was Bihar, where cases have grown at around half the national rate (19%) in the past three weeks - the lowest growth registered by any state. The next lowest growth was in Tamil Nadu, where cases grew by 23%, followed by Gujarat (26%), Andhra Pradesh (27%), Telangana (27%) and Assam (32%). In the middle were the two worst hit states - Maharashtra that grew at 36% (fractionally lower than the national average) and Karnataka, which grew at 39%, a shade higher than India's rate. Meanwhile, 59,471 fresh cases were recorded on Monday, the first time since August 24 that the daily count had fallen below the 60,000 mark. While case counts dip every Monday, the number has been progressively decreasing over the past four Mondays - 80,663 on September 14, 73,279 on September 21 and 66,251 on September 28. In another pointer to the pandemic's sharp surge in Kerala, the state now has the highest number of active cases per million population in the country, with 2,421 cases per million as against 2,297 in Maharashtra, 1,845 in Karnataka and 1,503 in Delhi. (With inputs from Preetu Nair in Kochi)Watch Covid-19: India cases falling for 3 weeks but big surge in Kerala, Chhattisgarh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-cases-falling-for-3-weeks-but-big-surge-in-kerala-chhattisgarh/articleshow/78503724.cms||---
October 6, 2020||India||MEA slams UN official’s remark on rape cases||NEW DELHI: India on Monday termed the United Nations Resident Coordinator's comments on recent cases of sexual violence against women "unwarranted", saying any unnecessary comments by an external agency are best avoided when probe is going on. "Some unwarranted comments have been made by the UN Resident Coordinator regarding some recent cases of violence against women. The UN Resident Coordinator in India should be aware that these cases have been taken extremely seriously by the government," said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The UN statement had referred to the Hathras and Balrampur cases. "Since the investigation process is still underway, any unnecessary comments by an external agency are best avoided. The Constitution guarantees equality to all citizens of India. As a democracy we have a time-tested record of providing justice to all sections of our society," said Srivastava. Srivastava was responding to a media query on the UN Resident Coordinator's statement which said it was essential that authorities ensure the perpetrators are brought to justice speedily and that families be empowered to seek timely justice, social support, counselling, healthcare and rehabilitation. "The UN in India is profoundly saddened and concerned at the continuing cases of sexual violence against women and girls in India. The recent cases of alleged rape and murder in Hathras and Balarampur are another reminder that despite the impressive progress made on a number of social indicators, women and girls from disadvantaged social groups face additional vulnerabilities and are at greater risk of gender-based violence," said the UN Resident Coordinator in India in a statement. Though the UN welcomed the steps being taken by India to strengthen safety measures for women and girls, it said, "Entrenched social norms and behaviour of men and boys that lead to gender-based violence must be addressed." Watch MEA slams UN Resident Coordinator's remark on rape cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-slams-un-officials-remark-on-rape-cases/articleshow/78503891.cms||---
October 6, 2020||India||Non-BJP states examine options to fight farm laws||NEW DELHI: Even as the three Congress-ruled states of Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are mulling on calling special sessions of the state assembly to override the three Central farm Acts, many other states with non-BJP governments are upping the ante against these laws as farmers take to the streets. Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray has set up a cabinet subcommittee to examine all aspects of the new laws and the stand the state government should take - on whether the legislations should be implemented in the state or otherwise. Public works minister Ashok Chavan told cabinet that the state government should invoke the provisions of Article 254(2) and submit a report to the central government. Naveen Patnaik-led BJD in Odisha has announced forming a committee of MPs, MLAs and farmer leaders to study the laws and suggest what the state should do. Sources in the West Bengal government said the state would wait for the Supreme Court ruling, with Congress MP from Kerala TN Prathapan moving the apex court challenging the provisions of the laws. The Kerala cabinet has entrusted the state planning board to prepare a report on the requirements and shortcomings from the point of view of farmers. The government will then take a call, including that on whether to approach the Supreme Court. Kerala law secretary has been asked by the cabinet to study the Acts and file a report on possible legal steps. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is working on a new agriculture marketing policy which will allow the state to act as an intermediary between farmers and buyers. The move comes in the wake of Parliament passing The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill which allows farmers and traders to freely trade among themselves anywhere in the country. Sources told that the new farm laws don't explicitly bar states from acting as intermediaries which the Telangana government hopes to take advantage of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/non-bjp-states-examine-options-to-fight-farm-laws/articleshow/78503922.cms||---
October 6, 2020||India||Cases of crimes against senior citizens rising, pendency in 2019 at 88%||NEW DELHI: As many as 28,104 senior citizens above 60 years became victims of various crimes during 2019. In absolute numbers the cases reported rose from 24,349 in 2018 to 27,696 in 2019. However, the status of trial in courts reflects that as many as 62,076 cases involving crimes against senior citizens from previous years too were pending trial at the end of last year putting the case pendency at 87.9%. The conviction rate was 33.9%. This data released as part of the Crime in India 2019 report shows that out of the 27,696 cases of crime against senior citizens, Maharashtra reported 6,163 cases, the highest number of cases among states, accounting for 22.3% of the total cases from all states and Union Territories. Incidentally, Maharashtra reported the highest number of cases in 2018 (5,961) and in 2017 (5,321) too. Last year, Madhya Pradesh reported the second highest number of cases accounting for 15.1% of total cases (4,184) followed by Gujarat which accounted for 14.8% (4,088) cases. In terms of status of cases in courts, trial was completed in 6,837 cases and courts disposed 8,554 cases last year. The data puts the number of persons convicted in crimes against the elderly at 3,279. The report sheds light on the vulnerability of senior citizens to a wide range of crimes and how elderly women too face threat from sexual predators. As many as 63 cases involving rape of women above 60 years were reported and the highest number of victims were from Kerala (15) followed by eight each from Chhattisgarh and MP. As many as 187 cases involving 191 elderly women were registered under the sections of the Indian Penal Code that falls in the category of "intent to outrage the modesty of a women". The maximum cases were reported from Maharashtra (43) followed by 35 cases involving 38 victims from Karnataka and 32 cases involving 33 victims from Kerala. Last year alone 1,156 murder cases involving 1,199 victims were reported in addition to 430 attempt to murder cases where 442 seniors faced assault. Maximum cases of murder were reported from Uttar Pradesh involving 209 victims followed by Tamil Nadu (177 victims) and Maharashtra (162). The data also shows that 2,758 cases were registered involving 2,786 senior citizens who fell victim to forgery, cheating and fraud. Besides this 4,971 cases involving 4,973 victims of theft and 906 cases involving 915 victims of robbery were also reported. Many seniors also faced criminal intimidation. As many as 2,758 cases involving 2,786 victims were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cases-of-crimes-against-senior-citizens-rising-pendency-in-2019-at-88/articleshow/78504057.cms||Ambika Pandit
October 6, 2020||Business||SC query on Mallya ‘secret proceedings’ holding up extradition||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked Vijay Mallya's counsel to reveal the nature of 'secret proceedings' in UK which is holding up his court-cleared extradition to India and also to inform as to when the fugitive liquor baron would appear before it to get sentenced in a contempt of court case, in which he was found guilty in May 2017. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan acted tough with Mallya's lawyer Ankur Sehgal, who attempted to evade by resorting to "I am not aware or I have read it in the newspaper" statements. The bench said, "We will not take any 'I am not aware of' argument from you in the next hearing. You have been appearing for Mallya and you shall appear in future too. When you appear before us on the next date, we want you to be completely aware of what is happening in UK." Sehgal said he would take instructions from his client. The bench fixed November 2 for appearance of Mallya before it for quantification of punishment. He was found guilty of contempt on May 9, 2017 for not honouring the SC's repeated orders to make a truthful disclosure of his assets. He had not revealed the transfer of $40 million, which he received from Diageo Plc for stepping down as chairman of United Spirits Ltd, to his children living abroad. The SC asked Mallya's counsel to inform on November 2 the nature of the ongoing proceedings in UK that is stalling his extradition; when are these proceedings likely to conclude; and when is Mallya likely to appear before the SC for the purpose of sentencing. The bench, which had on September 23 asked the Union government to ensure Mallya's presence in the court on October 5, was informed by ministry of home affairs that request for his extradition was forwarded to UK on February 9, 2017. Senior district jJudge, Westminster Magistrates' Court, London, recommended Mallya's extradition to India. Mallya's appeal against extradition was rejected by UK HC on April 20 this year. On May 14, the HC also refused Mallya permission to appeal in UK SC. The process of extradition should have been completed within 28 days of the HC's last order which had signalled the end of the judicial process. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta and advocate Rajat Nair informed the SC that "some secret proceedings to which India is not a party is holding up the extradition".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sc-query-on-mallya-secret-proceedings-holding-up-extradition/articleshow/78504125.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 6, 2020||Jamshedpur||Liquor mafia active in Jhakhand after announcement of Bihar polls||JAMSHEDPUR: Soon after the Election Commision announced the dates for Bihar assembly polls, liquor mafia in Jharkhand have become active keeping in mind the high demand in neighbouring dry states. The liquor smugglers in districts of Jharkhand, especially those on the bordering areas of Bihar, are on the constant look out for new routes through which liquor consignments can be pushed in as demand has shot up to lure voters. Sources said liquor mafia in 10 districts of Jharkhand (Palamu, Chatra, Hazaribag, Koderma, Giridih, Deoghar, Dumka, Godda and Sahibganj) are getting orders on Whatsapp. The consignments are being smuggled through porous borders, mostly in forest areas, in the middle of the night .Sources said the other route which is being used is river banks. Such places are hardly under surveillance during night time. Liquor cartons are also hidden under stone chips or sand bags and loaded on trucks and then ferried across the border. Consignments are ferried across Sone on boats at night and then loaded on trucks carrying sand from river bed, said sources. Sources said liquor from Koderma area is sent through the forest areas to Patna, Muzaffarpur and districts of north Bihar. Liquor from Palamu and Garhwa is sent to Rohtas and Aurangabad. Hazaribag is known as a ‘silk route’ for liquor mafias. From here, liquor is sent to Bihar even in small private cars to prevent any kind of checking. Many a times in the past police have raided illegal liquor factories in the area. In Chatra, more than two dozen villages, earn their livelihood through liquor manufacturing and supply in neighbouring Bihar. Most of the illegal breweries are run in dense forest areas. Sources said in Deoghar, before the lockdown, liquor used to be smuggled on trains to Bihar but after closure of train services, consignments are being sent by road. Giridih liquor is sent to Jamui in Bihar. Jharkhand police during anti-Red operations have bumped on illegal breweries in forest areas. Police believe that there is a possible Maoist hand in the smuggling of liquor across the border. Recently a drive was carried out by Koderma SP Ehtesham in the forest area. “During the raids many breweries were destroyed,” SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/liquor-mafia-active-in-jhakhand-after-announcement-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/78512247.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
October 6, 2020||Patna||Workers back home produce designer garments in Supaul||PATNA: Afroz, who returned from Delhi in July after working in a garment factory there for years, hardly expected that a small but profitable venture without any investment was waiting for him in his hometown Supaul. He is, one among the 18 labourers like him, busy producing designer garments which are in huge demand in many other states. Other workers with him had returned from Jaipur, Kolkata and Mumbai after losing their jobs during the lockdown. “Today, each of us is earning between Rs10,000 and 15,000 per month,” said Afroz. It became possible after they set up a cluster of workers having returned home with expertise in tailoring and designer garments. They formed Kosi Migrant Garments Club (KMGC) under the corporate social responsibility by the Bihar State Building Construction Corporation Limited (BSBCCL) last month. “We provided them space, machines and raw materials and supported them to produce garments, which are in huge demand both within and outside the state,” said a BSBCCL official. The KMGC has got orders to supply jackets, mosquito nets, quilt covers, masks, children’s wear and ladies garments from Delhi, Ludhiana, Kolkata and also some districts in the state, he said. The KMGC may include more workers in case of getting higher number of orders. “Though they are branding their garments as KMGC, they would have liberty to select other brand name in consultation with the district administration concerned,” the official said. A senior official in Supaul said the skill mapping of the home returned workers in the district revealed that 8000 of them had expertise in tailoring and embroidery. With the beginning of the KMGC, the district administration arranged their meeting with local wholesale dealers and it helped them explore wide markets. “The district administration has also contacted a famous garment producer of Jaipur in Rajasthan, who hails from Bihar, to help in setting up a garment industry in Basantpur panchayat of the district. He is likely to visit the district soon,” he said. He said hundreds of tailoring workers of Basantpur were engaged in other states. “Now they are looking for employment opportunities in the home district,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/workers-back-home-produce-designer-garments-in-supaul/articleshow/78499487.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Demand for ‘crowd-pulling’ choppers dips||PATNA: The use of helicopters, which acted as a major crowd-puller during elections in rural Bihar, has taken a back seat this year because political parties are focusing on digital electioneering and door-to-door campaigning amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the business of private aviation companies has been hit hard. According to Anshu Aman, whose company provides choppers to political parties during polls, not more than 10 helicopters will be booked for electioneering in view of the pandemic. “In the 2015 assembly polls, 32 helicopters and chartered planes were booked by different parties. This year we have received only few inquiries, but no bookings have been done so far,” Aman told this newspaper. He added, “One has to pay anywhere between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh for flying in a single-engine chopper on an hourly basis. For using a multi-engine fixed wing helicopter, one pays anywhere between Rs 1.8 lakh and 4 lakh, depending on the company and engine model.” Devendra Kumar, the incharge of another aviation company that provides choppers and chartered aircraft, claimed that no inquiry had been made by any party yet. “The RJD, JD (U) and JAP had booked six or seven helicopters and few chartered planes last time. This year, however, their demand is likely to dip,” he said. The Airports Authority of India-Patna also pointed out that the apron of the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport was crowded with helicopters, private jets and chartered aircraft during the previous . Meanwhile, political parties are relying on door-to-door campaigning, digital speeches and high-tech electioneering. Congress functionary Anand Madhav said, “Most of our candidates will do door-to-door campaigning. Only some big leaders from Delhi will hire choppers or private aircraft to come here.” RJD general secretary Chitranjan Gagan also claimed that only important leaders were likely to use choppers to meet party workers and oversee electioneering in different constituencies. “A decision in this regard will be taken in the next three to four days,” he added. The BJP and JD (U), on the other hand, have decided not to hire helicopters this year. They will opt for digital and door-to-door campaigning in order to follow social distancing norms amid the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/demand-for-crowd-pulling-choppers-dips/articleshow/78508208.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 6, 2020||Patna||BJP- LJP will form next govt in Bihar: Chirag Paswan||PATNA: A day after severing ties with JD (U), LJP chief Chirag Paswan stated on Monday that the next government will be formed by BJP-LJP under the saffron party’s leadership guided by PM Narendra Modi. Chirag also appealed to voters not to vote for JD(U). “There are various ideological differences between LJP and JD (U). Whether it is their Seven Resolves scheme or their behaviour towards allies or rampant babudom in Bihar, the problems of people in the state are not getting resolved either by the officers or the CM. ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document has been prepared to resolve all such issues,” Chirag’s statement read. He added, “I am happy that the party has decided to contest the election against JD (U). The decision is not to rule Bihar but to be proud of Bihar. I know many people will try to spread rumours regarding my decision but I want to make it clear that the next government will be formed by BJP-LJP under the leadership of BJP.” Later in the evening, asked if LJP is making a mistake fighting the election in alliance with BJP, Chirag told a news agency in New Delhi, “Every political party is free to take its own decision. I don’t want to make any comment on behalf of BJP. However, I would reassert my decision that I have complete faith in PM Narendra Modi.” He said the “double-engine government” will fuel development in Bihar and it will happen in a better way if the government here will be formed under the leadership of BJP. Asked whether he would seek votes for his party in the name of PM Modi, Chirag said, “As a citizen of this country, it is my responsibility to take the message of the works done by PM Modi to the people.” To a question on whether there will be confused if both JD (U) and LJP will seek votes in PM Modi’s name, Chirag said, “It is good for democracy that people get options. It had remained a constraint for Bihar.” On being asked whether BJP held negotiations with LJP to be part of NDA, Chirag said, “Bihar First, Bihari First vision document has been my priority and I got the inspiration for the same from PM Modi. I only demanded that it should be incorporated in the common minimum programme of the NDA. There was no demand from LJP on a higher number of seats.” On Nitish, Chirag said, “I am not miffed with any person but I am concerned about the way development has happened in Bihar, including the massive problem of migration. Everybody, including me as a Bihari, had high hopes from the CM but if you see his government from 2005 to date, then I don’t think he has been able to fulfil the aspirations of people.” On being asked about the possibility of a post-poll alliance, Chirag said: “We have never done post-poll alliance; it was always pre-poll alliance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-ljp-will-form-next-govt-in-bihar-chirag/articleshow/78508327.cms||---
October 6, 2020||---||BJP- LJP will form next govt in Bihar: Chirag Paswan||PATNA: A day after severing ties with JD (U), LJP chief Chirag Paswan stated on Monday that the next government will be formed by BJP-LJP under the saffron party’s leadership guided by PM Narendra Modi. Chirag also appealed to voters not to vote for JD(U). “There are various ideological differences between LJP and JD (U). Whether it is their Seven Resolves scheme or their behaviour towards allies or rampant babudom in Bihar, the problems of people in the state are not getting resolved either by the officers or the CM. ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document has been prepared to resolve all such issues,” Chirag’s statement read. He added, “I am happy that the party has decided to contest the election against JD (U). The decision is not to rule Bihar but to be proud of Bihar. I know many people will try to spread rumours regarding my decision but I want to make it clear that the next government will be formed by BJP-LJP under the leadership of BJP.” Later in the evening, asked if LJP is making a mistake fighting the election in alliance with BJP, Chirag told a news agency in New Delhi, “Every political party is free to take its own decision. I don’t want to make any comment on behalf of BJP. However, I would reassert my decision that I have complete faith in PM Narendra Modi.” He said the “double-engine government” will fuel development in Bihar and it will happen in a better way if the government here will be formed under the leadership of BJP. Asked whether he would seek votes for his party in the name of PM Modi, Chirag said, “As a citizen of this country, it is my responsibility to take the message of the works done by PM Modi to the people.” To a question on whether there will be confused if both JD (U) and LJP will seek votes in PM Modi’s name, Chirag said, “It is good for democracy that people get options. It had remained a constraint for Bihar.” On being asked whether BJP held negotiations with LJP to be part of NDA, Chirag said, “Bihar First, Bihari First vision document has been my priority and I got the inspiration for the same from PM Modi. I only demanded that it should be incorporated in the common minimum programme of the NDA. There was no demand from LJP on a higher number of seats.” On Nitish, Chirag said, “I am not miffed with any person but I am concerned about the way development has happened in Bihar, including the massive problem of migration. Everybody, including me as a Bihari, had high hopes from the CM but if you see his government from 2005 to date, then I don’t think he has been able to fulfil the aspirations of people.” On being asked about the possibility of a post-poll alliance, Chirag said: “We have never done post-poll alliance; it was always pre-poll alliance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bjp-ljp-will-form-next-govt-in-bihar-chirag/articleshow/78500460.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Patna||Ara-Chhapra bridge still remains a poll issue||CHHAPRA: The Veer Kunwar Singh bridge over Ganga at Chirand connecting Saran with Bhojpur, which also provides a roadway link between the northern and southern parts of Bihar, is an important issue in the upcoming assembly election. In the last parliamentary election also the ordeal of the bridge was one of the important issues and people here are waiting to raise this issue again. Saran district goes to the polls in the second phase on November 3. Chhapra MLA C N Gupta said, “The inordinate delay in completion of works on NH-19 is due to the contractor, who left it midway. The new contractor has been assigned this job and it is expected that the work would be completed in the coming few months.” When this bridge was inaugurated a few years ago by the then deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, it nicely served the people not only due to less distance for Ara, but also as a boarding railway station for those who had to go Delhi, Mumbai or other cities. However, the scenario has changed and the commuters have to find alternative routes to avoid getting stuck in snarl and pothole-ridden NH-19. Saran DM-cum-district electoral officer Subrat Kumar Sen echoed similar claims about delay by the contractor. “Our focus is on the completion of rail- overbridge connection. If this project is completed, it would ease our problem,” he said. With a view to resolving this problem, Sadar SDO Arun Kumar Singh had inspected this site and had suggested setting up of few check- posts between Bhikhari Thakur roundabout at Chhapra and the bridge. But Chhapra residents feel that unless the construction of NH-19 is completed with rail overbridge at Bishnupura, movement of vehicles on this route would be difficult. “As a result of this hurdle, most of the people prefer to take up Garkha-Shitalpur road or Garkha-Sonho-Parsa route for going to Patna. But people are unable to visit some of the spiritual places like Aami Temple and historical places like Chirand excavation in Saran district and some other places in Bhojpur like folk Singer Bhikhari Thakur village, Kutubpur,” said Chhapra-based dental surgeon Dr Sudhanshu Kishore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ara-chhapra-bridge-still-remains-a-poll-issue/articleshow/78508465.cms||H K Verma
October 6, 2020||Business||‘Ready-to-cook’ parota: No final word on GST rate||MUMBAI: Parota lovers, waiting to hear if the ‘ready-to-cook’ item will be taxed at 5% or 18% under the goods and services tax (GST), will be disappointed to learn that the Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling (AAAR) — Karnataka bench, has abstained from ruling on the applicable rate. As the classification issue was pending in another proceeding, the previous ruling of the lower authority, which applied a rate of 18% has been held as void. This leaves the issue open and it’s likely that the litigation will continue. Readers may recall that, iD Fresh Food, a Bengaluru-based food products company, engaged in the preparation and supply of a wide range of ready-to-cook items including whole-wheat parota and Malabar parota had approached the AAR — Karnataka Bench. It had contended that parotas should be classified under the product description of ‘khakhara, plain chapati or roti’ (or to be more technical under heading 1905) and thus be taxed at 5%. The AAR, in its ruling given in May, had differed with this classification and held that GST at 18% applied. Given that the GST rate on ready-to-cook rotis or pizza bread is 5%, social media was soon abuzz with memes. Subsequently, iD Fresh Foods filed an appeal with the appellate bench of the AAR. Before the AAAR, the food company further clarified that its products are not frozen. Malabar parotas can be stored in a cool and dry place and have a shelf life of up to four days, whereas it is recommended that whole-wheat parotas be refrigerated, to enable the product to remain fresh for up to seven days. The products merely required heating, say on a tawa (griddle), prior to serving to ensure crispness. Before the AAAR bench, the company also put forth an additional argument that parotas are species of bread and eligible for GST exemption (aka nil rate). GST laws require that the AAR cannot admit any application for an advance ruling, if the question raised in the application is pending or has already been decided. In this case, the AAAR observed that iD Fresh Foods had not intimated about a proceeding initiated by the director general of GST investigation (DGGI) — Chennai Zone on the issue of classification of parotas. Hence, the AAAR declared the original order of the AAR, against which the appeal was filed as void. As the issue of classification was pending in the proceeding, the AAAR declined to rule on the applicable GST rate. Giving an inkling on what lies ahead, The company in its official statement to TOI said, “We have always followed the principle of paying the correct amount of tax, which on parotas is either 0% or 5% and will be following the due process of law in establishing the correct rate of tax payable; as against the ruling of the AAR, which indicated it to be 18%.” “Our application to the AAR was made with bona fide intention. The AAAR has nullified the previous ruling, on a different point — on jurisdiction,” the statement added. Advance rulings are binding on the parties with respect to the transaction on which the ruling is sought. However, they do have a persuasive impact in assessment of similar cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ready-to-cook-parota-no-final-word-on-gst-rate/articleshow/78502936.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Business||Government names 3 new members to RBI monetary panel||MUMBAI: The government has finally appointed three economists — PMEAC member Ashima Goyal, NCAER’s Shashanka Bhide and IIM-Ahmedabad professor Jayanth Varma — as new members of the RBI’s monetary policy committee (MPC) to decide on interest rates. The much-delayed appointments, which resulted in the postponement of the panel’s crucial meeting last week, came even as the government is yet to name a successor to SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar who will retire on Wednesday. The central bank, which was forced to postpone the meeting in the absence of three external members, will announce fresh dates for the MPC meeting over the next few days. The panel is chaired by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das with deputy governor Michael Patra and the executive director in charge of monetary policy as its members. The new members nominated have been given a four-year term. Like MPC, SBI too faces uncertainty over leadership at a time when the country’s largest lender, which accounts for a fourth of banking activity, is set to decide on restructuring loans worth thousands of crores under the one-time restructuring scheme. SBI plays a key role in large-scale loan restructuring, where there are multiple banks involved. In most of these cases, it is SBI that determines the course of action and a delay in appointment could impact loan resolutions. The government has been slow in making crucial financial sector appointments with a deputy governor’s post in the RBI too is lying vacant for months. While the task of the MPC is merely to fix interest rates to keep inflation under check, this policy was crucial as it has to do deal with unprecedented challenges, which include inflation triggered by supply-side constraints, a record fiscal deficit, an oversized government-borrowing programme, and uncertainty over how the deficit will be bridged. While the committee members are economists, who are familiar with the macroeconomic situation, being part of the MPC gives them fresh insights from the central bank. The government has come under a lot of criticism for not being able to appoint MPC members on time. The three external members of the MPC — Chetan Ghate, Pami Dua, and Ravindra Dholakia — were given a four-year term when they were appointed in 2016 and their last date in office was known on the date of appointment. According to central bank watchers, the delay is not because of extraneous reasons, rather it is due to the due diligence process that has to be performed before any key appointment. Even in the case of the appointment of SBI chairman, the Bank Board Bureau had recommended SBI MD Dinesh Khara as a successor on August 29. A delay in appointments also keeps financial markets on the edge. The MPC appointments will impact the pricing of lakhs of crores of government bonds. If the members are seen to be fiscal hawks, bond prices would fall as this would reduce the chances of the RBI cutting interest rates. Similarly, the new CEO’s appointment at SBI plays a key role in the financial performance of the bank. Typically, outgoing CEOs try and present the best numbers to leave on a high note, whereas new appointees depress numbers through high provisions as the finance ministry judges their performance based on growth over the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-names-3-new-members-to-rbi-monetary-panel/articleshow/78503120.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court extends interim relief for DMK MP in land grab case||CHENNAI: In a reprieve to DMK MP Jagathrakshakan, the Madras high court extended its interim order restraining the CB-CID from harassing him in connection with a land grab case. Extending the interim relief granted, Justice N Sathishkumar observed that it is very unfortunate to notice derogatory remarks being made against the court in connection with the case in social media. Adding that the court does not bother about such unsubstantiated remarks, the judge adjourned the hearing to November 4. The issue pertains to summons issued by the CB-CID in connection with a case registered against Jagathrakshakan in 2016, in view of a directions issued by the Madras high court in a PIL for cancelling orders assigning 1.55 acres of public land in Pallavaram to 41 people, mostly relatives of the MP. The land in dispute was originally owned by Chrome Leather Company, of which Jagatrakshakan was the then chairman of. In 1982, the then AIADMK government acquired the land under the Tamil Nadu Urban Land Ceiling & Regulation Act. Later, MGR announced that the land would be used for water resources and laid the foundation stone in 1984. It is alleged that Jagatrakshakan illegally removed the foundation stone, recommended to the competent authority to allot the land to 41 people who were either his relatives or employees. The allotments were made in June 1996. Aggrieved by the summons, the MP moved the high court seeking to discharge him from the case and quash the summons. While state public prosecutor A Natarajan said further appearance of the accused is required to clarify certain aspects of the case, the judge said, “The probing agency can only request the accused to answer queries and not compel them to give an answer. It would amount to extraction of statements by force.” The judge then directed the prosecutor and advocate-general Vijay Narayan to file their detailed counter by next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-extends-interim-relief-for-dmk-mp-in-land-grab-case/articleshow/78501096.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Developer shot dead near collectorate, land row suspected motive||PUNE: An unidentified man shot dead a 63-year-old land developer from close range in front of the SBI treasury branch, barely 70 metres from the Bund Garden police station and the district collector’s office, around 2.45pm on Monday. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said, “Prima facie, a bitter longdrawn dispute over a 10-acre land in Bavdhan appears to be the motive behind the killing.” Some police personnel were standing around the collector’s office in view of a protest against the Hathras incident when the developer, Rajesh Kanabar from Sopanbaug, was shot. Police indicated that another man had accompanied the assailant. Kanabar, who operated from an office in Hadapsar, had gone to the collector’s office for a quasi-judicial hearing before the additional district collector related to the Bavdhan land dispute, which has been going on for the past 10 years, an officer from the Bund Garden police said. He parked his car in the lane adjacent to the SBI treasury branch as the authorities at the collector’s office had restricted vehicle movement and parking in view of the Hathras protest. LAND ROW SUSPECTEDDeveloper gunned down, hunt on for at least 2 menKanabar’s driver, Vishwas Gangawane, waited in the car while one of his employees came to the collector’s office on a scooter for the hearing, the officer said. The employee left after the hearing ended around 2.30pm and Kanabar walked along the footpath towards his car. “Our initial probe indicates there were two men. One of them came rushing from behind and fired a bullet from close range at Kanabar,” additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde said. “We are verifying the number of assailants and the likelihood of the other person waiting nearby on a motorcycle,” The assailants fled towards Camp along the Ambedkar road after firing at Kanabar. Joint police chief Shisve said, “We have recovered an empty cartridge from the spot. The preliminary post-mortem report is awaited. It will help us determine if the assailant fired one or more bullets.” Gangawane rushed Kanabar to a private nursing home where he was declared dead, police said. “The bullet hit Kanabar in the lower part of his chest. It pierced his left lung,” another police officer said. Kanabar’s other employee returned to the spot after hearing about the firing. He told the police that the developer was receiving threat calls from the opposite party involved in the dispute. He said a complaint plea had been given to the Hinjewadi police. “We are verifying all these and have started questioning the other party with whom Kanabar had a long dispute,” a police officer said. Late on Monday evening, Gangawane lodged an FIR with the Bund Garden police. The firing caused panic near the spot with people, including fruit vendors and stall owners, running helter-skelter. One of the Hathras incident protesters, who was returning to the collector’s office, said, “We saw people suddenly running around and could not understand what had happened. It was a bit scary.” A stall owner, who operates near the murder spot, said, “There was a deafening sound. It seemed like a bullet was fired. We all started running.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/developer-gunned-down-hunt-on-for-at-least-2-men/articleshow/78502415.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 6, 2020||Business||Marico sees FMCG demand revival during September quarter||MUMBAI: In what signals an uptick for the FMCG sector, Marico has talked about a partial revival of consumer sentiment in an update for the September quarter. The note, which is an overall summary of the operating performance and demand trends witnessed in the September quarter, said the revival of consumer sentiment is also reflected in the company’s performance across portfolio and channels. Marico said the rural market continued to perform better than urban aided by the government’s relief packages and the consumption shift due to reverse migration of labour. A strong indicator of a turnaround is that the company has upped investments behind brand-building and advertising spends are back to pre-Covid levels. “India business witnessed signs of revival in consumer demand in the core categories contributing more than 90% of the business and registered robust volume growth in the quarter. Parachute reaffirmed its strong brand equity and clocked growth ahead of medium-term aspirations. Saffola edible oils continued its stellar run and delivered strong volume growth in line with past few quarters. Value-added hair oils showed resilience and returned on a growth trajectory in the quarter from a sharp decline in Q1,” said Marico. Abneesh Roy, research analyst at Edelweiss Securities, expects an uptick in growth for most of the FMCG companies in the second quarter the second quarter of the current fiscal. “In Q1, because of the lockdown there was severe impact on distribution. Some of these issues are now resolved. Categories like sanitisers and foods continue to see very strong demand. Even in discretionary categories like skincare, cosmetics and ice-cream, there is a quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) improvement. Some of these discretionary categories will see a year-on-year dip,” said Roy. Marico said while traditional trade and e-commerce continued to drive growth, modern trade fell behind, although it did improve sequentially. “CSD (sales at Canteen Stores Department) continued to witness a steep decline,” said Marico.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/marico-sees-fmcg-demand-revival-during-sept-quarter/articleshow/78503033.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Patna||JD(U) and BJP likely to make joint announcement today||PATNA: The state BJP and JD(U) brass have agreed to share the 243 assembly seats under an almost 50:50 formula with 122 seats going to JD(U) and 121 to BJP, sources in both parties confirmed. JD(U) and BJP would disclose their respective seat shares and also the names of their respective candidates at a joint press conference here on Tuesday, the sources said. Further, in the new situation marked by a mutating political situation where a ‘Third Front’ of smaller parties has emerged, the NDA had to resort to a “desperate measure” to prevent the scattering of votes of the Nishad (boatmen) community, an extremely backward caste (EBC) that has a significant population in the state’s riverine areas of Ganga, Kosi, Gandak, Burhi Gandak and other rivers. Accordingly, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni (a Nishad), who quit the Grand Alliance last week, has been roped in to join the NDA and is on the side of BJP, a BJP source said. The other smaller party Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi had been accommodated by JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar two months ago. He belongs to the Mahadalit Mushahar caste that has a huge presence in Gaya, Purnia, Katihar and Araria districts. “The JD(U) and BJP will give seven seats each from their share to HAM(S) and VIP to contest the polls. This would leave 115 seats for JD(U) to contest and 114 for BJP. The saffron party has agreed to give a slight edge to Nitish, who leads JD(U) that has more MLAs than BJP in the outgoing House,” the source said. It is learnt that the state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal will address the joint press conference from the BJP side. The JD(U) would be represented by its state president Vashishth Narayan Singh, working president Lalan Singh and the party’s secretary-general R C P Singh. The venue of the joint press conference has not yet been decided. Curiously, CM and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar has already given the party’s symbols to around a dozen of his party’s prospective candidates for the first phase of the poll that will have an election on October 28, while the last date for the filing of nomination papers for the first phase poll is October 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-and-bjp-likely-to-make-joint-announcement-today/articleshow/78500221.cms||Abhay Singh
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Eggs peak at Rs 7, ‘cheap’ protein gets pricey in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Hatcheries that had suffered a major setback during the lockdown — due to multiple factors, including a decline in demand following a rumour that chickens were potential sources of nCov — are attempting to recover some of the losses by jacking up egg prices. The demand has picked up as people have returned to eggs as a vital protein source to boost immunity to fight coronavirus. The retail price of egg was Rs 5 a piece till even a month ago but has steadily increased since and is Rs 7 per piece in most markets across the city at present. In department stores that sell branded eggs, the price per piece, at Rs 10-Rs 12.5, is higher. Though traders said the price could dip after Durga Puja, it is expected to again increase to Rs 7 or higher after Diwali when bakeries increase the demand for eggs for the winter and Christmas. The hatcheries have also alleged that an absence of monitoring the retail market has allowed middlemen to earn a bumper profit. The farmers sold eggs at Rs 5.1 a piece on Monday. With an additional transport cost of 10p per piece, the eggs reached the wholesalers at Rs 5.2 per piece. From there to the retailers, the cost is hiked by another Rs 1.8. “There can be a difference of 50-75 paise per piece, but there is now a difference of nearly Rs 2. The price should not have exceeded Rs 6 a piece,” a source said. The consumption of eggs in Kolkata is pegged at 1 crore per day, while the state consumption is around 2.8 crore. But in March and April, the state consumption had dipped to around 1 crore and the price had plunged to Rs 4 apiece. The glut at the hatcheries led to eggs being buried and chicken sold or culled to reduce consumption of chicken feed. “In just two months, a third of the capital invested in the poultry business was wiped out. The Centre announced credit for the MSME sector, but the poultry business was left out. Hatcheries are now taking fresh loans and that is adding to their interest burden,” said West Bengal Poultry Federation general secretary Madan Mohan Maity. Maity said supplies that are down 25%-30% will be restored within the next couple of months as the chicken population increases. Also, there is no crisis in availability. So the price hike was the result of additional investment made to revive the industry. “The ex-farm price has gone up from Rs 4 to Rs 5.6 a piece. By the time it comes to the market, it is 10 paise dearer due to the transportation cost. While the farm gate price may reduce a bit, egg prices might stabilize around the Rs 6-Rs 6.5 mark for some time,” Maity said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eggs-peak-at-rs-7-cheap-protein-gets-pricey/articleshow/78500984.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 6, 2020||Patna||Admn to deploy women polling personnel at 301 booths in Gaya||GAYA: In a bid to encourage women to vote, the district administration has identified 301 booths to deploy polling teams comprising women polling staff only, district magistrate-cum-election officer Abhishek Singh said. “Out of the 301 such booths, 150 will be in Gaya Town assembly segment alone,” he added. Gaya district has 10 assembly segments where polling is scheduled in the first phase on October 28. In Gaya district, 13,99,755 out of the total 29,00,691 electorates are women. The maximum 1,50,169 women voters are in Bodhgaya segment, followed by Wazirganj (1,49,139), Atri (1,48,216), Tekari (1,45,242), Imamganj (1,39,134), Barachatti (1,35,433), Gurua (1,34,192), Sherghati (1,30,660), Belaganj (1,30,293) and Gaya Town (1,27,229). In the 2015 assembly election, Gaya Town segment had 1,17,087 woman voters. Gaya sadar SDO-cum-returning officer (RO) of Gaya Town segment, Indraveer Kumar, said, “Such booths are being identified. The list will be sent to the chief electoral officer for final approval. All the polling staff at such booths, including the presiding officer, polling officer one, two and three, will be women. There is also plan that only women security personnel are deployed at such booths. “It does not mean that only woman voters can vote at such booths. The aim is to instill a sense of security and responsibility among the women, so that they come out of their houses on the poll day and exercise their democratic right,” Kumar said. Out of the 10 assembly segments in the district, Tekari has is a woman returning officer (RO) in SDO Karishma. Shabana Shafi, a resident of New Karimganj in Gaya town, said, “It is good to have female staff at a polling booth. As a subsequent effort, the administration should think of providing one special booth in prime localities for female voters only. Some more efforts are needed to create awareness among the woman voters.” She added: “For the voters of New Karimganj, polling booths are made on the campus of industry department office, Gaya High School, PWD office campus and the girls’ middle school campus. Any one of these can be converted into the special booth for female voters only”. Anamika Tiwari of Fatehganj in Gaya town said, “These days women don’t lag behind men in their contribution towards development. It was on the strong demand of women that chief minister Nitish Kumar announced prohibition in the state. Now, women are being given the responsibility to conduct elections. Here too, they would prove their worth,” she said. According to a press communique issued earlier by the district administration, several activities for voters’ awareness under SVEEP (systematic voters’ education and electoral participation) are being carried out. The activities include bicycle rally, painting, rangoli and henna competition in rural as well as urban areas. Integrated child development scheme (ICDS) activists and the Jeevika didis have been engaged to create awareness among the woman voters in rural areas. A special drive was launched across the district to add names of woman voters in the electoral roll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/admn-to-deploy-women-polling-personnel-at-301-booths-in-gaya/articleshow/78500403.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Business||IT spends on WFH infrastructure up about 27% this year||Chennai: Tech spending on infrastructure that enables smooth work-from-home (WFH) has reached all-time high due to the transformation of workplaces owing to the pandemic. Tools such as employee time and productivity trackers, project management systems, virtual workspaces, and video conferencing solutions among others, are seeing increased adoption as workplaces go digital. The spends on such WFH infrastructure is expected to reach around 19% of total of total spends in the current year, around 27% increase from previous year, as per a recent study by tech research firm CyberMedia Research (CMR).Global analyst firm IDC’s Covid-19 Impact Survey in September noted that five out of the top 10 tech investment priorities for CIOs going forward are related to workspaces, collaboration management, device management, security and employee experience. This year, the maximum interest has come for these [collaboration] tools, more than any other points in recent history,” Navkendar Singh, research director, India & South Asia at IDC, said. “Large enterprises were seen leading the way in tech related spending for these areas, to ensure business continuity with minimum loss of employee and organisational productivity. In SMBs, the startups were seen to be more keen to invest in such tech, while legacy SMBs felt more impact of the lockdown and dampened economic sentiment,” he added. 75% of tech leaders taking part in IDCs study agreed to increase or maintain IT spend on collaboration tools, virtual workspaces, secure remote access and associated products.Chennai-based SaaS enterprise Kissflow said it has seen a 20%-30% increase in enquiries compared to the previous quarters for its end-to-end digital workspaces platform, and attributed it to the pandemic.The company expects the digital workplace customer and revenue base for Kissflow to triple next year.“There has been increased interest from large corporations in the Oil & Gas sector and telecommunications sector as they are working on accelerating their digital transformation. As remote work becomes the new norm for these companies, they are trying to adapt to the situation,” Suresh Sambandam, CEO, Kissflow, said. As per CMR, employee productivity management makes up the largest share of 26% of the total tech spends. Project management systems (23%), file sharing and management technologies (19%) and document collaboration (9%), are the other top areas where Indian companies are focusing their investments. While adoption of digital solutions varies depending on the sector, enterprises realise that today’s investment in such tech solutions can reduce operational costs during the next normal, Thomas George, president of CMR, said.IDC’s Singh agrees. The hybrid working model is likely to be the future and this will call for more focused investment in collaboration and workspace management tools, he said. “Organizations and tech leaders are being forced to and will continue to invest in creating a modern digital workspace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/it-spends-on-wfh-infrastructure-up-about-27-this-year/articleshow/78501560.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||With Phoolbagan extension, E-W footfall goes up four-fold on day 1||Kolkata: The state-of-the-art Phoolbagan station was thrown open to the public on Monday, connecting Sector V to Phoolbagan on the East-West line. Till 7.30pm, the footfall at Phoolbagan station was 212.The total passenger count for East-West Metro was 624. This is quite high since before services were extended to Phoolbagan, the line had been ferrying just about 120-150 passengers per day. Metro Railway GM Manoj Joshi said, “Footfall is expected to be low at present because of the pandemic. Had suburban trains plied from Sealdah station, more people would have used the Phoolbagan station.” Among those who accessed the new station were Pankaj Jain from Salt Lake and his son Nikit, 8. “The difference between the old underground stations and this brand, new one is remarkable. It even has a ramp to the toilet,” the private firm employee said. “I will tell my friends that I have seen this brand new Metro station before anybody else,” Nikit said. Bansdroni resident Abhishek Bhagat, 18, who boarded the first train from Masterda Surya Sen station to MG Road before taking an auto to Phoolbagan, said, “Visuals of the Phoolbagan station have been doing the rounds of social media for some time and I had to see it for myself. This looks just like an airport.” Phoolbagan is also the city’s first underground Metro station with full floor-to-ceiling platform screen doors (PSD). “I have seen these in Delhi,” said Apurva Kapoor, a Kankurgachhi resident who had come to see the “snazzy” station. “PSDs in underground platforms also prevent cool air from the air-conditioned platforms from escaping into the tracks, and thus save power,” a Metro staffer told her. Phoolbagan resident Moumita Kundu decided to take the Metro to work. “The station is the best thing to have happened to us in a long time. I am taking the train to my Sector V office and it will take me only 15 minutes,” the IT worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-phoolbagan-extension-e-w-footfall-goes-up-four-fold-on-day-1/articleshow/78501099.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 6, 2020||Business||SBI considers promoting new entity to rival NPCI||Mumbai: State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Rajnish Kumar has said that the country’s largest bank is considering setting up a new umbrella entity (NUE) that would compete with the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). According to Kumar, the move by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to invite applications for rival entities to NPCI was positive as it would foster competition. “Competition leads to consumer convenience and innovation. Currently, the dependence is on one entity, that is why the RBI is thinking of having more players which will ultimately benefit the payments system,” said Kumar speaking at the Sibos 2020 event. He said that SBI is seriously considering setting up a rival entity as it the largest player in the payments system in the country. “Historically, we have played a leading role in developing the payment system and will make a decision before the last date for applications on February 2021,” he said. Kumar also said that the banks digital banking platform Yono would play a central role in the bank and every activity other than cash dispensation would be enabled on the platform. He said that the bank was planning to launch Yono for Business app, which will enable merchants to use the phone for accepting payments and do away with the need for card swipe machines. He reiterated that the bank was looking at hiving off Yono as a subsidiary, which will provide its platform services to smaller banks as well. Clarifying his earlier statement on Yono valuation, Kumar said that the observation was made in light of the valuation commanded by various fintech startups. “If I compare them with Yono, I feel Yono should be worth $40 billion, but we have not done any valuation exercise. If we are able to generate fees from it, my valuation may not be off the mark,” he added. Kumar said that the bank was using analytics to automate lending to existing banking customers and soon will be able to automate credit for new-to-bank customers as well. He said that complex artificial intelligence (AI) software was simplifying the front-end for customers. “For example in fund transfer, earlier the customer had to choose between NEFT or IMPS, now the software selects the most efficient one,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-considers-promoting-new-entity-to-rival-npci/articleshow/78503275.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||UP did a tremendous job, controlled Covid, says CM||Prayagraj: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said Uttar Pradesh has done a tremendous job in controlling Covid-19 and the government is working tirelessly to check the spread of infection and provide treatment to the patients. Dedicating a 220-bed Covid hospital and state’s first cobas lab at at Swaroop Rani Nehru hospital through video conferencing from state capital on Monday, the CM said, “Under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP has done a tremendous job of controlling the deadly disease. The state government is working dedicatedly and tirelessly to check the spread of infection.” “The state government set up Level-1, Level-2 and Level-3 hospitals to provide enough beds, besides PPE kits, oxygen supply, ventilators and other essentials in Covid hospitals. This 220-bed Covid hospital and cobas 6800 lab would help in controlling Covid-19 and will benefit people of Prayagraj, Mirzapur, Chitrakoot, Banda, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, and Fatehpur,” he said. The Covid hospital set up at newly constructed super specialty block under Prime Minister Swasthya Surakha Yojana (PMSSY) has 220 beds, including 140 beds in ICU and 80 beds for isolation, besides latest medical equipment, he added. “The state government has provided more than 1.75 lakh Covid beds and over 1.06 crore tests have been done in the state so far. The number of active cases in the state has been declining in past few days. This proves that Covid-19 spread can be controlled by increasing testing,” said Yogi. The cobas lab would provide high-volume, quality testing and will be able to test 1,500 samples daily. Cobas 6800, a sophisticated machine enabled with robotics, will also minimize the chances of contamination and infection risk to healthcare professionals as it is operated with very little human intervention. “The state government has brought a massive change in medical and health facilities and apart from setting up new medical colleges, super specialty hospitals have been set up in old medical colleges. In three and half years, two AIIMS, 29 new medical colleges and six super speciality medical blocks have been set up in the state,” the CM said. PM Modi has given a creative thinking to the people which has helped the country to progress in all sectors, he added. Participating virtually in the event, Union health minister Dr Harshvardhan said, “The UP government led by Yogi Adityanath has done an incredible and wonderful job in controlling the coronavirus infection in the state. Many important projects in the medical and health field have been undertaken in the state.” He said our country is in a better position compared to other nations and our recovery rate is 84.34 % currently, but urged people to continue wearing mask and follow safety protocols. State cabinet minister Suresh Khanna said the Covid hospital set up on SRN hospital campus is an all-in-one model hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-did-a-tremendous-job-controlled-covid-says-cm/articleshow/78501898.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Urvi digs towards Sealdah diaphragm wall at snail’s pace||Kolkata: After going full throttle below the structurally steady Sealdah flyover, TBM Urvi has suddenly become snail-paced. While covering the 25m stretch under the flyover it had been digging at a steady pace of 12m a day and managed to complete the work ahead of time. However, since Sunday night, the machine has been slowly inching forward to cover the last 9m to Sealdah station. The speed will reduce further when it punches the 1m-thick diaphragm wall inside the upcoming Sealdah station on the East-West Metro corridor on Friday. A diaphragm or D-wall, in engineering parlance, is necessary to integrate the station with the tunnel. Breaking through the wall is a complex job. The 450-tonne TBM must move at the low speed of around 1mm/minute to pierce the wall and a lot of expertise and control is necessary to complete the procedure. “The last bit is actually a complex engineering job, but it will be quite challenging to manoeuvre the TBM through the wall and reach a milestone,” said an engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/urvi-digs-towards-sealdah-diaphragm-wall-at-snails-pace/articleshow/78501074.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 6, 2020||---||Ara-Chhapra bridge still remains a poll issue||CHHAPRA: The Veer Kunwar Singh bridge over Ganga at Chirand connecting Saran with Bhojpur, which also provides a roadway link between the northern and southern parts of Bihar, is an important issue in the upcoming assembly election. In the last parliamentary election also the ordeal of the bridge was one of the important issues and people here are waiting to raise this issue again. Saran district goes to the polls in the second phase on November 3. Chhapra MLA C N Gupta said, “The inordinate delay in completion of works on NH-19 is due to the contractor, who left it midway. The new contractor has been assigned this job and it is expected that the work would be completed in the coming few months.” When this bridge was inaugurated a few years ago by the then deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, it nicely served the people not only due to less distance for Ara, but also as a boarding railway station for those who had to go Delhi, Mumbai or other cities. However, the scenario has changed and the commuters have to find alternative routes to avoid getting stuck in snarl and pothole-ridden NH-19. Saran DM-cum-district electoral officer Subrat Kumar Sen echoed similar claims about delay by the contractor. “Our focus is on the completion of rail- overbridge connection. If this project is completed, it would ease our problem,” he said. With a view to resolving this problem, Sadar SDO Arun Kumar Singh had inspected this site and had suggested setting up of few check- posts between Bhikhari Thakur roundabout at Chhapra and the bridge. But Chhapra residents feel that unless the construction of NH-19 is completed with rail overbridge at Bishnupura, movement of vehicles on this route would be difficult. “As a result of this hurdle, most of the people prefer to take up Garkha-Shitalpur road or Garkha-Sonho-Parsa route for going to Patna. But people are unable to visit some of the spiritual places like Aami Temple and historical places like Chirand excavation in Saran district and some other places in Bhojpur like folk Singer Bhikhari Thakur village, Kutubpur,” said Chhapra-based dental surgeon Dr Sudhanshu Kishore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/ara-chhapra-bridge-still-remains-a-poll-issue/articleshow/78500428.cms||H K Verma
October 6, 2020||Business||Google’s deferment of billing policy not enough: Startups||BENGALURU: Google’s move to defer its billing policy in India by six months till March 2022 is not the solution, as domestic startups and internet companies said they will continue pursuing external remedies with the government and regulators. Following backlash from Indian startups over the last one week, the US search engine giant on Monday said it was extending the deadline for compliance by six months to March 2022 and will “listen...to understand their concerns more deeply”. Google’s announcement was met with immediate criticism as local entrepreneurs felt the tech giant was just delaying the implementation in India and not cancelling the policy or reducing the billing cut of 30% for in-app purchases. Founders of Indian startups and internet companies also feel that by just mentioning “digital goods”, Google leaves its policy open for interpretation in the future and can potentially impact more sectors besides education, fitness, dating, content and others currently mentioned. “Google is proving its dominance and its huge monopoly power on India’s digital ecosystem,” said Paytm founder and CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma, adding that with the new 30% commission policy, startups may spend up to 50% of the capital they raise on Google and Facebook. “There is no place to go and ask for respite. We run business in India and should be governed under the commercial laws of India. Right now somebody sitting in the US is governing our balance sheets,” he said, adding that Google’s “policies are arbitrary and the deployment is even more arbitrary”. Murugavel Janakiraman, founder and CEO of classifieds platform Matrimony.com, said Google is just postponing the problem for another six months and that won’t solve it. “Listening to startups is simple — they (Google) should not enforce that you will only use Google Billing and give 30%. This will also impact end-consumers. For example, kids studying through edtech, they will be charged more,” said Janakiraman. Janakiraman and Sharma, among other founders, have come out heavily against Google’s policy. This even led to the IT ministry holding a meeting with these entrepreneurs on Saturday, where the government, according to sources, sought to hear the their concerns. The entrepreneurs are expected to submit their recommendations to the government over the next 15 days. On September 29, Google had “clarified” saying education, gaming, dating and other content apps must use its billing system in India for in-app purchases as long as the apps are distributed through its Play Store. This led to another debate over Google’s influence, whose Android operating system controls over 95% of smartphones in India. Before that, it had taken down the Paytm app for several hours last month for violation of its policies. “We will be setting up policy workshops to help clear any additional questions about our Play Store policies,” Google Play director of business development (games and apps) Purnima Kochikar said in a blog post. Kochikar reiterated that Google was “deeply committed” to the success of the Indian ecosystem. “We do not succeed unless our partners succeed,” she added, while extending the deadline of Google’s billing policy in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/googles-deferment-of-billing-policy-not-enough-startups/articleshow/78502895.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 6, 2020||Surat||26,000 textile shops yet to open post lockdown in Surat||SURAT: An internal survey conducted by the Federation of Surat Textile Traders Association (FOSTTA) indicated that about 30% or around 26,000 textile shops are yet to reopen post-lockdown as the traders have suffered severe financial impact due to the coronavirus pandemic. FOSTTA office-bearers stated that Surat is the largest supplier of ladies garments including saris, dress material, home furnishing, lengha, kurtis etc. made from man-made fibre (MMF) in the country. Post-lockdown, the daily turnover in the textile markets has decreased to Rs 40 crore as against Rs 110 before the pandemic. There are about 180 textile markets located on Ring Road, Salabatpura, Saroli and Sahara Darwaja in the city, housing about 80,000 textile shops. Secretary of FOSTTA, Champalal Bothra told TOI, “Majority of the shops are still shut as the textile traders, who had gone to their natives places in Rajasthan are yet to return due to the coronavirus scare.” In the survey, FOSTTA found that many traders owning more than two shops on rent have started operating from a single shop. “Earlier, traders used to keep two to three shops on rent for storing fabrics. Now, they have surrendered their shops to their owners and operating from single shops to save on monthly expenses” said Bothra. Rangnath Sarda, president of JJ A/C market on Ring Road said, “About 20% of the shops in our market are yet to reopen. Majority of the traders in our market are hailing from Rajasthan. I know many traders who have moved out of the city with their families.” Naresh Aggarwal, spokesperson of Surat CREDAI told TOI, “About 20 textile markets in Saroli and about 50% of the shops on rent are yet to reopen. These shops were used as godowns by the traders operating from Ring Road textile market. Since there is no demand of fabrics in the country and abroad, traders are in no mood to open their shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/26000-textile-shops-yet-to-open-post-lockdown/articleshow/78500451.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Surat||Ankleshwar couple looted at knife-point on Daman beach||SURAT: An Ankleshwar-based businessman’s family sojourn to Daman turned into a nightmare as he and his wife were looted by two persons in the broad daylight on the famous Devka beach on Monday. While incidents of mobile snatching and pickpocketing have been reported on the beaches of this watering hole, this is the first case of tourist being targeted with such audacity. The entire incident was captured by a few locals on their mobiles. At around 11am, businessman Mitesh Patel was hanging around at the beach with his wife and children when two unidentified persons suddenly came and put a knife on his throat. They threatened to kill him if the valuables were not handed over. The robbers then pinned Patel on the sand and put out his mobile phone, snatched the gold chain from his wife’s neck and a purse with cash from him. The duo had their faces covered with masks, handkerchiefs and both were wearing caps. After robbing him, the duo casually walked away from the beach without any fear of getting caught. Some fishermen and tourists were also present at the beach, but no one came to the family’s help except for some local women who shouted for help and even requested the two men to return the valuables. . “We have got some strong leads and the robbers will be arrested soon,” said Vikramjeet Singh, superintendent of police, Daman. “This is the first time probably that a tourist was looted on a beach in Daman,” said a local police officer On examining the CCTV footage, police found that the robbers escaped towards Gujarat on a motorcycle. Two men with similar looks were spotted near Chikhli in Navsari district on Monday afternoon. Incidentally, a loot at knife-point was also reported in Chikhli town at around 1.45pm and police suspect that they were the same two persons. Talking to TOI, Patel said, “I am staying in a hotel right opposite the beach. Someone came from behind and put a knife on my throat. We were terrified.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ankleshwar-couple-looted-at-knife-point-on-daman-beach/articleshow/78500397.cms||---
October 6, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Demand for ‘crowd-pulling’ choppers dips||PATNA: The use of helicopters, which acted as a major crowd-puller during elections in rural Bihar, has taken a back seat this year because political parties are focusing on digital electioneering and door-to-door campaigning amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the business of private aviation companies has been hit hard. According to Anshu Aman, whose company provides choppers to political parties during polls, not more than 10 helicopters will be booked for electioneering in view of the pandemic. “In the 2015 assembly polls, 32 helicopters and chartered planes were booked by different parties. This year we have received only few inquiries, but no bookings have been done so far,” Aman told this newspaper. He added, “One has to pay anywhere between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh for flying in a single-engine chopper on an hourly basis. For using a multi-engine fixed wing helicopter, one pays anywhere between Rs 1.8 lakh and 4 lakh, depending on the company and engine model.” Devendra Kumar, the incharge of another aviation company that provides choppers and chartered aircraft, claimed that no inquiry had been made by any party yet. “The RJD, JD (U) and JAP had booked six or seven helicopters and few chartered planes last time. This year, however, their demand is likely to dip,” he said. The Airports Authority of India-Patna also pointed out that the apron of the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport was crowded with helicopters, private jets and chartered aircraft during the previous . Meanwhile, political parties are relying on door-to-door campaigning, digital speeches and high-tech electioneering. Congress functionary Anand Madhav said, “Most of our candidates will do door-to-door campaigning. Only some big leaders from Delhi will hire choppers or private aircraft to come here.” RJD general secretary Chitranjan Gagan also claimed that only important leaders were likely to use choppers to meet party workers and oversee electioneering in different constituencies. “A decision in this regard will be taken in the next three to four days,” he added. The BJP and JD (U), on the other hand, have decided not to hire helicopters this year. They will opt for digital and door-to-door campaigning in order to follow social distancing norms amid the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/demand-for-crowd-pulling-choppers-dips/articleshow/78500480.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 93.55% Covid recovery rate||PATNA: The state had 93.55% recovery rate on Monday as 907 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours took the tally to 1,88,858. Officially nine more deaths were reported, including seven from Patna district. The toll mounted to 924 in the state. However, with 1,76,674 recoveries, there were only 11,258 active cases in the state. As per the health department’s data, seven more deaths in Patna took the district toll to 222. Apart from Patna, one death each was reported from Nalanda and Madhubani, taking the toll in the two districts to 42 and 8 respectively. Of the new cases, 195 were from Patna, taking the district tally to 29,053. However, 26,797 patients recovered and there were 2034 active cases in the district. Covid-19 cases reported from some other districts included East Champaran (45), Begusarai (37), Muzaffarpur 935), Purnia (35), Madhepura (34) and Bhagalpur (31). A 37-year-old resident of Hardiyabad in East Champaran died at AIIMS-Patna on Monday. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 14 new patients were admitted and eight got discharged on Monday. Those admitted were from different localities of Patna like ADRI Gali on Boring Road, Hari Shankar Verma Lane (Boring-Patliputra Road) and Rajendra Nagar. No death was reported from NMCH on Monday. As per the report shared by the hospital’s administration, five patients were admitted and three got discharged, leaving only 12 patients in the hospital dedicated for Covid treatment. Total 87,769 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. So far 77,89,608 samples have been tested across the state. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1565 patients recovered in the past 24 hours with the state’s recovery rate at 93.55%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-93-55-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/78499465.cms||---
October 6, 2020||---||11 parties set to make début in Bihar polls||PATNA: With the assembly  round the corner, several newly-formed political parties have entered the poll fray and started formulating their strategies with a view to making their presence feel among bigger national parties. These political outfits have their specific agenda. Parties like Azad Samaj Party (ASP), Bahujan Mukti Party, Jantantrik Vikas Party, Plurals, Jago Hindustan Party, Social Democratic Party of India, Rashtriya Adhikar Party, Janata Dal (Rashtravadi) Party, Samyukta Kisan Vikas Party and others have already started the process of selection of probable candidates and constituencies. Some parties have even started forging alliance with like-minded political groups ahead of the poll. Sources said that Prakash Ambedkar’s Vanchit Bahujan Agadhi (VBA), which has its influence in Maharashtra, will forge an alliance with AIMIM led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi. Prakash said, “NDA in Bihar could be overthrown if Ambedkarites, Muslims and Adivasi communities come together.” Owaisi’s party, which has its influence mostly in Seemanchal region, had opened its account with registering a victory from the Kishanganj assembly constituency in the bypoll last year. AIMIM youth wing president Adil Hasan said, “As far as I know, no formal discussion on the issue of poll alliance with VBA has yet been conducted. But the AIMIM will welcome if any like-minded party decides to join hands with us in the fight against the present dispensation in Bihar.” Owaisi’s expansion may be a cause of concern for the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA), which is all set to take on the NDA. Of the 50 constituencies AIMIM is planning to contest in alliance, 30 are those where Muslims play a decisive role in the elections. Muslim constitutes about 16-17% of the state’s electorate. “The ruling NDA may benefit from Owaisi’s growth in Bihar. And that too when the RJD is trying hard to keep its MY combination intact. It was the MY combination that had kept the party in power from 1990 to 2005,” a political observer said, adding that the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) led by Yashwant Sinha may play the spoils sport for the ruling NDA. Similarly, Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) led by former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav entered into an alliance with Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party, Social Democratic Party (SDP) under the leadership of M K Faizi and BPL Matang-led Bahujan Mukti Party. The former Madhepura MP said, “The Progressive Democratic Alliance will put an end to the misrule of 30 years in Bihar.” Former union minister Yashwant Sinha formed UDA with former MP Arun Kumar, former ministers Nagmani, Narendra Singh and Renu Kushwaha to give an alternative to the two main political poles each led by JD(U)-BJP and the RJD-Congress. Political observers feel that presence of debutant parties is unlikely to make much difference in the performance of the recognised political parties. However, their role as ‘vote katwa’ in ensuring the defeat of a particular candidate in the constituency where caste is a big factor in the elections cannot be ruled out. “New political parties become active during every election. This is a common feature in Indian politics. They have their own agenda. However, only a few of them have their vote base,” said Professor D M Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/11-parties-set-to-make-dbut-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/78500514.cms||Ramashankar
October 6, 2020||Patna||11 parties set to make début in Bihar polls||PATNA: With the assembly  round the corner, several newly-formed political parties have entered the poll fray and started formulating their strategies with a view to making their presence feel among bigger national parties. These political outfits have their specific agenda. Parties like Azad Samaj Party (ASP), Bahujan Mukti Party, Jantantrik Vikas Party, Plurals, Jago Hindustan Party, Social Democratic Party of India, Rashtriya Adhikar Party, Janata Dal (Rashtravadi) Party, Samyukta Kisan Vikas Party and others have already started the process of selection of probable candidates and constituencies. Some parties have even started forging alliance with like-minded political groups ahead of the poll. Sources said that Prakash Ambedkar’s Vanchit Bahujan Agadhi (VBA), which has its influence in Maharashtra, will forge an alliance with AIMIM led by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi. Prakash said, “NDA in Bihar could be overthrown if Ambedkarites, Muslims and Adivasi communities come together.” Owaisi’s party, which has its influence mostly in Seemanchal region, had opened its account with registering a victory from the Kishanganj assembly constituency in the bypoll last year. AIMIM youth wing president Adil Hasan said, “As far as I know, no formal discussion on the issue of poll alliance with VBA has yet been conducted. But the AIMIM will welcome if any like-minded party decides to join hands with us in the fight against the present dispensation in Bihar.” Owaisi’s expansion may be a cause of concern for the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA), which is all set to take on the NDA. Of the 50 constituencies AIMIM is planning to contest in alliance, 30 are those where Muslims play a decisive role in the elections. Muslim constitutes about 16-17% of the state’s electorate. “The ruling NDA may benefit from Owaisi’s growth in Bihar. And that too when the RJD is trying hard to keep its MY combination intact. It was the MY combination that had kept the party in power from 1990 to 2005,” a political observer said, adding that the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) led by Yashwant Sinha may play the spoils sport for the ruling NDA. Similarly, Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) led by former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav entered into an alliance with Chandrashekhar Azad’s Azad Samaj Party, Social Democratic Party (SDP) under the leadership of M K Faizi and BPL Matang-led Bahujan Mukti Party. The former Madhepura MP said, “The Progressive Democratic Alliance will put an end to the misrule of 30 years in Bihar.” Former union minister Yashwant Sinha formed UDA with former MP Arun Kumar, former ministers Nagmani, Narendra Singh and Renu Kushwaha to give an alternative to the two main political poles each led by JD(U)-BJP and the RJD-Congress. Political observers feel that presence of debutant parties is unlikely to make much difference in the performance of the recognised political parties. However, their role as ‘vote katwa’ in ensuring the defeat of a particular candidate in the constituency where caste is a big factor in the elections cannot be ruled out. “New political parties become active during every election. This is a common feature in Indian politics. They have their own agenda. However, only a few of them have their vote base,” said Professor D M Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/11-parties-set-to-make-dbut-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/78508089.cms||Ramashankar
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Power staff begin boycott against UP government's privatisation plan||LUCKNOW: Power engineers started work boycott on Monday in protest against the state government’s plan to privatize Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL). Engineers at distribution and transmission substations and those at power generation plants were exempted from the agitation. President of Vidyut Karmchari Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti, Shailendra Dubey, said: “The association has demanded intervention of CM Yogi Adityanath so that further confrontation between the management and engineers can be avoided.” Dubey said they would continue to maintain communication with energy minister Shrikant Sharma to defuse the crisis. UPPCL management is misguiding the government over losses incurred in Purvanchal distribution company,” Dubey said. “As per the agreement between the engineers and the energy minister on April 5, 2018, the department had said that reforms in distribution companies would be introduced after taking employees into confidence,” he added. The association said work boycott will continue till UPPCL scraps the proposal to privatise the discom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-staff-begin-boycott-against-privatisation-plan/articleshow/78503212.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank’s loans grow 16% in Q2, deposits 20%||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank on Monday said that its advances for the second quarter rose 16% over the previous year, while deposits increased by 20%. The growth is much higher than the banking sector, which recorded a 12% year-on-year growth in deposits and 5.3% in advances until September 11. According to the bank’s statement to the stock exchanges, its deposits at the end of September stood at Rs 12.3 lakh crore as compared to Rs 10.2 lakh crore a year ago. Advances rose to Rs 10.4 lakh crore from Rs 9 lakh crore. The country’s largest private sector bank said the share of current and savings accounts in its deposits rose to 42% in September 2020 from 39% a year ago. During the quarter, the bank purchased home loans worth Rs 3,026 crore (against Rs 7,016 crore in the previous year) from its parent HDFC. Mortgage lender HDFC said that its disbursements for the second quarter were 95% of Q2 FY20, however, it warned of sharply lower earnings from dividend and sale of investments. In a statement to the exchanges, the country’s largest housing finance company said the number of loan applications received during the quarter were up 12% over the year-ago period. The corporation’s loan approvals also registered a year-on-year increase of 9%. “September has seen the strongest recovery since the outbreak of the pandemic and the levels have exceeded those seen in the corresponding month of the previous year,” HDFC said. According to the filing, the number of applications and value of approvals were up 21% and 31% respectively. Disbursals in value terms were up 11%. HDFC’s dividend income for the second quarter this year fell to Rs 323 crore compared to Rs 1,074 crore in Q2 FY20. Also, HDFC did not make any gains from the sale of shares as compared to a profit of Rs 1,627 crore in Q2 FY20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-banks-loans-grow-16-in-q2-deposits-20/articleshow/78502991.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Surat||Two drug peddlers from Navi Mumbai caught||SURAT: Crime branch sleuths nabbed two drug peddlers from Navi Mumbai after their names cropped up during the investigation into the massive mephedrone racket busted on September 22. The accused, Viramani alias Anna alias Panduranga Andyapan (53) and Pravin Mahtre (42), had supplied drugs to those caught earlier. Andyapan is a small-time onion businessman while Mhatre is a labour supervisor. “Andyapan had purchased drugs from Mhatre and sold it to Manoj Bhagat of Vapi, who has already been arrested. Both are drug peddlers and they purchased it from suppliers in Mumbai,” said a police officer close to investigation. So far, police have arrested the prime suspect Salman alias Aman Hanif Zaveri, Mohammed Sufiyan alias Baba Ashraf Memon, Manoj Bhagat and Aadil Nurani, owner of a prominent Gujarati thali restaurant in Surat. Salman was caught with 1,011.82 gram mephedrone worth nearly Rs one crore in his car on Dumas Road on September 22. During questioning, he revealed the role of Memon, a trafficker who purchased drugs from him and sold it to buyers. Of the total mephedrone recovered from Salman, around 400 gram was supplied by Bhagat from Vapi. Nurani, owner of popular Gujarati thali restaurant Kansar, was Salman’s regular customer he is suspected to have supplied these drugs in parties in which he too participated often. In a separate case, the crime branch had nabbed Sanket Aslaliya and recovered 304.98 gm mephedrone from him, and Pragnesh Thummar, an MPharm graduate. He was running the drug racket in association with Salman. Aslaliya used to make the drugs in a rented room in Kadodara near the city. Thummar helped him source various chemicals and also taught him to make mephedrone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-drug-peddlers-from-navi-mumbai-caught/articleshow/78500491.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Congress bargains for few seats||PATNA: Even though Mahagathbandhan partners have announced the seats distribution, glitches are still there over the choice of constituencies. October 8 is the last date for filing nomination papers for the first phase of assembly election, but the alliance partners are yet to take a final decision on seats like Tekari, Barh, Sultanganj, Sikandra and Banka. Though Tekari is in RJD quota, Congress Rajya Sabha member and party’s campaign committee chairman Akhilesh Singh is bargaining to get it for his son. RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap also wants this seat for his candidate Kamlesh Sharma, a former Gaya district youth wing president of JD(U), whose photo with Tej went viral. “Congress wants to exchange Kurtha with Tekari,” a party leader said. RJD and Congress are yet to decide over Sultanganj, Sikandara and Barh seats. “Senior leaders are finding out the best candidates. There is no fight as such,” said RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan. Congress’s spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre also said the same. RJD is yet to finalize its candidate in Banka, where Zafrul Hoda had contested in 2015. Former JD(U) MLC Jawed Iqbal Ansari, who joined RJD this year, also wants this seat to contest. RJD is also to decide whether to support Anant Singh from Mokama as an independent candidate or give him the party symbol. Cong list likely today: Congress is likely to release its first list of candidates on Tuesday as the party’s election panel has cleared 46 candidates at the central election committee meeting held at the residence of party chief Sonia Gandhi on Monday. Sonia is learnt to have joined the meeting via a screen while around 15 members of the poll panel discussed the names in person. Sources said out of the 46 seats, 30 are to go to the polls in the first phase. The names finalized include sitting Congress MLAs. According to a source, a separate meeting was held under AICC general secretary KC Venugopal over three names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-bargains-for-few-seats/articleshow/78500375.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 6, 2020||Patna||RJD accommodates netas’ kin, turncoats||PATNA: RJD on Monday distributed the party symbol to more than 25 candidates, whose constituencies go to the assembly polls in the first phase on October 28. RJD state president Jagdanand Singh’s son Sudhakar Singh will contest from Ramgarh while party national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari’s son and MLA Rahul Tiwari has been retained from Shahpur. Sudhakar had contested the 2010 polls on a BJP ticket and lost. Some more RJD leaders managed to get party tickets for their close relatives. Former MP Jai Prakash Narayan Yadav’s daughter Divya Prakash has been fielded from Tarapur while Kanti Singh’s son Rishi Kumar will contest from Obra. RJD has dropped its sitting Obra MLA Birendra Prasad Yadav. Both Divya and Rishi are contesting election for the first time. When asked about preference given to the kin of senior party leaders, RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “Politics is a personal choice and there is no harm in giving a chance to strong and hardworking people. If a doctor’s son can become a doctor and a lawyer’s son a lawyer, what is the problem in politicians’ children joining politics? Also, the number is much less when compared to the total number of people given the tickets.” RJD has also accommodated turncoats. BSP’s former state president Bharat Bind has been selected from Bhabhua while RLSP’s former state president Bhudeo Choudhary will contest from Dhuraiya (reserved). Former assembly Speaker Udai Narayan Choudhary has got the RJD symbol from Imamganj. Uday was a JD(U) candidate in the 2015 election and had lost to HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi. RJD has also obliged some tainted leaders by fielding their wives. Rape convict Raj Ballabh Yadav’s wife Vibha Devi will be the party candidate from Nawada and another rape accused Arun Yadav’s wife Kiran Devi will contest from Sandesh. In 2015, Raj Ballabh and Arun had won the assembly election on the RJD ticket. Other sitting MLAs who got the party symbol included Ram Vishnu Singh alias Lohiyaji (Jagdishpur), Anita Devi (Nokha), Kumar Sarvjeet (Bodh Gaya), Vijay Prakash (Jamui), Ramdeo Yadav (Belhar), Kumar Krishna Mohan alias Suday Yadav (Jehanabad), Surendra Yadav (Belaganj), Savitri Devi (Chakai), Sweety Seema Hembram (Katoria), Rekha Paswan (Masaurhi) and Samta Devi (Barachatti). Some others who got the RJD symbol included Rajendra Yadav (Jhajha), Dabloo Singh (Nabinagar), Vijay Samrat (Sheikhpura), Bhim Singh (Goh), Ajay Yadav (Atri) and Bhola Yadav (Chainpur). The first phase election will be held in 71 constituencies on October 28. Among these 71 seats in 2015, RJD had won 25. But it has given Karakat, Arwal, Ara and Paliganj seats to CPI (ML).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-accommodates-netas-kin-turncoats/articleshow/78500272.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 6, 2020||Surat||Another coop bank invests in green & healthy Surat||SURAT: Cooperative banks are donning the role of guarantors for citizens keen to invest in ‘green and healthy Surat’. After Varachha Cooperative Bank started doling out financial incentives to their employees cycling to work, Surat People’s Cooperative Bank (SPCB) is now offering zero-interest loans up to Rs 50,000 for its staffers to purchase bicycles. What’s more, 62 employees have already registered for this ‘cycle for change’ scheme launched by the bank. About 62 employees have already registered under the ‘cycle for change’ scheme launched by the bank and that they will cycle to work every Friday to spread awareness to ‘save environment’ and ‘green Surat’. The bank has 25 branches in Surat and employs about 368 employees. Jatin Naik, general manager of SPCB, told TOI, “Since the launch of the scheme on October 2, 62 employees have registered with the promise of cycling to work once a week on Friday.” Naik himself has been cycling to the bank every Friday since 2018 despite the bank providing him a chauffeur-driven car. The idea of interest-free loans was floated in the recent annual general meeting and was well-received by all the directors of the bank. Nipesh Gajjar, credit manager of SPB said, “I have enrolled under the scheme. Till then, I have borrowed my neighbour’s bicycle to come to work every Friday. I cycle 16 km daily to and from my house in Adajan to Nanpura branch. According to Naik, those coming to work on bicycles every Friday are felicitated with letters of appreciation and badges stating ‘I am SPBian, I save environment’ . These employees are also exempted from wearing bank uniforms when they come on bicycles on Friday. Amit Gajjar, director of SBP and trustee of Life Cycling Green (LCG), an NGO promoting cycling in the city told TOI: “The aim is to cultivate the habit of cycling, It is important to explain the benefits and start from our own home. One SPB employee will encourage his 10 acquaintances and this how the chain will be created . SEPARATE BATHROOMS FOR CYCLISTIn yet another initiative, the bank has prepared a blueprint for constructing separate bathrooms in all its 25 branches to facilitate the employees coming on cycle to take shower and resume their work. “We will be the first bank to provide bathrooms at the branches. Surat has a hot and humid climate and once the employees reach their respective branches, they will have bathrooms to freshen up and resume their duty” said Jatin Naik, general manager of SPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/another-coop-bank-invests-in-green-healthy-surat/articleshow/78500337.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Patna||Sitamarhi gang rape victim struggles for life, one arrested||PATNA: A 14-year-old girl is struggling for survival at a government hospital in Sitamarhi after being gang-raped by two youths on way back home from her school, police said on Monday. According to the doctors attending on the survivor, her condition worsened due to excessive bleeding and infection. She has been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital in Sitamarhi for treatment. She is stated to be a student of Class IX at the local madrassa. Though the incident took place on Thursday, the matter came to the notice of Sonbarsa police in Sitamarhi on Sunday. She was rushed to the primary health centre and then shifted to the town hospital on Monday. The victim’s father told the police that his daughter was accosted by two youths — Zuber Raeen and Naushad Raeen — when she was returning home with her cousin brother and sister on Thursday. The offenders tied the girl’s hands with a rope, stuffed cloth in mouth and raped her in a nearby bush. The family members rushed to the spot after being alerted by the victim’s brother and sister, who were also threatened with dire consequences. The accused, however, fled the spot after abandoning the victim in an unconscious state. She was bleeding profusely. The victim’s mother told the police that they didn’t report the incident to the police immediately due to intervention of the representatives of the local panchayat, who persuaded one of the accused to marry the girl. Two days later, the accused refused to adhere to the panchayat’s directive. Sonbarsa police station house officer (SHO) Gaurishanker Baitha said the victim’s condition was stated to be critical. The SHO said the victim’s medical examination was conducted under the supervision of a team of doctors on Monday. “The medical report is awaited,” he said, adding that an FIR was lodged against the accused on the statement of the survivor. Sitamarhi SP Anil Kumar said Zubair has been arrested and raids were on to nab the other accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sitamarhi-gang-rape-victim-struggles-for-life-1-arrested/articleshow/78499412.cms||Ramashankar
October 6, 2020||Patna||Liquor mafia active in Jhakhand after announcement of Bihar polls||JAMSHEDPUR: Soon after the Election Commision announced the dates for Bihar assembly polls, liquor mafia in Jharkhand have become active keeping in mind the high demand in neighbouring dry states. The liquor smugglers in districts of Jharkhand, especially those on the bordering areas of Bihar, are on the constant look out for new routes through which liquor consignments can be pushed in as demand has shot up to lure voters. Sources said liquor mafia in 10 districts of Jharkhand (Palamu, Chatra, Hazaribag, Koderma, Giridih, Deoghar, Dumka, Godda and Sahibganj) are getting orders on Whatsapp. The consignments are being smuggled through porous borders, mostly in forest areas, in the middle of the night .Sources said the other route which is being used is river banks. Such places are hardly under surveillance during night time. Liquor cartons are also hidden under stone chips or sand bags and loaded on trucks and then ferried across the border. Consignments are ferried across Sone on boats at night and then loaded on trucks carrying sand from river bed, said sources. Sources said liquor from Koderma area is sent through the forest areas to Patna, Muzaffarpur and districts of north Bihar. Liquor from Palamu and Garhwa is sent to Rohtas and Aurangabad. Hazaribag is known as a ‘silk route’ for liquor mafias. From here, liquor is sent to Bihar even in small private cars to prevent any kind of checking. Many a times in the past police have raided illegal liquor factories in the area. In Chatra, more than two dozen villages, earn their livelihood through liquor manufacturing and supply in neighbouring Bihar. Most of the illegal breweries are run in dense forest areas. Sources said in Deoghar, before the lockdown, liquor used to be smuggled on trains to Bihar but after closure of train services, consignments are being sent by road. Giridih liquor is sent to Jamui in Bihar. Jharkhand police during anti-Red operations have bumped on illegal breweries in forest areas. Police believe that there is a possible Maoist hand in the smuggling of liquor across the border. Recently a drive was carried out by Koderma SP Ehtesham in the forest area. “During the raids many breweries were destroyed,” SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-mafia-active-in-jhakhand-after-announcement-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/78500000.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ ‘rail roko’ has bought lives of porters to standstill||LUDHIANA: Ever since the farmers blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi railway route, to mark their protest against three agri-marketing laws passed by central government, it has brought untold misery on the licensed porters at Ludhiana railway station. They are unable to earn even a single penny for the last 15 days and are facing several difficulties in managing their day-to-day expenses. There are at least 54 licensed porters who are working inside city railway station for nearly three decades now. First, the Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions put in place by the government to contain the spread of the virus played havoc on their livelihood. Now, after the farmers started their rail roko campaign in the state, none of the long route passenger train again pass through Ludhiana station, which left them with no option but to do something else to even stay alive. The railway authorities seemed to be helpless as they themselves are facing losses and are hoping that that central government will act soon and resolve the ongoing issue between the farmers and the government. Sanjay Kumar, working is at the city railway for the last 30 years as porter, said, “Earlier too, when the rail service was suspended due to coronavirus, we had faced huge difficulties in managing daily expenses. Now farmer communities have blocked all major long route trains, and we are left in a lurch again. This cannot go on. For the last 12 days, we were again reduced to rely on our savings. We are looking for some alternative options.” According to him, as the officials are unsure when the railway service will be resumed, the licensed porters have to look for something else to do. Lajwanti Devi, also a porter, said, “Earlier, each porter on an average earned around Rs 500 to Rs 600 after eight to 10 hours of duty. But after lockdown our daily income was reduced to Rs 300 to Rs 400 because limited train crossed through city station. Now, after farmers blocked the railway routes, no porters earn even a single penny as no single train cross through city station for the last 12 days.” Porters also said they had already raised the issue with the All India Railway Lal Vardhi Union asking for basic financial help to porters’ community working in several districts of Punjab, as they are struggling to manage their basic needs after the enforcement of lockdown. Suresh Kumar, who has been a porter for a decade now, said, “The Covid-19 crisis had already affected our earnings because a large number of passengers, to avoid contact with porters, are not taking the help of porters and prefer to carry their luggages themselves. Now the farmers are blocking the railway routes and with the government showing no interest in resolving the issue, our future is doomed.” According to him, the government should intervene as porters have been an integral part of railway transportation service since its existence. “Railway ministry should look into the grievances of all licensed porters and should asked the government to resolve the ongoing issue as soon as possible,” added Suresh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-rail-roko-has-bought-lives-of-porters-to-standstill/articleshow/78501090.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Patna||‘We sacrificed to reach consensus’||PATNA: For the first time, the Left parties in the state — CPI(ML), CPI and CPM — are going to the assembly polls with a complete understanding on seat-sharing among themselves as well as with RJD and Congress. In another first, the Left parties and RJD will not have any friendly contests. CPI(ML) will contest in 19 seats, CPI in six and CPM in four. All three parties have already announced their candidates for the respective seats in their kitties. “This year, in the beginning, there were problems on the issue of particular seats during the seat-sharing talks, but we, including the CPI(ML), sacrificed our claims on some seats, and so did RJD and Congress,” CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said on Monday. Before the 2020 assembly election, CPI(ML) never allied with any party since 1985, when it first started contesting the assembly polls in the name of its frontal organization Indian People’s Front (IPF). The CPI(ML) started fighting the elections formally in its name from 1990. Even in the 2019 parliamentary election, it had merely reached an understanding with RJD on two seats, Ara and Patliputra, when the RJD supported its candidate in Ara in exchange for its support to the RJD nominee for Patliputra. “Earlier, we did not go for any understanding with RJD, but circumstances do not remain static. Today, the country’s democratic practises are under threat, and Bihar also stands at the cusp of an emerging new situation. For, if BJP wins the election, then forget Gujarat. It will implement the ‘UP model’ in Bihar. It will throw up a combination of feudal, casteist and right-wing forces and unleash the most repressive regime on the people of the state,” Bhattacharya said, adding it was the “new situation that is now threatening Bihar”. “Therefore, during this year’s assembly election, CPI(ML), along with other Left parties, felt the pressing need to enter into a complete understanding with RJD and Congress to defeat the NDA,” he added. As for CPI and CPM, it had first allied with then Janata Dal (JD) in 1990, when they together contested 33 seats in alliance with JD and won 29 of them. Similarly, in 1995, they won 32 seats, but their alliance with RJD fell apart after 1998. Observers feel the combination of three Left parties, RJD and Congress is a formidable one in the new situation, but the outcome would be keenly watched. “The aim of CPI(ML) is to see that we, other Left parties and the grand alliance partners win the maximum number of seats to form the government that will be guided by a common minimum programme,” Bhattacharya said, adding all the parties, however, would bring out their separate poll manifestos. CPI (ML) releases nominee list: CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya announced the party’s candidates for all 19 assembly seats, of which eight will go to the polls in the first phase. The candidates for the eight seats are Paliganj - Sandeep Saurabh, Ara - Qayamuddin Ansari, Agiaon (SC)- Manoj Manjil, Tarari - Sudama Prasad (sitting MLA), Dumraon - Ajit Kumar Singh, Karakat - Arun Singh, Arwal - Mahanand Prasad, Ghoshi - Rambali Singh Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/we-sacrificed-to-reach-consensus/articleshow/78500296.cms||Abhay Singh
October 6, 2020||Patna||JD(U) tickets for 4 MGB turn-coats among others||PATNA: Four deserters from the Grand Alliance, two each from Congress and RJD, are among more than 20 JD(U) candidates who were allotted tickets on Monday. In the first phase of polls starting October 28, 71 seats are up for grabs. The Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) gave tickets to Congress’s Sudarshan Kumar and Purnima Yadav, both sitting MLAs. Sudarshan, who is the grandson of former Congress MP Rajo Singh and is the sitting MLA of Barbigha, got the ticket for his Barbigha seat. Purnima Yadav, who won the Gobindpur (Nawada) seat in 2015 election on a Congress ticket, joined JD(U) a few weeks ago and got the ticket for her family’s traditional Gobindpur seat. Purnima’s husband Kaushal Yadav, the sitting JD(U) MLA from Nawada, was also given a ticket. “Purnima and I will file nomination papers on October 7 from Gobindpur and Nawada, respectively,” Kaushal told TOI over the phone. JD(U) also accommodated former RJD MLA Jai Vardhan Yadav alias Baccha Yadav in Patna district’s Paliganj seat. Jai Vardhan, the grandson of veteran Congress leader Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav, had won the Paliganj seat for RJD in 2015. He recently joined JD(U) and Nitish obliged him by allotting a JD(U) ticket for Paliganj. JD(U) also gave a ticket to former RJD MLC Sanjay Prasad from Jamui district’s Chakai seat on which former MLA Sumit Kumar Singh, the son of former minister Narendra Singh, had staked his claim. Around three months ago, Prasad along with four RJD MLCs, had deserted Lalu Prasad’s party and joined JD(U). Prasad was on Monday rewarded by the JD(U) leadership for deserting the Lalu camp. The surprise, however, came from Dumraon after JD(U) denied a ticket to its sitting MLA Dadan Singh Yadav alias Dadan Pahalwan and decided to field the party’s state spokeswoman Anjum Ara. The JD(U) leadership is said to be unhappy with Dadan ever since the cavalcade of CM was attacked in his constituency nearly two years ago. Anjum, a native of Dumraon, was the dark horse who got the ticket to contest from Dumraon. Contrary to the ongoing speculation that the state’s science and technology minister Jai Kumar Singh might not get a ticket for his Dinara seat as BJP wanted it for one of its heavyweight leaders, the CM on Monday gave Singh the ticket. JD(U), however, changed the constituency of state’s education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma to accommodate Rahul Kumar, son of former MLA and fodder scam convicted accused Jagdish Sharma, from Ghosi seat. Verma had won Ghosi in 2015 on the JD(U) symbol. He has now been asked to contest from neighbouring Jehanabad seat. The JD(U) on Monday allotted the party ticket to Rahul from Ghosi. JD(U) working president Ashok Choudhary said the party would hopefully release the official list of JD(U) candidates on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-tickets-for-4-mgb-turn-coats-among-others/articleshow/78500260.cms||Madan Kumar
October 6, 2020||Patna||IT cell of HAM(S) busy to promote new poll symbol||PATNA: As the other political parties have engaged experts to handle their IT cells to create awareness among the electors about their manifestos and local issues, the digital war room of HAM(S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi is busy in telling people about the party’s new symbol, ‘Kadhai’. Altogether 20 experts have been hired by the party for the high-tech war room which has data analysts, IT professionals, social media experts and volunteers well acquainted with digital technology. The party workers at block, panchayat and booth levels have created 800 WhatsApp groups to make people aware about the party’s new symbol. HAM(S) spokesperson and its IT cell incharge, Danish Rizwan, said the main agenda of the volunteers is to popularize the party’s symbol. “We have started this campaign at constituency level from where the party candidates are likely to contest in the Bihar assembly election. The team is managing the profile of senior leaders and official party page on Facebook and Instagram. These are the two social platforms that we are mainly focusing on to reach the maximum number of people,” he said and added: “Posters, wallpapers, GIFs and video messages (speeches) are put across the digital platforms, especially to woo the young voters.” All the posters that are being designed by the IT cell team is based on the ‘15 Saal Ke Jungle Raj Banaam 15 Saal ka Sushasan’. “From Charwaha Vidyalaya during RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s regime to IIT, AIIMS, universities, net connectivity and road infrastructure in the Nitish government are shown in the posters,” said Rizwan. The IT experts are designing the HAM(S) official website to connect with the electors, on which people can share their views and problems. He said speeches of senior leaders would be made live on digital platforms and shown on HAM(S) website. The party has also hired LED vans for electioneering. “We would release on our website the party’s manifesto, which covers education, farmers’ rights, urbanization, rural development, electricity and road connectivity,” Rizwan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/it-cell-of-hams-busy-to-promote-new-poll-symbol/articleshow/78500321.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 6, 2020||Patna||Coalition circus in state keeps voters confused||PATNA: The fast developments in coalition politics just before the Bihar assembly  from October 28 has taken many by surprise in state. Political observers feel the frequent alliance hoppings by political parties and leaders have created confusion among the voters, especially the young ones. While the advent of several smaller as well as new parties and alliance-hopping activities have given options to voters, it has also made decision-making difficult. For instance, LJP and JD(U) are partners of BJP at the Centre, but will contest against each other in Bihar. It is likely to confuse the NDA supporters in the constituencies where the two parties will face each other. Shaibal Gupta, a social scientist and founder member-secretary of Asian Development Research Institute in Patna, said, “It would certainly be confusing because earlier, we thought it might be bipolar. But that is not the case. A number of coalitions have emerged now, but we have to wait till the final candidates are announced.” He predicted one more round of new alliances taking place very soon. “Some people will go out of the parties while new people will join. So, we have to wait and watch. This is not a very amicable situation for the electors, especially young voters,” Shaibal said. Former principal of Patna College and political analyst, NK Choudhary, told this newspaper that there might be some confusion among voters as some of the turncoats would contest from their old seats but from a different party. “But it is also true that people would vote not for candidates but for the party, by keeping in mind the face of the leader. In Bihar election, there are three faces — CM Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Chirag Paswan,” he said. “The centrists have lost their original agenda, except a few points they talk here and there. This creates whole lot of confusion in people’s mind. For instance, some political parties earlier talked something else on farm bills, but now they have changed their views. Opportunism is at its best in politics and ideology has completely taken a back seat. Even a person with very few MLAs wants to be the CM for his own good and not for people’s welfare,” Choudhary said, adding that dynasty politics is practised across the country, except in a few parties where there is authoritarianism. Some experts opined that there is no confusion and the political fight is between JD(U), LJP and Mahagathbandhan. According to economist D M Diwakar, there is a triangular fight now between JD(U), LJP and the Mahagathbandhan. “BJP has kept its options open for both the JD(U) and LJP. The BJP votes may transfer to LJP instead of JD(U) as young Tejashwi is in the field and voters might find it convenient to vote for Chirag,” he said. Haridwar Shukla, formers head of political science department at Patna University, said it is not possible for the electors to keep a tab on everything happening in the political arena, but it is also a truth that people would vote on caste and religion. “The political parties are fielding their candidates based on caste, like Dalit and Yadav among others. No one is concerned about the socioeconomic issues. Caste is always the important factor in election and nothing has changed over all these years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coalition-circus-in-state-keeps-voters-confused/articleshow/78500360.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 6, 2020||Surat||Say good morning to fluttering beauties!||Surat: Plant lovers waking up to the pleasing sight of their lush green gardens are now having their mornings with a dash of vibrant colours! In their lawns, terraces and balconies, are fluttering hundreds of butterflies, sipping on nectar of their favourite flowers and flapping past the owners whose morning cuppa has only got more lively.Just as in mathematics, the 'butterfly effect' implies that a small change in initial conditions can cause a large change in the outcomes, garden-lovers too made a slight tweak to their choice of plants that resulted in winged beauties becoming regular visitors to their homes. In Rajkot's Chauhan household, 13-year-old Drishti and her seven-year-old brother, Sahaj, may forget to brush their teeth in the morning, but not to dash upstairs soon after opening their eyes to check on the pale yellow papery cocoon if it metamorphosed into the promised mythical beauty.Their sheer joy is unmeasurable, said their uncle, Kuldeep Chauhan, who works in a pharmaceutical company. “We have planted some 20 butterfly-friendly species on our terrace garden. The kids hunt for caterpillars, bring them home and raise them.” Chauhans’ terrace butterfly garden hosts five species including plain tiger, common emigrant, mottled emigrant, grass yellow and tailed jay.Bhavesh Trivedi, another Rajkot resident, says his 11-year-old son Nisarg is ‘lost’ in his butterfly world at home. “We have planted about 22 species in our garden and butterflies are flapping their wings the whole day,” Trivedi added.The interest is not only limited to Rajkot but flitted across to Surat too, where Mayur Variya, a wildlife biologist and resident of Vitthalnagar society in Katargam of Surat has planted Asopalav to attract common jay and tailed jay butterflies and blue snakeweed to lure common mormon, common emigrant, common rose, blue mormon etc.While ‘Big Butterfly’ month was celebrated in September, experts claim that the country has more than 1,677 species of butterflies, while more than 150 species are seen in Gujarat alone.“The beauty of butterfly gardening is that you can do it anywhere. In order to attract more butterflies, design your garden with larval host plants, nectar plants, and alkaloids plants and abundant sunshine. Butterflies are cold-blooded insects and need to bask in the morning sunlight,” said Rajdeepsinh Jhala.Snehal Patel, founder of Nature Club, Surat, told TOI, "Butterflies like honey bees are essential for the pollination of plants, while the insect itself serves as a source in the food chain for birds, lizards, spiders, and many other insects. As an environmental indicator, where butterflies flit, health flits.'' A pioneer in butterfly gardening in the state, Patel’s eco-farm has around 45 different species spotted round the year.Sources said many have developed butterfly gardens after visiting the one at Statue Of Unity and as thrown open for public by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/say-good-morning-to-fluttering-beauties/articleshow/78500751.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 6, 2020||Surat||Seed bank to promote butterfly gardening||Surat: If you too are now interested in welcoming the winged wonders to your garden and want the perfect trees in place, fret not. Earth Matters Foundation in Rajkot, a group of like-minded environment conservationists, will help you find the ‘butterfly-friendly’ plants. The group has set up a seed bank to promote butterfly gardening to encourage people to conserve the environment. “Many people who want to develop butterfly gardens don't know where to get the right plants or how to manage space. So, we visit their homes, distribute seeds or plants for free to anybody who contacts us. We have received tremendous response from the people,” Dr Milan Bharad, a member of the group told TOI. “Once they get the basic knowledge about the right type of plants, people get more plants on their own. We just aim to get them interested in it,” Dr Bharad said, adding that the organization is also coming out soon with its pocket-book titled ‘Aangne Khile Patangiya’ (Butterfly grow at home), which will contain basic information about butterflies, besides such plants and about different butterfly species. Shivam Bhatt, a chemical engineer from PDPU, Gandhinagar who is involved in development of butterfly garden at Statue of Unity (SoU) at Kevadia, said: “I have sent butterfly-friendly plants to at least seven of my friends who have successfully grown them at their gardens.” And so does Bhavesh Trivedi, another butterfly enthusiast, who’s spreading interest among his known circles. Talking to TOI, Dr Sujit Prajapati, assistant professor, Government College of Science, Limkheda said, “Life cycle of butterflies has four stages — egg, caterpillar (larva), pupa and adult butterfly. Butterflies lay eggs on particular species of plants called larval host plants. Then comes caterpillars which eat the leaves and get metamorphosed into a pupa and the cycle ends with adult butterflies emerging from the pupa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seed-bank-to-promote-butterfly-gardening/articleshow/78500517.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Services added, passenger count crosses 60k mark on ‘old’ Metro||Kolkata: Metro crossed the 60k passenger-count mark on Monday when services were extended by 30 minutes for the Noapara-Kavi Subhas line. Against 1 lakh e-passes booked, the passenger count was 64,141. With six trains added to the daily number, there were 122 trips made and the last trains from both ends left at 8pm. However, there was some confusion among commuters as the booking slot for the next day’s Metro e-passes was pushed from 8pm to 9pm. Metro authorities started running a notification — “the next day’s slot can be booked from 9pm onwards” — to rectify the confusion. The e-pass booking time has been changed because of Metro’s extended services and a new slot being added. “I had become used to booking my 10am Metro slot at 8pm the previous night. But yesterday, I found I couldn’t book for the next day’s service,” said Pradipta Chatterjee, a Dum Dum resident. But the changed timing notwithstanding, more than a lakh passes were booked on Monday. On Sunday, scores of people who were unable to book at 8pm rushed to download passes the moment bookings opened at 9pm. “In the first five minutes, around 4,000 e-passes were booked,” said Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state entrusted the task of developing the link for downloading e-passes. By 11pm on Sunday, 30,000 e-passes had been downloaded, he added. The e-passes have become the key to controlling crowd for smooth operations under the “new normal” norms. A dynamic algorithm, based on passenger data provided by Metro Railway, drives the system. The developers of the technology have analyzed data of the last three weeks’ volume and found that there was a 15% extra demand. “We have tracked the people who book multiple passes, duplicate ones and those who book fake passes without having any intention of riding the Metro and found that there is an added 15% demand for rides. The Metro authorities may wish to cater to these deprived passengers,” said Chatterjee. He has been trying to tweak the system by increasing the booking cap for busy stations during peak hours to narrow the gap between actual riders and passes booked. Talking to TOI earlier, Metro Railway GM Manoj Joshi had said, “We want to cater to 1 lakh commuters daily.” In pre-pandemic times, 6.5 lakh rode the Metro every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/services-added-passenger-count-crosses-60k-mark-on-old-metro/articleshow/78501104.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 6, 2020||Business||Non-board member attended board meetings: Ex-MD & CEO Dhanlaxmi Bank||Chennai: In glaring violation of corporate governance laws, the ousted MD & CEO of Dhanlaxmi Bank Sunil Gurbaxani on Monday said that a retired employee, who was not a member of the board, attended board meetings with the blessings of some directors to surreptitiously take over the bank. This act of misgovernance was observed and reported to the banking regulator two weeks before Gurbaxani expulsion at the AGM, he said. The Bank’s shareholders meeting rejected the appointment of Gurbaxani on September 30. “I did mention that a non-board member’s presence was not a good example of good governance. Following which the banking regulator intervened immediately and asked this non-board member to immediately resign leading to his exit on the very same day - i.e- September 18, 2020,” Gurbaxani said. He didn’t name the former employee, but alleged that the person was trying back seat driving at the bank. Gurbaxani said this non-board member was a former employee of the bank who retired two years ago. However, he continued as a contract employee till his exit. “He would attend the board meetings because he had the blessings of few board members and shareholders,” he said. He said that he had raised the issue with other members and when nothing happened, he lodged a complaint with the RBI. The former head of the private bank said it was not cultural polarization, but vested interest of few members on the board led to his ousting. Some board members threatened and were forcing me to quit, less than a month before the AGM, he alleged. In order to provide stabilization to the bank, the RBI approved an interim arrangement for formation of a Committee of Directors (CoD) to exercise the powers of MD & CEO till such time a new person takes charge, headed by G Subramonia Iyer, and G Rajagopalan Nair and PK Vijayakumar as members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/non-board-member-attended-board-meetings-ex-md-ceo-dhanlaxmi-bank/articleshow/78501540.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 6, 2020||Business||SPR City raises funds from LIC Housing||Chennai: City-based integrated township SPR City has raised undisclosed amount of capital from LIC Housing for its ongoing residential project of 1.7 million square feet. A part of the capital raised has been used to repay and provide an exit to investor Piramal Enterprises, SPR City said. This capital infusion will help us in advancing the construction at the residential project resulting in handing over of the apartments by the end of this fiscal, SPR City spokesperson and director Chetan Bohra said in a statement. “With the exit of Piramal, the cost of capital is expected to be reduced by almost 35-40% in the current financial year, thus giving impetus to construction speed,” he said. Navin Ranka, director of SPR, said that the closure of fundraising from LIC Housing denotes the confidence of the country’s top financial institution into the project. “With our robust sales and delivery line up, we see growth in the coming year irrespective of covid impact on the economy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spr-city-raises-funds-from-lic-housing/articleshow/78501592.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Goa||Withdrawal of monsoon may be delayed this year||PANAJI: The withdrawal of the monsoon this year is likely to be delayed by a few days, owing to the formation of a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal and the La Nina effect in the Pacific ocean. The normal withdrawal date is October 14. Three major synoptic conditions are needed for the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from the extreme north-western parts of the country. These are the cessation of rainfall activity over the area for five continuous days, the establishment of an anti-cyclone in the lower troposphere, and a considerable reduction in moisture content as inferred from satellite water vapour imageries and tephigrams. “This year there is a weak La Nina condition in the eastern Pacific Ocean, which has led to the formation of low pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal,” said meteorologist and former NIO chief scientist Dr M R Ramesh Kumar. “Its movement in a westerly and northwesterly direction is the main causative factor for the delay in the withdrawal of monsoon this year.” Explaining further, he said that the low-pressure area that is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal will move in a westerly and northwesterly direction. This will bring in lots of moisture into Goa’s coastal area. “This means Goa will receive a good amount of rainfall in the coming days too,” he said, adding that the third condition in the above synoptic situation however may not be fulfilled. Experts from the India meteorological department (IMD), however, maintained that it’s too early to forecast the withdrawal date. “There are chances for light to moderate rain to continue this week with reduced special distribution,” said IMD Goa scientist Rahul M. “Monsoon withdrawal is yet to happen over Gujarat, and there is a probable low pressure area to form over the Andaman sea or Bay Of Bengal by October 9, so light to moderate rain may continue over Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdrawal-of-monsoon-may-be-delayed-this-year/articleshow/78503556.cms||Nida Sayed
October 6, 2020||Vadodara||Akota BJP MLA victim of cyber crime||VADODARA: BJP Akota MLA Seema Mohile filed a complaint with the cybercrime police station after some unidentified person allegedly opened a social media account using her identity. The cybercrime sleuths have initiated action and begun blocking the accounts that were made in the name of Mohile. According to the police, Mohile learnt about the fake accounts when some party workers asked her if she had created new accounts on social media. Mohile inquired about it and realised that some person has impersonated her online and created accounts in her name. “To ensure that the accounts aren’t misused, we are blocking them. Also, investigations are on to find out the person who created them,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/akota-bjp-mla-victim-of-cyber-crime/articleshow/78499963.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||ICMR allows states to carry on with off-label plasma therapy for now||Pune: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Monday said states could continue using off-label plasma till issuance of any fresh norms.The ICMR’s study on convalescent plasma, which is not associated with reduction in mortality or Covid progression, has been peer reviewed and published in a British journal. “Though the paper has been peer reviewed and published in a British journal, we have not issued any guidelines yet to states,” a senior ICMR scientist told TOI.The scientist said till any further guidelines are issued on the subject, “states can continue using off-label plasma”. Senior officials from the medical education department, however, said fresh guidelines on the effective use of plasma were on cards. “We have already issued detailed guidelines on the use of off-label plasma on compassionate grounds. On the Platina trial, we are yet to come out with anything yet,” a senior official from the department said, adding that once the Platina trials were complete, the guidelines would be issued.Project Platina, the largest plasma therapy trials for Covid-19 patients, was launched by the chief minister in June. It aimed at creating a robust data for treating the disease. Plasma therapy or Convalescent Plasma Therapy (CPT) has proved to be useful in fighting other coronavirus diseases and its use against Covid-19 has shown encouraging results on patients across the country and the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-allows-states-to-carry-on-with-off-label-plasma-therapy-for-now/articleshow/78502418.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 6, 2020||Pune||Counselling sessions to push donors||Pune: Covid task force members have proposed counselling sessions for recovered patients in the district to help increase its plasma donor count. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Saturday said post-recovery counselling should start to address issues and encourage people to become plasma donors. One task force member told TOI that a proper mechanism for contacting willing donors was needed to dispel fear among people. “Most of the people in need of plasma need this mechanism as their relatives are reaching out to donors via social media now,” the member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/counselling-sessions-to-push-donors/articleshow/78502419.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||8 months later, some schools in city reopens||LUDHIANA: BCM Basant Avenue in Dugri, BCM in Chandigarh Road and Nankana Sahib Public School in Gill Park reopened on Monday for classes X and XII, with all safety precautions in place, eight months after the nationwide lockdown that was announced due to Covid-19. These schools are affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). In BCM Basant Avenue, around 72 Class XII students, who have opted for medical, non-medical, commerce, humanities and FMM stream, attended the school in batches for doubt clearance — from 8am to 10am and second from 11am to 1pm. Entry was allowed from one gate to avoid crowding. Circles were marked to implement social distancing and staff were deployed for carrying out thermal screening of each student. They also checked the oxygen levels of students and if any student’s temperature was found higher, they were asked to sit for five minutes so that they can again check their temperature with thermal guns. Two students who wore handkerchief-masks were told to wear proper masks. Four to six students were accommodated in one classroom to maintain a distance of 2 metres. Teachers were seen clearing the doubts of students and continued taking online classes as well. Their online classes started afterwards and schools’ authorities have maintained a register to keep a record of the students visiting the school. Vandana Shahi, school principal of BCM Basant Avenue in Dugri, said, “We have been planning to reopen the school for students of classes IX to XII, but initially we have asked students of classes X and XII to visit the school for two hours. Over 72 students visited the school today and many others are interested in coming to school for doubt clearance and will come tomorrow. We will make them come on alternate days and next week students from classes IX and XI can come too.” At Nankana School, nearly 120 students with odd roll numbers of classes X and XII visited in the morning for three hours — from 8am to 11am. The second batch came from 11.30am to 1.30pm. During the half hour break, the school was sanitised. Harmeet Warraich, principal of Nankana school said, “We received consent of around 70% of parents. The classes continued for three hours. We will not call any other class before October 30. Few students were sent back, as they complained of sore throat and had high temperatures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-months-later-some-schools-in-city-reopens/articleshow/78501100.cms||Mehak Jain
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Over Rs 23 lakh cash stolen from two SBI ATM kiosks||HYDERABAD: Thieves prised open two SBI ATMs in Chandanagar and Nalgonda in separate incidents and stole Rs 23.5 lakh cash. On Monday, SBI officials lodged a complaint with Chandanagar police alleging that unknown offenders had opened the ATM cash chest using a gas cutter and stole Rs 12 lakh cash. “The ATM centre at Chandanagar was closed due to technical issues for a month. The shutter of the ATM centre was merely pulled down and not locked. Offenders entered the ATM on September 26 and stole Rs 12 lakh cash,” Chandanagar inspector B Ravinder said. In a similar incident, unknown offenders stole Rs 11.5 lakh cash from SBI ATM kiosk at Nalgonda on Saturday night. Nalgonda II Town police registered a case and launched a manhunt. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-rs-23l-cash-stolen-from-two-sbi-atm-kiosks/articleshow/78502423.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Desilt SWD to avoid flooding, urge residents of Pallavaram||Chennai: Even as Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) began to desilt stormwater drain networks, residents under Pallavaram municipality in the southern periphery of the city are anxious to know if their civic body will also take up similar work. This is because, even a short and sharp cloud burst leads to heavy flooding on the GST Road in Chromepet despite the presence of stormwater drains. An hour’s rain in July left the stretch flooded, and caused a 5-km traffic jam up till the city airport. A senior official in the Pallavaram municipality told TOI that the total SWD network in the civic body’s limits is 175km long, of which they plan to desilt 65km by mid-October. “We have finished desilting around 33km of it and rest will be finished within 10 days, before the onset of monsoon,” the official said. Stormwater drains in areas such as Radha Nagar, Nemilichery, Hasthinapuram and Shanti Nagar have been desilted so far, the official said. These are mainly interior areas away from the GST Road. Social activist David Manohar of Arappor Iyakkam said many stormwater drain networks in the area are encroached by commercial and residential establishments. He shared photos that showed shops built above the drains. “How is the municipality going to desilt the drains when they remain indifferent to encroachments,” he said. After the July downpour, which resulted in water stagnation on GST Road in Chromepet, the highways department along with the municipality and PWD officials conducted a joint inspection that led to some desilting of the drains, Manohar said. “The two important places where water stagnation is recurrent is in front of the Chromepet Government Hospital and the police station. In fact, water enters the GH every year,” he said. Drains which empty into the inlet channel of the Pallavaram lake are also completely choked with garbage which has to be removed, David Manohar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/desilt-swd-to-avoid-flooding-urge-residents-of-pallavaram/articleshow/78501105.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Agricultural University VC tests +ve for Covid-19||LUDHIANA: Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) vice-chancellor Baldev Singh Dillon tests positive for Covid-19. He gave the sample for testing at Dayanand Medical College & Hospital (DMCH) after feeling symptomatic. His wife too has tested positive. The result of the test was declared on Sunday at 7.30 pm. Since the result, he has been home isolated. His office at Thapar Hall has been closed and others officials who came in contact with him, including director research, director extension education and the registar have been asked to isolate themselves. Even though PAU officials did not confirm the news, but doctors from DMCH has confirmed that he has been tested positive for Covid-19. It has been revealed that VC doesn’t use air-conditioners and used to maintain social distancing during meetings. Prior to this, many officials at PAU were infected and campus was closed for a week, once in August and once in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-vc-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/78501103.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to get 58 indigenous, low-cost automated AQI monitoring stations||KOLKATA: The city will get at least two more continuous ambient air-quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS) — or real-time air quality reporting stations — and each district two such stations by next March. All these equipment are indigenously developed by state public sector organization Webel at almost one-third the price of the imported ones.  Track the pollution level in your cityAt present, Kolkata has seven and Howrah three such stations. Air quality in the districts is measured manually. Apart from Kolkata and Howrah, Siliguri, Asansol, Haldia and Budge Budge each have one real-time air quality stations. “Collecting real-time air quality data is crucial for analysis of pollution level and working out remedial measures,” PCB chairman Kalyan Rudra told TOI. TimesViewAccurate readings are the basis of any future action. Hopefully, the addition of automatic stations will help us know the real situation and frame relevant policies.PCB is looking at procuring 58 new units. While the units that are currently installed cost around Rs 1 crore each, PCB intends to purchase the machines from Webel for Rs 30 lakh apiece. But before buying the units, PCB will run a pilot study of two units, one at the Administrative Training Institute in Salt Lake and the other at Birla Industrial and Technological Museum in Ballygunge alongside the existing stations to tally the data. Most of the new stations will be installed on university campuses and their affiliated colleges. Vice-chancellors of nearly all universities responded to the PCB chairman’s call and agreed to provide space for the stations. The urban development department has provided space for four stations. Each unit requires 270 sqft, less than the size of a storeroom in an apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-get-58-indigenous-low-cost-automated-aqi-monitoring-stations/articleshow/78501107.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 6, 2020||Chennai||1,500 LED streetlights to replace sodium lamps in city’s added areas||Chennai: To improve infrastructure in the areas added to the Greater Chennai Corporation in 2011, the civic body has floated tenders to procure and install 1,500 LED street lights at a cost of Rs 8.5 crore in zones such as Manali, Madhavaram, Ambattur, Valasaravakkam, Alandur, Perungudi and Shollinganallur. This is part of the civic body’s drive to provide better illumination in these areas by replacing the existing sodium vapour lamps. “In the added areas, new streets keep coming up as people migrate to the peripheries. So the demand for basic infrastructure like roads and lights keep coming up,” said a senior official from GCC’s electrical wing. Though 100% lighting was achieved, demands keep increasing due to vacant lands turning into plots in added areas, the official said. Four hundred of the LED lights will be installed in Valasaravakkam zone, a dense residential and commercial neighbourhood. LED lights have been installed in many parts of the core city areas and has received a favourable response, he added. A senior official from the Manali zone said with LED, the consumption of electricity decreases, while the lighting is brighter and hence gives a perception of better safety. Sajeevan, a resident of Perungudi, said in his area, the civic body had already installed these lights. “The sodium vapour lamps were not very efficient. With the LED lights, there is a separate official at ward level who handles complaints,” he said. GCC will also be installing a remote monitoring system to turn the lights on and off from the headquarters itself. The system will also fix power fluctuations and alert local officials if the lights malfunction. Currently, pillar boxes have timers and lights switch on and turn off at preset time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1500-led-streetlights-to-replace-sodium-lamps-in-citys-added-areas/articleshow/78501110.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Pune||Sassoon docs cure 10-month-old struck down by severe post-nCoV syndrome||Pune: A 10-month-old boy, brought to Sassoon General Hospital’s paediatric intensive care unit with a severe immune overreaction linked to Covid-19 Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome, has recovered. Paediatrician Aarti Kinikar said, “The baby fits the Covid-linked MIS criteria in children. Past Covid infection was proved by high concentration (titers) of antibodies (IgG) specific to Covid-19. Both parents also had high titers of antibodies indicating past exposure to the virus.” The baby developed high-grade fever, vomiting, and loose stools three days before admission to Sassoon hospital on September 20. “He had convulsions when he was brought here. The pulse was poor and he was showing signs of cardiac failure,” paediatric intensivist Rajesh Kulkarni said.A team of doctors immediately stabilized the baby and treated the convulsions. “The child required ventilator support,” Kulkarni said. All inflammatory markers were highly elevated and blood tests to diagnose cardiac involvement (myocarditis) were very high, Kulkarni explained.The baby started responding after 48 hours but required medications to treat blood pressure for another five days.“This is a unique case of an infant with severe MIS-C requiring mechanical ventilation, medications to treat very low blood pressure and IVIG which led to recovery,” hospital's dean Muralidhar Tambe said. The baby was discharged on October 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-docs-cure-10-month-old-struck-down-by-severe-post-ncov-syndrome/articleshow/78502425.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Honey-trappers arrested for robbery, extortion||Nagpur: Nandanvan police on Sunday arrested two alleged honey-trappers, Kewal Buddhadev and Shubham Buradkar, for robbing 28-year-old Hitesh Agashe of cash Rs600, Activa scooter and also forcing him to withdraw Rs13,000 from ATM. They also demanded Rs1 lakh, and threatened to make his video film viral on social media. It’s learnt Agashe was lured by Kewal’s wife Puja, also made co-accused in the case, at her place at Ramna Maroti, where he was tortured and filmed in semi-naked condition. While Kewal and Buradkar filmed Agashe in semi-nude condition, they threatened to implicate him in a fake rape case and robbed him of the cash in his possession and also the cash he withdrew at the ATM. Nandanvan police immediately registered an offence and took Kewal and Buradkar into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/honey-trappers-arrested-for-robbery-extortion/articleshow/78502426.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Two peddlers arrested in Hyderabad, 1,000 kg ganja worth over Rs 1 crore seized||HYDERABAD: A gang of inter-state narcotics peddlers was arrested and 1,010 kilos of ganja, worth Rs 1.3 crore, was seized from their possession at Abdullapurmet on Monday. Acting on specific information, LB Nagar Special Operations Team (SOT) sleuths arrested Mohammed Ramzan, 24, a driver of Haryana, and Shashikant Gowtham Rao, 25, a hotel worker from Uttar Pradesh, near ORR in Abdullapurmet while they were transporting ganja from Koraput in Odisha to Uttar Pradesh. Rachakonda police seized 1,010 kilos ganja and a container truck (HR-55-M-459) along with Rs 4,000 cash and two cell phones from the accused. Ramzan and Gowtham reportedly work for Imran of Haryana and Vivek Singh of Varanasi. “Vivek and Imran are habitual ganja peddlers. They have been transporting ganja from Agency areas of AP and Odisha to Uttar Pradesh. The accused store ganja in secret partition behind the driver in the container,” Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said. Vivek procures ganja from Mahadev of Odisha. Vivek and Imran purchase ganja from Mahadev for Rs 3,000 a kg and sell it to buyers in Uttar Pradesh for Rs 9,000 a kg. Police said Vivek digitally transfers the money to Mahadev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-peddlers-arrested-1000kg-ganja-worth-over-rs-1-cr-seized/articleshow/78502433.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Wrong number: Why Delhi has plate full||NEW DELHI: A fortnight after Delhi government’s transport department warned of action against vehicles without high security registration plates (HSRP) or colour-coded fuel stickers, the number of people unable to get their hands on the two despite booking slots online is growing by the day. Hapless vehicle owners who were allotted a date and time slot after applying on the website www.bookmyhsrp.com and paying for HSRP and fuel sticker have visited the dealership only to find the new licence plates hadn’t yet arrived from the plate manufacturer, Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited. Vehicle owners said that the dealership staff authorised to affix these could offer no clue about their promised plates and stickers. Not getting the HSRP on the allotted date is only one problem. Those who already have an HSRP and need just the fuel sticker claim it is near impossible to book this on the website. Also, owners of cars manufactured by General Motors and Hindustan Motors said the website offered no option for such vehicles and there was nobody who could answer their query. This lack of information has added to the woes of car owners. The public notice issued by the transport department on September 22 warned of an enforcement drive ‘very soon’, but there is no clarity on the much time vehicle owners would get before the crackdown began. The fine for a vehicle not sporting the new HSRP is Rs 10,000 under the amended Motor Vehicles Act, compoundable to Rs 5,000. Vehicle owners alleged that no one answered the helpline number provided on the website and those manning the transport department helpline had no information either. While Rosmerta claimed on Saturday that the customer care helpline was fully functional between 10am and 6pm, the company didn’t reply to a questionnaire sent by TOI. Vehicle owner S. Bhatia grumbled, “I booked a slot for October 1 for the 4-6pm. I received a message saying that due to a medical situation, the slot had been changed to October 3. After reaching the designated address on that day, I learnt the licence plate hadn’t arrived.” He said that the staff at the dealership refused to call Rosmerta about the problem, asking him to do so instead. Bhatia continued, “After 50 attempts, I managed to get through to the helpline number, and I was told to phone the person who was to deliver the plate to the authorised centre. When I called that number, I was shocked to hear the person given me a volley of abuses, saying he had nothing to do with HSRP but had received over 100 calls from customers.” When an exasperated Bhatia called the customer care number again, there was no response. “On status tracking on the website, my case shows ‘number embossed on October 3’,” Bhatia exclaimed. Sources said that Delhi government has sought the help of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers, a representative body of vehicle makers, to ensure coordination between dealerships and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). A government official revealed that a meeting has been called by Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Tuesday, to be attended, among others, by auto OEMs, HSRP manufacturers, including Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited, and senior transport department officials. Gahlot didn’t respond to phone calls and a query sent by TOI. Watch Delhi: Why high security registration plates have added to vehicle owners’ woes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wrong-number-why-city-has-plate-full/articleshow/78502437.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 6, 2020||Allahabad||STF arrests exam centre organiser in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Special Task Force (STF) on Monday arrested one of the key accused in the 69,000 Assistant Teachers’ Recruitment Scam near Company Bagh Road in Prayagraj. The accused Chandrama Singh Yadav is a resident of Transport Nagar. STF cops also recovered an Aadhar card, a mobile phone and Rs 500 from him. Additional SP (STF) Neeraj Kumar Pandey said, “STF was tipped off that Yadav was seen wandering near Company Bagh road. The team cordoned off the area and nabbed the accused.” Yadav was wanted in connection with a case registered under sections 406, 419,420,467, 468 and 471 IPC and section 66D of IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/stf-arrests-exam-centre-organiser/articleshow/78501948.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bhopal||BJP list for bypolls yet to get party’s election committee nod||BHOPAL: The much-awaited list of BJP candidates for the upcoming bypolls on 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh is yet to get approval from the party’s central election committee. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who returned here on Monday after attending the meeting in New Delhi, held discussions with the state election committee members to reach a consensus over names in three constituencies - Joura, Agar Malwa and Biaora. Sources in BJP said that with a final decision on 25 names, the party is likely to announce the list very soon. “BJP is a party. It is not a private limited company so that you could release the list whenever wanted. The central election committee (BJP) met yesterday evening. Everything has been discussed in the meeting and it (list of the candidates) will come very soon,” said union minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Gwalior on Monday. Sources in BJP disclosed that the meeting discussed mainly candidates for Bihar assembly polls and the state election committee has been asked to reach consensus over names on the remaining three seats. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who returned from New Delhi after attending the meeting did not disclose the details with the media on Monday. "The list of BJP candidates is already open. The official announcement will be made soon," said home minister Narottam Mishra on Monday. Meanwhile, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan attended another meeting of election management committee at BJP office in the evening. Sources said that the state leaders discussed names on three remaining seats and finalised the panel forwarded to the central committee. The management committee also discussed the names with the state election committee members on phone, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-list-for-bypolls-yet-to-get-partys-election-committee-nod/articleshow/78501106.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chennai||MRTS pillars turn free ad space, defaced with posters||CHENNAI: While red tape has delayed the completion of the elevated MRTS (Mass Rapid Transport System) railway line between St Thomas Mount and Velachery by more than a decade, the pillars of the elevated line have been defaced with posters and political graffiti. With the elections coming up, political parties are expected to deface walls and such flyover pillars further, say residents. The pillars from Thillai Ganga Nagar subway till Vanuvampet were recently defaced with posters announcing the launch of a cellphone showroom and condolences. The pillars, residents in the neighbourhood say, have become the canvas for such non-aesthetic displays and free advertisement space for private entities and political parties. “The posters are an eyesore and it will only get worse in a few months due to the elections,” said M Sadasivan, a retired banker and Nanganallur resident. With the railway line itself not taking shape for several years, residents said defacing of MRTS flyover pillars would be the least of Southern Railway’s concerns. According to R Mani of Puzhuthivakkam, political parties have already started encroaching wall space in their neighbourhood to muster up support for their party. Poster culture, however, is ubiquitous to the city. From the ones by political parties and movie promotions to those grieving deaths to temple festivals and treatments for incurable diseases, posters of all sizes and colours are stuck all around the city. Civic officials, however, take steps from time to time to ward off the menace. The lockdown and the restriction on public movement has allowed the Tambaram municipality to beautify parapet walls of Tambaram Railway bridge. “Until now, the walls were vandalized with posters and we couldn’t work on them,” said a municipality official. Such posters can be found on flyovers and bridges under the maintenance of Greater Chennai Corporation too, but efforts such as vertical gardens, which are at various stages of completion, are expected to address the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mrts-pillars-turn-free-ad-space-defaced-with-posters/articleshow/78501119.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Junior doctor ends life at Saifai Medical University||KANPUR: A 27-year-old junior doctor of Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences in Saifai, Etawah allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself with a ceiling fan hook in his room at Vivekanand hostel on Sunday night. He has left behind a suicide note which is in the possession of the police. The deceased student was identified as Saurabh Pandey, a native of Sahibganj’s Subhash Colony in Jharkhand. He was in the Ist year of post-graduation at the university. The incident, however, came to light on Monday afternoon when his batchmates staying in adjacent rooms found his room locked from inside. They alerted the hostel warden, who in turn informed the local police. The police rushed to the spot and broke open the doors and found him hanging from the ceiling fan hook. The incident sent shock waves in the university. Station house officer (SHO) Saifai Chandra Deo Singh told TOI that the deceased student was alone in his hostel room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/jr-doc-ends-life-at-saifai-medical-univ/articleshow/78502514.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 6, 2020||Pune||Single-day tally hits over 2-month low, toll dives too||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR)’s single-day Covid-19 tally declined to over two-month low on Monday, with 1,240 people testing positive in the last 24 hours, over reduced testing. The Monday’s tally comes after July 12 when 1,088 people had tested positive. The single-day Covid-19 toll in PMR also dived to about one-and-a-half-month low, with 51 patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. This toll comes after August 11 when 48 people had died of Covid-19 infection. As for recoveries, 2,804 were discharged on Monday — more than double the number of new cases. Barring cantonments, all other areas in PMR recorded more recoveries than the new cases. With this, the PMR tally has risen above 2.95 lakh, while its recoveries have increased above 2.53 lakh. The PMR toll has risen to 6,867. Unlike other days, more positive cases were recorded in PCMC limits (443) than the Pune municipal areas (391). As per the data released by the district health office, 917 recoveries were recorded in PMC limits, 833 in the PCMC limits and 810 in rural parts of Pune. As per PMC data, 2,880 patients were taking treatment on oxygen beds in its limits. The daily report of PMC stated that 905 critical patients were admitted in hospitals, including 507 on ventilator support. Out of the 51 deaths in the last 24 hours, the PMC limits recorded 31, while the PCMC areas reported 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/single-day-tally-hits-over-2-month-low-toll-dives-too/articleshow/78502431.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Charge 80% of pre-Covid fees: Calcutta HC to schools||KOLKATA: For the pandemic-induced closure period, schools should ask for 80% of what they used to charge during the pre-pandemic times, the Calcutta HC observed during a hearing on fee PILs on Monday. The court also observed that institutes should limit their profit to 5% during the closure period. The court took April 2019 as the benchmark, against which the reduction can be given, since things functioned normally back then. Lawyers Raja Satyajit Banerjee and Vineet Ruia, who represented 145 schools, were heard by justices Sanjib Banerjee and Moushumi Bhattacharya on Monday. The hearing will continue on Tuesday. The judges observed that neither the students, whose parents could not pay fees due to the pandemic, nor teachers should be removed by schools and that there should be no salary cut. During the past hearings, a state circular dated July 20, which had asked schools to follow certain guidelines regarding fee relief, was brought up. This circular asked schools not to charge fees for which services were not provided during the closure. This one and three other templates were being considered as the formulae for fee relief. On Monday, the court, however, observed that this circular might be vague. Hence, the court proposed to come out with a universal formula. Since schools are saving a lot during the closure period, they should pass on the benefits to students. All schools will have to comply with the order and a contempt petition may be moved in case of non-compliance, the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/charge-80-of-pre-cov-fees-hc-to-schools/articleshow/78501118.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 6, 2020||Bhopal||It’s a fight for dignity of women: Congress||BHOPAL: As part of Congress’s nationwide satyagraha against Hathras incident, the party organized demonstrations across district headquarters in Madhya Pradesh. Here in the state capital, district Congress took out a protest march from the Pradesh Congress Committee office up to the Ambedkar statue near MP Nagar Square. District Congress led by former minister and MLA PC Sharma sat in protest at the PCC office on Monday afternoon. The activists of the district Congress were joined by members of the Mahila Congress and together they marched towards the Ambedkar statue. Wearing black ribbons and carrying black placards, they chanted slogans demanding justice to the victims of crimes against women. “From Hathras to Madhya Pradesh, there are widespread incidents of rapes, gang-rapes and crimes against women. Here, in Bairagarh a woman was a victim of such atrocities that her relatives had to protest inside the police station because there was no action being taken. A woman committed suicide in Narsinghpur because the police would not register her complaint after she was allegedly gang-raped,” PC Sharma said. “This is a fight for the dignity and justice for women of this state and the country,” the former minister said. “Every other day there are violent incidents against women and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan remains silent on the issue. The present government is incapable of giving protection to women. We demand the resignation of chief minister Chouhan for his inability to provide security to the daughters of this state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/its-a-fight-for-dignity-of-women-cong/articleshow/78501115.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata climbers leave Covid behind, eye Ama Dablam||KOLKATA: A team of five mountaineers from Bengal is scheduled to scale Mount Ama Dablam next month. With the Nepal government opening the doors to mountaineers from other countries, this expedition is likely to be one of the first outside India after the pandemic broke out. “We decided to give it a shot when the Nepal government started allowing mountaineers from October. All the explorers have seen Ama Dablam from the Everest base camp and appreciated its beauty. It is the most aesthetic mountain in the Himalayas. We thought of scaling it this time,” said Malay Mukherjee, who will go on the expedition along with Debashish Biswas, Satyarup Sidhanta, Rudra Prasad Halder and Kiran Patra. “When we started talking to the Nepal government a few weeks back, they said we were the first ones to approach them post the pandemic,” Mukherjee said. Meanwhile, a team of climbers from Bahrain, led by Prince Shaikh Nasser bin Hamad Al Khalifa, has climbed Mount Manaslu. Popularly known as the ‘Matterhorn of the Himalaya’, the 6,812m mountain has a usual ascent from the south-western ridge. The challenge starts from Camp I as narrow edges of granite ridge get quite technical for climbers. It becomes even tougher as climbers cross camps II and III. First climbed in 1961 by a team of four climbers, Ama Dablam has so far not been scaled by anyone from Bengal. The team, which is gearing up for the climb after a gap of nearly 10 months, is scheduled to leave for Nepal in the first week of November. “There are restrictions in Nepal and they are asking for seven days’ quarantine now. But the Nepal government is likely to revisit the norms mid-October,” said Satyarup Sidhanta. “Normally, the expedition takes 25 days, but we are trying to cut down on the duration depending on the weather. The biggest hindrance is finding a sponsor during the pandemic. Most of the companies have cut down their budget and it is tough to get a sponsor now,” said Sidhanta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-climbers-leave-covid-behind-eye-ama-dablam/articleshow/78501112.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrapur reports below 100 Covid cases after 37 days||AMRAVATI: The district has been recording more recoveries than new cases for the last three days. As against a spike of 119 new cases, the district recorded 210 recoveries on Monday. The spike took the caseload to 14,124 while the recoveries reached 11,765 for a rate of 83.30%, according to a civil surgeon office report released on Monday. The day also saw five patients losing their battle to coronavirus. This took the toll to 316. This left 2,043 patients, including 945 at Covid Hospital, 12 in Nagpur and 1,086 in home isolation, under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: With the detection of 92 new Covid cases on Monday, the district has, for the first time after 37 days, seen less than 100 cases in a day. The last time the district had reported single-day caseload below 100 was on August 27 when 97 patients were detected. The peak came on September 26 when there was highest 436 detections in a single day. There were seven deaths in the district during the last 24 hours. The day witnessed 113 persons being discharged taking the total recoveries to 7,671, leaving 3,273 under treatment. The deceased include 70-year-old male and 65-year-old female from Nagina Bagh, 57-year-old from Nehru Nagar, 78-year-old from Mukta Colony in Chandrapur city, 55-year-old from Rampur in Rajura tehsil, 52-year-old woman from Bramhapuri and a 68-year-old person from Bhadrawati. All the deceased had co-morbidities. While the six of them died at Chandrapur GMCH, one succumbed to the virus at a private hospital. YAVATMAL: The district recorded two more Covid deaths on Monday of which one is a 46-year-old man from Yavatmal and 65-year-old man from Digras. Also, 13 new Covid patients, including three women, were detected in the day. There are 233 patients in isolation wards. The civil surgeon has not submitted any update on Monday also and hence the exact figure is not available with the GMCH, says an official press release. The reason for the civil surgeon not releasing the update is not known. Till Sunday, it was presumed that the exact data could not be made available due to strike by the doctors. However, even after the strike has been called off and doctors have resumed duty, the updated figures have not been released. WARDHA: Reporting 74 new Covid cases on Monday, the district crossed 5,000-mark to take the total patient count to 5,010. Three deaths and 92 discharge were also reported on Monday. Till date, total 38,407 swab samples were sent for testing, while results of 22 are awaited. Total 2,815 patients have defeated coronavirus and 2,052 are undergoing treatment. The two men (72 and 65) from Wardha and a 63-year-old man from Hinganghat died due to coronavirus, taking the Covid toll to 143. New patients were reported from Wardha 52, Selu and Ashti 6 each, Hinganghat 5, Karanja 3, Deoli and Arvi one each. AKOLA: The district was the only other place in West Vidarbha to not report any Covid death on Monday in addition to Buldhana. The cases too remained low at 35, though the total number of cases climbed to 7,645. So far, 244 people have died here of Covid. Also, 53 were discharged on Monday and in all 6,569 have beaten Covid till now. There are 832 patients under treatment. WASHIM: One death and 53 new cases were reported on Monday. This took the patient count to 4,657 and 96 deaths. There are 609 active cases here now while 63 recoveries in a day took the count to 3,951. The deceased was 74-year-old and had been under treatment. The administration also identified 34 patients from outside the district, but admitted in hospitals in the district. BULDHANA: The administration received 385 reports including those from labs and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits. Of this, 265 were found negative while 120 positive. As per the reports received, 114 positive samples were tested in labs and six confirmed through RAT, taking the patient count to 7,768 so far. A whopping 227 negative reports belong to labs while 38 of RAT. Those testing positive are from Mehkar, Malli, Janfad, Sindkhed Raja, Khamgaon and other places. As per Covid Care Centre data, 140 patients were discharged on Monday taking the recovery tally to 6,654. As of now, 1,054 patients are under treatment while toll remained at 99. GADCHIROLI: The district reported 99 new cases, but no one died of Covid-19 on Monday. The pattern of more recoveries than new detections was not evident here. While 99 patients were declared recovered, 844 are still under treatment after the addition of new ones. The district’s tally jumped to 3,308 cases, and 2,431 discharged, while toll remains at 21. GONDIA: For sixth day in a row, the district’s day’s recovery tally surpassed new cases on Monday. With 280 patients getting discharge, the recovery numbers comfortably crossed 6,000-mark while 80 new patients put the total Covid count at 7,547. This brought the active cases to 1,265. The administration has facilitated 1,538 beds in 15 government hospitals and 219 beds in five private hospitals. Of the total 1,757 beds, only 487 are currently occupied in these hospitals. The new patients include 57 from Gondia, four from Tiroda, Amgaon 6, Salekasa 2, Deori 4, Sadak Arjuni 3 and Arjuni Morgaon 4. BHANDARA: The district reported 97 new cases but the number of those recovering from Covid-19 stood way ahead at 197, like the neighbouring district of Gondia which too had more recoveries in the day. The recovery rate improved to 71% with total cases at 6,087, discharged at 4,309 and active cases at 1,639. However, three more Covid deaths took the toll to 139.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chandrapur-reports-below-100-covid-cases-after-37-days/articleshow/78502430.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Plot to trigger caste violence exposed, claims UP police||LUCKNOW: UP Police claims to have unmasked a conspiracy in which a host of organisations and individuals joined hands to trigger caste violence in the garb of seeking justice for Hathras rape victim and her family. In all, 19 FIRs were lodged across UP -- six of them in Hathras -- on Monday for spreading rumours and trying to vitiate the atmosphere in the state, additional DG (law and order) Prashant Kumar told reporters in Lucknow. At least six people, including two in Lucknow, have been arrested in connection with these FIRs. Without naming any political party, the ADG claimed that conspiracy was hatched to push the state into turmoil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plot-to-trigger-caste-violence-exposed-claims-up-police/articleshow/78503147.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||New Covid cases further dip in Vid, rise in recoveries||Nagpur: Continuing the slide, Vidarbha’s Covid caseload on Monday plunged further by 79 to a new single-day low of 1,530 in the last 40 days, while fatalities remained a worry as 58 more patients succumbed to the disease. Among the 11 districts of Vidarbha, seven reported new cases below 100, while four recorded 100 and above, Nagpur with 746 remaining at the top. For the first time in 37 days, Chandrapur’s daily cases dipped below 100 after 92 new cases were detected on Monday. Against the new Covid cases, 2,212 recoveries were the highlight of the day which also reduced the number of patients under treatment to 25,299. While high recoveries kept the percentage at 80, higher Covid deaths increased the fatality rate to 2.7%. Vidarbha tally on Monday rose to 1,58,198 cases, 1,28,653 recoveries, and 4,272 deaths. Gadchiroli, Akola and Buldhana didn’t witness any Covid death on Monday. Nagpur 36 recorded highest of the day among the 11 districts followed by Chandrapur 7, Amravati 5, Bhandara and Wardha 3 each, Gondia and Washim one each and Yavatmal 2. Besides Nagpur 746, Amravati 119, Buldhana 120 and Gadchiroli 111 reported new cases in three-digits followed by Bhandara 97, Wardha 74, Gondia 80, Chandrapur 92, Washim 53, Yavatmal 13 and Akola 25. On the recovery front, Nagpur 965, Gondia 280, Bhandara 197, Amravati 210, Buldhana 140, Washim 63, Akola 53, Wardha 92, and Chandrapur 113 exceeded the new case tally. Gondia remained the only district where active cases went up in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-covid-cases-further-dip-in-vid-rise-in-recoveries/articleshow/78502435.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Paint factory in Mandhana gutted in fire, loss of lakhs||Kanpur:A major fire broke out at a paint factory located at Pachore Road in Mandhana area under the limits of Bithoor police station area of the district on Monday morning. Short-circuit in electrical wiring is suspected to have caused the fire in which property worth lakhs was gutted. More than half-a-dozen fire tenders were rushed to the spot to control the flames, which gutted a major portion of the factory. Fire department officials said the fire was so intense that it could be brought under control late in the evening. No casualties, however, were reported till filing of the report. Panic prevailed and locals in nearby residential pockets evacuated their houses in a hurry as several loud explosions were heard and thick columns of smoke descended in the area. Police sources said a stray spark following short-circuit hit containers of inflammable chemicals at paint factory, when the employees of the morning shift were to begin their duty, may have triggered the blaze. Seeing the fire, several labourers rushed towards the factory’s exit gate to save their lives. Senior administrative, police and Fire department officials rushed to the spot. Sources said the major portion of the factory was destroyed and the losses could run into several lakhs. “The fire might have started due to short-circuit, but the exact cause of fire will be ascertained after thorough investigation,” SP rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said. The fire officials said paints and chemicals stored in huge quantities in the factory fed the fire and made it difficult for fire-tenders to control it quickly. “There was a delay in rescue operation, as majority of fire tenders got stuck in traffic jam on busy GT Road,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/paint-factory-in-mandhana-gutted-in-fire-loss-of-lakhs/articleshow/78502529.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||HAMs use satellite for communication||Kolkata: Amateur radio operators from Bengal have finally succeeded in breaching the divide between satellite and normal wireless communication. While camping at Henry’s Island near Bakkhali in the southernmost tip of the state over the last few days, members of the West Bengal Radio Club (WBRC) successfully linked up their radio sets with amateur radio satellites for greater reach. This will become very important during natural disasters like Cyclone Amphan when normal modes of communication fail. “There are only a few satellite phones available during rescue and relief operations. We have seen that hardly any official has access to satellite phones in remote districts. During such calamities we provide assistance to the authorities as normal modes of communication aren’t available. By linking up with satellites, we have extended our reach and attained clarity in voice communications. Our team, comprising Abhrajeet Das, Suman Saurabh and Jayanta Baidya, also succeeded in communicating with far-off stations, using the installed repeater at the International Space Station (ISS),” said Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary, WBRC. He led a 24-member team to Henry Island from Friday till Sunday and set up a satellite dish to enable better connectivity. While WBRC receives no financial support from any organisation, its camps at remote places are sanctioned by the Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hams-use-satellite-for-communication/articleshow/78501127.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: IT employee cries harassment by trio||BELUR: A 30-year-old IT professional posted in Salt Lake alleged that she was harassed and pushed by three bikers on Lal Mohan Mukherjee Road at Belur in Howrah on Sunday evening. Though the woman lodged a complaint with Belur police station, she alleged that cops were yet to take any action against the accused youths. On Sunday, the woman had gone out of home for marketing around 6.30pm. When she was coming back after nearly an hour, the three youths on a motorbike started passing lewd comments at her. The place, where the incident took place, was around seven-minute walk from her house. As she started walking faster, the accused chased her down the road on the motorbike and made objectionable gestures to her. When she protested, the trio stopped the two-wheeler and started irritating her further. The woman alleged that she started screaming loudly and got noticed by people in the road. This seemed to have frightened the accused who allegedly pushed the woman and sped away on the motorbike. “They pushed me so hard that I fell on the ground. I went to Belur police station immediately and lodged a complaint against the unknown miscreants. But I was surprised that the police officer on duty, without making any arrangement for my security, asked me to find out whether there was any CCTV and give them the footage for identifying the miscreants,” said the woman. “In the morning I went out to find out whether there was any CCTV. It is not only shocking but also inhuman. When so many questions regarding the security of women are raised after the Hathrash incident, I still feel the helplessness of a woman,” she said, adding, “But I cannot sit at home and allow the miscreants to move scot free. I am scared but I am not traumatised. I want the hooligans to be punished.” On being asked about the allegation, a senior police officer said, “This is not true. We have initiated an investigation and a search is on to catch the miscreants”. As for her security, the officer said, “We are also concerned about her security and if she wants personal security, she will have to ask for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/it-employee-cries-harassment-by-trio/articleshow/78501121.cms||Rupak Banerjee
October 6, 2020||Bhopal||200+ cases in a day again, Bhopal Covid tally crosses 20,000-mark||BHOPAL: 202 people were diagnosed with the Covid-19 infection in the state capital on Tuesday. Since the pandemic began, 20359, cases have been reported from Bhopal, resulting in 402 deaths. On Tuesday, Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) reported two cases of the infection while two more cases were diagnosed in AIIMS Bhopal. Sanik Colony and Police lines at Jehangirabad reported one positive case each. E-4 and E-7 Arera Colony reported new cases of the infection. At Shivaji Nagar two from the same family were diagnosed with the infection. Nearby, CI Homes (Mata Mandir) reported three positives in the same family. Railway Colony (Habibganj) reported two positives. Gulmohar, SBI Colony , Kakada Abhinav homes reported one positive each. Two people were diagnosed with Covid-19 at Lalwani Press Road. Three positives were reported in the same family at Orchard Phase (Kolar). Pradhan Urban Life reported two positives in same family. Four positives were diagnosed in the same family at Indus Garden. Vardhman Plaza, Dawa Bazar (Bus Stand) reported two positives. Surendra Estate (Chuna Bhatti), Arvind Vihar (Bagmugalia) and Saket Nagar reported two positives each. Two infection each were diagnosed with the infection in Patel Nagar, Lalita Nagar (Kolar) , Nehru Nagar and Rohit Nagar (Phase-II) . BDA colony, Misrod, reported four positives in the same family. Shahpura reported three positives. Pink City (Kolar) reported two positives in the same family. Paraspar Colony (Chuna Bhatti) reported three positives. Shiv Nagar (Bhanpur) reported two positives in the same family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/200-cases-in-a-day-again-city-covid-tally-crosses-20k-mark/articleshow/78501122.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: CBI begins probe in three cases of Rs 64 crore loan fraud||CHENNAI: The anti-corruption division of CBI, Chennai, filed three corruption cases last week involving bank loans. Two of them were filed against steel companies from Kerala, while the third was against a company based in Erode. In the first case, based on a complaint from Indian Overseas Bank, Coimbatore, CBI filed a case against Surabhi Steels Pvt Ltd, Surabhi Iron and Steel Pvt Ltd and Surabhi Steel Rolling Mills Pvt Ltd after loans worth Rs 37.7 crore given to them turned non-performing assets in 2014. In a forensic audit conducted by IOB, it was found that the companies had maintained two sets of book accounts and audited financial statements, one which was submitted to the bank and another to the Registrar of Companies. There were huge discrepancies between them and transactions were not disclosed. This allegedly caused a loss of Rs 37.7 crore to the bank. The managing directors Kader Pillai, Anooj and Sanooj Kader, and director Rukhiya Kader were also booked. In the second case, CBI alleged that IOB faced a loss of Rs 22.8 crore due to loans turning non-performing assets in the case of Surabhi Ispat Pvt Ltd, Surabhi Casting Pvt Ltd and Surabhi Tubes. The modus operandi was the same as the previous case, and the CBI booked managing directors M A Ziaudeen, M A Shahabudeen and director M H Anwar Sadath of the companies. In the third case, CBI alleged that IOB faced a loss of Rs 3.5 crore as loans given to Shara Tex Processors Pvt Ltd turned non-performing assets. In this case, the bank initiated recovery action under the SARFAESI Act but could not locate the land pledged as collateral. Later, it was found that the property was acquired by SIPCOT in 2003. Directors of the company B Ravikumar and Rajeshwari were booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cbi-begins-probe-in-three-cases-of-rs-64cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/78501123.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Bikru panel to record versions of kin of slain cops, criminals||Kanpur:The judicial commission looking into the Bikru incident is all set to record the statements of the family members of the eight policemen, who lost their lives in the ambush by gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen on July 2-3 night. Besides, statements of the kin of the six accused killed in separate encounters with the police after the ambush will also be recorded by the panel probing the different aspects with regard to the Bikru case. Sources at the SSP office said the commission, which had been mandated to probe into the various incidents that took place between intervening nights of July 2-3 and July 10, including encounters between criminals and police at various spots, had issued notices to the family members of eight martyred policemen including Dy SP Devendra Mishra, Station House Officer Shivrajpur Mahesh Yadav, Mandhana police outpost in-charge Anup Kumar, sub-inspector Nebu Lal, constable Jitendra Pal, constable Sultan Singh, constable Bablu Kumar and constable Rahul, besides the kin of the six accused — Vikas Dubey, Prem Prakash, Amar Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Praveen Shukla alias Bauwan and Atul Dubey — asking them to present themselves and get their statement recorded. The commission will submit its final report within two months, said sources further. Eight policemen, were killed in Bikru village on July 2 & 3 night. Dubey was killed on the morning of July 10 when he allegedly tried to escape the custody of Special Task Force (STF) following an accident involving the vehicle in which he was being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. The gangster and four of his aides were killed in separate encounters between July 3 and 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bikru-panel-to-record-versions-of-kin-of-slain-cops-criminals/articleshow/78502491.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Containment zones reduced by PMC||Pune: The number of micro-containment zones in PMC limits was reduced to 59 from 71 on Monday, bringing about 3sqkm (2%) of total area under restricted area as against the 7sqkm (4%) area after the last revision. Yewalewadi ward office limits have a maximum of nine micro-containment zones after the latest revision. The lowest number of containment zones are in the Aundh-Baner, Bhavani Peth, Wanworie-Ramtekdi and Yerawada wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/containment-zones-reduced-by-pmc/articleshow/78502434.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Family protests, accuses cops of inaction on harassment, attack plaint||LUDHIANA: A family of the city staged a protest outside the office of commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal on Monday, accusing cops of inaction on their harassment and attack complaints. A member of the family said, “Some youngsters of our locality used to harass and stalk my niece. On September 25, when my niece had gone for an evening walk, they again harassed her and touched her inappropriately. My 18-year-old niece raised the alarm, rushed back home and apprised her family of it.” Her family then reached the house of the accused and asked their parents to stop them. “Minutes later, the accused youngsters barged into our house and attacked us. The also pelted our house with stones. In the melee, a stone hit back one of the accused and he was injured. They then got an FIR lodged against us. My niece and younger brother were also injured during the incident, but the police did not act on our complaints of harassment and attack,” he added. He said as the Division 3 police failed to lodge an FIR, they decided to stage a protest outside the CP office. The agitators were pacified after joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elenchezhian asked additional deputy commissioner of police-I Deepak Pareek to investigate the case. Division 3 police, however, said that the family had attacked a youngster of their locality and hurled stones at him. The case was registered against the woman’s family after investigation, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/family-protests-accuses-cops-of-inaction-on-harassment-attack-plaint/articleshow/78501131.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Truck kills woman after two-wheeler ‘skids on pipe’||LUDHIANA: A woman was killed after a truck ran into her two-wheeler on Tajpur Road on Monday morning. A plastic pipe used to clean sewers kept in the middle of the road made her two-wheeler skid before the accident, said eyewitnesses. The deceased has been identified as Kamaljeet Kaur, 52, a resident of Mohalla Guru Arjun Dev Nagar. Her husband, Tarsem Singh, said, “Recently, we had set up a confectionery shop on Tajpur Road. We opened the shop on Monday around 6am. Half-an-hour later, my wife left on her two-wheeler to buy milk from a nearby dairy.”  She was returning to the shop when she met with the accident a few metres away.  “I was sitting at the shop, waiting for her. Minutes later, I saw people rushing on the road. I, too, walked towards them to see what had happened. My heart skipped a beat when I saw Kamaljeet’s two-wheeler on the road. I ran to it and saw her lying there,” he added. Eyewitnesses said municipal corporation workers were cleaning the sewers in the morning. “They used a pipe to pump out water. After winding up their work, they left, leaving the pipe on the road. Half of the pipe was inside a sewer and the other half on the road. The woman’s two-wheeler skidded on it and she fell on the road. At the time, a truck was coming from behind and it ran over her,” eyewitnesses added. Division 7 police station ASI Iqbal Singh said, “After the crash, the truck driver escaped, leaving the vehicle behind. We have recorded the statement of Tarsem Singh to lodge an FIR against him. The truck has been impounded.” About the pipe on the road, he said, “It is not yet ascertained if the two-wheeler skidded because of the pipe or she lost its balance.” Kamaljeet is survived by her husband, three daughters and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/truck-kills-woman-after-two-wheeler-skids-on-pipe/articleshow/78501137.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Harak Singh Rawat recovers from Covid-19, discharged||Dehradun: Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat recovered from Covid-19 infection on Monday and was discharged from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). Dr Ashutosh Sayana, principal of GDMCH, said that the minister was brought to the Doon Hospital last week after he complained of breathlessness. “He was discharged from the hospital on Monday but has been advised to remain in isolation for another seven to ten days,” added Sayana. Besides Rawat, 880 other Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection on Monday, taking the number of cured cases to 42,368 in the state. Meanwhile, the state also recorded 510 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday. With this, the state’s tally reached 51,991 cases. Among the fresh cases, the maximum of 204 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 116 from Haridwar, 56 from Udham Singh Nagar and 40 from Nainital. Among the hill districts, Uttarkashi reported the highest of 28 cases, followed by 17 from Chamoli, 16 from Champawat, 13 from Pithoragarh, 12 from Rudraprayag, five from Pauri, two from Bageshwar, and one from Tehri. Abhishek Tripathi, officer from Covid-19 control room, told TOI, “The state also witnessed deaths of 17 Covid-19 patients, taking the toll of the virus to 669 in the Himalayan state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harak-singh-rawat-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged/articleshow/78500027.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Court orders to include five cops in accused list||Kanpur: Special SC/ST Act court on Monday ordered to include five policemen in the list of accused and has summoned them to face trial for the custodial death of an accused. The cops who have been made accused include a station officer and two sub inspectors incharge of police outposts. Initially these policemen were not in the list of accused but the court ordered to include them in the list of accused, summoned them to face trial and fixed October 13 as the next date of hearing. The policemen summoned by the court are Jeeva Ram, the then station officer of Chakeri police station , sub inspectors Sanjay Shukla and Yogendra Singh Solanki, both incharge of police outposts, Rajiv Yadav and Akhilesh Gaur. All these policemen were posted at Chakeri police station at the time of the incident which occurred in 2016. According to additional district government counsel (ADGC) Pradeep Bajpai, complainant Kishan Lal, a resident of KDA Colony Ramapuram, in an FIR lodged against the special team of Chakeri police station on August 4, 2016 had alleged that the special police team, comprising constable Janardhan Singh had lifted his two sons Kamal and Nirmal at around 8.30 pm to inquire them in a loot case. The cops had thrashed his elder son Kamal so badly that he died in police custody. They thereafter released Nirmal and sent the dead body of Kamal to the LLR hospital, the ADGC said. Kishan Lal also alleged in the complaint that his sons had been lifted by the police on the basis of information provided by two police informers Vishram Chamar and Kamal Kureel. His son informed him on phone that the cops used third degree on him and even electrocuted him to force him to admit that he was involved in the loot incident, he alleged in the complaint. The judge observed in the order that a case was registered against Janardan Singh and five other policemen and later Vishram Chamar and Kamal Kureel were also included in the list of the accused. The court observed in its order that in view of the evidence on record, as Jeeva Ram, Sanjay Shukla, Yogendra Singh Solanki, Rajiv Yadav and Akhilesh Gaur were involved in the custodial death, therefore it would be in the interest of justice to make them accused in the case and try them. All five policemen should be summoned for trial in the case under sections 147/323/506/306/342 of IPC and under sections 3 (2) ( V) of the SC/ST Act, the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/court-orders-to-include-five-cops-in-accused-list/articleshow/78502554.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||No-trust move against PMC dy chief||Ponda: As was expected, the BJP-backed Ponda Nagrik Samiti panel in the 15-member Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) has made a move to regain the deputy chairperson’s post from the MGP-backed Rising Ponda group. Eight councillors of the BJP-backed samiti have served a notice of no-confidence against PMC’s deputy chairperson Amina Naik, who was elevated to the post merely ten days ago, on September 25. Amina had defeated BJP-backed Anand Naik by 8-7 votes. After the municipal elections in 2018, the Rising Ponda panel emerged as the largest group and had elected it’s chairperson. However, the MGP-backed panel lost power over the council on August 13, 2019, after Marcaim MLA and former PWD minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar was dropped as cabinet minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-trust-move-against-pmc-dy-chief/articleshow/78503567.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad’s cops bust IPL betting racket||HYDERABAD: Sleuths from the Cyberabad’s special operation team busted an IPL cricket betting racket and arrested a bookie along with seven punters in Petbasheerabad on Sunday. Bookie Chandoor Shashank along with punters Praveen Yadav, Prasad Reddy, Shyam Rao, Pradeep Kumar, Pavan Kumar, Tarun Reddy and Deepak Singh were caught at Omkar Opticals, near Suchitra crossroad. However, nine other offenders,including two main organisers, are still at large. According to police, the organisers communicate the details of betting over cellphones to interested persons, who have to deposit a minimum amount of Rs 50,000. “The organisers use applications like Cricketline and Cricket Exchange. The local bookie Shashank would look after the local contacts concerning money transfer with the main bookies,” said Cyberabad commissioner of police VC Sajjanar. The officer said that the money is transferred online while the cash transactions are routed through Shashank. “At the end of the match, the account will be settled by Shashank,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-bust-ipl-betting-racket/articleshow/78502449.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Journalists forced to leave Balrampur village||LUCKNOW: The crew of a news channel covering Balrampur rape and murder case was forced to leave the village by local residents after two journalists allegedly tried to provoke the victim’s family against the accused, who belong to the minority community. Superintendent of police, Balrampur, Dev Ranjan Verma ordered a probe into the incident by a CO-rank officer after a 34-second video, in which villagers are seen gheraoing the TV journalists and questioning them, went viral. The rape victim’s family and villagers alleged that the journalists called the accused as members of a terrorist group. The residents, however, objected to the use of such a language and forced the crew to leave the village. In the video, the villagers are heard telling the journalists that their local MLA and BJP district president have already met the victim’s family and offered condolences. “You don’t need to spread any false news report and create fake propaganda against the government,” the residents are heard as saying. “An inquiry has been ordered into the conduct of the journalists after a video of their activities was shared on social media,” the SP said. “We have also received a written complaint from the victim’s family and villagers who have named two journalists for instigating a particular group to create tension,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/journos-forced-to-leave-balrampur-village/articleshow/78503322.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Business||GST compensation cess to stay beyond June 2022 to help states||NEW DELHI: After joining hands with the states at the GST Council to extend the applicability of compensation cess on cars, coal and soft drinks beyond June 2022, the Centre on Monday closed the room for further negotiation, arguing that the modalities of borrowing funds can’t be finalised by the panel comprising Union and state finance ministers. The latest move can further strain relations between the Centre and opposition-governed states. The change in stance came after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at a press conference the Council agreed to meet again on October 12 to resolve the borrowing issue with the states. The issue has strained ties between the opposition states and the Centre as revenues have dried up due to the impact of lockdown. The latest development came after the finance ministry conceded some ground in helping states raise more funds to bridge the “revenue loss”. Read AlsoKerala, Bengal, Punjab lead Opposition attack on Centre at GST meetNEW DELHI: Monday’s GST Council meeting brought out the deep fissures between the Centre and the Opposition-governed states with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and some officials facing attacks over the issue of raising funds to compensate states. Leading the charge was Kerala finance ministerWhile the government had assured to compensate states in case GST collections did not grow 14% annually, the compensation requirement has shot up to an estimated Rs 3 lakh crore this year due to Covid-19. With a projected deficit of Rs 2.3 lakh crore, the Centre has come up with two options, involving market borrowings, to bridge the gap with repayment funded through the compensation cess. On Monday, as part of the first option, the Centre tweaked the formula in a way that the deficit due to GST implementation was pegged at Rs 1.1 lakh crore instead of Rs 97,000 crore estimated earlier. The Centre has offered to help states access this money via a special RBI window to ensure competitive rates and also help them use the compensation cess to repay the interest and principal — an offer that has been accepted by 20 states. The other option is for states to borrow Rs 2.3 lakh crore directly from the market, which means at a higher cost. Read AlsoRs 20,000 crore compensation cess to be disbursed to states: SitharamanUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that Rs 20K crore compensation cess will be disbursed to the states. Compensation cess is given by the Centre to states for revenue losses. After the 42nd GST Council meet, the minister stated that this year's cess amount will be disbursedTen states and UTs including Kerala, West Bengal, Punjab, Chattisgarh, Delhi and Tamil Nadu have refused to accept the two options on the table and protested at Monday’s meeting. They want the Centre to borrow funds and allocate it to states. Sitharaman, who heads the GST Council, suggested that states will need to make a distinction between Covid-related impact and those related to implementation issues as the law has not factored in the possibility a crisis like the Coronavirus pandemic. “Nobody will be denied compensation, arising out of implementing of GST and Covid impact. Borrowing has to be done. Decision is how much you want to borrow,” she told reporters after the marathon GST Council meeting, adding states will not have to bear the burden as the compensation cess will be used to clear the dues. Read AlsoNo consensus on shortfall; surcharge on cars, tobacco extended: GST meet highlightsThe GST Council on Monday decided to extend the surcharge on taxes over luxury goods such as cars, and tobacco products beyond June 2022, but failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate states for loss of tax revenue.While she said further discussion on the issue will take place on October 12, Union government sources argued that the ball was not in the states’ court as borrowing was not a matter to be decided by the GST Council. “States have to give their preference to the expenditure department as it is an issue under Article 293 of the Constitution. The choice has to be exercised by states,” said a source, adding that the issue of voting in the GST Council meeting does not arise. The Council has jurisdiction to extend the levy of cess and it exercised its authority on Monday, an official explained. Watch GST meet: States to get Rs 20,000 crore compensation cess||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-compensation-cess-to-stay-beyond-june-2022-to-help-states/articleshow/78504229.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||8 succumb to deadly virus, 160 contract it||LUDHIANA: Eight persons from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 160 tested positive on Monday. The district casualties included a 20-year-old woman; a 58-year-old woman of Abdullahpur Basti, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 84-year-old man of Kitchlu Nagar with hypertension and coronary artery disease; a 61-year-old woman of Rajguru Nagar with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease; a 53-year-old man of Civil Lines; a 64-year-old woman of Ajit Singh Nagar, who had hypertension; a 55-year-old woman of Gondwal village with diabetes and hypertension; and a 29-year-old diabetic man of Dhandran Road. The day also saw two from outside the district succumbing to the virus and 26 testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll has increased to 778 and that of outsiders to 267. To date, 2,97,860 suspects have been tested. Of 160 positive cases, 38 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 17 positive cases’ contacts, 83 from OPD, one health-care worker, one pregnant woman, 19 through tracing process and one severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) case. Ludhiana case count now stands at 18,654 and that of outsiders at 2,371. So far, 17,070 patients have recovered, which constitutes 91.50% of the total cases. There are 803 active patients in the district. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,800. On Monday, 180 persons were home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-succumb-to-deadly-virus-160-contract-it/articleshow/78501140.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Farm fires: SC summons chief secys||NEW DELHI: Taking serious note of the failure of states to stop stubble burning, which results in massive air pollution over northern India, the Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered chief secretaries of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to remain present in the court through videoconferencing at the next hearing. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian also issued notices to the state governments on a PIL filed by Aditya Dubey. Appearing for the minor petitioner, senior advocate Vikas Singh said stubble burning has begun ahead of the season and urgent steps are required to prevent Delhi from being converted into a gas chamber. The bench said as judges knew not much about how to control pollution, the petitioner must suggest impartial experts whose opinion the court would consider before passing orders. The CJI then asked, “Will the smoke from stubble burning kill the coronavirus?” Singh said air pollution would aggravate the pandemic as it could increase case fatality rate (CFR). When the Green Bench matter was taken up, amicus curiae and senior advocate Aparajita Singh informed the court that the four states have repeatedly assured the court, after the choking experience of citizens for many years, that this year there would be no stubble burning as all measures and required machinery is in place to lift the stubble from the fields. She said Nasa pictures about crop burning ahead of the season show that the states have done nothing and have given empty assurances to the court. The bench then asked the chief secretaries of the four states to remain present through videoconferencing during the virtual court hearing on October 16. Appearing for a petitioner, senior advocate Shyam Divan told the court that the environment and forest ministry is monitoring forest fires through satellite imagery and whenever a forest fire is detected, the nearest forest guard is alerted through SMS. "Similar steps could be taken to detect crop burning by asking the agriculture ministry to collaborate with the forest ministry to deploy satellite-based fire detection system," he said. Divan said another suggestion was not to give the entire MSP amount to a farmer for the grains he sells to the government. A portion of the MSP could be held back and given to him after it was found that he had not resorted to stubble burning. But this was opposed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who said it would not be fair to tinker with MSP, which is legitimately due to the farmer against the crop he has grown with hard labour and sweat. The bench assured that it would do nothing to touch MSP of farmers while dealing with stubble-burning issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fires-sc-summons-chief-secys/articleshow/78523847.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||SP declares four candidates for UP assembly byelection||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party on Monday announced candidates for four assembly seats where bypolls will be held on November 3. The party also announced that it will spare the Bulandshahr (central) seat for Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) which has been an alliance partner since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. SP has fielded Jawed Abbas Abdi from Naugawan Sadat seat of Amroha. A close associate of party chief Akhilesh Yadav, Abidi holds sway over Shia and Sunni votes in the area. In 2017 UP elections, BJP’s Chetan Chauhan had defeated Abidi by a margin of 20,503 votes. Since then 15,372 new voters have been registered in the constituency who will play a crucial role in electing the new MLA. Abidi had made headlines during the silver jubilee event of the party in Lucknow in November 2016 when he had to bear the brunt of the battle for supremacy between Akhilesh and uncle Shivpal. Abidi was addressing the gathering and vociferously pitching for Akhilesh to be nominated as the chief ministerial candidate before elections when Shivpal shoved him on stage and interrupted him during his speech. Later Akhilesh appointed Abidi as advisor to the irrigation department of which Shivpal was the minister. SP has fielded Maharaj Singh Dhangar from Tundla in Firozabad. In 2017 elections, Maharaj Singh was declared SP candidate from Tundla but his ticket was cancelled a month before the elections and Akhilesh Yadav fielded Shiv Singh Chak from the seat who had joined the party after snapping ties with the BJP. Later, to keep Maharaj Singh in good humour, Akhilesh had appointed him as a secretary of the state executive. The party has fielded former MLA Indrajeet Kori from Ghatampur in Kanpur Dehat. Indrajeet had won the 2012 assembly elections from the seat. In 2017, with the SP-Congress alliance in place, the seat went to Congress. In the elections, BJP’s Kamal Rani emerged a clear winner with over 92,000 votes. On Malhani assembly seat in Jaunpur, SP has fielded Lucky Yadav, son of sitting MLA Paras Nath Yadav who passed away recently. Lucky Yadav was being seen as an obvious choice for the seat and is likely to sail on the popularity of his father and the sympathy wave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-declares-four-candidates-for-up-assembly-byelection/articleshow/78503195.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||MSME department ties up with FIEO to boost exports from UP districts||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government will rope in the Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO) as knowledge partner for operation of export promotion centres in all 75 districts in the state. Additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said that FIEO will appoint workers in each centre to supervise operations. The collaboration with FIEO is part of steps being taken by the MSME department to develop export hubs in all districts. As part of that, a district industrial promotion and entrepreneurship development centre is being set up in each district. These centres will help provide training to local artists and craftspersons and help with branding on e-marketplaces, imaging, cataloguing, etc. For this, facility of high-speed internet services, computer projector, conferences will be provided at each centre. Sehgal said that as per directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to develop each district as an export hub, guidelines for setting up district export promotion committee and the district export scheme had been prepared. He said that the export development centres will work in collaboration with international and local e-marketplace companies, international trade and Indian Postal Services. Sehgal added that the export development centres will educate traders, industrialists, artisans and self-help groups about e-marketplaces and help them organise themselves as manufacturing organisations “Centres will be in regular touch with e-commerce companies for branding on e-marketplaces with cataloguing, online store creation, listing etc. Industrialists will also be helped in delivery processing like labelling, packaging, GST compliance and logistics. Training for international trade will also be provided to them along with opportunities to participate in buyer-seller meet, physical and virtual exhibitions, among others,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msme-dept-ties-up-with-fieo-to-boost-exports-from-dists/articleshow/78503238.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: More than 50% complaints in KMC lie unattended||KANPUR: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar during a random visit to the office of Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) here on Monday found that more than 50 per cent complaints are lying unattended for more than nine months. On checking the register at KMC’s call centre, he noticed that out of around 5000 complaints registered in the log book, only forty percent had been attended, five percent were rejected without any cross checking and around 55 percent complaints were still pending. To check disposal of complaints, he dialed the number of a complainant who informed him that he had lodged the complaint regarding cleaning of a drain but neither the same was cleaned nor anyone tried to contact him in this regard.  The commissioner directed municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi to dispose of all the pending complaints and grievances positively by October 15, and also take appropriate disciplinary action against the officers and the staff who failed to attend the complaints in time. Raj Shekhar, who visited the KMC at 10.10 am along with the municipal commissioner, found more than 60 percent employees absent in every section of the KMC. In some sections not a single employee was present at that time. He asked the municipal commissioner that as per government order, the office working must start at 9.30 am. He asked the municipal commissioner to stop one-day salary of all officers and employees found absent and issue show cause notice to all the absentee officers and employees, seek their explanation to take final decision on merit and inform him about the action taken against them by the next week. He also directed Tripathi to give adverse entry to the supervising officers for poor monitoring of attendance of officers and employees. Furious over poor attendance, the commissioner directed the municipal commissioner to do weekly random checking of attendance and hold weekly review meetings of the pending grievances. He has granted three weeks time to the municipal commissioner to set things right. He would make another surprise visit to assess improvement in the KMC working, he said. Raj Shekhar also asked Tripathi to set up a Covid help desk and public address system at the KMC office to spread awareness about Covid among visitors and employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/more-than-50-plaints-in-kmc-lie-unattended/articleshow/78502569.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s September revenue Rs 890 crore more than last year’s collection||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh continued to post a robust growth in revenue after Covid-induced slowdown, registering a rise of Rs 890 crore in the collection in September 2020 as compared to the same month last year. Talking to reporters on Monday, finance minister Suresh Khanna claimed that the state’s economy was speedily returning on track before the onset of the festival season. "The rise revenue in August was Rs 600 crore which has gone up to Rs 890 crore in September and I hope it would be even better next month," Khanna said. Against a collection of Rs 8,444 crore in September last year, the revenue collection this year has been Rs 9,334 crore this September. “It was true that the state government was still behind its revenue projections for the FY 2020-21, but it was good news that despite corona crisis and prolonged lockdowns in the past few months, the collections are far better as compared to the previous years' in the past two months," he said, adding "Markets are attracting buyers and other economic activities also showing signs of recovery." Givig details, the finance minister said that the collection under VAT in September is Rs 1645 crore while in same month in 2019, it was Rs 1538.1 crore; excise collection this time Rs 2140.6 crore while last time it was Rs 1810.95; stamp and registration collection is Rs 1428.9 crore against 1170.8 crore last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-sept-revenue-rs-890-crore-more-than-last-yrs-collection/articleshow/78503168.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Used car dealer’s worker booked for forging signature of dead man||Times News NetworkLudhiana: The Division 5 police have booked a second-hand car dealer’s worker for allegedly forging the signature of a dead man to get a duplicate registration certificate from the regional transport office to sell a vehicle. The police said the original documents were not available, so the accused forged signature of the deceased, filed a missing complaint of RC, and got a duplicate one. The accused has been identified as Birbal Talwar of Ahata Sher Jung. Though the police have booked Talwar, the complainant said the police have spared the actual accused, the wife of the deceased who fraudulently sold the car. However, the police said the role of his wife was not established during investigation. The complaint was filed by Seema Rani of Ahata Faqeer Chand near Samrala Chowk. She is the mother of the deceased, Raman Arora. Seema Rani told the TOI that Raman owned a Maruti Suzuki Swift car (PB-10-CH-5701) and he died in January 2016 of dengue. She said she had the documents of the car, so Raman’s wife fraudulently sold the vehicle with the help of a car agency’s workers. The car was further sold to a resident of Barnala. In 2017, she filed a complaint with the police. Rajan Katyal, brother of Seema, said the police were delaying the investigation, so in February this year the family approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, after which a case was registered. However, the family will challenge the FIR in the court as despite proofs, the police have not booked the main accused. Division 5 SHO sub-inspector Kuldeep Singh said the complainant had accused her daughter-in-law of fraudulently selling the car, but during investigation the role of Raman’s wife could not be ascertained, but the police have booked Birbal Talwar. The SHO said Raman had planned to sell his car in 2015, but he fell sick and died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/used-car-dealers-worker-booked-for-forging-signature-of-dead-man/articleshow/78501141.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Open library introduces kids in slums to joys of reading||LUCKNOW: Children living in different slums got a chance to explore the joy of reading thanks to an open library set up by city-based NGO Swatantra Talim as part of the activities planned for Daan Utsav on Monday. The open library has been put up to inculcate the habit of reading among children. Organised with the aim of spreading joy and happiness, Daan Utsav celebrates the spirit of humanity and is being observed from October 2-8 this year. A host of events and charitable activities are being organised in the city to raise awareness among citizens about the importance of lending a helping hand to the needy. During an interactive session with Innerwheel Club of Lucknow, members of Mother Teresa Old Age Home distributed hygiene kits. NGOs like Robinhood Army and LIVE Foundation and, community kitchens like ‘Haare ka Sahara’ helped several citizens avail dry ration and food in slums severely hit by the pandemic. Volunteers and young social activists connected during a webinar ‘Jeena isi ka naam hai’ organised on Monday. Hosted by Poetic Aatma, a platform of poets and writers, the participants shared their stories and insights about the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/open-library-introduces-kids-in-slums-to-joys-of-reading/articleshow/78503364.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||BJP to form separate teams to campaign for different polls||LUCKNOW: As opposition parties continue to attack the government over Hathras and Balrampur incidents, the UP BJP has come up with a renewed strategy of appointing party functionaries separately for bypolls to seven assembly seats, panchayat polls and elections to graduate and teachers’ constituency seats of UP legislative council. “The objective is not to burden our party workers with ground work for various elections,” UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh told TOI. BJP’s decision is seen as a focussed attempt to consolidate its position after roping in ministers to get development works completed in various districts. Singh said the three elections would be a major challenge for the party. “We have accepted the challenge and decided to constitute separate groups of functionaries for different elections,” he said. BJP is contesting teachers’ constituency polls for the first time. “Unlike other parties, the soul of BJP organisation rests with the grass roots party functionaries. We constitute the organisational structure in a way so as to allow every functionary have a say in the functioning of the party,” he said, adding that the foundation and driving force of the party was nationalism and ensuring the welfare of people. The move also comes after the UP BJP organised training sessions for its booth, sector and divisional level functionaries to apprise them about the forthcoming political challenges and prepare them for the high-stake 2022 assembly elections. “We organised sector-level training at all 403 assembly seats. The sessions focussed on the role of booth and sector conveners in reaching out to the people. The party organises programmes to constitute teams of workers who reach out to the people as and when required,” he said. Singh said the party had been convening meetings regularly to drive the organisation. Sector and divisional meetings are held twice a month and booth-level meeting is convened every month. For this, party leaders go on a ‘pravas’ (sojourn) to various districts. “This enables the functioning of our party organisation down to the booth level,” he said, adding that party functionaries would coordinate with the government to ensure that the benefits of welfare schemes percolate down to the grass roots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-to-form-separate-teams-to-campaign-for-different-polls/articleshow/78503227.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 40 lakh cash seized from businessman in Shameerpet||HYDERABAD: Police intercepted four persons travelling in two cars near ORR toll plaza in Shameerpet on Monday night and seized Rs 40 lakh cash from them. “Patancheru-based businessman Srinivasa Babu and three of his associates were travelling in two cars to Siddipet. We have seized Rs 40 lakh cash from Babu’s possession. He and his associates have claimed that they were carrying the amount to pay advance for purchase of land,” said Petbasheerabad ACP AVR Narasimha Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-40l-cash-seized-from-bizman/articleshow/78502454.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Deoria police arrests four forbeating man, ‘urinating’ on him||GORAKHPUR: Deoria police arrested four accused on Monday for allegedly beating a man, urinating on him and breaking his ‘janeu’ (a sacred thread) over a land dispute, in Sakarpar area under Sadar Kotwali police station limits in Deoria district. The man posted a video on his Twitter account, in which he narrated the entire story. He also filed a complaint at Sadar Kotwali. “One Anish Chand Dwivedi of Pansrahi area under Sadar Kotwali limits has a land dispute with his neighbour Satish Yadav. On Sunday night, Anish posted a video on Twitter stating that on Saturday night some people of the Sakarpar area surrounded him and beat him up after taking him at gun-point. In the complaint given to the police, he has written that the accused had beaten him and one of them urinated on his body. When they caught him with his collar, his ‘janeu’ broke,” said superintendent of police (SP) Deoria Shishyapal. “All the four accused have been arrested and a case is being registered under the relevant sections,” he added. Chief minister’s information advisor, Shalabh Mani Tripathi, told reporters on Monday that he has informed the CM about the incident. The CM has instructed to initiate strict action in the case, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deoria-police-arrests-four-forbeating-man-urinating-on-him/articleshow/78503123.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 6, 2020||Allahabad||UP CM to take part in shobhayatra on Dussehra||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Adityanath Yogi will take part in all important rituals of the Vijayadashmi celebrations to be held in Gorakhnath temple from October 17 to 25, said office secretary of the temple, Dwarika Tiwari. On October 25, CM Yogi will offer prayers in the temple followed by programmes like Kunwari Kanya Bhoj, Tilakotsav etc. At around 4pm the CM will take part in Vijaydashmi Shobhayatra in a rath and will later perform puja of Lord Ram, goddess Sita and Laxman at Ramlila maidan after offering prayers at Mansarovar temple, said Tiwari. “I appeal to devotees to take all precautions during the celebrations in view of Covid pandemic. All the programmes will be broadcast online for devotees,” he adding that social distancing and Covid protocols will be followed. Media in-charge Vinay Gautam told that limited number of people will be allowed to take part in the programmes while for devotees programmes will be available on social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cm-yogi-to-take-part-in-shobhayatra-on-dussehra/articleshow/78502933.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Paddy purchase up 130 times in first five days||LUCKNOW: Amid the raging row over the farm bills and the MSP, the government purchase of paddy saw a massive jump in the first five days as compared to the sale in the same period previous year, reports Subhash Mishra. Food commissioner Maneesh Chauhan told TOI that in the first five days since the purchase centres were opened by the state government, a massive 657 metric tonnes sale has been recorded. It was just 5 metric tonnes last year in the same period. It's 130 times jump, Chauhan said. ‘CM is ensuring every facility to paddy growers’He claimed that the farmers are showing keen interest in selling their paddy for the government-controlled MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal and Rs 1,888 per quintal for different qualities. There are long queues at purchase centres, he said. “The difference in the numbers is really amazing," remarked the food commissioner, adding that it has also happened because this time record 4,000 purchase centres had been opened. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is supervising the sale and ensuring every possible facility to the paddy cultivators so that they don’t face any hardship at the purchase centres. The CM Helpline 1076 is reaching out to them round-the-clock. Last time, said Chauhan, the government had purchased 56.7 lakh metric tonne against a target of 50 lakh metric tonne. This year, the target is 55 lakh metric tonne which would be surpassed easily, he added. The state government spent over Rs 10,100 crore on paddy purchase from over seven lakh farmers last year. The chief minister has instructed that no laxity should be adopted in paddy purchase and the produce of every farmer who is interested in selling it to the government purchase centres, has to be accommodated, said Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/paddy-purchase-up-130-times-in-first-five-days/articleshow/78503185.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Waste being drained into Ganga as Haridwar localities lack sewage connection||Haridwar: Excessive amounts of human and other waste are finding their way into Ganga every day due to lack of sewage connections in several areas of Haridwar city. Estimates are that around 15% of the area in the jurisdiction of Haridwar Municipal Corporation (HMC) doesn’t have sewage lines and the waste coming from the households in these areas flows directly in the drains which ultimately fall into Ganga. Consequently, the river, revered by millions of people across the country, is increasingly getting contaminated and the locals, especially those living along the banks of Ganga in Haridwar, are developing major health issues. Ajay Kumar, executive engineer of local maintenance division of Ganga, told TOI, “As per a recent survey, around 15% residential areas of the city do not have access to sewage lines. We have prepared a project to install sewage lines in these areas after Kumbh 2021.” Recently, a new sewage treatment plant (STP) of 68 MLD capacity was inaugurated in Jagjeetpur, Haridwar, to solve the issue of waste treatment in the city. Additionally, the capacities of STPs at Jagjeetpur (27 MLD) and Sarai (18 MLD) villages were also increased. However, the situation won’t change until every locality is connected with a sewage line, say observers. “Waste from several houses and commercial institutions like hotels and ashrams is flowing directly into drains which fall into Ganga. Besides polluting the river, it also causes a major health problem for the locals. Authorities are not taking action against those who let waste from their property flow directly into drains despite having access to sewage lines,” said RM Dobhal, a local. HMC officials when queried claimed that they take action against those flouting norms after receiving complaints but added they have ‘insufficient data’ in this regard as no fresh survey has been conducted. Dr Hemant Arya, city’s health officer, told TOI, “We have no new data that shows waste from how many properties flow directly into drains as no new survey has been conducted but we take action against offenders and impose penalties as and when we receive any complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/waste-being-drained-into-ganga-as-haridwar-localities-lack-sewage-connection/articleshow/78500046.cms||MS Nawaz
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||3 armed goons try to rob money-changer||Times News Network Ludhiana: Three armed miscreants tried to rob a money-changer at Kashmir Nagar Chowk on Monday afternoon.Parmod Kumar, 55, a resident of Guru Nanak Nagar, said in his police complaint, “I have a shop at Kashmir Nagar Chowk. My son, Ajay Kumar, helps me in the business. Around 3pm, a bike with three riders stopped outside my shop. Two of the men entered the shop and the third one stood outside. Soon thereafter, one of them pointed a pistol at me and the other held a sharp-edged weapon against my son’s neck.”They asked Parmod to hand over to them all the money he had. “Meanwhile, Ravi Kumar, who runs a cycle repair shop nearby, smelled a rat and called on my son from outside. This diverted the attention of the robbers. The robber armed with pistol opened fire as I tried to snatch his weapon. The bullet, fortunately, hit the counter,” he added. Pramod and Ajay raised the alarm and the robbers fled from the spot. Assistant commissioner of police Gurbinder Singh said, “The miscreants came on a Bajaj Pulsar motorcycle that did not have a number plate. CCTVs installed in the area have captured them. A case has been registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-armed-goons-try-to-rob-money-changer/articleshow/78501145.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur zoo to have shops selling ODOP products||LUCKNOW: The new Gorakhpur zoo will have shops selling products identified under the one district, one product (ODOP) scheme of the state government for Gorakhpur division. Director of Gorakhpur zoo Anjani Acharya said, “We are collaborating with the district administration and other departments working for ODOP scheme on this. The proposal has been approved.” A high-priority project of the Yogi government and also a dream project of the chief minister for Gorakhpur, it might be completed by the end of the year or early next year. The project has struggled with deadlines. It was to be completed by April this year. “The priority is to complete the facilities and infrastructure for animals, such as enclosures and hospital. After that, we would need permission from Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to start bringing in the animals,” said the director. The zoo would house more than 380 animals brought under exchange programmes from zoos in Lucknow, Kanpur, Delhi, Darjeeling, Mysore, Junagadh and from closed zoos in Allahabad and Gorakhpur. Lions from Gujarat have been brought for it and kept at Etawah safari. The zoo would have many attractions. One of them is the walking trail around a 13-hectare wetland that lies within its boundary and is part of Ramgarh Taal. The entrance of the zoo would be designed like Gorakhnath Temple and buildings as pagodas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakhpur-zoo-to-have-shops-selling-odop-products/articleshow/78503242.cms||Neha Shukla
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Brain haemorrhage patient treated in AIIMS-R without opening head||Dehradun: Doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh on Monday performed a successful brain haemorrhage operation without opening the head of the patient. The operation was done on a government doctor who was diagnosed with a haemorrhage while on duty last week. Harish Thapliyal, PRO AIIMS-R, told TOI that the patient was airlifted to AIIMS. “According to doctors, a vein in his brain was broken and the operation was conducted with the technique of endovascular quailing,” he added. Interventional neuro-radiologist at AIIMS-R, Dr Sandeep Budathoki, said that in the endovascular coiling procedure, a hole of 2.5 mm was done near the thigh of the patient and the catheter was placed in the brain via that point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/brain-haemorrhage-patient-treated-in-aiims-r-without-opening-head/articleshow/78500074.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 6, 2020||Kanpur||Covid-19 recovery rate crosses 90% in Jhansi, 56 test positive||JHANSI: With 56 new Covid-19 cases reported in the district and an equal number of patients recovered, the recovery rate in the district crossed the 90% mark on Monday which is on the higher side in comparison to the national average of 84.5%. The new cases include three doctors and four health workers. As per the medical bulletin released by the district administration, total positive cases in the district reached 7503, and out of them 5843 have been discharged, including 56 patients on Monday itself with recovery rate of 90.39%. At present, out of active 563 positive cases in the district, 85 are symptomatic which include 20 severe, 16 moderate and 49 mild cases while rest are asymptomatic. The total number of Covid-19 related deaths in the district is 158 with case fatality rate (CFR ) of 2.1 which is also higher than the state average of 1.5. At present, 939 patients are in home isolation in the district.  Meanwhile, secretary, Jhansi Development Authority (JDA) Tribhuvan Vishwakarma, who has recently recovered from Covid-19, has donated his plasma at Jhansi Medical College on Sunday which was later on used on another patient admitted there. During a review meeting, the DM ordered the seizure of three private nursing homes for failing to comply with the directive for patients coming to their hospitals for Covid-19 test. Earlier, four more hospitals had to face a similar action.  While taking the action, the DM said that the administration had appealed to all the private hospitals to conduct Covid-19 tests on all patients coming to their hospitals free of cost for which the government had provided free antigen kits. “It has been reported that so far 170 corona positive have visited private hospitals for consultation of various diseases. Under such circumstances, if a hospital does not conduct tests, the patients will pose risk to others as they will be treated without conducting a test”, the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-19-recovery-rate-crosses-90-in-jhansi-56-test-positive/articleshow/78502578.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Court orders to include five cops in accused list||KANPUR: Special SC/ST Act court on Monday ordered to include five policemen in the list of accused and has summoned them to face trial for the custodial death of an accused. The cops who have been made accused include a station officer and two sub inspectors incharge of police outposts. Initially these policemen were not in the list of accused but the court ordered to include them in the list of accused, summoned them to face trial and fixed October 13 as the next date of hearing. The policemen summoned by the court are Jeeva Ram, the then station officer of Chakeri police station , sub inspectors Sanjay Shukla and Yogendra Singh Solanki, both incharge of police outposts, Rajiv Yadav and Akhilesh Gaur. All these policemen were posted at Chakeri police station at the time of the incident which occurred in 2016. According to additional district government counsel (ADGC) Pradeep Bajpai, complainant Kishan Lal, a resident of KDA Colony Ramapuram, in an FIR lodged against the special team of Chakeri police station on August 4, 2016 had alleged that the special police team, comprising constable Janardhan Singh had lifted his two sons Kamal and Nirmal at around 8.30 pm to inquire them in a loot case. The cops had thrashed his elder son Kamal so badly that he died in police custody. They thereafter released Nirmal and sent the dead body of Kamal to the LLR hospital, the ADGC said. Kishan Lal also alleged in the complaint that his sons had been lifted by the police on the basis of information provided by two police informers Vishram Chamar and Kamal Kureel. His son informed him on phone that the cops used third degree on him and even electrocuted him to force him to admit that he was involved in the loot incident, he alleged in the complaint. The judge observed in the order that a case was registered against Janardan Singh and five other policemen and later Vishram Chamar and Kamal Kureel were also included in the list of the accused. The court observed in its order that in view of the evidence on record, as Jeeva Ram, Sanjay Shukla, Yogendra Singh Solanki, Rajiv Yadav and Akhilesh Gaur were involved in the custodial death, therefore it would be in the interest of justice to make them accused in the case and try them. All five policemen should be summoned for trial in the case under sections 147/323/506/306/342 of IPC and under sections 3 (2) ( V) of the SC/ST Act, the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/court-orders-to-include-five-cops-in-accused-list/articleshow/78502678.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||JEE-Advanced result: City’s Gurpreet floats on AIR 23||Ludhiana: Gurpreet Singh Wadhwa from the city bagged top rank in Ludhiana with AIR 23 in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) Advanced-2020. In the result announced on Monday, Gurpreet scored 310 marks out of 396. He had bagged AIR 126 in JEE-Mains with 99.992 percentile. Candidates who cleared the advanced paper and are among the top ranks will gain admission to BTech at various engineering institutions associated with this exam, including IITs.Gurpreet, a Rishi Nagar resident and a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, had scored 97.8 % in Class XII. He had joined an institute in Chandigarh after completing his Class X from Sacred Heart School, BRS Nagar, Ludhiana, with 93%. Aiming to pursue computer science engineering from IIT-Bombay, Gurpreet boasts of a bagful of achievements. He had cleared National Talent Search Examination and regional maths Olympiad in Class X in 2018. In Class XI, he had cleared Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY) exam and chemistry and physics Olympiads with national rankings, for which he received Dhruv Tara Award from Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal in October 2019. Dhruv Award took him to ISRO and he got an opportunity to work for 15 days on nanotechnology at IIT-Delhi.His father Gurmeet Singh is a businessman and mother Gurveen Kaur a chemistry teacher at KVM School, Civil Lines. His mother said, “From Class III, Gurpreet has been participating in various Olympiads and has many silver and gold medals in his trove. When he moved out of the city, we met him once a month and later as he required more time to study we visited him once in two months.”A lover of cricket and music, Gurpreet aims to pursue a master’s degree from the US or an MBA from an IIM, depending upon the opportunity. Sharing his success mantra, he said, “Discipline and complete faith in teachers are important. It is not the number of hours you study that matter, but how much concentration you put into it. One should know the exam pattern and NCERT books should be studied well. I used to study for around eight hours and got full support of my mentors, including parents and mathematics teacher Mrinal Singh. Gurpreet’s father, who owns a garment export house, said, “As parents we are feeling elated and proud of our son who has fulfilled our and his grandparents’ and teachers’ dream.”Besides, Ludhiana’s Anshul Gusain has bagged AIR 1,245, Anurag Gupta AIR 1,267, Vinamr Jain AIR 1,395, Rudar Pratap Singh AIR 1,455, Parv AIR 1,834, Pooja AIR 3,072 ,Tony AIR 3,111 and Mehul Kaushal AIR 3,425.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jee-advanced-result-citys-gurpreet-floats-on-air-23/articleshow/78501146.cms||Mehak Jain
October 6, 2020||Kanpur||Aditya tops IIT-Kanpur zone, Shreya first among girls||KANPUR: Aspirants of IIT-Kanpur zone got top 200 ranks in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE)-Advanced results announced by IIT-Delhi here on Monday. Students proved their mettle and even in Covid pandemic cracked one of the toughest exams with flying colours. The exam was held on September 27. The top five students of IIT-Kanpur zone include Aditya Jain (AIR 24), Akarsh Jain (AIR 70), Rishi Jain (AIR 98), Tahir Yusuf Sandalwala (AIR 133) and Arpit Kumar Rai (AIR 155).  JEE chairman, IIT-Kanpur zone, Prof Dhirendra S. Katti, on being contacted, said that Aditya Jain topped the IIT-Kanpur zone, while Shreya Moghe, with AIR 405, turned out to be female zone topper. Akarsh Jain, who lives in Indore and emerged as second topper of the zone, said that he was sure of securing a top three position in IIT-K zone. Akarsh said, “All that I had planned for the exam had to be rescheduled and re-planned as JEE (Advanced) was postponed. This affected the revision plan which I had made for this exam. Then I took a break for a day or two and recharged myself. And this actually helped.” He said that he had no stress due to Covid. Akarsh, who lives in a joint family, said he wishes to pursue computer science and engineering from either IIT-Mumbai or IIT-Delhi. Akarsh scored 95.8 percent in his class XII this year,said that his father Tarun Jain is into businessman and mother Shraddha Jain is a teacher. Rishi Jain, who is a third topper in the zone, too wishes to study computer science engineering from either IIT-Madras or IIT-Delhi. A resident of Lalitpur in Uttar Pradesh, Rishi said that the postponement of JEE Advanced made him panicky. However, he overcame all the challenges and appeared in the exam. Son of Ravindra Kumar Jain and Dr Sadhana Jain, Rishi said that he aspires to be a physicist and even if he opts for computer science course in his BTech course as of now but later he will pursue PhD in the required stream to be a physicist. Arpit Kumar Rai, who emerged as a fifth topper in the zone by securing AIR 155, said that the postponement of the exam gave him sufficient time to prepare and therefore, he could do well. “Had there been no Covid, JEE (Advanced) would have been held in the month of May this year. Appearing in this exam right after the board exam, would have been challenging. But postponement of JEE (Advanced) gave me ample time to prepare”, said a confident Arpit while talking to TOI. Son of Dr AK Rai and Suman Rai, Arpit chose engineering course over medical profession. “My father is a doctor but I have more interest in science subjects therefore decided to pursue a career in engineering stream”, he added. Shreeya Moghe, the girl topper of IIT-Kanpur zone, while talking to TOI over phone, said she wishes to study at Indian Institute of Sciences (IISc) in Bengaluru. A resident of Ujjain, Shreeya said she would participate in online counselling starting on Tuesday but her inclination is towards studying in IISc. Daughter of Sameer Moghe and Prashita Moghe, Shreya said that it was a right decision to conduct JEE (Advanced) in September as the exam was already unexpectedly delayed due to Covid .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/aditya-tops-iit-k-zone-shreya-1st-among-girls/articleshow/78502609.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Stress-free mind helps score high: Lucknow rankers||LUCKNOW: They watched Tom and Jerry, played chess and solved mathematical equations with earphones plugged in while preparing for the JEE (Advanced). For them being a bookworm is not essential for good scores, but enjoying what you learn with a stress-free mind can help score better, shared JEE (Advanced), high scorers of the city the results of which were declared on Monday. All high scorers credited their success to their mother and had a similar dream of pursuing computer engineering from top IITs. Bagging All India Rank (AIR) of 424, a resident of Krishnanagar, Shreyansh Singh solved mathematics equations while listening to music. “I didn’t focus on studying for hours, but studying with a fresh mind so I solved questions while listening to my favourite songs,” said Shreyansh who wants to pursue computer engineering from IIT-Delhi. He said also the support and motivation from parents counts a lot. “I give credit for my success to my mother Shikha, who managed everything alone as my father who is in a government job is posted in Lakhimpur Kheri. From waking me up for studies, motivating me to only have positive thoughts to taking care of my every need she made me achieve this milestone.” Another high scorer, a boy from LDA colony Amratesh Sharma got 738 rank said, “Music and Tom Jerry were never a miss, it helped me to remain cool while preparing for a national level examination.” He said that “I want to pursue computer engineering from IIT, Hyderabad or IIT, BHU. I have achieved my dream due to the support of my mother Poonam Sharma. My father is in the bank and is posted in Ambala. From my coffee to switching on my favourite cartoon channel my mother was always there.” Regular Yoga, chess and gyming sessions made Aliganj boy Shashwat Gupta bag AIR 603 said, “It is true that one has to study a lot to crack national level examination. But it doesn’t mean giving up what you like. I did cardio exercises, played chess and did Yoga for a free mind.” He said that “my mother Kanchan, who is a doctor, always guided during preparations. A mother’s hard work is always behind the success of a child. I want to pursue computer engineering from any of the IITs.” Cricket freak Abdullah Mohammed from Sitapur road locality with 727 rank and a chess champion from Gomtinagar Aditya Pandey with 940 rank also expressed similar sentiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stress-free-mind-helps-score-high-city-rankers/articleshow/78503255.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||PNB lead banker for Gorakhpur link e-way funding||LUCKNOW: After the state cabinet gave its approval to a bank consortium which would give a loan of Rs 2,250 crore for Gorakhpur link expressway, the UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Monday announced that Punjab National Bank would lead the consortium to fund the project. PNB, which has approved a loan of Rs 750 crore, will be assisted by the Union Bank of India, Canara Bank, Indian Bank, UCO Bank, Bank of India and Bank of Maharashtra. UPEIDA’s chief executive officer, Awanish Awasthi, said the loan amount would be appropriated by the authority during the course of next three years. PNB has informed UPEIDA that it would be able to release 50% of the sanctioned loan (Rs 375 crore) till the time the consortium is fully established. It is only after other banks give their final approval that the bank consortium would get formally established. “PNB has also agreed to waive off upfront fee and processing fee which would also be subject to approval by other banks,” Awasthi said. The loan would be paid back to the banks in 48 instalments over a period of 15 years which also includes three years of moratorium period. UPEIDA has also agreed for opening of an escrow account in the lead bank in which revenue, including that collected through toll tax, would be deposited. The 91.3km long Gorakhpur link expressway will start from Gorakhpur bypass on NH-27 and will culminate at Purvanchal Expressway near Azamgarh. The project is expected to boost transportation and economic activities in Gorakhpur, Ambedkarnagar, Sant Kabir Nagar and Azamgarh. Awasthi said 73.5% work of clearing and grubbing (CNG) has been completed while 13.4% work of layering of soil is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pnb-lead-banker-for-gorakhpur-link-e-way-funding/articleshow/78503224.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Stubble to manure: Spraying of solution on fields from October 11||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will start spraying a fermented liquid solution developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) in fields from October 11 to turn stubble into manure. From Tuesday, it has started preparing the bio-decomposing solution under the guidance of IARI’s scientists at Kharkhari Nahar village. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who visited the village to review the process, said, “The entire cost of creating the liquid solution for spraying it on 700 hectares of farm fields in Delhi is just Rs 20 lakh, which proves that it is a cheap alternative for farmers and can be adopted by neighbouring states.” Delhi government will provide the mixture and the entire spraying system to the farmers free of cost. Track the pollution level in your cityIARI has produced capsules that are mixed with a liquid fermented solution. “When the solution is sprayed on the field, it softens the stubble left behind. The hard straw gets converted into manure and improves the soil’s fertility,” said Kejriwal. “This is going to be a cost-effective alternative, improve crop produce and farmers will not have to burn the stubble.” Environment minister Gopal Rai said the government had set a target of spraying around 2,000 acre paddy fields in Delhi. “Our teams at block levels are explaining the process to farmers. We have received applications for 1,300 acre so far,” Rai said. Once the solution is sprayed, farmers can start sowing another crop in three days, he added. “However, it will take nearly 20 days for compost to be ready,” Rai pointed out. Stating that stubble burning is significantly less in Delhi than in the neighbouring states, Rai said, “The stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and other states contributes nearly 45% of air pollution in Delhi. We want to make Delhi a role model so that the other states can make no excuse for avoiding stubble burning.” The minister said the AAP government had requested Union minister Prakash Javadekar during their last meeting that every state government and the Centre should adopt this bio-decomposing technique to completely stop stubble burning. However, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) expressed dissatisfaction over the procedure. Birender Dagar, its Delhi unit president, said, “Only 1% of the Delhi farmers produce paddy and they do not burn stubble. The government should not waste money on bio-decomposer but help farmers in resolving other issues after consulting them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stubble-to-manure-spraying-of-solution-on-fields-from-oct-11/articleshow/78523907.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar SSP transfer case: HC issues notice to UPSC after plea by officer||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday issued a notice to the Union Public Service Commission after an impleadment application was filed by IPS officer Barinderjit Singh demanding that the UPSC be made a party to his writ petition that challenges his transfer orders from the post of SSP Udham Singh Nagar. The court has also permitted the counsel representing Singh’s three senior officers as well as the state government to file their counter to the impleadment application after they argued that the UPSC should not be made a party to the writ petition. “While the petitioner officer had filed the application asking the court that the UPSC should be made a party, the respondents argued fiercely against it. The court, therefore, has allowed them to file their counters to the application,” said an advocate present in the hearing. The advocate added that the case has now been listed for further hearing after three weeks. As reported by TOI earlier, Singh, a 2008-batch IPS officer, had moved the court after he was transferred from the post of SSP Udham Singh Nagar to the post of Commandant of Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) to Ramnagar on July 10. Singh had been holding the post of SSP of Udham Singh Nagar for over a year and has alleged that his seniors — both serving and retired — were interfering in the investigations conducted by him. His seniors however, in their affidavits, have denied any such interference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-ssp-transfer-case-hc-issues-notice-to-upsc-after-plea-by-officer/articleshow/78500114.cms||Prashant Jha
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Jhansi boy Aditya Jain tops in IIT-Kanpur zone||LUCKNOW: Aditya Jain and Akarsh Jain bagged the first and second ranks respectively in the JEE (Advanced) examination in the IIT-Kanpur zone. While Aditya’s all-India rank (AIR) was 24, Akarsh secured AIR 70 in the engineering entrance test, the results of which were announced by IIT-Delhi, the organising institute, on Monday. With AIR 405, Shreeya Moghe is the female topper of IIT-Kanpur zone, which comprises Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Moradabad resident Kanishka Mittal bagged AIR 1 among girls from all zones. She is from IIT-Roorkee zone. Her overall rank in the common list list is 17. Kanishka had been studying in Kota for two years. Aditya’s father Sudhir Jain is a businessman and mother Ragini a government school teacher. Akarsh’s father also has a business and mother Shraddha is a private school teacher. A native of Jhansi, Aditya scored 308 marks out of 396. Overwhelmed with his success, he said, “I was expecting a rank under 100 but certainly not in top 25.” For Aditya, reading interviews of previous toppers and proper revision was what helped him crack IITs. “Other than coaching and school, I spent roughly six hours studying at home everyday,” said Aditya, who wants to pursue computer science at IIT-Bombay. Hailing from Indore, Akarsh said the lockdown was beneficial as it gave him time for preparation. “The period helped in recovering from the fatigue of board exams. I believe luck has no part to play in success. Analysing and rectifying mistakes is most important aspect to crack IITs,” said Akarsh, who also desires to pursue computer science from IIT-Bombay or IIT-Delhi. Akarsh got 288 marks. Securing the third rank in the zone and 98 all-India, Rishi Jain (17) of Lalitpur said, “Mock papers and previous year’s papers helped me a lot.” He also prepared at a coaching institute in Kota. Rishi draws inspiration from his father RK Jain, an engineer with Indian Railways. Bagging fourth rank from IIT-Kanpur zone is Tahir Yusuf Sandalwala, a resident of Indore. Tahir’s all-India rank is 133. “All through my preparations for two-and-a-half years, I had cut off from everyone, except family and mentors. Tahir has spent 16 years of his life in Dubai where his father Yusuf Sandalwala runs a printing press. He returned to India to prepare for IIT. With all-India rank 155, Arpit Kumar Rai from Azamgarh secured the fifth rank from IIT-Kanpur zone. He also credited the lockdown for extra time to study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jhansi-boy-aditya-jain-tops-in-iit-kanpur-zone/articleshow/78503267.cms||Isha Jain
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||BJP issues list of core committee members||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday declared the list of members in various wings of the party including SC/ST, OBC, and Mahila Morcha. The names of district presidents were also declared in the five lists issued by the party office in the state. The ruling party issued a list of 21 permanent invited members, including chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, education minister Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, former state chief minister BC Khanduri, and all the cabinet ministers. The state executive committee has 28 members.Bansidhar Bhagat, state president of BJP, said that the bhumi pujan (land worship) and the foundation stone laying ceremony of BJP's new state office in Dehradun will be done in a virtual event on October 17 by BJP's national president JP Nadda. “With election year fast approaching, we expect that the new core committee members will strengthen the party and take it to another level,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-issues-list-of-core-committee-members/articleshow/78500115.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow's high rankers aim for career in judiciary||LUCKNOW: Most of the CLAT high rankers from the city are from science background but decided to switch to law as they want to make a career in judiciary. Not aiming to land a cushy corporate job or partnership in a law firm, they want to serve as judge. The results of CLAT were declared by the Consortium of National Law Universities (CNLU) on Monday. Scoring All India Rank of 57, Ashish Sharma, a science student who initially thought of making a career in science and technology decided to study law. “I could have become an engineer or made a career in civil services or research, but I opted for law as I want to be instrumental in helping people get justice.” Ashish said consistency and hard work are important for cracking CLAT. Another science student Devansh Sharma bagged the 71st rank. “I believe it is amazing to explore the rules and regulations of the nation and how they are beneficial for the society. Indian judiciary is structured to deal with the problems in society,” he said. Giving equal attention to all subjects and practicing model papers without a miss helps in scoring well, he shared. Instead of preparing for a career in medicine, Arushi Tiwari, who bagged 85th rank, said, “Only law graduates are eligible to serve in all the three organs of government, namely the legislature, executive and judiciary. Other graduates may occupy high offices in legislature and executive, but not in the judiciary. This is precisely the reason why it is said that a law degree opens the doors to a wide range of careers.” Learning concepts by writing, regular revision and a lot of reading helped me in getting a good rank, she said. Humanities student Avantika Kalra, who got 84th rank, said, “Neither civil services, nor a career in academics or research fascinated me. I chose law as it is one field that plays a role in every sector.” She said the success mantra for scoring well in CLAT is to read a lot, do lot of mock tests, and follow a set study timetable. Another high ranker Devansh Dutta with 87th rank also shared the same sentiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/citys-high-rankers-aim-for-career-in-judiciary/articleshow/78503391.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Site accused of fanning protest to face ED probe||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is examining the FIR registered by Hathras police at Chandpa police station against a website, accused of fanning protests, to probe its funding. It is also mulling registering a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against it soon. The ED also said that the FIR was under the Section 153 A which are scheduled offences under the PMLA, 2002 and all money collected by committing such a crime is liable to be confiscated by the agency. The agency would also be conducting the foreign enquires from the domain servers the details of money collected and utilised. The ED will also examine the ultimate beneficiaries of money collected by this website. “Service providers will be questioned about the website which hosted this page as it should mandatorily have IP address records from where the web page was launched,” said the agency sources. The sources also claimed data traffic analysis from Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) for tracing first IP resolution has already been sought. (CERT) is the nodal agency to deal with cyber security threats. Internet Protocol Detail Record (IPDR) analysis of suspects is under way to check if they all tried to access the site before it became public to check collaborations and coordination. According to sources, email IDs, along with phone numbers used to purchase the domain or hosting and reverse investigation is also being done. In the past also, the Enforcement Directorate had found financial links with the violent protests in Uttar Pradesh against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/site-accused-of-fanning-protest-to-face-ed-probe/articleshow/78503284.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||90% of Lucknow's dengue cases in August-September||LUCKNOW: If you had suspected symptoms of Covid-19 but did not test positive for causative novel coronavirus infection, chances are you could have had dengue or swine flu. Data shows that residents are not just dealing with one kind of fever. The vector-borne dengue and H1N1 influenza, commonly known as swine flu, have also silently made their way into our homes. In just about two months — August and September — over 100 cases of dengue were reported in the city. Since January till Monday, as many as 156 dengue cases have been identified, of which over 90% cases or 143 were reported in the preceding two months. Swine flu cases have also made an entry with the highly contagious virus whose symptoms bear similarity with the initial symptoms of Covid-19. Until now, there have been 64 recorded H1N1 cases, over 90% of them have come in last two months. Data with the health department has also reflected that prevalence of both these diseases was sporadic at present, with no particular area affected with them. The survival-rate of dengue larvae is high when day temperature is above 25 degree Celsius and night temperature is above 16 degree Celsius. The peak season of the disease is July to October, however, cases were reported till the end of November last year, until temperature dropped. According to the department, swine flu season begins around August and lasts until March. Officers also said all efforts are being made to check the spread of the two diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/90-of-citys-dengue-cases-in-aug-sept/articleshow/78503376.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Kanpur||Bikru panel to record versions of kin of slain cops, criminals||KANPUR: The judicial commission looking into the Bikru incident is all set to record the statements of the family members of the eight policemen, who lost their lives in the ambush by gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen on July 2-3 night. Besides, statements of the kin of the six accused killed in separate encounters with the police after the ambush will also be recorded by the panel probing the different aspects with regard to the Bikru case. Sources at the SSP office said the commission, which had been mandated to probe into the various incidents that took place between intervening nights of July 2-3 and July 10, including encounters between criminals and police at various spots, had issued notices to the family members of eight martyred policemen including Dy SP Devendra Mishra, Station House Officer Shivrajpur Mahesh Yadav, Mandhana police outpost in-charge Anup Kumar, sub-inspector Nebu Lal, constable Jitendra Pal, constable Sultan Singh, constable Bablu Kumar and constable Rahul, besides the kin of the six accused — Vikas Dubey, Prem Prakash, Amar Dubey, Prabhat Mishra, Praveen Shukla alias Bauwan and Atul Dubey — asking them to present themselves and get their statement recorded. The commission will submit its final report within two months, said sources further. Eight policemen, were killed in Bikru village on July 2 & 3 night. Dubey was killed on the morning of July 10 when he allegedly tried to escape the custody of Special Task Force (STF) following an accident involving the vehicle in which he was being brought to Kanpur from Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. The gangster and four of his aides were killed in separate encounters between July 3 and 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bikru-panel-to-record-versions-of-kin-of-slain-cops-criminals/articleshow/78502654.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chennai||‘Cricketainment’ in Tamil hits a six||Chennai Super Kings have just lost a match and it is supposed to be a bitter evening for K Srividhya, but not quite. The hilarious Tamil commentary makes up for the disheartening action on the ground. "I used to earlier watch only CSK games, now I have started watching other matches as much due to the commentary as anything else. I have a good time listening to the banter," says the resident of Chennai. Read the story TOI+ How Tamil commentary is getting new IPL fans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cricketainment-in-tamil-hits-a-six/articleshow/78502520.cms||Vivek Krishnan
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Man-eater leopard of Almora shot dead, girl, infant brutally attacked by another in Ramnagar||Dehradun: The man-eater of Almora that killed a 7-year-old girl in Bhikiyasen on September 19, was shot dead on Monday. This is the second man-eater leopard to have been killed in Almora and the fifth in Uttarakhand. Orders had been issued to kill the animal after it was declared a man-eater. To this end, a team of forest officials, including a sharp shooter, was formed, several camera traps and cages were placed in the forest and pug marks of the predator studied. Barely a week ago, another man-eater leopard was shot dead in Pithoragarh. Divisional forest officer (DFO) of Almora Mahatim Yadav said, “A post-mortem of the leopard will be conducted at Almora mini zoo on Tuesday, which is also an animal rescue centre. The procedure will help us collect more data about the animal.” Forest officials involved in the killing said, “The leopard had visited a favourite haunt in search of a prey when we shot it around 7pm. It had come to the same spot the night before, but could not be trapped into a cage.” Officials said that straying livestock was dangerous as leopards aim at these as easy kills. Meanwhile in Ramnagar forest division’s Fatehpur village, a teenaged girl and a month-old infant were brutally attacked by a leopard. The girl had ventured inside a reserve forest to collect fodder for livestock when she was attacked on Monday morning. The infant was attacked at its home. “Both the injured were instantly provided medical care. They have been hospitalized and are doing fine,” said DFO Ramnagar Chandrashekhar Joshi. According to TOI sources in the forest department, Uttarakhand has already lost a dozen lives to leopard attacks in various forest divisions. A significant number of leopards have also died this year. Sources say that while the most leopards (17) died of natural reasons like ageing and disease, infighting, responsible for 14 deaths, was the second-worst killer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-eater-leopard-of-almora-shot-dead-girl-infant-brutally-attacked-by-another-in-ramnagar/articleshow/78500134.cms||Shivani Azad
October 6, 2020||Bhopal||CM assures farmers full relief against crop loss||Bhopal: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Monday that full compensation would be ensured to farmers of the state, whose crops have been damaged by floods and pest attacks. Reviewing a meeting on relief to such farmers at Mantralaya on Monday, Chouhan said that though economy of the state was not in good shape due to impact of Coronavirus pandemic, but his government is committed to provide all possible help to farmers affected by floods and pests infesting their crops. He further said that he has already apprised the Prime Minister and other Union ministers concerned of the situation in MP and if required, a delegation of ministers and officials would be sent to Delhi again for follow-up action. It was told at the meeting that crops over 40 lakh hectare of land has been affected by floods and an amount of Rs 4,000 crore would be required to adequately compensate the farmers. Principal secretary, revenue, Manish Rastogi, said that Central government pays compensation against crop loss if the loss is 33% or more while the state government does pay compensation even if the loss is to the tune of 25%. He said that previous year crop on 60 lakh hectare was affected and a compensation of Rs 2,000 crore was distributed to affected farmers. It was further told at the meeting that survey to assess damage to crops has been completed and a Central team, which came for the purpose has also returned. Crops on 39.95 lakh hectare has been affected by floods and attack of pests and damage on 37 lakh hectare is 33% or more. Therefore, the Union government has been requested to grant Rs 2,481.21 crore against loss of crops on 34.87 lakh hectare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-assures-farmers-full-relief-against-crop-loss/articleshow/78501197.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Many groups getting foreign funds to destabilise UP: CM||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday that foreign funding was being used to hatch conspiracies to spread caste and communal divide in the state and derail the development works undertaken by his government. “Attempts are being made by a host of organisations with the help of foreign funding to destabilize the state,” Yogi said while addressing party’s booth and sector level workers via video link for the upcoming bypoll in Tundla (Firozabad) assembly seat. Yogi’s remarks were seen as an indirect attack on the opposition which has targeted the BJP government over the rape and death of a Dalit girl in Hathras. On Sunday, Yogi had accused the opposition of hatching conspiracies to eclipse the development works and people welfare schemes launched by the central and state governments. The CM said his government has pledged to provide safety and honour to every individual in the state. While other parties are aiming to attain power, the BJP pledged to work for the people even during the Coronavirus crisis, he said, adding that the Centre and the state government have introduced various programmes and schemes for all without any consideration of caste or region. BJP stands by the ideology of ‘Nation first’, then comes the party and the individual, he said, adding: “But that is not the case with opposition parties.” “Conspiracies are being hatched to stoke caste conflicts. Such conspiracies would continue but the state government and the BJP organisation will have to work full throttle towards development,” the CM said. “UP government has pledged to provide employment to every person in the state. The agricultural sector is also being given a boost,” Yogi said, adding that his government has undertaken a host of infrastructure projects, including expressways and Metro rail projects. The CM said between 1947 and 2017 the state had only 12 medical colleges, but now construction of two AIIMS and 29 medical colleges is underway on a war footing. “How can anti-social elements accept the development works; because they wanted a dilapidated UP, a state infested with caste and communal tensions,” Yogi said, insisting that his government would deal with anti-social elements with an iron hand. The CM told the cadres that owing to Covid-19 big rallies will not be held for bypolls. “The entire campaigning would instead rely on door-to-door contact programmes,” he said and added that the party organisation will have to take the challenging task of ascertaining that every beneficiary has received benefits of the designated schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/many-groups-getting-foreign-funds-to-destabilise-up-cm/articleshow/78503304.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Ahead of the pollution season, 10 anti-smog guns in south Delhi, more by October 15||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the pollution season, more than 10 anti-smog guns have been installed at major construction sites located across south Delhi areas. More such guns are likely to be installed in Delhi before October 15, including at some landfill sites where large-scale biomining work is under way, a senior municipal official said. Track the pollution level in your city“South Delhi Municipal Corporation has ordered its executive and assistant engineers to initiate action against big construction sites, which have still not deployed anti-smog guns. A letter of award has been issued for procurement of one smog gun by the corporation. It is likely to be installed by October 15,” the official added. An anti-smog gun sprays tiny droplets of water into the atmosphere, creating artificial mist. Small droplets of water are expected to stick to air-borne pollutants and bring them down to the ground. Such guns can throw water mist up to a distance of 100m covering a large area, which may be a source of particulate matter. According to an order issued by the south corporation in February, such anti-smog guns are mandatory at sites that are larger than 20,000 sqm and less than 1.50 lakh sqm. Most of the installed units are located in Dwarka under Najafgarh zone while three project sites in Central zone. A senior north corporation official confirmed that an anti-smog gun would be installed at the Bhalswa landfill site where 4,200 tonnes of waste were being processed every day. “The unit will be in place by October 15,” the official said. “Besides anti-smog guns, we have a fleet of 134 water tankers, which will be sprinkling water over 1,340 km of road every day,” he added. Last year, the apex court had directed the use of anti-smog guns in Delhi and NCR for large construction sites, road construction stretches, mining activities, large parking sites on unpaved areas and during large public gatherings and demolition activities. While some experts have raised doubts over the efficacy of the anti-smog guns, the top court had in the past junked the intervention application by a Delhi-based doctor who doubted the efficiency of these towers in the backdrop of limited research data. Watch Delhi govt deploys anti-smog guns at construction sites to fight pollution||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-smog-guns-in-south-delhi-more-by-oct-15/articleshow/78523925.cms||Paras Singh
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Qawwali tribute to Ustad Nizami by sons||LUCKNOW: In its series of symposiums, Understanding Qawwali, the Sufi Kathak Foundation paid tribute to Ustad Meraj Ahmed Nizami by exploring his tradition and music through his sons. The Ustad’s family is credited with keeping the qawwali art alive through 30 generations for 700 years at Dargah Nizamuddin Auliya in Delhi. The performance by his sons Sibtain, Saqlain, Jamaluddin and Shahnawaz Nizami premiered online as a segment of The Qawwal Project, conceptualized and curated by Kathak performer Manjari Chaturvedi. “Ustad Sahab is no longer with us, but he comes from the lineage of well-known ‘Qawwal Bachhe’ — sons of original qawwali singers trained by Amir Khusro himself,” said Chaturvedi. Ustad Meraj’s sons regaled the audience with Amir Khusro’s composition ‘Mann Kunto Maula’ followed by a bhajan of Lord Krishna by Nawab Sadiq Jung Bahadur. “Our father used to sing compositions on Prophet Muhammad, Imam Ali and his sons Imam Hasan and Imam Husain, and bhajan in praise of Lord Krishna. We are trying to keep that alive,” said his eldest son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/qawwali-tribute-to-ustad-nizami-by-sons/articleshow/78503333.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kanpur||Paint factory in Mandhana gutted in fire, loss of lakhs||KANPUR: A major fire broke out at a paint factory located at Pachore Road in Mandhana area under the limits of Bithoor police station area of the district on Monday morning. Short-circuit in electrical wiring is suspected to have caused the fire in which property worth lakhs was gutted. More than half-a-dozen fire tenders were rushed to the spot to control the flames, which gutted a major portion of the factory. Fire department officials said the fire was so intense that it could be brought under control late in the evening. No casualties, however, were reported till filing of the report. Panic prevailed and locals in nearby residential pockets evacuated their houses in a hurry as several loud explosions were heard and thick columns of smoke descended in the area. Police sources said a stray spark following short-circuit hit containers of inflammable chemicals at paint factory, when the employees of the morning shift were to begin their duty, may have triggered the blaze. Seeing the fire, several labourers rushed towards the factory’s exit gate to save their lives. Senior administrative, police and Fire department officials rushed to the spot. Sources said the major portion of the factory was destroyed and the losses could run into several lakhs. “The fire might have started due to short-circuit, but the exact cause of fire will be ascertained after thorough investigation,” SP rural Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said. The fire officials said paints and chemicals stored in huge quantities in the factory fed the fire and made it difficult for fire-tenders to control it quickly. “There was a delay in rescue operation, as majority of fire tenders got stuck in traffic jam on busy GT Road,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/paint-factory-in-mandhana-gutted-in-fire-loss-of-lakhs/articleshow/78502713.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Doon’s iconic Mahatma Khushi Ram Public Library marks 100 years of establishment with spl first day cover by India Post||Dehradun: The city’s iconic Mahatma Khushi Ram Public Library & Reading Room Society marked the first working day of its 100th year of establishment on Monday. On the occasion, a special first day cover was released in an event held at GPO, Dehradun. The special cover features the library’s building situated on Gandhi Road. The library has an eclectic collection of more than 45,000 books on several subjects, including Science, Arts, Mythology, Religion, and Environment. It also has a collection of old Vedas, Upnishads, and Puranas. Recently, a multi-purpose ‘Authors Lounge’ was also set up on the premises. The library is named after retired postmaster Khushi Ram who donated all his books and life’s savings to set up the library in 1921. The facility was further developed by Rai Bahadur Ugra Sain, who was the then chairman of the Dehradun Municipal Corporation. Sain was instrumental in allotting a piece of land for the library in the centre of the city. Retired IAS officer Vijay Bansal, currently president of the board of trustees, said that on the occasion of the library’s centennial year, “all the enlightened citizens of the city should contribute whatever they can to make this library a great institution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doons-iconic-mahatma-khushi-ram-public-library-marks-100-years-of-establishment-with-spl-first-day-cover-by-india-post/articleshow/78500143.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Flight lands in Varanasi due to technical problem||VARANASI: Spicejet 8719 Ahmedabad-Patna flight, carrying 91 passengers and crew members on board, was diverted to LBS International Airport of Varanasi after its pilot expressed inability to land the aircraft on the shorter runway of Patna airport due to technical snag on Monday. LBS International Airport spokesman Ranjit Verma said, “Landing of Spicejet 8719 flight was ensured here at 7.30am after its pilot reported that he was unable to land the flight on a shorter runway of Patna airport due to technical problem in the aircraft.” The flight had entered Patna airspace on its scheduled time, but before landing the pilot noticed the technical problem and reported the matter to Air Traffic Control (ATC), said officials. After the pilot stated that due to some technical glitch, the landing of the flight was not possible at a shorter runway of Patna airport, he was asked to divert the flight to Varanasi. Even before the flight entered Varanasi airspace, airport officials ensured all precautionary arrangements for the safe landing of the plane. After the flight landed, all the passengers and crew members were taken to the airport terminal building. Initially, they were assured that the technical problem would be solved in an hour or two after which the flight would depart for Patna. Later, the snag was rectified and the flight departed for Patna at around 4.30 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/flight-lands-in-varanasi-due-to-technical-problem/articleshow/78502758.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 6, 2020||Goa||Battered in monsoon last year, Velsao bandstand yet to be restored||COLVA: Last monsoon, stormy weather and choppy sea had battered the Velsao shore and damaged the tiled bandstand leaving a gaping hole in the structure when the floor collapsed. A year later vegetation has taken over the collapsed portion, which is lying neglected as no repairs have been done. A part of the walls of the structure was also damaged by tidal waves last year, and stones and concrete material has been pushed back under the structure. Officials from the state Water Resources Department (WRD) said they are awaiting action by the central water and power resources station (CWPRS) in Pune. The seating arrangement still lies broken and plastic bottles tied to a string secures the periphery of the gaping hole in the floor. While WRD is responsible for such repairs, officials said such incidents in coastal areas have to be referred to CWPRS, which is part of the Union ministry of water resources and is one of the foremost organisations in the field of hydraulics and allied research. Assistant engineer, WRD Ajay Kudchadkar said that in November last year, after informing CWPRS, they had done a survey and carried out an inspection, adding, “Follow ups by our department with reminders have not yielded any response.” “On our own we cannot do any construction. Since the design and the material to be used is in the coastal area, the foundation and its depth has to be specified by CWPRS and it comes under their jurisdiction”, said Kudchadkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/battered-in-monsoon-last-year-velsao-bandstand-yet-to-be-restored/articleshow/78503615.cms||Nisser Dias
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Man stabs married woman and her daughter||Dehradun: A 40-year-old woman and her daughter were stabbed by a man who entered their house in the Nehru Colony police station area on Monday late evening. The woman, identified as Rajni Rawat, and her daughter, Astha Rawat, were admitted to a private hospital. The condition of Rajni is said to be critical, police said. On receiving information, a police team led by Superintendent of Police (SP) City Shweta Choubey reached the spot for investigation. According to police, the man who stabbed the woman and her daughter was known to them. "Police are making efforts to arrest the accused man," said a senior district police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-stabs-married-woman-and-her-daughter/articleshow/78500142.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||JEE-Advanced exam: Rajasthan boy battles brain disease to secure 35th rank||JAIPUR: He took a day’s leave from hospital – where he is battling a rare brain disease -- to be at the exam hall on September 27. On Monday, Parth Dwivedi, a resident of Bharatpur, had a broad smile on his face as he notched the 35th rank in the JEE-Advanced exam. Parth, whose parents are based in Lucknow, was diagnosed with meningoencephalitis (inflation of the brain) barely three weeks ahead of the exam. He was admitted to an ICU in a private hospital in Delhi on September 6 for a week and later shifted to a ward till he was discharged on October 4. He showed signs of recovery for doctors to allow him to take a day’s leave under medical observation to appear in the exam. “I am pleased to see him happy and relaxed after a month of hospitalization. This success will get him a seat in any of the IITs and it has made him feel so good that it will help in his recovery,” said Parth’s mother Neeti Dwivedi, who is ASP, Lucknow. Parth scored 100 percentile in JEE-Main and was a contender to make it to the top five of JEE-Advanced, as per his scores in test papers. In the midst of intense revision in August, he began developing symptoms with adverse pain in his body. His condition deteriorated in September and was rushed to hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-boy-battlesbrain-disease-to-secure-35th-rank/articleshow/78502589.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Dept review meetings to be virtual: U’khand govt||Dehradun: State government on Monday announced that all department review meetings will be held virtually from now onwards. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the increasing number of coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand. An order regarding the same has been issued by secretary Amit Negi on Monday. The order addressed to additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries states that all department review meetings must be held virtually to avoid further spread of coronavirus. The order also specifies that if physical presence of officials is must for a meeting, then social distancing norms and wearing of masks must be made mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dept-review-meetings-to-be-virtual-ukhand-govt/articleshow/78500158.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||On-off street parking policy temporarily put on hold||AHMEDABAD: A new permit policy for on and off street parking in commercial and residential areas has been temporarily put on hold. The standing committee of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is yet to give its stamp of approval on the rates fixed for the parking permits decided in September last year. The permit policy will allow the civic body to issue parking permits — annual or monthly — to authorized vehicle owners to park in designated parking zones near their homes or work areas. The cost of parking permits is supposed to be fixed, considering the demand and premium factor of the zone. “The policy has been drafted and is yet to get a an approval on the rates. The policy for commercial or ‘work’ areas will be declared first,” said an AMC official. “The on-street parking will be Rs 10 higher than the off-street parking,” the official added. The minimum range for on-street parking for 0 to 3 hours is likely to be Rs 20 for three wheelers and cars, while Rs 60 is likely to be charged for heavy vehicles. The off-street parking rates may be Rs 5 less for each category of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/on-off-street-parking-policy-temporarily-put-on-hold/articleshow/78501226.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Meet changemakers in the slums of Madurai||CHENNAI: What does it take to transform a community? Relentless trust-building, dialogue and tutoring every single day, R Sankareswari will tell you. The 38-year-old herself isn’t aware of what it’s like to be armed with a college degree before stepping out into the world, but has become the catalyst for every child in the slum of Gomaspalayam, Madurai, for the past nine years to realise the career they set their hearts on — whether it is in IT, government or entrepreneurship. Sankareswari is one of the facilitators of Mahalir Sakthi, a Madurai-based NGO that is empowering marginalised dalit and Muslim children to finish school and college, and return to enable the next generation in the community to do the same. "We started in 2005 with about 80 students. Today, our network has grown into 200 students and 15 facilitators across 12 slums," says C Gunaseeli, founder of Mahalir Sakthi. Families picked out by the team are mostly manual scavengers, small scale vendors and sanitary workers, battling discrimination — both caste-based and for their work. "While they send their kids to school initially, poverty forces many of the kids to drop out, and eventually follow in their parents’ footsteps," says Sankareswari, whose parents too were unskilled labourers from Gomaspalayam. Realising that a strained living environment, with little means doesn’t leave space for lofty dreams, the NGO runs a tuition centre for every slum they work in, where they could be coached after school. The teachers are the few educated and previously unemployed women residents of the slum. While the children have found a guide and a calm space to study, the women have found financial independence and value addition through this work. Because Mahalir’s Sakthi’s model is built on a strong foundation of beneficiaries of their programme, they take the movement forward, making it self-sustaining and community-driven. "Over the years, our children have excelled in school," says Gunaseeli. "They get into banking, become nurses or techies, and come back to transform the lives of their families — a proof of our vision, which converts the fence sitters in the community." Understanding these challenges, the team spends time to shift perspectives first — among children and their families. Experts from fields of law, health and politics are often invited to engage with the children and cultivate critical thinking early on. "My resolve is that no child must have to get into the jobs their parents are doing," Sankareswari. "Every year, we take the kids on tours to museums, parks and heritage monuments. Often, this is their incentive to continue training. But with time, they become discerning enough to set their own goals. It is the initial years that are the hardest." No one knows this better than A Reshma, a practising nutritionist today, who may have never been able to circumvent her orthodox Muslim background had her mother not taken her to Mahalir Sakthi’s summer camps as a child. "My mother was a part of the movement, but faced immense opposition from the family to continue working after marriage," says Reshma. "But, after she convinced them that it was a team of women working to empower fellow women, she was permitted to work and luckily, I imbibed these values too," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/meet-changemakers-in-the-slums-of-madurai/articleshow/78502575.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||IPL betting gang busted in Doon||Dehradun: A cricket betting racket was busted and four accused were arrested from a hotel in Dehradun by Special Task Force (STF) on Monday. The accused were reportedly paying Rs 3 lakh per month rent for the hotel rooms. The arrested accused have been identified as Sarabdeep Singh, Chintu Karnwal, Nimakmal, and Prince Verma. STF sleuths have also recovered a SUV, multiple mobile phones, LED TV, set top boxes, and a register for making entries from their possession. DIG STF Ridhim Agarwal said that the team raided the Dehradun-based hotel on a tip-off and arrested four persons who were betting in the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL). Meanwhile, STF is now making a list of people who were investing money in cricket betting, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ipl-betting-gang-busted-in-doon/articleshow/78500147.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj’s Dev goes down fighting in 1st round||Ahmedabad: Dev Javia’s — India’s No 1 in under-18 boys' — lost his first-round singles match against Antonie Ghiboudo of France 4-6, 6-3, 3-6 at the French Open Juniors at the Roland Garros on Monday.After losing the first set 4-6, the Ahmedabad teenager fought back strongly to win the second 6-3. However, he lost his steam in the deciding set to lose 3-6.Coach Shrimal Bhatt expressed satisfaction with Dev’s performance. “We came to France under difficult conditions as Dev lacked match practice. He had not played any competitive event since February. But he tried his best here in Paris at such temperature (10 degree C) and played very well,’’ said Shrimal from Paris“I am sure Dev will improve with more European erxposure. This experience will help him adjust better to conditions for his doubles match,’’ added Bhatt.Dev will start his campaign in the doubles first round with his Chinese partner Hanwn Li against E Agafonav of Russia and P Fajta of Hungary on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujs-dev-goes-down-fighting-in-1st-round/articleshow/78502373.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj’s Dev goes down fighting in 1st round||Ahmedabad: Dev Javia — India’s No 1 in under-18 boys' — lost his first-round singles match against Antonie Ghiboudo of France 4-6, 6-3, 3-6 at the French Open Juniors at the Roland Garros on Monday.After losing the first set 4-6, the Ahmedabad teenager fought back strongly to win the second 6-3. However, he lost his steam in the deciding set to lose 3-6.Coach Shrimal Bhatt expressed satisfaction with Dev’s performance. “We came to France under difficult conditions as Dev lacked match practice. He had not played any competitive event since February. But he tried his best here in Paris at such temperature (10 degree C) and played very well,’’ said Shrimal from Paris“I am sure Dev will improve with more European exposure. This experience will help him adjust better to conditions for his doubles match,’’ added Bhatt.Dev will start his campaign in the doubles first round with his Chinese partner Hanwn Li against E Agafonav of Russia and P Fajta of Hungary on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujs-dev-goes-down-fighting-in-1st-round/articleshow/78502776.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak sweepstake: Parties line up veterans for campaign||HYDERABAD: Making a desperate bid to win the Dubbak bypoll, various political parties have mobilised legislators, former MLAs and ex-MPs to campaign at even mandal level. Finance minister T Harish Rao has taken the lead by undertaking a vigorous campaign for the TRS, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy has assigned responsibilities to other leaders. TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy has been asked to specifically concentrate on Mirdoddi mandal. From the TRS, former MLA Chinta Prabhakar will take up cudgels on behalf of the party nominee in Mirdoddi. Congress MP of Bhuvanagiri Komatireddy Venkat Reddy will turn his focus on Doultabad mandal where the TRS has made Vanteru Pratap Reddy responsible of ensuring the party does well. In the 2018 assembly elections, Pratap Reddy had contested against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao from Gajwel and lost. After the elections, he joined the TRS and was appointed chairman of Telangana State Forest Development Corporation. In Thoguta mandal, former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah will take up responsibility for the party’s campaign and he will have to outwit Andole MLA Chanti Kranthi Kumar who will have to ensure that the TRS will stand its ground. BJP is also not far behind. Former MP A Jitendhar Reddy, who was earlier with the TRS, has been roped in to work for the victory of the party candidate. Meanwhile, district SP D Joel Davis has asked individuals holding weapon licence to deposit their arms in police stations. During a visit to Bhoompalli police station, he said surveillance in the villages would be increased and cases registered against anyone trying to influence voters by distributing money or liquor. With a straight fight emerging among senior leaders of various parties to ensure win of their parties’ candidates, the district administration and police have made specific arrangements to keep a vigil against the model code of conduct being violated by the leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-sweepstake-parties-line-up-veterans-for-campaign/articleshow/78501262.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Consistency and hard work help local lad get 26th rank||JAIPUR: Virendra Kabra, a 17-year-old city boy from C-Scheme, secured the 26 rank in JEE Advance results declared on Monday. Aiming for IIT Bombay, Virendra said the formula of success was consistency and hard work. “I never stopped revising. Even during lockdown when there was uncertainty of whether exams will be conducted, I was constantly in touch with my studies. I revised my syllabus many times and kept giving mock tests at my coaching institute. My consistency helped me achieve this score,” said Virendra. Student of Mahaveer Public School, this was Virendra’s first attempt. His father is general manager at BSNL and mother is a housewife. Virendra’s sister was a rank holder in commerce. This year’s question paper was set up by IIT Delhi so to know the pattern he went through the 2012 exam paper. “In 2012, IIT Delhi conducted the exam and to know about the standard of paper, I studied it properly. It helped me know about the pattern, level of physics and mathematics,” said Virendra. Giving credit to his family, he said good environment at home gave helped him focus in his exam. Explaining about the mistakes that students commit while preparing, Virendra said, “Students need to work on their mistakes after every test in coaching. Many a times, students get good marks and they do not improve on their mistakes. After completing the exam, revision is a must.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/consistency-and-hard-work-help-local-lad-get-26th-rank/articleshow/78502624.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s Dev goes down fighting in 1st round at French Open Juniors||AHMEDABAD: Dev Javia — India’s No 1 in under-18 boys' — lost his first-round singles match against Antonie Ghiboudo of France 4-6, 6-3, 3-6 at the French Open Juniors at the Roland Garros on Monday. After losing the first set 4-6, the Ahmedabad teenager fought back strongly to win the second 6-3. However, he lost his steam in the deciding set to lose 3-6. Coach Shrimal Bhatt expressed satisfaction with Dev’s performance. “We came to France under difficult conditions as Dev lacked match practice. He had not played any competitive event since February. But he tried his best here in Paris at such temperature (10 degree C) and played very well,’’ said Shrimal from Paris “I am sure Dev will improve with more European exposure. This experience will help him adjust better to conditions for his doubles match,’’ added Bhatt. Dev will start his campaign in the doubles first round with his Chinese partner Hanwn Li against E Agafonav of Russia and P Fajta of Hungary on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-dev-goes-down-fighting-in-1st-round-at-french-open-juniors/articleshow/78502342.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||5 units of Anpara plant trip due to snag in Pipari line||VARANASI: Three units of 210 MW each and two of 500 MW each of Anpara thermal power plant (ATPP) tripped due to some snag in Pipari line on Monday morning. Denying any connection of the damage in Pipari line with the power employees’ strike, the UP Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited ATPP’s chief general manager HP Singh said that efforts were on to restart the tripped units. However, the snag could not be repaired till late evening. One unit of 500 MW is already lying defunct at this 2630 MW plant for over a year. At around 9.30am, the power generation units of Anpara- A and B projects developed some snag and became defunct stopping the production of 1630 MW. It brought the project officials on their toes. When TOI contacted the CGM (UPRVUNL ATPP), he said, “Initial investigation of the project officials revealed that due to some fault, the Pipari line was damaged. As the power production continued but transmission was failed, three units of 210 MW each and two of 500 MW each tripped.” Singh said that a big band of engineers, staff and officials were engaged to light up the closed power generation units after disconnecting the Pipari line. The units had started operating one after one, he said adding, but all the units had not become operational by evening. As the UPRVUNL employees had boycott work since Mondaay morning in support of the agitation of Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited employees against the privatization of power sector, the Anpara project officials had ensured alternative arrangements by calling contractual staff on duty. On being asked, whether the damge in Pipari line had any connection with the power employees’ agitation, Singh said that no evidence of anyone’s involvement in damaging Pipari line had come to light yet. Only one unit of 500 MW remained operation at Anparad D. The seventh unit of Anpara project is lying defunct for a year. Singh admitted that the unit is lying defunct due to which, against the total capacity of producing 2630 MW, the plant was producing only 2130 MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/5-units-of-anpara-plant-trip-due-to-snag-in-pipari-line/articleshow/78502773.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Four arrested for beating up man, urinating on him||Gorakhpur: Deoria police arrested four accused on Monday for allegedly beating a man, urinating on him and breaking his ‘janeu’ (a sacred thread) over a land dispute, in Sakarpar area under Sadar Kotwali police station limits in Deoria district. The man posted a video on his Twitter account, in which he narrated the entire story. He also made a complaint at Sadar Kotwali. “One Anish Chand Dwivedi of the Pansrahi area under Sadar Kotwali limits has a land dispute with his neighbour Satish Yadav. On Sunday night, Anish posted a video on Twitter stating that on Saturday night some people of Sakarpar area surrounded him and beat him up after taking him at gun-point. One of the accused urinated in his mouth and broke his ‘janeu.’ However, in the complaint given to the police, he has written that the accused had beaten him and one of them urinated on his body. When they caught him with his collar, his ‘janeu’ broke,” said superintendent of police (SP) Deoria Shishyapal. “All the four accused have been arrested and a case is being registered under the requisite sections,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-arrested-for-beating-up-man-urinating-on-him/articleshow/78502875.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Long power cuts, snags amid power strike leaves all sweating||VARANASI: The power employees proceeded on an indefinite strike from Monday in response to a call given by UP Vidyut Karmachari Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti to protest against the proposed privatisation of Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL), leaving consumers in distress amid long power cuts and supply disruption. Since the government refused to withdraw the privatisation decision, power employees from all sub-stations, feeders and offices collected at PVVNL headquarters in Bhikharipur since morning and staged a sit-in under the banner of Vidyut Karmchari Sanyukta Sangharsh Samiti. Similar protests were held in 22 east UP districts under PVVNL. Most housing and residential colonies like Godowlia, Gurubagh, Rathyatra, Mahmoorganj, Bhelupur, Chetganj, Maidagin, Sigra, Cantt, Nepali Khapda, Bramhanal, Thatheri Bazaar and Lukhichautra faced long powercuts. The villages connected to Badagaon and Satomahua feeders also had no power supply since morning. By late afternoon, power cuts increased in most areas and a crowd gathered at Manduadih sub-station following which heavy police force was called to avoid any untoward incident. Citizens also had to face water shortage due to absence of power as despite large scale preparations to tackle the crisis, the administration failed in ensuring power supply. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said officials of the electricity department failed to deploy 1,500 contractual staff at sub-stations and 1,000 reserve staff properly where they were required as per their assurance. As major faults at 25 sub-stations led to power cuts in the district, it is also being investigated whether there was any role of power employees, the DM said. As power cuts increased in humid weather and complaints started pouring in, DM rushed ADM City Gulab Chand and other officials to the control room at PVVNL headquarters in Bhikharipur. The officials of the agency supplying contractual staff were summoned and the DM also reached there to monitor the situation. Sharma said the agency had assured to arrange sufficient manpower in all meetings held earlier, but power officials could not ensure the presence of the contractual staff as they had assured. The role of power employees was also suspected due to largescale technical snags at power sub-stations and transformers. “Problems were reported at 25 sub-stations and a total of 80 complaints had been registered till 5pm. We have asked the power officials to inquire if the technical faults were caused deliberately and submit a report. In case, the role of any agitators in causing technical snags for disrupting power supply during the stir comes to light, legal action would be initiated against them, he added. Due to being PVVNL headquarters, major power supply disruption problems were reported in the city while people in Mau, Azamgarh, Jaunpur and other districts also suffered due to power cuts and delay in supply restoration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/long-power-cuts-snags-amid-power-strike-leaves-all-sweating/articleshow/78502809.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Revisions helped Vishwas get AIR-82 in his first attempt||Jaipur: Vishwas Kalani, resident of Mansarovar, Jaipur secured 82nd rank in JEE Advanced results that were declared on Monday. “This was my first attempt and I will give credit to my teachers and parents who helped me throughout. I am expecting to get into IIT-Delhi in Computer Science branch,” said Vishwas with pride. Son of a chartered accountant father Vishwas said that while preparing from coaching centre he used to get disheartened when he scored low rank. “I would feel bad but after coming home, I always rectified my mistakes and performed better next time. I thoroughly revised my coaching material and continuously revised the syllabus. I never took a break even during lockdown. I followed my time-table constantly,” said Vishwas. Chemistry was his weakness, but he improved on it. In organic chemistry, where major portion is theoretical, Vishwas said that for the last two years, he revised organic chemistry every morning and slowly he became better in it. “It is important to attempt previous year’s question papers. This helps students to get an idea about the pattern and can help in time management as well. I would suggest students who are still preparing, not to feel pressurised but keep on working. Success will come to those who work hard and smart,” said Vishwas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/revisions-helped-vishwas-get-air-82-in-his-first-attempt/articleshow/78502656.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Goa||Gaurav Awasthi’s JEE (Advance) rank 1,444 best so far this year||Panaji: After the JEE (Advance) results were declared on Monday, Gaurav Awasthi’s all-India rank of 1,444 has emerged as the best known so far from Goa. Previously, at the Goa Common Entrance Test, Awasthi had the top scores in the state in all three subjects—physics, chemistry and mathematics. He has also equalled the best known score by a Goan at BITSAT of 426 in 2020. Awasthi, a student of Cujira-based Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, said though he is undecided about the stream he wants to pursue, he is certain to join an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT). His rank has opened up options to join at least three of the much sought-after IITs in Madras, Kanpur and Kharagpur. Awasthi is the son of a private firm employee Navin and homemaker Suman. Though Siddhant Govekar, also a student of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, had the best rank at the JEE(Main) from Goa, the student could not appear for JEE (Advance). “Students have only four days to register for the JEE (Advance), after the JEE (Main) results are out. As I was busy preparing for NEET, I missed the deadline to register,” said Govekar, who has also answered NEET and aims to join AIIMS to pursue medicine. Kavish Priolkar with his rank of 3,796 and Kalyan Salkar with his all-India rank of 5,095 have also qualified to bag a seat in one of the old IITs. “We should be really appreciative of this batch of students. Gaurav and Siddhant were unusually focused and dedicated. It was really tough this year because the test was being deferred and they had to answer the exam during a pandemic. They spent nearly two and a half years training for the exam, which is a really long time,” said director of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, Vyankatesh Prabhudesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gaurav-awasthis-jee-advance-rank-1444-best-so-far-this-year/articleshow/78502732.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||BJP stages protests to condemn rising crimes against women||Jaipur/Ajmer: Rajasthan BJP held a statewide protest on Monday to highlight rising crimes against women. It was attended by all BJP MPs, MLAs and organisation workers. In Jaipur, the protest was led by state president Satish Poonia who held a foot march from the BJP headquarters to Civil Lines Phatak. “This protest is a reminder to the Congress government that they have no moral right to rule the state. Under their rule, crime rate against women has created a new record in the country,” said Poonia. Party workers holding banners reached the Civil Lines railway crossing where police had to use a mild force to prevent party workers from marching towards CM house. The situation turned tense when police took Poonia to Ashok Nagar police station. The move came after NCRB data 2019 put Rajasthan on the top of the list in terms of rape cases. Rajathan BJP spokesperson Laxmikant Bhardwaj said being a responsible opposition party, they will continue to stage protests until the government takes rigorous steps in stopping crimes against women. “Our party has given a call to the continuously and consistently raise our voice against the injustice being done to our women,” said Bhardwaj. Anand Sharma of BJP media cell said the ruling party was least concerned with people. “Thousands of party workers across the state participated in the protest asking the government to act,” said Sharma. Meanwhile in Ajmer, BJP staged a march against the Ashok Gehlot government from Dak Bungalow to collectorate. The party also demanded Gehlot to step down. BJP MP Bhagirath Choudhary, BJP MLAs Vasudev Devnani, Anita Bhadel and several leaders participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-stages-protests-to-condemn-rising-crimes-against-women/articleshow/78502683.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Meerut||UP: Murder accused kills again to ‘start a new life’||MEERUT: Accused of killing a man and raping a woman while on bail, Raj Kumar, in his 30s, wanted to get off the hook to start a new life. And he found his “ticket to freedom” in an addict in a dingy liquor shop in Bulandshahr. The next day, Kumar approached the man, whose identity is yet to be established by local police, and gave him some money and his clothes to wear. The gullible addict accepted it all happily. With the help of his wife and an aide, Kumar took the man on the margins of a forest near Bulandshahr’s Chatari area and allegedly killed him. He also planted his Aadhaar card in the body and disfigured its face, beyond recognition with a chemical. Thinking that he was off to a new start, Kumar left for an undisclosed location. On the night of September 23, police found the body and the Aadhaar card bearing Raj Kumar’s name. The disfigured face perplexed them and they probed a little more. “We landed on the first clue after our investigating team recorded the statement of Kumar’s wife and took his mobile number. We traced the mobile to a man in Aligarh. He told police that the phone was sold to him on September 24, hours after the murder. When we showed him the Aadhaar card, he identified Raj Kumar as the seller,” said Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar. The team again questioned Kumar’s wife and she gave them the location of her husband. “Kumar, his wife and their aide Dharmnedra Sharma have been arrested,” the SSP said. He added, “Facing a murder case, Kumar was out on bail. He is currently wanted in a rape case registered at Qarsi police station in Aligarh. To save himself from the pending criminal cases, he conspired to kill the man and fake his death.” "The deceased was an addict and was mostly seen near a wine shop. His exact identity is being ascertained,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/out-on-bail-murder-accused-kills-again-to-start-a-new-life-his-aadhaar-card-leads-cops-to-him/articleshow/78500203.cms||Piyush Rai
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Marking calamity’s latest fallout: Presidency, Calcutta University subject-seat mismatch||KOLKATA: Presidency University has published its fourth provisional merit list for undergraduate courses but a bulk of seats still remained vacant in certain subjects even after three rounds of admissions, a challenge being also faced by several colleges affiliated to Calcutta University. Several principals and educationists told TOI one of the major reasons for vacancies in some subjects was the surge in marks in plus-II exams under the special strategy that the boards had to adopt when certain papers in their respective exams had to be suspended owing to the pandemic. Presidency is still looking to fill seats in all the 16 subjects, with some subjects registering almost 40% vacancies. In its fourth provisional list, it invited candidates to take admissions to 11 seats in geography, 15 in English, 28 in maths, 24 in history and 28 in physics. This, when most seats had been filled at the end of the third round the last three years. “Students from certain boards scored very high in some subjects, while others could not because of the marking system. High-scorers got through some of the premium colleges due to their marks. As a result, some subjects have high number of vacancies, while other subjects have a long waiting list,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the All Bengal Principals’ Council. An official pointed out high-scorers not genuinely interested in a subject applied for it anyway as there was no fee this time and so, even when their names appeared on the list, they did not take admission. So, those seats had been remaining vacant, he said. Arabinda Nayak, nodal officer for admissions to undergraduate courses at the university, did not wish to comment but another official in the admissions committee said, “In many subjects, the vacancies are almost 40% of the capacity even after three rounds have already been conducted. It seems it might be difficult to fill all seats by admission deadline of October 30.” The authorities are now brainstorming to find newer ways to fill the seats faster. “One way is to invite only interested candidates to report online who can be offered admissions on the spot,” he said. Several CU colleges have reopened their portals, inviting fresh applications. Others, such as Lady Brabourne, Loreto, Bethune and Maulana Azad, are still calling up those from the list to take admissions. The first merit lists at JU has been published and the admissions to UG courses will start from Tuesday. It will end on October 10. Principals of colleges across the city will be watching the response at JU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/marking-calamitys-latest-fallout-presi-cu-subject-seat-mismatch/articleshow/78501365.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 6, 2020||Varanasi||Name change: It’s Siddharthnagar railway station now, not Naugarh||GORAKHPUR: Railway minister Piyush Goyal inaugurated the name change of Naugarh railway station to Siddharthanagar railway station in an online event on Monday. Goyal said, “Mahatma Buddha’s birth place Lumbini is very near and keeping in view the wish of people, the name of the station is being changed to Siddharthnagar railway station.” “A large number of Buddhist tourists come to Lumbini and the area is declared as a World Heritage site by Unesco. A new 240 km long rail line has been approved from Khalilabad to Bahraich via Domariyaganj-Utroula-Balrampur-Shravasti and will give momentum to the development of Sant Kabirnagar, Siddharthanagar, Bahraich, Shravasti and Gonda districts.” “In last six years, 460 km of rail line was constructed, 531 km was doubled and 489 km was changed to broad gauge. All 1,404 unsecured level crossings were closed and Rs 19,600 crore were allocated for infrastructure development which is nine times more than previous years.” “Antyodaya, Humsafar, Deendayal and LHB coaches are being made at the Modern rail coach factory in Rae Bareli. Last year, the factory doubled the production of coaches,” he added Goyal said passenger trains were restricted due to corona pandemic but goods trains continued and helped in transporting essential goods during lockdown. “In September, loading was 80% more than last year. As many as 22,40,000 passengers came via 1,661 Shramik special trains and 2,50,000 passengers were sent to other states in 191 Shramik specials. Employment was provided to migrant labourers in the 67 rail projects in Uttar Pradesh under PM Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan.” MP Jagdambika Pal thanked the minister as the online programme was live-streamed on YouTube. MLA Shyam Dhani, GM NE Railway, L C Trivedi and other officials also attended the online event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/name-change-its-siddharthnagar-railway-station-now-not-naugarh/articleshow/78502906.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Timely cop action foils ‘live’ suicide||Kolkata: There was frantic action at the Lalbazar control room on Sunday night when three Twitter users — all self-confessed fans demanding “justice” for actor Sushant Singh Rajput — tagged a 38-minute video showing a young woman threatening and preparing to end life. Several others from across the country also joined in requesting her not to take any hasty step. However, timely intervention from police, which started with a phone call late in the night, helped cops save her life.According to police sources and various groups campaigning for justice for the actor, this blogger — who also runs a YouTube channel — had earlier threatened to end life if no breakthrough came in the actor’s case. All three twitter users asked desperately for the police to intervene. As seen in the video, the woman had hung a sling from the fan and broken down during the live chat.Alerted, cops swung in to action. Sources at the control room took help of the cyber cell and traced her Bhowanipore residence. However, she was not traced there. The cops finally traced her to an address in the Tollygunge-Regent Park area. Two officers called her up and tried to console her. They repeatedly told her not to lose heart. Later, on Monday morning, cops assured everyone that the woman was safe. “Please be informed that the victim has been traced successfully. The officers of the police station concerned were able to convince and prevent her from taking any drastic steps,” the police tweeted.Earlier, among those who tweeted to police was one who uses the ID — justice-for-sushi. “I don’t know her personally but when I first uploaded my theories (about Sushant’s death) then someone tagged me on to her videos. She is fighting from beginning. I know she makes videos. Her videos should be on YouTube. But see, only two videos are here. All others are deleted.” Anusree, another Twitter user, who tagged the Kolkata Police and the commissioner of Kolkata Police, wrote: “@CPKolkata @KolkataPolice please look into this matter, she’s saying she will commit suicide. Check this video of her.”Later, the woman herself took to You Tube to release a fresh video. While most part of the video talked about the probe, she did thank the two cops for intervening along “with her family who never left her feel alone”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/timely-cop-action-foils-live-suicide/articleshow/78504003.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Sri Ganganagar’s Shantanu tops state in CLAT result||Jaipur: Shantanu Bishnoi, a resident of Suratgarh in Sri Ganganagar, has secured AIR (All India Ranking) 10 in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) exam, the results of which were announced on Monday evening. Bishnoi, who came to Jaipur to prepare for CLAT a year ago, was scared of the English portion of the exam but overcame it by extensive reading and writing. His interest in law is not new and since childhood he started reading on matters related to the Constitution, governance and laws. Eyeing to become an expert on Constitution matters, Bishnoi has done a detailed study of various laws which has come to the fore nationally in the recent times and has become a point of friction between the government and the opposition and the civilsociety. “Constitution matters have a great scope and most of the judgments which can bring a landmark change in society come from the constitutional bench,” said Bishnoi. He added that last winter a section protested against the CAA and NRC laws. Hde added that when he carefully examined it, he found that the issue revolves around the interpretation of the Constitution. On agriculture reforms which has sparked protest in some states, he felt that expertise on the law was greater service to the nation. Bishnoi has studied for 8-10 hours during his coaching in Jaipur and during the lockdown he scaled up study time to 12-16 hours a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sri-ganganagars-shantanu-tops-state-in-clat-result/articleshow/78502707.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Police recover ‘live’ suicide video from youth’s phone in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: Days after the mysterious death of a youth in Shahjahanpur, a video has surfaced in which he could purportedly be seen hanging himself with a rope and saying that he was taking the step because of his failed love relationship. The youth, Minkal Mishra, was a domestic help of a police inspector and had taken two days leave from work. Mishra was found hanging inside his room on Wednesday morning. Police have recovered the video from his phone and it would be included in the investigation of the case. Mishra (23) was a resident of Roza area and used to work as a domestic help with the SHO of Roza police station. The SHO, Rajendra Bahadur, said, “The video suggests that the youth had killed himself and there is no foul play. We will put a final report in this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-days-after-his-death-police-recover-live-suicide-video-from-youths-phone/articleshow/78500224.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||‘Stop all infrastructure for coal transportation in Goa’||Panaji: Three days after a massive silent anti-coal protest walk between Mollem and Vasco, an anti-coal rally took place in Margao on Monday. Citizens from Guirdolim-Chandor, San Jose de Areal, Betalbatim-Seraulim, Fatorda and Margao, led by NGO Goyant Kollso Naka, carried posters and placards on two and four-wheelers through the streets of Margao and Fatorda sending out a clear message against coal handling. Dressed in black and holding ‘Stop tree felling, hill cutting, land filling’, ‘Strong oppose coal and coal infrastructure’ posters, the protesters also submitted memorandums to the MLAs of Margao and Fatorda. “The rally was carried out without any disturbance just to make people aware of the issue of coal. Many people don’t know about it. We’re telling people that coal is a very controversial issue across the world and that there are other local and health impacts of this scale of coal transportation being planned in Goa. Finally, the people should decide, and the people’s will should triumph,” member of Goyant Kollso Naka, Abhijit Prabhudessai told TOI. “We have researched the entire matter and we’ve come to a very clear conclusion that all infrastructure for coal transportation should be stopped whether it is double tracking, river dredging or highway expansion. These are clearly stated as projects for port connectivity in the Sagarmala masterplan. When the whole world is moving away from coal in the wake of climate change, we’re spending crores of our money for something that is going to destroy the earth only so that three companies can make a profit. This is betraying the whole human species,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-all-infrastructure-for-coal-transportation-in-goa/articleshow/78503642.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Teen foils burglary bid, suspect held||Aurangabad: The 14-year old son of a former deputy mayor foiled a burglary bid on Sunday late night after he spotted a suspect entering the compound of a gated residential society in Garkheda area.  The accused identified as Shrirang alias Shubham alias Popat Hiwale (23), has 17 cases registered against him. Ghanshyam Sonawne, the assistant inspector, said on Sunday night at around 10.30 pm,Yatarth, the son of Rajendra Janjal, was on his bicycle in the residential compound, when he spotted an unidentified person jumping inside the gated society. He informed his father who alerted the police. Then Sonawne along with other police personnel rushed to the spot. When they reached, the suspect had broken into one of the flats. Soon after learning about the police’s arrival, the suspect tried fleeing but the policemen nabbed him. He was found to be under the influence of some substance so at first, it was difficult to question him but later he confessed to an attempted house burglary..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teen-foils-burglary-bid-suspect-held/articleshow/78499194.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur has 36 students in top 1,000||Jaipur: Jaipur schools have again scripted a success story in JEE Advanced results which probably has no parallel in the country. The city has over 400 students who made it in the common merit list. Jaipur’s two boys have made it to top 100 ranks. Virendra Kabra of Mahaveer Public School stood 26th while Vishwas Kalani of Cambridge Court High School scored 82nd rank in the country. So far reports gathered from different coaching centres point to the fact that 10 students from Jaipur are among top 500. Pranjal Singh who stood at All India Rank 432 has also topped the country in ST category with AIR-1(ST) is from Jaipur. Ashish Arora, an expert on JEE exams shared the data and said that 36 students this year have made to the top 1,000 from Jaipur. “Based on the obtained results on Monday, Jaipur has over 400 students who qualified in the common merit list. The overall selections last year were 356 while in 2017 it was 314. Jayshree Periwal High School has claimed to have 41 of their students who qualified in the exam. The school has five ranks in the top 2,000 while Pratyush Gupta of the school has bagged 230 rank. Explaining the reason behind the success, Arora said that Jaipur has one of the best school educations in the country and contributes to lion share in competitive exams. “It’s not only about JEE but its share in exams like NEET, NTSE, Civil Services, CLAT and CAT has been phenomenal,” said Arora. While what schools do also is important in such a result. Sarita Kataria, principal of Tagore Public School said, “We have supported our students by providing extra classes to clear their doubts. Students could call up their teachers any time.” Ruchira Solanki, CEO, Tagore Public School, said, “It is always the coaching institutes that are given credit for the success of students in competitive exams but the base of a student is made strong in school. Manish Kumawat had studied in our school from nursery. Teaching NCERT to prepare students till class XII is where the role of teachers comes. It is not just our school but every school in the city. Teachers are the unsung heroes that nobody talks about and it is their success as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-has-36-students-in-top-1000/articleshow/78502735.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||‘BJP’s halla bol to divert people’s attention’||Jaipur: Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Monday called the BJP’s statewide ‘halla bol’ protest as a move to divert people’s attention from gangrape case of Hatras and ongoing protest over farm bills. “It is shameful that the BJP has held a protest for no reason. They didn’t care for people as they mobilised people without thinking that it can lead to spreading of Covid,” said Khachariyawas, who questioned the conduct of Yogi government which had cremated the body of the victim without taking permission from the family. He added that at a time the government was leaving no stones unturned to ensure that every individual gets medical aid, masks and free food/ration, the BJP was busy holding rallies and protests. “I would like to ask what they did for people of the state during lockdown and now,” said the transport minister. Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra attended the silent protest to take on BJP’s halla bol in Sikar. He along with party Sikar incharge Subhash Garg slammed the BJP of violating Section 144. Meanwhile in Ajmer, Congress organised a silent Satyagraha at Gandhi Samarak for about two hours condemning the Hathras incident and demanded removal of the Yogi government in Uttar Pradesh. Congress alleged that under the BJP government, UP has become a ‘gundaraj’ and no one was safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjps-halla-bol-to-divert-peoples-attention/articleshow/78502720.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire guts Paldi flat, 32 persons rescued in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A major fire broke out in the Paldi area of city on Monday afternoon where around 16 fire tenders had to rush to control the flames.  No one suffered injuries in the accident, nor any casualty was reported, said officers of Ahmedabad fire and emergency services (AFES).  According to an AFES officer, the fire broke out on the sixth floor of Sattva Apartment on Naranyannagar Road in Paldi where renovation work was undergoing. “The fire sparked either from a bidi or short circuit and spread rapidly as it caught the highly inflammable paint for furniture. The fire caught the under-construction wood furniture and paint which later turned the entire flat into ashes,” said a fire officer adding that assets of lakhs of rupees were gutted in the fire. He said that around 32 persons from the flat number E-604 and nearby flats were rescued in the operation. They were first taken to the terrace on the 8th floor and once the fire was doused completely they were taken out of the flat from the stairs, said the fire officer. The officer said that there was no fire extinguisher installed in the building and fire safety norms were found violated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-guts-paldi-flat-32-persons-rescued/articleshow/78501405.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Peak evening traffic takes a hit as BJP protest rocks city||Kolkata/Barrackpore: Central Kolkata remained out of bounds to commuters with BJP leaders and supporters protesting at NRS hospital since Monday morning, then heading to Raj Bhavan and finally getting intercepted at Elite cinema on SN Banerjee Road in the evening. The scene was similar in several stretches on BT Road, Kalyani Expressway, NH-34, Ghoshpara Road at Titagarh, Khardah, Jagaddal, Barrackpore, Amdanga and Naihati that turned into a battleground after the bandh supporters’ protest on Monday against the death of BJP leader Manish Shukla a day before turned violent. On Monday morning, with BJP supporters crowding near the NRS hospital and spilling onto the main AJC Bose Road, vehicles on Sealdah flyover got stuck. The cops initially diverted south-bound vehicles towards MG Road. Around an hour and a half later, as BJP supporters finally calmed down a little and were stopped while trying to breach the barricade at the hospital, even south-bound traffic resumed movement. Tram tracks that are used by south-bound buses, though, were kept out of bounds. Those coming to visit relatives and kin at the hospital and the patients themselves had to access the hospital from other gates, said police. Even as the BJP protest in and around NRS Medical College did not have a direct bearing on patient services, snarls on AJC Bose Road resulted in some patients reaching the hospital late. There was tension on hospital premises for about four hours. While a large number of BJP supporters were outside the hospital gate, some managed to go inside the hospital. They even held a protest in front of the morgue asking why there was delay in completing the autopsy. “The morgue is very close to the chest department that is a Covid facility. Therefore, so many people protesting close to the Covid building is uncalled for,” said a source at the hospital. After the post mortem, fresh trouble broke out around 5.50 pm. With the BJP leadership insisting on moving towards Raj Bhavan and the police setting up a barricade at Elite cinema, the hearse vehicle got stuck in the middle of a snarl. Unable to inch forward, irate BJP supporters called it another police conspiracy to block their way by using buses. One such bus was attacked and vandalized. The entire Sealdah-Esplanade remained tangled in traffic chaos till around 7.45 pm when the body was taken back to Titagarh. On the city’s northern fringes, thousands of BJP men put up a series of roadblocks for several hours on busy roads during office hours to enforce the 12-hour bandh. The situation took a turn for the worse on Monday afternoon when the police tried to lift the blockade on BT Road near Titagarh PS. The bandh supporters pelted glass bottles at cops leaving some personnel injured. A large contingent, including RAF and combat force led by senior officers of Barrackpore commissionerate later rushed to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/peak-evening-traffic-takes-a-hit-as-bjp-protest-rocks-city/articleshow/78504015.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 6, 2020||Bareilly||Start carrying batons to save ‘your lives’, senior SP functionary tells workers in UP’s Sambhal||Bareilly: A former president of Samajwadi Party’s Sambhal unit on Monday came up with a bizarre suggestion. He asked all SP functionaries and workers to carry batons wherever they go for their own safety. Firoz Khan’s statement came a day after several SP and RLD workers were beaten with batons by police personnel during their protest in the Hathras village where a Dalit girl was allegedly raped and killed. “I am requesting all Samajwadi Party workers to ensure that they carry batons wherever they go from now on. This is for their safety so that when a situation like Hathras arises, where some ‘anti-social elements’ cane-charged people who had gone to meet a victim’s family, they can save themselves from such brutality,” Khan said during a protest at Collectrate in Kotwali area of Sambhal on Monday.The controversial SP functionary had made national headlines after he allegedly made a remark against actor-turned politician Jaya Prada, saying that she would “enthrall the people of Rampur with her ‘ghungroos’ and ‘thumkas’”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/start-carrying-batons-to-save-your-lives-senior-sp-functionary-tells-workers-in-ups-sambhal/articleshow/78500259.cms||Maria Khan
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Three from IIT-Kharagpur zone make it to JEE (Advanced) top 50||KOLKATA: Danish Javed, who has ranked 69th in the JEE (Advanced) examination in the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur zone, has been off social media ever since he set his heart to cracking the entrance test. A resident of Titagarh, Javed has extensively studied for seven hours every day, apart from devoting time to school lessons. The eldest among the three sons of a government school headmaster, he now hopes to study computer science either at IIT-Bombay or IIT-Delhi. “I will later pursue a career in a start-up,” said Javed, adding that physics was among his favourite subjects. After clearing his ICSE in 2018, he shifted to CBSE and took admissions to Bholananda National Vidyalaya in Barrackpore, from where he passed his Class-XII boards with 95.8%. “I switched boards primarily to study for the national entrance examination,” said Javed, who spent his leisure time, playing chess and football. He has also ranked 13th in WBJEE. When the JEE Advanced results were published on Monday, 10 candidates from the IIT Kharagpur zone were found to have made it to the top 100, with three ranking within top 50; last year, four candidates from this zone were within the top-50. At 25th rank, Samarth Agarwal is the topper from the region this year, followed by Sankalp Parashar at 29th rank and Ojaswi Jain at the 39th spot. Javed has ranked fifth from the zone, while Rounak Dalmia is at the 52nd position. “A total number of 1,50,838 candidates appeared for the two JEE (Advanced) papers, among whom 43,204 have qualified. Chirag Falor of IIT Bombay zone has topped the Common Rank List (CRL) in JEE (Advanced), scoring 352 out of 396. Kanishka Mittal of IIT Roorkee zone is the topper among girls, scoring 315 out of 396,” said a JEE official from the IIT-Kgp zone. From the zone, the topper among girls is at the 177th rank. An academic pointed out that what the students from Bengal lacked, despite being excellent in studies, were focus and strategy. “If one aims to secure top slots in the JEE (Advanced), they need to dedicate two years for the exam syllabus. Parents have to understand that expecting a top position in the plus-two and being among the toppers in JEE (Advanced) can’t go hand in hand,” he said. Analyzing the JEE (Advanced) papers, Sunil Agarwal, Aakash Institute’s director of Bengal, added, “Though the chemistry paper was relatively easier than maths and physics, the signature style of IIT papers was noticeable. At one or two places, remarkably simple and popular things were twisted in a brilliant way. In Bengal, the students are good and have the potential to rank high in the test but their efforts have to be more robust to compete with the students in the National Circuit who work in a highly structured manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-from-iit-kgp-zone-make-it-to-jee-a-top-50/articleshow/78501433.cms||Somdatta Basu
October 6, 2020||Surat||Another coop bank invests in green & healthy Surat||Surat: Cooperative banks are donning the role of guarantors for citizens keen to invest in ‘green and healthy Surat’.After Varachha Cooperative Bank started doling out financial incentives to their employees cycling to work, Surat People’s Cooperative Bank (SPCB) is now offering zero-interest loans up to Rs 50,000 for its staffers to purchase bicycles. What’s more, 62 employees have already registered for this ‘cycle for change’ scheme launched by the bank. About 62 employees have already registered under the ‘cycle for change’ scheme launched by the bank and that they will cycle to work every Friday to spread awareness to ‘save environment’ and ‘green Surat’. The bank has 25 branches in Surat and employs about 368 employees. Jatin Naik, general manager of SPCB, told TOI, “Since the launch of the scheme on October 2, 62 employees have registered with the promise of cycling to work once a week on Friday.” Naik himself has been cycling to the bank every Friday since 2018 despite the bank providing him a chauffeur-driven car. The idea of interest-free loans was floated in the recent annual general meeting and was well-received by all the directors of the bank.Nipesh Gajjar, credit manager of SPB said, “I have enrolled under the scheme. Till then, I have borrowed my neighbour’s bicycle to come to work every Friday. I cycle 16 km daily to and from my house in Adajan to Nanpura branch.According to Naik, those coming to work on bicycles every Friday are felicitated with letters of appreciation and badges stating ‘I am SPBian, I save environment’ . These employees are also exempted from wearing bank uniforms when they come on bicycles on Friday. Amit Gajjar, director of SBP and trustee of Life Cycling Green (LCG), an NGO promoting cycling in the city told TOI: “The aim is to cultivate the habit of cycling, It is important to explain the benefits and start from our own home. One SPB employee will encourage his 10 acquaintances and this how the chain will be created . Separate bathrooms for cyclistsIn yet another initiative, the bank has prepared a blueprint for constructing separate bathrooms in all its 25 branches to facilitate the employees coming on cycle to take shower and resume their work. “We will be the first bank to provide bathrooms at the branches. Surat has a hot and humid climate and once the employees reach their respective branches, they will have bathrooms to freshen up and resume their duty” said Jatin Naik, general manager of SPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/another-coop-bank-invests-in-green-healthy-surat/articleshow/78500279.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on farm ponds set up in Tenkasi dist||Madurai: Suspecting irregularities in the misuse of funds for setting up of farm ponds in Tenkasi district, the Madras high court on Monday directed the district legal services authority (DLSA) to carry out an inspection and submit a report.The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by L Seenivasagan, a resident of Naranapuram village in the district who sought to remove the farm pond (pannai kuttai) which was set up encroaching a water channel at the village.The petitioner stated that a farm pond was set up by a private individual by obtaining subsidy from the agricultural engineering department by encroaching the water channel. A notice board was also erected in front of the pond.The counsel appearing for the authorities submitted that the pond was set up at Sathiramkondan village and a notice board was erroneously erected at Naranapuram village.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that they suspect that the funds allotted to setting up of farm ponds might have been misused. The judges observed that though the authorities claim that they had erected the notice board by mistake, it prima facie appears that they are claiming money by showing that they had set up ponds at various places.Hence, the judges directed the DLSA to inspect both villages to check as to whether any farm pond was set up. The judges also further directed the DLSA to collect details about the number of such farm ponds sanctioned in the district and to carry out random inspections at a few places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-farm-ponds-set-up-in-tenkasi-dist/articleshow/78502766.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Muradabad girl bags first position in girls’ category||Jaipur: A native of Muradabad, Kanishka Mittal has stood first rank in girls’ category. Her overall rank is 17th in the country. She came from her native city in 2018 to Kota with a dream of cracking JEE. She attributed her success to the right ecosystem for competitive exams in Kota. “Here I learnt that I must compete with myself, not with others. This principle helped me in developing focus and sense of dedication to see my scores getting better after every mock test,” said Mittal. She says that her maths was strong and physics was weak when she came to Kota. “I would always think that one cannot like a subject after senior. However, I was wrong. The first thing in Kota that they taught us was the way to develop our interest in the subjects,” said Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/muradabad-girl-bags-first-position-in-girls-category/articleshow/78502764.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Student creates fake ID, writes to Calcutta University VC on exam schedule||KOLKATA: The cyber cell of Kolkata Police has nabbed a third year CU student from Howrah, who had allegedly created a fake ID and mailed a letter to the official e-mail ID of Calcutta University vice chancellor’s office on September 15. The accused has been identified as Rituparno Das (22), a resident of Shyampur in Howrah and a third year student of the university. The e-mail had criticized her for being “indecisive” to hold final year exams and changing her earlier decision of not holding exams in the month of October. The cops are ascertaining whether he has links with any of the several social media videos that are doing the rounds and spread misinformation about the ongoing exams. “The complaint in this particular case was lodged by vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee,” said joint CP (crime & traffic) Santosh Pandey. Police said the accused claimed he was upset with last-minute changes in exam schedules and wanted to lodge his protest. “His tone was derogatory and, at times, obscene,” said an officer. CU VC, Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee, said: “An offensive, obscene and abusive mail came to me from a dirty person. I complained to police and gave statements before the cops. I have requested for strong actions against the offender as per law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/student-creates-fake-id-writes-to-cu-vc-on-exam-schedule/articleshow/78504016.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Dist collector shortlisted as observer for Bihar elections||Aurangabad: Sunil Chavan, the newly-appointed district collector of Aurangabad, has been shortlisted by the Election Commission (EC) to act as an observer for the upcoming assembly elections in the state of Bihar.However, people’s representatives have raised questions over the orders citing high number of Covid-19 cases in the district and demanded that the EC should reconsider its decision.The issue was even raised during the weekly meeting of people’s representatives with the district administration. Meanwhile, Chavan could not be reached for comments.Following the meeting, MP Imtiaz Jaleel said the decision to send Aurangabad district collector as observer would have a direct impact on the ongoing war against the pandemic in the district.Addressing the reporters, Jaleel said, “So far, Aurangabad has witnessed over 30,000 Covid-19 cases and around 4,350 are still undergoing treatment. We request the authorities concerned to rethink on this decision and send collectors from a district that has lesser number of infected patients.”The district has also witnessed around 960 deaths, out of which 100 were from outside the district. During the weekly meeting attended by police, health, civic body and other government officials, issues regarding availability of Remdiviser injections, security of women medicos at Government Medical College and Hospital, and also about illegal occupants of GMCH residential quarters were raised.People’s representatives have alleged that the ground realities are totally different from the claims made by the authorities that there is sufficient supply of required essential medicines, especially the life saving drugs.Meanwhile, Earlier, during the day, around 200 medical interns had reached district collector’s office while reiterating their demand for getting stipend at par with their counterparts in cities like Pune and Mumbai. The students have claimed that they have been receiving a meagre sum of Rs 11,000, while interns from metro cities are receiving around Rs 30,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dist-collector-shortlisted-as-observer-for-bihar-elections/articleshow/78499198.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown fails to deter Kota from delivering results||JAIPUR: Kota coaching majors have claimed 40 positions among the top 100 ranks in the JEE Advanced results that were announced on Monday. The figure has almost touched their yearly performance despite classes being suspended in March due to Covid-19 pandemic. The long spell of lockdown forced coaching majors to switch to online classes. Director of ALLEN Career Institute, Rajesh Maheshwari said, “Our team of dedicated faculty quickly adopted coaching through online means. Through online mechanism, students were given assistance round-the-clock, from Srinagar to Bengaluru and from to Pali to Dibrugarh.” He said that his institute has two students in top 10 and seven in top 20. “A total of 35 students have secured positions in top 100 where 28 are classroom students while seven are distance learning students. It is very heartening that three girls have secured positions in top 100,” said Maheshwari. The best rank was scored by Vaibhav Raj who secured AIR-3 followed by R Muhender with 4th rank while Kanishka Mittal scored 17th rank which is the first rank in girls’ category. The usual celebrations were missing in the coaching town due to the pandemic. Most of the students chose to remain in their respective cities. RK Verma, managing director-Resonance said that five students from Resonance Classroom Programs have secured ranks in top 50. Dhananjay Kejriwal (AIR-15 and AIR-2 in General-Economically Weaker Section), Samarth Agrawal (AIR-25), Sankalp Parashar (AIR-29), Aryan Kumar Gupta (AIR-30) and Utkarsh Pratap Singh (AIR-41) are all from classroom programs of Resonance. “In the results seen so far, 2,304 students who got selected in JEE (Advanced) 2020, are from the classroom program,” said Verma. Director of Vibrant Classes, Mahendra Singh Chouhan informed TOI that two classroom students made it to the top 100 - Kunal Kundwani (63) and Rishi Jain (98). “Six students in top 500, 13 students are in top 1,000 and more than 50% students have been selected,” said Chouhan. Bansal Classes claim to have four positions in top 300 ranks. The best rank was of Ronaq Dalmia who scored AIR-52 followed by Manthan Dalmia who scored AIR-100. “Our 15 students have made it to the top 3,000 ranks,” said Samir Bansal, director of Bansal Classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-fails-to-deter-kota-from-delivering-results/articleshow/78502768.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Rajkot||Fourth accused in the gang-rape of 17-year-old held in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: The fourth accused in the gang rape of the 17-year-old girl in Jamnagar — Mohit Ambalia — in whose house the girl was allegedly raped was caught on Monday. Police said Ambalia (19) was nabbed from Khajuria village of Khambhalia Taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. “We tracked down Ambalia on the basis of his cellphone location. We had also received a tip-off about his hideout in Khajuria village,” said R B Gadhvi, inspector with the Jamnagar Mahila Police Station. Earlier on Sunday, Budha alias Darshan Bhatia (19), Milan Bhatia (21) and Devkaran Gadhvi (20) were arrested in the case. According to the details of the case, the accused had allegedly taken turns to rape the survivor after she was rendered unconscious after she was offered a soft drink laced with sedatives on September 28. The survivor was in love with Budha, who had called her at Ambalia’s house where the co-accused were also there on the day of the crime. After the crime was committed, the survivor lodged the complaint with Jamnagar C Division Police Station on October 2. The case was later transferred to the Jamnagar Mahila Police Station. The cops nabbed Budha, Milan and Gadhvi on Sunday. However, they could not arrest Ambalia as he had gone absconding. Cong corporator hits Ambalia with slippers One of the several protesting Congress women workers went into the police station and hit the accused with her slippers on Monday. The Congress women workers had gathered in the compound of the Jamnagar superintendent of police office to protest against the incidents of Jamnagar gang rape along with Hathras gang rape. Congress corporator, Jenam Khafi, hit Ambalia with her slippers while he was being taken into the Mahila Police Station. The Mahila Police Station and the SP office are located in the same compound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fourth-accused-in-the-gang-rape-of-17-year-old-held/articleshow/78500349.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Madurai||Take policy decision to improve financial situation of transport corpns: HC to state||Madurai: Observing that transport corporations are in a pathetic state due to their poor financial condition, the Madras high court has suggested that it is time for the corporations and the state government to have self-introspection and take a policy decision on improving the financial situation.“Administration of transport corporations should be streamlined in such a way that their revenue should always be higher than the expenditure for which a policy decision can be taken by the government and a legislative measure also can be thought of, if necessary,” justice R Suresh Kumar observed.The court was hearing a petition filed by S V Subbiah, a retired managing director of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Madurai) Limited who sought to disburse his surrender leave salary from 2009 to 2013 and social security scheme benefits.The judge said observed that though these kinds of cases are filed every day by several transport corporation employees, one peculiarity in this case is that it is filed by the former managing director who retired from service on superannuation in 2015.The judge observed that when the court put a query asking for reasons for non-payment of the benefits to the petitioner, the standing counsel appearing for the transport corporation submitted that due to financial crisis, the said amount was not disbursed, as in the case of thousands of employees, who are also not paid such benefits.“The transport corporations are in a pathetic financial condition for years together and we do not know for how long such a situation will prevail,” the judge said. He noted that while private bus operators who are plying buses in very few routes are able to successfully run their business with considerable gain, the financial position of the transport corporations have not yet improved though they are plying thousands of buses and despite the financial assistance given by the government.The judge directed the authorities to pay the surrender leave salary and social security scheme benefits to the petitioner within a period of three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/take-policy-decision-to-improve-financial-situation-of-transport-corpns-hc-to-state/articleshow/78502794.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 6, 2020||Goa||‘Doubt CM met Modi as no photos’||Panaji: The Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) on Monday raised doubts over chief minister Pramod Sawant’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week. Mahesh Mhambrey of PFG said as no photograph of Sawant’s meeting with Modi was released, as is the norm, it leads to suspicion whether the meeting actually took place. The organisation raised objections to Sawant having made statements reassuring Goans about restarting mining operations in Goa, soon after returning from his Delhi visit. Mhambrey said it shows that safeguarding Mollem’s forests and Mhadei’s waters are not among Sawant’s priorities. “Sawant goes to Delhi and then he chooses to speak about restarting mining in Goa. He does not speak immediately on pressing issues like the projects coming up through protected area in Mollem or about Mhadei,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doubt-cm-met-modi-as-no-photos/articleshow/78502862.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Refund part of inflated bills, panel tells three private Kolkata hospitals||KOLKATA: Three private hospitals in the city have been asked to refund part of treatment cost to the families of three patients who had approached the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) alleging overbilling. While two patients needed treatment for Covid infection, the third was found Covid infected during routine protocol check-up in the hospital where he has gone for urinary tract infection (UTI). Subrata Basu Mallick of Shri Gopal Mallick Lane was admitted to Woodlands Multipspecialty Hopsital on May 11 for UTI treatment. The 69-year-old was kept in the isolation ward and his samples were sent for Covid test. When his Covid confirmatory report came the next day, the family was asked to take the patient to a Covid hospital as the hospital at that time did not have a specialised facility. The family was handed a bill of Rs 92,000 for the 28-hour stay. The commission found that Rs 36,000 alone was billed for investigative tests, Rs 22,000 as bed charges and Rs 15,000 for medications. On finding the bill exorbitant, the commission asked the hospital to refund Rs 50,000 within a week while disposing off the case on Monday. Sources in the Alipore hospital said it had already offered a discount of Rs 10,000 before the commission’s order and it will comply with the direction of the health panel. In the second case, family of Papiya Basu (67) alleged overbilling against AMRI Hospital Dhakuria. The patient from Survey Park was admitted to the hospital on June 24. A Covid patient with co-morbid conditions, including kidney ailment, was in the hospital for 105 days. The hospital stay had incurred a bill of Rs 31 lakh. While Rs 25 lakh was recovered from the insurance company, AMRI had already offered a discount of Rs 4 lakh. “The family had also deposited two post-dated cheques amounting to Rs 1.1 lakh which we have asked the hospital not to en-cash but offer it as further discount,” said retired Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman of WBCERC. The patient’s son and daughter-in-law who attended the online hearing from Chicago withdrew the case after the hospital agreed to offer the discount. Family of Swapan Sur (60), who was admitted to Ruby General Hospital for Covid treatment on August 26, accused the hospital of overbilling and alleged inadequate medical care to the Covid patient. The family received a bill of 8.9 lakh for nine-day hospitalisation. “Rs 2 lakh alone was charged for pathological and laboratory tests which was exorbitant. Also, we found charges like that of doctor consultation and ICU bed on the higher side. The hospital has been to return Rs 1 lakh to the family,” said Banerjee. The hospital off EM Bypass has agreed to comply with the health panel’s directives. The commission took up eight more cases on Monday. Since most of them related to medical negligence charges, the cases have been referred to the West Bengal Medical Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/refund-part-of-inflated-bills-panel-tells-three-private-city-hospitals/articleshow/78504018.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Some kindness for cops in the ‘Heartfulness’ way||AHMEDABAD: Vadodara Crime branch PSI Sanjaysinh Jadeja shot himself at Alkapuri police chowky on September 15, 2018. Under training PSI Devendrasingh Rathod shot himself at his house with a relative’s revolver at his residence on December 17, 2018. Inspector Pritesh Patel shot himself in the secretariat campus on September 18, 2020. This are not the only police personnel who have committed suicide in the recent past. There are more in the state who have committed such acts and hence Gujarat police has planned a remedial initiative to beat the stress for policemen. It includes a meditation programme with an institute called Hearftulness. A senior police official said that policemen are quite frequently exposed to high levels of political and bureaucratic stress, overtime work, negativity at the workplace and working for long hours in the pandemic situation. “This baggage they carry with them to their homes which affects their family life also,” said DGP Ashish Bhatia. However, as it is not possible to gather so many policemen at one place in the pandemic situation, the cops have decided to start the programme online through an institution called Heartfulness based in Hyderabad. Bhatia said the registration process in on and the three-day programme will commence on October 10. “It will be an online programme with hourlong sessions at 8am in the morning and 8pm in the evening. The policemen can see the programme from where they are as the programme will be online,” Bhatia said. Bhatia said on a regular basis policemen have to deal with criminals who are on the wrong side of the table. “It becomes very stressful for cops to handle such criminals. The long working hours also add to the stress of cops. To compensate for this stress with meditation we are organizing this programme. Such programmes will be organized frequently to keep the police force stress-free” added Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/some-kindness-for-cops-in-the-heartfulness-way/articleshow/78501418.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Dispute over second year pharmacy seats to be referred to council||Panaji: While the directorate of technical education (DTE) has released the eligibility list for admissions to second year direct entry engineering seats, a similar list has not been put out for the pharmacy programme. Officials said that parents have raised a query regarding admissions to direct second year pharmacy seats, which will now be referred by the state to the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI). Each year, a small number of seats are kept aside in engineering and pharmacy degree programmes for students who have completed their diploma in the respective disciplines. Officials said that diploma holders, who have completed their programme prior to 2020, are also eligible for admissions to second year direct seats. This has led to the dispute over the admissions. “To complete the diploma programme in pharmacy, students have to undergo an internship. Every year, this internship was done physically. But this year, due to the lockdown, it was completed online. Now, parents of students who had completed their diploma programme prior to 2020 by doing the internship component physically, have raised an objection,” an official said. Parents have taken objection to the same weightage being given to students who have completed their diploma with online internship and those who have done their internship physically. “Pharma was one sector that was open throughout the lockdown and pandemic period. Then why were students asked to do their internships online?” a parent said. It has been decided by officials to approach the PCI to settle the dispute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dispute-over-second-year-pharmacy-seats-to-be-referred-to-council/articleshow/78503662.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana orders ‘Covid appropriate behaviour’ campaign in festive season||Chandigarh: In view of the upcoming festive season, Haryana government has directed officers concerned to ensure successful implementation of the “Covid appropriate behaviour” campaign to spread awareness among masses for containment of Covid-19. Besides, deputy commissioners have also been directed to prepare district-level action plans within five days. Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan gave these directions while presiding over a meeting regarding awareness activities to be carried out under the Covid appropriate behaviour campaign on Monday. In the meeting, a comprehensive action plan of Information Education Communication (IEC) and Behaviour change communication (BCC) activities on a total of 15 ‘Covid appropriate behaviour’ points was discussed in detail. These 15 points included wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene as protection against Covid-19. The chief secretary said the sarpanch, panch, village secretary, ASHA workers, and Anganwadi workers can play an important role in spreading awareness among people in rural areas and their active participation must be ensured. Besides, wall paintings, hoardings, banners and posters should be displayed at Panchayat houses, health centres and other public places. He said awareness activities should be prepared as per people’s behaviour. Participation of religious leaders, renowned sportspersons and non-governmental organisations should also be ensured for successful implementation of the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-orders-covid-appropriate-behaviour-campaign-in-festive-season/articleshow/78502804.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Three years of hard work in Kota paid off, says 3rd rank holder Vaibhav Raj||Jaipur: Vaibhav Raj of Begusarai district, Bihar scored 3rd All India Rank (AIR) in JEE Advanced which is top rank from the Kota coaching majors. He prepared from Allen Career Institute. Vaibhav, who left his hometown in 2018 with a dream to pursue engineering from IIT, says that years of hard work and struggle have paid off. During the last three years in Kota, he was successful in several national-level competitions which he called ‘reward’ of being in the coaching town. “I won a gold medal in International Junior Science Olympiad, cleared National Talent Search Examination (NTSE). I was selected for final round in Physics, Chemistry, Maths and Astronomy Olympiads, while in KVPY I stood 21 (all India rank) in class X and 7th in class XII,” said an elated Vaibhav. He has maintained consistency in his board exams with 98% and 99% in classes X and XII, respectively. His father, Sunil Kumar Roy is a senior scientific officer in the directorate general of quality assurance, in the ministry of defence. He owes his success to his mother Sudha Roy who stayed with him in Kota for three years. “She has been my biggest support in life. If she hadn’t stayed with me, it would have been difficult for me to focus on studies. Due to her presence I never felt homesick,” said Vaibhav. Eyeing Computer Science from IIT-Bombay, he feels that lockdown has turned out to be an opportunity for him to improve his score. “The delay of four months in JEE Main and Advanced exams gave extra time to revise and clear topics which were bothering me,” said Vaibhav, who scored 45th rank in JEE Main. Sharing his future plans, he said that his interest in his own startup. “The entire world is looking towards India for innovation. I definitely want to make my mark in it,” said Vaibhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-years-of-hard-work-in-kota-paid-off-says-3rd-rank-holder-vaibhav-raj/articleshow/78502801.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Farmer attempts suicide during Rajesh Tope’s Jalna visit||AURANGABAD: A 42-year old farmer on Monday attempted suicide during state health minister Rajesh Tope’s visit to Jalna while alleging that his pleas over “land grab by a private money lender” with the district administration and police have fallen on deaf ears for years. The incident took place at the Jalna district collectorate after Tope stopped to listen to the grievances of about a dozen farmers who were waiting for him around 3.30pm. Vilas Rathod, from Sevli village of Jalna district, opened a bottle and started consuming a liquid from it, saying that it was poison. However, policemen as well as the minister’s security personnel overpowered the farmer and prevented him from emptying the bottle. Police said they would be sending the bottle of the liquid for chemical analysis. Tope, who is also the guardian minister of the district, was at the collectorate to attend a review meeting. He refused to comment on the issue. Taluka police station’s assistant inspector, Sambhaji Wadate, told TOI that the condition of the farmer was out of danger. “We successfully prevented him from consuming the liquid he was carrying.” The officer said an offence for attempting suicide has been registered against the farmer, who claimed that he was under tremendous stress as a private money lender has grabbed his ancestral land. “The farmer has mentioned this in the suicide note found with him.” The note states that despite lodging several complaints with the district administration as well as police, nothing has been done so far, said Wadate. An officer privy to the probe said that the farmer’s father had reportedly had a deal with another person. Over a period of time, his father as well as the prospect buyer died, following which the prospect buyer’s sons allegedly took possession of the land while claiming it to be theirs. Leader of opposition in the legislative council, Pravin Darekar, who is on a visit to the region, condemned the incident, videos of which went viral on social media. Meanwhile, a group of farmers stopped the convoy of Tope in Badnapur taluka of Jalna district late on Tuesday night while he was reviewing the crop damage due to the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/farmer-attempts-suicideduring-topes-jalna-visit/articleshow/78499201.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 6, 2020||Faridabad||2,151 test positive, 63 die in region||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The region comprising Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Monday threw up a combined total of 2,151 Covid-19 cases, while as many as 63 patients succumbed to the virus. Punjab registered Covid 38 deaths—lowest single-day fatality count in 47 days—and 1,062 positive cases, taking the death toll to 3,641 and the tally of cases so far to 119,186, of which 12,897 cases are active. The state’s death rate at 3.05% is highest in the country. Besides, a total of 1,671 discharged in the last 24 hours pushed the count of cured patients to 102,648 and the state’s recovery rate further improved to 86.12%, while the active rate came down to 10.82% against the national average of 14%. Of the latest deaths, eight were reported in Ludhiana, six in Jalandhar, five in Amritsar, three each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur and Ropar, two each in Gurdaspur and Muktsar, and one each in Kapurthala, Moga, Mohali, Patiala and Ferozepur. The districts reporting 100-plus cases were Amritsar (178) and Ludhiana (156). During the day, neighbouring Haryana recorded 1,031 fresh Covid cases and 21 deaths due to the virus. With this, the total number of positive cases in the state has reached 134,909, out of which 11,822 cases are active, and the overall casualty count stands at 1,491. In all, 121,596 persons in the state have been discharged after treatment and the recovery rate is 90.13%, while the doubling is 33 days. Of the latest cases, highest 206 were recorded in Gurgaon, followed by 129 in Faridabad. Himachal Pradesh on Monday reported four deaths and 58 new cases. This takes the total of positive cases in the state to 15,909—of which 3,147 are active cases—and the Covid death toll to 216. With 180 patients recovering during the day, the number of patients cured so far has reached 12,521. Of the latest cases, 16 surfaced in Chamba district, 15 in Kangra, 14 in Hamirpur, six in Shimla, two each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur, and one each in Kinnaur, Kullu and Mandi districts. Those recovered include 56 in Shimla district, 31 in Sirmaur, 30 in Bilaspur, 28 in Una, 18 in Kinnaur, 14 in Chamba and three in Hamirpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/2151-test-positive-63-die-in-region/articleshow/78511784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Madurai||Noon meal: Plea for fresh proceedings for recruitment||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the state government on a plea challenging the proceedings issued for the recruitment of noon meal employees in Pudukottai district.Justice Krishnan Ramasamy ordered notice on the petition filed by P Velliyammal, a resident of Manjakudi village in the district.The petitioner stated that the government had issued a notification inviting applications for recruitment of posts of noon meal organizers and noon meal cooks in the state. Pursuant to the notification, the Pudukottai district collector held a proceedings which was published in the official website.She stated that there were several discrepancies in the proceedings as the vacancies were not properly notified and the communal roster was not followed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/noon-meal-plea-for-fresh-proceedings-for-recruitment/articleshow/78502880.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rahul a ‘VIP kisan’, sits on sofa on tractor: Smriti Irani||Gandhinagar: Union minister Smriti Irani on Monday took a dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi terming him a “VIP kisan” (farmer) after photographs showed him sitting on a cushioned seat of a tractor during his party’s protest rally in Punjab against the Centre’s new farm laws. She was addressing reporters at Gandhinagar. She, however, avoided any specific comment on the Hathras rape incident. Rahul Gandhi is holding a series of tractor rallies named ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ across Punjab to protest against the three farm laws being seen as major reforms in the agriculture sector. “He is someone who uses a sofa to sit on a tractor. A VIP kisan like him can never support a system which is meant to free small and marginal farmers from the clutches of middlemen,” said Irani, who defeated Gandhi in Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Union textiles and women and child development minister avoided any specific comment on the Hathras rape incident. She said, “Judicial inquiry is ongoing, so I would not make any comment. PM Narendra Modi’s government does not make any compromise in ensuring women’s security.’’ Addressing the media at Kamalam, the state BJP headquarters, the Union minister hit out at Rahul Gandhi over his comment that the Congress, if voted to power, will scrap the contentious legislations. “His dream of coming to power will never be fulfilled,” the BJP leader said, adding “It is not in his nature to respect parliamentary traditions”. She was referring to a 2013 incident where Gandhi had torn an ordinance (to protect convicted lawmakers) brought in by the Congress-led UPA government. She said the new laws give farmers the right to sell their produce to anyone, anywhere at the price which farmers deem fit. She added that the Congress is rattled as its politics is about keeping cultivators dependent on middlemen. Irani claimed people are unable to understand why the Congress was against laws that would ensure farmers get fair and quick payment for their produce. President Ram Nath Kovind has given his assent to the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which were passed by the Parliament last month. The Modi government claims these laws will boost growth in the agriculture sector, but critics say the reforms will lead to exploitation of farmers by big private companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rahul-a-vip-kisan-sits-on-sofa-on-tractor-smriti-irani/articleshow/78501447.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Goa to file contempt plea on Mhadei in SC today, says CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: A day after environment minister Prakash Javadekar steered clear of the Mhadei controversy and said chief minister Pramod Sawant would spell out the details, Sawant on Monday said the state would file a contempt petition against Karnataka in the Supreme Court on Tuesday. TOI was the first to report a fortnight ago that Goa would file a contempt petition against Karnataka within 15 days for diverting the Mhadei waters into the Malaprabha basin. “We will file the petition with photographic evidence of Karnataka diverting the water. We are also exploring other options,” Sawant said. The chief minister had told TOI that the water resources department had inspected the site where diversion had been carried out and taken photographs too. Sawant also said that he has spoken to Javadekar and urged him not to give any permission to Karnataka till the matter is disposed of by the court. He said the Centre would never do injustice to Goa in the Mhadei matter. Stating that the state government has taken up the issue with Union ministers, Sawant said Goa has also objected to the Maharashtra government’s decision to divert water at Virdi. CM: Will never compromise on Mhadei issueSawant also slammed Congress for not protecting the interest of the state over the Mhadei issue, saying that those making allegations neglected Mhadei while they were busy in illegal mining. “I will never compromise the Mhadei issue with Karnataka,” he said. Sawant was reacting to allegations that the state has compromised on the Mhadei issue in favour of mining. Sawant said the two are different issues and should not be mixed. Sawant said the erstwhile Congress government removed two paras of a complaint made to the Centre, and said they have no problem if water is diverted from the Mhadei. With regard to the construction of a minor irrigation dam at Virdi in Maharashtra, he said the minutes of a meeting held between the chief ministers of Goa and Maharashtra in 2006 shows that it was mutually agreed to take up the dam as a joint venture. He said it was in 2012 that the BJP government, led by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, opposed the diversion of water from the Mhadei for the first time. Sawant said political parties, including Congress, welcomed the August 2018 award of the Mhadei water disputes tribunal. The chief minister said the WRD was then with the Goa Forward Party, and it never took any initiative to challenge the award. The three-decade-old dispute between the three states over sharing of the Mhadei water ended with the tribunal rejecting Karnataka’s demand for 36.5tmc ft of water, and allotted it only 13.4tmc ft, including 3.9tmc ft for drinking purposes through diversions, against its demand for 7.5tmc ft. “No political parties opposed the tribunal order,” Sawant said, adding that when he became the chief minister, the government decided to challenge the order and strongly objected to the diversion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-file-contempt-plea-on-mhadei-today-in-sc-cm/articleshow/78502848.cms||Murari Shetye
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||2,151 test positive, 63 die in region||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: The region comprising Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Monday threw up a combined total of 2,151 Covid-19 cases, while as many as 63 patients succumbed to the virus. Punjab registered Covid 38 deaths—lowest single-day fatality count in 47 days—and 1,062 positive cases, taking the death toll to 3,641 and the tally of cases so far to 119,186, of which 12,897 cases are active. The state’s death rate at 3.05% is highest in the country. Besides, a total of 1,671 discharged in the last 24 hours pushed the count of cured patients to 102,648 and the state’s recovery rate further improved to 86.12%, while the active rate came down to 10.82% against the national average of 14%. Of the latest deaths, eight were reported in Ludhiana, six in Jalandhar, five in Amritsar, three each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur and Ropar, two each in Gurdaspur and Muktsar, and one each in Kapurthala, Moga, Mohali, Patiala and Ferozepur. The districts reporting 100-plus cases were Amritsar (178) and Ludhiana (156). During the day, neighbouring Haryana recorded 1,031 fresh Covid cases and 21 deaths due to the virus. With this, the total number of positive cases in the state has reached 134,909, out of which 11,822 cases are active, and the overall casualty count stands at 1,491. In all, 121,596 persons in the state have been discharged after treatment and the recovery rate is 90.13%, while the doubling is 33 days. Of the latest cases, highest 206 were recorded in Gurgaon, followed by 129 in Faridabad. Himachal Pradesh on Monday reported four deaths and 58 new cases. This takes the total of positive cases in the state to 15,909—of which 3,147 are active cases—and the Covid death toll to 216. With 180 patients recovering during the day, the number of patients cured so far has reached 12,521. Of the latest cases, 16 surfaced in Chamba district, 15 in Kangra, 14 in Hamirpur, six in Shimla, two each in Sirmaur and Bilaspur, and one each in Kinnaur, Kullu and Mandi districts. Those recovered include 56 in Shimla district, 31 in Sirmaur, 30 in Bilaspur, 28 in Una, 18 in Kinnaur, 14 in Chamba and three in Hamirpur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2151-test-positive-63-die-in-region/articleshow/78502826.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Drugs combo resists virus, life-saver in critical cases, say Kol doctors||Kolkata: Steroids and Remdisivir have helped curb mortality among severe Covid patients who have responded better to this combination than hydroxychloroquin, say private hospitals. These drugs have effectively resisted the virus and tempered the hyper-immune response triggered by Covid, helping to save lives, pointed out doctors.Use of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin have lessened over the last three months, especially among those with severe symptoms, while the new drug combination – prescribed by the state health department in an advisory about two months ago – has been more effective in preventing deaths.Death rate has fallen ever since steroids began to be used early on severe patients, said Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “While Remdisivir has proved to be an effective anti-viral drug, in many cases it was not enough to prevent deaths due to the hyper-immune response. It was seen that organs were being affected by a cytokine storm generated by the immune-response that was proving to be fatal when the virus was already dead. In these cases, early use of steroids has helped to temper the cytokine storm and save lives,” said Jain.He added that the state advisory on steroids came at the right juncture and led more doctors to rely on them. “This has proved to be a game-changer in Covid treatment which remains an evolving science. We know little about Covid as yet and need to keep exploring,” said Jain.Fortis Hospital pulomonologist Raja Dhar agreed, pointing out that in severe cases, controlling the immune-response was as important as fighting the virus. “Ramdisivir has indeed fought Covid very well. We have seen a wider and more judicious use of Remdesivir which is the principal drug for moderate to severe patients. Depending on the viral load and severity of symptoms, it is now being administered for 6 to 9 days which has proved beneficial for most patients, leading to quicker recovery. But tempering the immune response is now being done effectively with steroids that has helped to control the mortality rate,” said Dhar.Even though the number of deaths has been fluctuating, mortality among severe patients has dropped at Fortis and Belle Vue. It has slid at Peerless Hospital as well. And quicker use of steroids has been the key, according to Peerless microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chowdhury. “Both Ramdesivir and steroids have proved effective and been the most potent weapons against Covid. Steroids, especially, have helped to prevent deaths caused by hyper immune-response,” he said.Heparin, too, has been effective in checking thrombosis or clots along the lining of blood vessels that often lead to strokes, medics said. Ancillary drugs like ivermectin and vitamins, too, have been beneficial. “The benefit of these drugs are not clear but they are harmless medicines. The role of hydroxychloroquine, however, remains unclear and we may have erred in relying on it for too long,” said a private hospital consultant.Jain said he recommends steroids as soon as a patient starts showing severe breathing distress and a drop in oxygen saturation level. “But doctors should wait for these symptoms to set in before using steroids. They can’t be used routinely,” he said. He added that a lot of serious patients could have been saved by these drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drugs-combo-resists-virus-life-saver-in-critical-cases-say-kol-doctors/articleshow/78504019.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Thakur in 3-day quarantine||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has home quarantined himself for three days as a precautionary measure, after some person he met in Manali on October 3 tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. As Banjar MLA Surender Shourie has also tested positive, the intelligence bureau has started verifying where the samples were taken. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the Atal Tunnel, Rohtang, on October 3. Shourie said he had isolated himself after testing positive. He said since he was the local MLA and was included in the reception committee to welcome the Prime Minister, he was asked by the SPG to get an RT-PCR test done. He said he gave his sample for Covid-19 testing at Regional Hospital, Kullu, on October 1 and got a positive report the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thakur-in-3-day-quarantine/articleshow/78502839.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Goa launches e-learning platform for higher education||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday launched the online channel ‘Dishtavo’, on which over 20,000 recorded lectures for students of higher education in the state will be available. Sawant said this makes Goa the first state in India to create such infrastructure for higher education. TOI, however, had reported on October 4 that a Goa University study has found that 74% of its masters students experience poor internet speeds, and found this an impediment in accessing online teaching content. On Monday though, Sawant said that the directorate of higher education (DHE) has plans to create e-mitras to help students overcome the issue of poor internet connectivity. Sawant said that under the programme, colleges would be made to pair a student who has poor network with another student who has good network. The student with good connectivity will ensure that the one paired with him or her is kept updated and keeps pace with online classroom teaching. The CM said Dishtavo will help students access the teaching videos 24x7, as per their convenience. ‘Dishtavo is permanent infrastructure for students’No other state has taken such an initiative. Goa is the first state to provide online training to its teachers. Dishtavo is permanent infrastructure created for students,” said Sawant. Sawant said that many had approached the DHE to set up the channel at a cost of crores of rupees, but the directorate has managed to complete the task with existing faculty members and staff of colleges itself, at a cost of some thousands of rupees. Around 3,500 teaching videos have been recorded and 1,000 videos have already been uploaded on the channel, while another 2,500 videos are in the process of being edited. By the time this channel completes a year, 20,000 videos would be made available to students. Director of higher education Prasad Lolayekar said that Dishtavo also enables offline learning. “If a student does not have good network, they can download videos as and when they have network.” Lolayekar said the channel also contains the assignments, reference books and other study materials the student can engage with to further learn the concepts in a particular video. “We want to cover the entire syllabus through online teaching,” he said Around 1,200 teachers from nearly all colleges are involved in the project. Lolayekar said that a 55-member technical team has been formed. Goa University and Margao’s Chowgule college helped in the technical aspect of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-launches-e-learning-platform-to-make-edu-accessible-to-all/articleshow/78502891.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Ditto in CLAT top 40 this year||Kolkata: Two girls from the city ranked sixth and 31st and a boy came 35th in CLAT—entrance exam for 22 national law schools in the country—the results of which were declared by the Consortium of Law Universities on Monday. Online admissions will start from Tuesday, based on a new module drawn up for the pandemic. Shailja Beria, who has ranked sixth, was a student at Sushila Birla School and had scored 96% in CBSE Class XII exams. Beria wants to study at NUJS and doesn’t want to leave the city. “I have been preparing for CLAT since Class XI. I dream of becoming a lawyer and hope to be placed well after graduation,” she said. Palak Kumar, who has ranked 31st is a student of Ashok Hall and plans to study at NLSIU, Bengaluru. She had scored 98% in CBSE. A passout of Birla High School, Shikhar Sharma (35th rank) also hopes to study at NLSIU Bengaluru. “Though we published the results on Monday evening, complete with the merit list, we published admit card numbers now. We will be able to compare these numbers to names only on Tuesday,” said CLAT convenor Balraj Chauhan from Jabbalpur. NUJS published the modalities of admissions on Monday. Each candidate has been asked to give five preferences this time. By October 9, the first list will be published and candidates will be given the option to lock their choice or seek an upgrade. By October 14, the third or final list will be announced. “We will end admissions on October 15. All documents will have to be uploaded online and they will be verified only when students come to the campus. For now, all admissions will be provisional,” said NUJS VC Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ditto-in-clat-top-40-this-year/articleshow/78501466.cms||Debashish Konar
October 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Police nab 4 for armed robbery||Aurangabad: Within 24 hours after a day-light armed robbery was committed in the heart of Nanded city, police have successfully managed to arrest four suspects and claimed to have detected the crime. While committing the crime, a paan stall owner was shot at by the suspects who have been identified as Vishal Ambe (22), Dhanraj alias Rana Thakur (18), Adarsh kamthikar (20) and Sanjay Gudamvar. Superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale said all the suspects are unemployed. “There are two more suspects who are at large and we have sent out teams to search and arrest them. Initial probe has indicated that the suspects wanted to make easy money for which they decided to commit the armed robbery,” he said. Soon after the incident, police had set up check points across the city and started combing operations to zero in on the suspects. They finally succeeded in nabbing the suspects in the wee hours of Tuesday. The injured paan stall owner, Akash Parihar, is in hospital and his condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-nab-4-for-armed-robbery/articleshow/78499203.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab shuts Covid-19 Level-I facilities||Chandigarh: Due to drop in occupancy at Level-I Covid-19 facilities, the Punjab government has decided to close all the centres across the state with immediate effect. There are about 8,000 beds at 24 Level-I centres across the state. With government relaxing norms for home isolation, there has been a drastic drop in the number of patients opting for institutional isolation. Patients who want to stay at government facilities will be admitted to Level-II centres. In a communication to civil surgeons on Monday, the health department issued directions for closing all Level-I centres with immediate effect and to shift the patients admitted in these centres to government-run Level-II centres. Civil surgeons have been asked to relieve medical and non-medical staff hired on a volunteer basis and shift the equipment to district hospitals. Since the introduction of the system in May, the government from time-to-time has been easing the norms for home isolation. Recently, the conditions were further relaxed allowing asymptomatic/mild symptomatic elderly positive patients, aged above 60, having co-morbid conditions to opt for home quarantine. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the occupancy of these facilities had dropped drastically in the last few months as patients preferred to stay at home. He further said that the government has taken steps to keep a close watch on people staying in home isolation. Last week teleconsultation service was launched for Covid-19 patients in home quarantine. As on October 5, of the 12,897 active cases, about 11,000 patients are in home isolation across the state. In Jalandhar, 1,031 beds at Level-I were vacant while only two beds of the 759 available in Amritsar were occupied. Similarly, in Moga, six patients were admitted in centres having a total bed capacity of 364. Out of 339 beds in Ferozepur, only beds were occupied. LEVEL-II FACILITIES STRENGTHENED As patients opting for institutional isolation will be admitted at the Level-II facilities, the government has strengthened the number of beds in these centres, especially in districts having low capacity. Bed strength has been improved in districts including Kapurthala, Tarn Taran, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar, Sangrur, Bathinda, Ferozepur and Mansa. Earlier, some of these districts did not have level-II facilities in government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-shuts-covid-19-level-i-facilities/articleshow/78502866.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 6, 2020||Madurai||Family of activist accused in murder case seek collector help||Madurai: Family members of an activist from Karuvelampatti village on Monday petitioned the Madurai district administration seeking the intervention of the collector T G Vinay, alleging that his name was included in a murder case with an ulterior motive to dissuade him from pursuing a case he had filed against a stone quarry in the Madras high court.Selvakumari, wife of B Raman said that her husband is leading the villagers in a campaign to close down the stone quarry operating in the village. The case he filed is under trial at present.“My husband was falsely implicated by the Austinpatti police in a murder that took place in September, although there was no mention of his name in the FIR registered immediately after the incident. It was done only to favour the quarry owner. Now, the quarry owner is putting pressure on us to withdraw the court case. He says that he will help in removing my husband’s name from the case,” she claimed.A 65-year-old man from Thanakkankulam village was murdered by his son-in-law over a family dispute. A few days later, a car used by Raman was seized by the police in connection with the murder. However, Raman had gone underground fearing arrest, police sources said.The Thirumangalam range deputy superintendent of police Vinothini told TOI that there was no ulterior motive in including Raman’s name in the case. “His role in the murder, before and after the incident, has been well established in due course of investigation. There are evidences against him,” she said. She added that just because he is an activist, does not mean that he would not have involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/family-of-activist-accused-in-murder-case-seek-collector-help/articleshow/78502890.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Special trains from Howrah to Mumbai, Ahmedabad daily||KOLKATA: South Eastern Railway (SER) will start running the special trains between Howrah and Mumbai CSTM daily from Tuesday. It now starts thrice a week from Howrah. The special train between Howrah and Ahmedabad has also been converted to a daily from a tri-weekly one. This will start from Wednesday. “These two routes between Howrah and and Mumbai and Ahmedabad used to be extremely popular before restrictions were imposed due to Covid-19. We had tried to resume services by running daily special services but there were objections from the state government. We started tri-weekly services after that,” a senior SER official said. While the Mumbai train will resume its return journey to Howrah from Thursday, the one from Ahmedabad will start running from Saturday. The timings will remain unchanged. The stoppages of these trains at Tatanagar and Chakradharpur have been restored. Two special trains from Puri to Anand Vihar terminus in New Delhi will also run through SER’s network from Wednesday. While one of them will run four times a week via Adra, the other one will pass through Tatanagar thrice a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spl-trains-from-howrah-to-mum-ahmedabad-daily/articleshow/78504031.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 6, 2020||Madurai||CM inaugurates university buildings constructed at Rs 15-cr||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, on Monday inaugurated buildings worth Rs 15 crore constructed at Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, in Tirunelveli, and constituent colleges in and around Tirunelveli via video conferencing from the secretariat. It includes the student’s hostel and guest rooms and few other facilities at the university campus at Rs 5.65 crore.The classrooms and additional buildings were completed at the varsity’s colleges at Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district and at Thisayanvilai and Panagudi in Tirunelveli district at Rs 9.3 crore – Rs 3.1 crore each. Tirunelveli collector Shilpa Prabhakar Sathish and vice-chancellor of the university M Pitchumani were present at the event.Palaniswami also dedicated restoration and beautification works that have been carried out at an estimate of nearly Rs 1.5 crore at the Panchalankurichi Fort of freedom fighter Veerapandiya Kattabomman in Tuticorin district. The works were funded by the archaeology department and the tourism department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-inaugurates-university-buildings-constructed-at-rs-15-cr/articleshow/78502902.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur worst affected among 4 dists of W Maha||Kolhapur: Even as Kolhapur district has witnessed a drop in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, it continues to be the worst affected among four districts of western Maharashtra. Kolhapur district has recorded the highest number of positive cases (45,494) as compared to Satara. Sangli and Solapur. The district has also reported 1,489 Covid-related deaths till Sunday night. In addition, Kolhapur district has also witnessed highest number of active cases as compared to the other three districts in the region. Solapur district, which had reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases till June this year, stood at 34,960 positive cases and has reported 1,202 deaths till Sunday night. At present, the district has 6,053 active cases. Neighboring Sangli district has recorded 38,817 patients so far. Of these, 6,094 patients are currently undergoing treatment at various Covid care facilities in the district. In addition, the district has recorded 1,422 deaths till Sunday night. Satara district, on the other hand, has registered 39,445 coronavirus cases so far, of which, 8,101 are currently active. The district has recorded 1,234 deaths till Sunday night. Among all municipal corporations in four districts, Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation tops in Covid-19 cases. It has registered 15,015 positive cases so far along with 501 deaths. Kolhapur municipal corporation, on the other hand, has recorded just 13,804 positive cases with 337 deaths till Sunday night. Solapur municipal corporation has reported 8,660 positive patients and 487 deaths As of now, Solapur city has 839 active patients. Of the 45 talukas in four districts, Karveer has recorded the highest number of patients — 5,303 — along with with 303 deaths. Pandharpur from Solapur district has registered 5,101 cases with 127 deaths. Walva taluka has reported the highest number of cases in Sangli district — 4,314 along with 69 deaths. Hatkanangale has witnessed 4,993 positive cases with 198 deaths. According to official information, Hatkanagale has recorded the highest number of casualties at the taluka level among all four districts. Official records show that Solapur rural is badly affected among all four districts. Solapur rural has recorded 26,300 positive cases so far along with 715 deaths. At present, Solapur rural has 5,214 active patients. Kolhapur rural, on the other hand, has reported 24,787 positive cases so far with 719 deaths. Rural parts of Sangli district have registered 17,999 positive cases with 695 deaths. In urban areas governed by municipal corporations, Solapur has reported the highest number of cases among all four districts. It has 8,497 positive patients with 242 deaths. But, urban areas in Kolhapur district have recorded more Covid-related casualties as compared Solapur. Kolhapur’s urban pockets have reported as many as 322 deaths along with 7,004 positive cases so far. Urban pockets of Sangli have reported 5,803 positive cases and 226 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-worst-affected-among-4-dists-of-w-maha/articleshow/78503667.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cop booked for abetting wife’s suicide||AURANGABAD: A policeman, serving with the bomb detection and disposal squad of Aurangabad police, and six members of his family were booked on Tuesday by city police on charges of abetment to suicide after his wife committed suicide by hanging at their home. According to police, the couple had a heated argument following which the woman went inside the room and used her scarf to hang herself from the ceiling. “The family got to know about the incident after they tried to open the door but got no response from inside. Soon the door was broken, and the woman was taken to the hospital where she was declared brought dead,” a police officer said. “The deceased’s parents have registered a complaint of domestic violence against the suspect and his family members,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cop-booked-for-abetting-wifes-suicide/articleshow/78499208.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist reports 133 cases, 8 deaths||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 133 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 38 from the city, on Monday, taking the tally of confirmed patients to 45, 728. Of these, 7,723 are currently active while 36, 508 have been discharged after successful recovery. The district has reported 1,498 deaths so far, including eight casualties reported on Monday. Meanwhile, civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti on Monday appointed a team of four officers to make surprise visits to private hospitals and check billings of Covid patients. This team will scrutinise the bills in addition to the auditors appointed earlier. “Despite the auditors checking bills, relatives of Covid patients are complaining about hospitals overcharging their patient for Covid treatment. The rapid teams will make surprise visits randomly and interact with the relatives and also take the feedback of the service and treatment provided to the patients,” Kalshetti said. Sangli reports 343 cases, 21 deaths Sangli district reported 343 cases along with 21 deaths on Monday. With this, the total number of cases has reached 39,160, of which, 1,443 have succumbed to infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-133-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/78503673.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: Desperate for win, parties rope in ex-MPs, MLAs||HYDERABAD: Making a desperate bid to win the Dubbak bypoll, various political parties have mobilised legislators, former MLAs and ex-MPs to campaign at even mandal level. Finance minister T Harish Rao has taken the lead by undertaking a vigorous campaign for the TRS, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy has assigned responsibilities to other leaders. TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy has been asked to specifically concentrate on Mirdoddi mandal. From the TRS, former MLA Chinta Prabhakar will take up cudgels on behalf of the party nominee in Mirdoddi. Congress MP of Bhuvanagiri Komatireddy Venkat Reddy will turn his focus on Doultabad mandal where the TRS has made Vanteru Pratap Reddy responsible to ensure the party does well. In the 2018 assembly elections, Pratap Reddy had contested against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao from Gajwel and lost. After the elections, he joined the TRS and was appointed chairman of Telangana State Forest Development Corporation. In Thoguta mandal, former PCC chief Ponnala Lakshmaiah will take up responsibility for the party’s campaign and he will have to outwit Andole MLA Chanti Kranthi Kumar who will have to ensure that the TRS will stand its ground. BJP is also not far behind. Former MP A Jitendhar Reddy, who was earlier with the TRS, has been roped in to work for the victory of the party candidate. Meanwhile, district SP D Joel Davis has asked individuals holding weapon licence to deposit their arms in police stations. During a visit to Bhoompalli police station, he said surveillance in the villages would be increased and cases registered against anyone trying to influence voters by distributing money or liquor. With a straight fight emerging among senior leaders of various parties to ensure win of their parties’ candidates, the district administration and police have made specific arrangements to keep a vigil against the model code of conduct being violated by the leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/desperate-for-win-parties-rope-in-ex-mps-mlas/articleshow/78501480.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 6, 2020||Madurai||Kanyakumari, Thanjavur continue to report high number of +ve cases||Trichy/Madurai: The central region of the state on Monday recorded 663 fresh cases taking the total tally to 55,277, which include 4,983 active cases. Starting from September 28, the region recorded 5,248 cases pushing the tally from 50,000 to 55,000. With four more deaths, the toll has climbed to 748. Meanwhile, the 10 southern districts of the state reported 555 fresh cases and nine deaths. Two deaths each were recorded in Dindigul, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari districts and one each in Madurai, Theni and Virudhunagar districts. The deaths include a 32-year-old man from Tenkasi district who died at the government headquarters hospital on Monday. Kanyakumari (98) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Tirunelveli (81) and Madurai (78). Ramanathapuram (20) recorded the least number of cases, followed by Sivaganga (30) and Virudhunagar (45). From 5,253 active cases a week ago the numbers have come down to 4,574 on Monday. While all the districts have less than 900 active cases the number is below 500 in six districts. Ramanathapuram (163) has the least number of active cases, followed by Sivaganga (223), Virudhunagar (235), Tenkasi (324), Dindigul (371) and Tuticorin (487). In the central region, the high number of fresh cases in Thanjavur, which has 1,441 active cases, was the major reason for the spike. Thanjavur alone recorded 1,827 cases in the past one week. Tiruvarur reported 98 fresh cases, Trichy 77 and Pudukottai 75 cases. Officials said that the positivity rate was declining in the district despite testing around 2,500 samples. Nagapattinam, which reported only 20 cases on Sunday, recorded 85 cases on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kanyakumari-thanjavur-continue-to-report-high-number-of-ve-cases/articleshow/78502935.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Three firms express interest to construct Ramniwas Bagh parking||Jaipur: Three companies have expressed interest to construct the underground parking project at the Ramniwas Bagh. Before the next round, the civic body is evaluating the technical bid for Rs 94-crore project. A senior engineer at JDA said, “Once the firms qualify for the technical bid, we will be evaluating the financial bid before awarding the work. The process is likely to be completed in a month.” After Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) gave the administrative and financial sanction, JDA initiated work to appoint the firm and also applied for environmental clearance. Moreover, the civic body’s executive committee (EC) had given a nod to the tripartite agreement to be executed between Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL), Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and the contractor for Ramniwas Bagh underground parking project, phase-II. JDA has also prepared the parking design. An official said, as per the preliminary design, majority of the construction will be beneath the Union Football Ground at the park. The two-storey parking will be constructed in approximately 49,000 square-metre area. Once constructed, the parking space will house 1,530 vehicles. JDA had earlier proposed to extend underground parking till Jaipur Traffic Police office towards Ajmeri Gate end. However, the authorities are apprehensive about constructing a parking space beneath Sawan Bhado Park as it might violate high court directives which prohibited construction of any kind in that area. “The maximum construction will be carried out beneath the football ground and the space connecting Ravindra Manch and existing parking,” said an official.Sources said the project was out of the files after five years. The project idea was conceived during the previous Congress government when the JDA had planned to extend the parking. It was also proposed to connect three nearby markets of the city to Ramniwas Bagh parking by constructing a subway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-firms-express-interest-to-construct-ramniwas-bagh-parking/articleshow/78501474.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Nashik||Day 1: Nashik restaurants get steady footfall of customers||Nashik: Owners of restaurants and bars in the city were overjoyed to receive a steady flow of customers in their establishments on the first day of reopening after six months. “We had very a good response from customers on the very first day. We served the customers keeping in mind the safety measures promulgated by the state government in view of the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Shailesh Kute, who runs a chain of restaurants and a well-known hotel in the city. Rohit Patil, owner of a popular restaurant in the city, was overwhelmed with the handsome turnout of customers on the first day of opening his establishement. “Generally, the footfall of customers is low on Monday and Tuesday but increases from wednesday onwards. Nevertheless, the response was very good on Monday,” said an exalted Patil who is expecting the footfall to increase from Wednesday. “It is a positive development that the state government has allowed functioning of restaurants. I came to a restaurant for lunch with my friend almost after six months,” said Swapnil Gaikwad, a software engineer.The Association of Bars, Hotels and Restaurants (Abhar) is unhappy with the district administration as the latter has issued an order allowing bars and restaurants to reamin open only till 7pm.The association members said that the footfall would not increase if they have to shut operations by 7pm.“People start coming to bars and restaurants from 7pm onwards and we make most of the business from that time. In fact, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has allowed bars and restaurants to operate till 10pm. We also want bars and restaurants to operate till 10 pm,” said Sanjay Chavan, president of Abhar.“In other cities like Pune, Nagpur and Thane, the respective municipal commissioners have issued orders related to operation timings of bars and restaurants. The Nashik Municipal Corporation has not issued any such order,” said Chavan.The president of Abhar said he has also urged the municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav to extend the operation timing of bars and restaurants till 10pm in line with Pune. “The municipal commissioner has assured us that he will talk to the district collector about the issue,” said Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/day-1-nashik-restaurants-get-steady-footfall-of-customers/articleshow/78502932.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 6, 2020||Goa||Mauvin: GST council’s new fund limit to benefit Goa||Panaji: With the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council revising the borrowing limit under option 1 to compensate states for the drop in GST collections, Goa will see a marginal increase in its access to funds, said panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho. Godinho, who represents Goa on the GST council, said that a final decision on the borrowing plan to compensate states has yet to be taken. “Marginally, Goa’s borrowing share will increase and all this will be recovered from the cess collected till the interest and principal amount is paid back,” said Godinho after attending the meeting virtually. After the day-long GST Council meeting, the Centre agreed to revised its GST collection growth estimate to 7% from the earlier 10%. This has increased the estimated shortfall in GST collections to Rs 1.1 lakh crore from Rs 97,000 crore. Godinho said that a special GST council meeting will be held on October 12 to see if states can arrive at a consensus on the two options offered by the Centre. Goa has informed the Centre that it is in favour of borrowing funds through a RBI-facilitated special window to meet the GST shortfall for the current financial year. Chief minister Pramod Sawant wrote to the Union finance ministry in September regarding the state’s preference for option 1. The GST Council also agreed to reduce the number of GST returns that small taxpayers need to file. From January 1 onwards, small taxpayers with annual turnover less than Rs 5 crore will not be required to file monthly returns and can do so on a quarterly basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mauvin-gst-councils-new-fund-limit-to-benefit-goa/articleshow/78502971.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Satara district reports 277 cases||KOLHAPUR: Satara district has reported 277 fresh Covid-19 patients and 17 deaths due to the infection since Sunday late night, taking the total number of cases to 39,445. The death toll has now risen to 1,251. The district continues to show a decline In the number of Covid cases. Meanwhile, as many as 30,092 patients have recovered and 8,102 cases are active. Satara tehsil, however, continues to have a large number of patients as nearly half of the fresh cases are from the tehsil. It added 113 cases including 57 from Satara town and 23 from Sangam Mahuli. Of the fresh cases, Karad tehsil reported 29 fresh cases, which include nine from Karad town, Wai added 19 cases, Mahabaleshwar tehsil added three cases among others. Of the 17 deceased, which includes eight women, 16 are elderly. Satara tehsil recorded eight deaths while Phaltan had four deaths and two deaths have been registered in Karad tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-277-cases/articleshow/78503725.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Airlines slash down fares to lure passengers planning to travel out during festival season||JAIPUR: As airlines are yet to see an elevation in their booking ahead of the upcoming festival season, they have marginally slashed prices for the Durga Puja, Navratri and Diwali. Also, there is a possibility that prices may further dip as till date the booking of tickets is very poor, as merely 20 to 30 per cent tickets have been booked. TOI on Monday spoke to the authorities including travel agents, operators and passengers to know how traveling during festivals would be different this time amid the fear of Covid-19 and how fares would invite the passengers to travel. “Under normal circumstances the fare for Jaipur to Kolkata economy class is around Rs 5,500-Rs 6,200. It is always seen that during festival time the airlines charge extra and increase the prices. However, this time if we see the fare structure we would find that prices are little cheaper. For Kolkata if somebody is booking a ticket on October 22 that is start of Durga Puja the tickets are available between Rs 3,070 and Rs 3,500,” said Sanjay Kaushik, a travel agent. Likewise, when checked, it was found that to travel to Ahmedabad during Navratri various airlines are offering tickets between Rs 2,200 and Rs 3,200. For Mumbai, on a usual day during pre-Covid-19 time the fare was around Rs 4,500-Rs 5,500 which is now available at Rs 3,000-Rs 5,000 for October 17, start of Navratri. “We are only getting queries of fares and while we follow up the passengers are not willing to travel. Yes, there is fear in their mind. Last year tickets for Navratri, Durga Puja and Diwali were sold out almost a month prior to festivals for destinations including Mumbai, Kolkata and Ahmedabad. However, this year so far we have seen almost 20 per cent bookings,” said a booking clerk of a private airlines at the Jaipur airport. Some airlines might also introduce ATR, the smaller aircraft for destinations including Ahmedabad, Delhi, Amritsar and Agra. “For cities like Kolkata, Guwahati and Mumbai it is not possible to bring smaller aircraft which can fly for 90 minutes only. So, for these destinations there would be regular aircraft but for smaller distances ATR might be introduced,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/airlines-slash-down-fares-to-lure-passengers-planning-to-travel-out-during-festival-season/articleshow/78501495.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Virus plays party pooper, keeps customers away in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Restaurants and hotels in the city started full-fledged operations after a span of six months on Monday but did not have the desired number of customers despite following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) stipulated by the state government. President of Aurangabad district hotels and restaurants association Shivaji Patil was part of the seven-member delegation from across the state that recently made a representation to the chief minister setting forth demands like opening the restaurants, waiving licence fees and taxes to overcome the losses incurred by the hotel industry. “Since there is no deadline for restaurants in Aurangabad, we are forced to shut our operations by 7pm. This is in stark contrast to Pune where the deadline is 10pm and Mumbai where restaurants can stay open till midnight,” said Patil demanding that the deadline for hotels be extended in the city. He added that there were not many customers in restaurants on Monday as people still had the fear of Covid-19. The association’s secretary, Kishore Shetty, who runs a chain of restaurants, said that all the SOPs were being followed including observing social distancing norms. “Following these norms have automatically reduced the restaurant’s sitting strength by 50%” Other members of the association also demanded extension of timings for the hotels and restaurants citing that most of the families go out for dining post 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/virus-plays-party-pooper-keeps-customers-away-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78502969.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 6, 2020||Pune||Strategy to score well works for students with IIT hopes||Pune: At 17.5%, the results of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced announced on Monday was the lowest cut-off in five years. Experts said it would help students who have scored gain admission to the IITs. The previous lowest cut-off was 20% in 2016. Director of IITian's Prashikshan Kendra, Durgesh Mangeshkar, said up to AIR 4,000, cut-offs of JEE Advanced this year are actually higher than 2016.“Thereafter, the 2020 cut-offs are lower than those in 2016, and the gap gradually increases up to 2.66% in the cut-off score. So, we can conclude that the 2020 paper was tougher than 2016," he said.Students’ performance was higher perhaps due to the extra four months of preparation they got this year as compared to 2016, Mangeshkar added.In 2016, the results were the lowest cut-offs since 2006 when JEE Advanced became an objective pattern-based exam.Lalit Kumar of Prime Academy said they had advised their students to solve the paper in two rounds. “In the first round, they were advised to finish all the easy questions to secure a rank, that released their pressure and in the second round they went on to score in relatively difficult questions which helped them improve their ranks. This strategy worked for many students," Kumar added.According to Arun Jain, centre head of Allen Career Institute, this year nearly 1.25 lakh male candidates registered for JEE Advanced. Of these, 1.17 lakh appeared and 36,497 qualified. Similarly, 35,121 female students registered for JEE Advanced and 32,851 appeared. A total of 6,707 cleared the exam. As such a total of 43,204 students have qualified for about 15,000 seats in the IITs.In the general category, the student who got the last qualified rank in has scored 17.5% marks, that is 69 out of 392 marks.Jain said, "Whenever the paper has been of higher marks, the cut-off has decreased. This year, the cut-off for individual subjects and overall, was 5% and 17.5% respectively, one of the lowest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strategy-to-score-well-works-for-students-with-iit-hopes/articleshow/78501486.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur resident docs drop decision to suspend work||Jodhpur: Resident doctors of Jodhpur shelved their decision of suspending work for two hours from Tuesday after the SN Medical College administration’s assurance of fulfillment of their major demands.Addressing the major concerns of the resident doctors on Monday, principal of the medical college G L Meena said quality and quantity of the PPE kits and N-95 masks for them has already been processed and other demands pertaining to some facilities at hostels would be responded to in a week.Resident doctors had submitted their demand charter to the medical college administration on September 30, which comprised changes in duty hours and days keeping in view the reduction in viral load caused by duty in hospitals and availability of adequate and qualitative PPE kits and N-95 masks, besides facilities at the hostels and arrangements for the infected doctors.President of the Resident Doctors’ Association Rajendra Fageria said the resident doctors have been serving amid constant threat of infection in the hospitals attending to positive cases, thereby increasing their viral loads."In such a situation, we need periodic intervals and breaks to reduce this viral load and regain physical strength for further duty in the wards," said Fageria, advocating eight hours duty and five days gap after seven days’ duty."Rest of their demands have been met with and they have dropped their decision to suspend work from Tuesday," Meena said.The concerns of the doctors were triggered by the spread of the Covid infection in the city and among themselves also.According to the figures provided by the association, 82 resident doctors, which constitute 20% of their total strength, have so far been tested positive while working in the field in Jodhpur.Fageria said this was 40 times the national average and many of them have tested positive twice, which has further frightened them. "We are fully aware of the situation and have been serving with devotion, but we need some protection and facilities so that we could serve better in this time of pandemic," Fageria added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-resident-docs-drop-decision-to-suspend-work/articleshow/78501489.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur sees rise in recovery of patients||Kolhapur: Solapur district has witnessed a rise in recovery of coronavirus patients as compared to the number of fresh cases reported on Monday. The district reported recovery of as many as 407 patients on Monday as compared to 281 new cases registered on the same day. According to officials of the district administration, 45 new cases, including 27 men and 18 women, were traced out from the city as against 98 patients who were discharged from various facilities on Monday. Those discharged included 59 men and 39 women. In Solapur rural, 309 patients were discharged from various Covid care facilities. They included 186 men and 123 women. According to officials, the rural areas identified 236 fresh Covid-19 cases, of which, there were 152 men and 84 women. Meanwhile, the district, including city limits, reported 14 deaths. Of these, four were reported from the city. All four deceased were senior citizens, said officials. At present, the city has 782 active cases. The city had witnessed 491 casualties so far. As many as 7,432 patients from the city have been discharged after successful recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-sees-rise-in-recovery-of-patients/articleshow/78503698.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Solipeta Sujatha finalised as TRS candidate||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has finalised Solipeta Sujatha as the TRS candidate to contest the bypoll to Dubbak assembly constituency. The bypoll is scheduled on November 3. Sujatha’s entry into the fray is expected to attract huge sympathy for the ruling TRS as Solipeta family is said to have a special bonding with the people of Dubbak constituency. Ramalinga Reddy had consecutively won the constituency in 2014 and 2018, with over 62,000 votes majority in December 2018. Sujatha is the wife of Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, who was the sitting MLA from Dubbak. He died last month, necessitating the bypoll. BJP has already announced Raghunandan Rao as its candidate for Dubbak. The Congress said it will announce its candidate on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/solipeta-sujatha-is-trs-candidate/articleshow/78501492.cms||Roushan Ali
October 6, 2020||Madurai||U-turn to be established near ROB Road in Nehru Nagar||Madurai: The Madurai city traffic police has initiated work to link Nehru Nagar road with the service road in Bypass Road by clearing juliflora in Nehru Nagar Junction. Once the link is established, motorists coming via Nehru Nagar can take a ‘U’ turn at an opening to be given in the centre median, around 100m away from the beginning of the Rail Overbridge (ROB) Road.“The linking work will be completed in a week or two. A signal will be introduced at the place where the vehicles join Bypass Road to manage congestion,” assistant commissioner of police, Tallakulam, G Mariappan said.At present, commuters from Nehru Nagar take a turn near the ROB, posing a threat to motorists travelling on the Bypass Road. After TOI had published a report highlighting the safety issues on September 15, a traffic constable has been posted there during peak hours.V Kalamegam, a social activist said the situation is much better as the traffic chaos is under control after the policeman was posted. “Efforts by the city police to prevent Nehru Nagar commuters from taking Bypass Road, close to the bridge is commendable. It is the best possible way to address the problem,” he said.Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, who inspected the junction on Saturday pledged his support to the locals to make the road safer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/u-turn-to-be-established-near-rob-road-in-nehru-nagar/articleshow/78502964.cms||V Devanathan
October 6, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar man booked for rape in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A Jamnager man was booked on Sunday night in Rajkot for allegedly raping a woman in Diu after promising to marry her. Police said Ketan Kasundra had allegedly taken the 24-year-old survivor, who is from Jasdan in Rajkot district, to Diu and raped her several times. According to the police, Kasundra befriended the survivor and, promising to marry her, raped her several times after taking her thrice to Diu on October 18, 2019, December 22, 2019 and January 21, 2020. “Whenever the survivor broached the topic of marriage, Kasundra would avoid her. When the survivor went to Kasundra’s home in Jamnagar, Kasundra told her that he could not marry her as she was from a different caste and that his parents were against the alliance,” said A G Ambasana, sub-inspector with Rajkot taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jamnagar-man-booked-for-rape/articleshow/78500415.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||City people purchasing pets in high numbers to kill lockdown woes||Jaipur: There has been a sudden increase in the demand for pets in the city. Since the lockdown relaxations have been declared, people working from home are finding pets a good therapy to bring positivity into their lives.Hemant Singh, owner of Mister Dog pet shop said that he has been getting customers ever since the market opened. “Sitting at home, with no school for children, parents are purchasing pets for their wards to give them a sense of responsibility and some positivity in the monotonous life. Dogs are especially in demand as they play with children. Toy breeds are preferred for small families living in flats,” said Hemant.Talking to TOI, Manas Joshi, a resident who purchased a Maltese and a German Shepherd said that getting a dog was a break from the routine. “My child is six years old and he wanted a dog. With schools closed, we found it better to purchase a dog for the child with whom he can enjoy plyaig instead of being busy with online games,” said Joshi.According to different pet shop owners in the city there has been an increase of 50% business since July. The prices of pets have, however, gone up, because there has been a shortage of supply.Ankit Singh, owner of Indian Dog World shop said that during lockdown no one bred pets as they expected it would be difficult to sell them.“Breeders expected that the demands of pet will go down, but surprisingly it went up. Now, there are not enough puppies to sell but the demand is high. This has also increased the rates of dogs and other pets. A Labrador puppy which used to sell for Rs 10,000 now costs up to Rs 18,000. Similar situation is with other breeds where amount has doubled,” said Ankit.After dogs, cats have also become people’s favourite. Easier to maintain with good hygiene, people are inclined towards purchasing Persian cats.As the demand for pets has increased so has the demand for their accessories.Virendra Bhardhwaj, owner of Dog World Pet Bazaar said that with the new craze for pets, new products for pets are also in demand. “Different types of beds, snacks, toys and houses have arrived in the market. Due to high demand, many new shops have come up in Jaipur that are selling pet products. All other businesses are going down, but pet business is at its peak right now. I can sell 100 puppies in one day,” said Virendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-people-purchasing-pets-in-high-numbers-to-kill-lockdown-woes/articleshow/78501484.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||20 doctors died of Covid in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Indian Medical Association has released a list of 20 doctors from the state who died of Covid-19. Experts claimed that the viral load was found more among the doctors than in other people due to continuous exposure to the virus in hospitals, so doctors require more precautions and safety measures against Covid. The doctors have died not only in Jaipur, but also in other parts of the state such as Bikaner, Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Jhunjhunu, Dungarpur and Pali, IMA claimed. "The demise of doctors due to Covid is an irreparable loss to the society they had vast experience in medical sciences. They lost their lives while serving people," said Dr M N Thareja, president, IMA (Rajasthan). He said, "The mortality rate in doctors is higher than overall mortality. In India, the mortality rate is over 1.3%, but among doctors, it is 19%. It means that if 100 doctors were tested positive, 19 have died. It is happening because the doctors are continuously getting exposed to the virus and the virus load, when a doctor is infected, is quite high," said Thareja. The IMA appealed to the doctors to take proper care to ward off risk of getting infected with the virus. IMA stated that doctors need to take charge of the situation and ensure the safety of themselves, their families, their colleagues and staff. The IMA further said that operation theatres, labour rooms and laboratories require special care. ICUs and critical care units deserve close scrutiny for adherence to best practices and protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20-docs-died-of-covid-in-raj/articleshow/78501503.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik cops help farmers get back Rs 2 crore from traders||NASHIK: A special drive undertaken after instructions from inspector general of police (special) Pratap Dighavkar last month has helped Nashik rural police return over Rs 2 crore to the farmers who were cheated by various traders. Superintendent of police Sachin Patil on Monday said that they have registered 79 first information reports (FIRs) over the past four weeks against traders who have cheated farmers in North Maharashtra. “Thus, farmers who had almost lost hope of getting their money back from their traders have started receiving the dues,” he said. Last month after Dighavkar took charge as IG (Special) of Nashik range — comprising Nashik rural, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar of North Maharashtra — all SPs of the concerned district were instructed to register complaints against traders who have cheated farmers in North Maharashtra. Subsequently, a large number of applications started coming in at various police stations across the rural district. “Generally, traders come from different parts of the state and country to buy agricultural produce like grapes and onions in Nashik district right from the farm thereby preventing the hassle to the farmers from going to the markets for selling their products,” Patil said. However, in many cases, the traders do not make the payments to the farmers, leading to financial trouble for the farmers. Last year, police had received 24 complaint applications of cheating. But this year till September-end the police had received 545 applications. “The process of registering FIRs against the traders concerned is underway. So far, we have registered 79 FIRs. Many traders have assured to make the payment to the farmers immediately to avoid the police action,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-help-farmers-get-back-rs-2-cr-from-traders/articleshow/78503745.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapurites make a beeline for iconic delicacies||Kolhapur: Most of the customers who thronged hotels on the first day of opening after six months were those craving for their favourite food. Most hotels serving iconic dishes such as misal, tambda-pandhra were packed with customers. A restaurant in Udyam Nagar known for its sumptuous ‘misal’ had customers waiting in the queue beyond the serving hours. A restaurant, which usually shuts around 2pm, was spotted open for an en extra hour to serve its patrons. However, this was not the case with most of the the other restaurants. Restaurant operators ensured only few items on the menu were prepared and served. Akshay Hukkeri, owner of Veluvan Hotel said, “The turnout of customers on the first day was not as much as we had expected it to be. We prepared only few items. Most of the customers were our regular customers and few were new.” Most restaurant owners faced shortage of staff. Either the staff have gone to their native place or have joined some other establishment for work. The restaurant owners and bar owners demanded to allow the option of dining till late to earn good revenue and make up for the losses incurred in the last six months. Most of the restaurants in the Old city area were deserted. Customers seemed satisfied with the safety measures undertaken by the restaurants to make the dining experience safe. “I observed the hotels were clean and sanitised. The staff wore masks and gloves. However the restaurant owners should ensure that customers are not kept waiting for a long time,” Ajit Shinde, an avid misal lover. The bars were spotted serving customers till late evening. Many of the bars, which previously opened in the evening, have now started operating since morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapurites-make-a-beeline-for-iconic-delicacies/articleshow/78502983.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Madurai||Public protest as gang vandalizes more than 20 parked vehicles||Madurai: Thideer Nagar residents protested at Thiruparankundram Main Road near Periyar Bus Terminal on Monday morning urging the city police to arrest a gang, which entered into a rampage and damaged a large number of vehicles parked in front of their houses.The protest by the slum dwellers behind the TNSTC depot lasted for about 30 minutes which affected the traffic movement. The residents said that a gang of five youth under the influence of alcohol damaged at least six autorickshaws and 15 two-wheelers on Sunday night. An octogenarian woman, who took part in the protest said, “We saw the CCTV footages. Those involved in the rampage are from our locality. They should be arrested, and stringent possible action should be taken so that they do not repeat it.” Protestors said that the youths often vandalize properties to create panic among dwellers. Most of the people from the area are poor. It takes years of savings to buy a vehicle. But the anti-social elements are least bothered. Individuals are scared of raising the issue due to fear of being targeted by the suspects, they claimed.The protestors left the place only after the police assured to register a case and take appropriate action. A police officer said that a case has been registered and a few people have been picked up for an inquiry based on suspicion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/public-protest-as-gang-vandalizes-more-than-20-parked-vehicles/articleshow/78502998.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Doctors worried about impact of crackers in Covid treatment during Diwali||JAIPUR: Respiratory diseases specialists are worried about crackers that would be used during Diwali festival this year. A letter from the department of medicine, SMS Hospital, Jaipur, had gone viral on social media recently in which doctors wrote to the principal of medical college highlighting the possibility of the worst impact on lungs of people, especially those who have already suffered from Covid, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD) and asthma. Sawai Man Singh Medical College had formed a board of four doctors of department of medicine to give their suggestions on use of crackers during Diwali and send it to the state government. TimesViewFestive season is round the corner but the pandemic has changed everything this year. Doctors are discouraging the use of crackers this Diwali as it may help the virus to spread rapidly by generating more aerosols in the environment. Also, lungs of those who have recovered from Covid are still in a compromised state and many have developed lung fibrosis. The crackers will add more polluting and harmful gases in the environment that may aggravate problems of such patients. If doctors are discouraging use of crackers, people should avoid using it as it may threaten lives of people having lung ailments.In the letter, the board of four doctors suggested that there should be a complete prohibition on the use of crackers. “The smoke emanating from burnt crackers may cause problems to patients suffering from COPD, asthma and also Covid patients,” the letter issued on September 30 said. “The four doctors had prepared the report and submitted it. Crackers generate aerosols, which may transmit Covid virus more rapidly. There is a risk of fast spread of Covid infection due to bursting of crackers,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital. Even after recovery from Covid, some patients develop lung fibrosis and they feel difficulty in breathing. City’s pulmonologists are advising people to stay away from crackers for the sake of Covid patients. “In such a situation, the people should not use crackers. Bursting of crackers generate minute suspended particulate matter and these can carry the Covid virus with them. People should avoid crackers this year,” said Dr Virendra Singh, pulmonologist and president of a private hospital. Every year, post Diwali, the Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board issues a report of air and noise pollution. Post Diwali, the city reports significant increase in suspended particulate matter, following which hospitals report increasing number of patients coming for treatment of respiratory illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doctors-worried-about-impact-of-crackers-in-covid-treatment-during-diwali/articleshow/78501500.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak: Congress may announce candidate today, former MLA’s son in race||HYDERABAD: The suspense over finalisation of party candidate for the Dubbak constituency by Congress deepened on Monday with reports of local TRS leader Cheruku Srinivas Reddy evincing interest to contest the bypoll on a Congress ticket. Congress, which was expected to announce its candidate, held back its decision after Srinivas Reddy, son of former MLA Cheruku Mutyam Reddy, got in touch with local Congress leaders in Dubbak. Mutyam Reddy was originally in TDP in the undivided state and won Dubbak seat in 2009 on Congress ticket. He later joined TRS after Congress denied him ticket in 2018 assembly polls. Now, his son has got in touch with Congress for a ticket. TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the party will announce its candidate on Tuesday. Besides Srinivas Reddy, Congress Siddipet district president T Narsa Reddy and local leader K Venkatnarsa Reddy, among others, are in the race. Meanwhile, Uttam appointed party senior leaders as in-charges of mandals. Also, committees to monitor election issues in Dubbak, NRIs, social media and control members’ panel were constituted to monitor the bypoll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-may-announce-candidate-today-former-mlas-son-in-race/articleshow/78501522.cms||Roushan Ali
October 6, 2020||Pune||Five of carjackers’ gang arrested||Pune: A team of Hinjewadi police on Monday arrested a gang of five criminals on police records within a week of carjacking at gunpoint at Hinjewadi IT Park on September 28 night. Police recovered a country-made pistol, a cartridge, a gun-shaped lighter, a chopper and two motorcycles from suspects Aniket Borade (19), Anil Jadhav (20), Vishal Verma (20), Sharad More (22) and Akash Kokate (22), all from Talegaon Dabhade. A police team, led by assistant inspector Sagar Kate, made the arrests. On September 28, around 9pm, cab driver Yogesh Shinde of Kondhwa was waiting for his wife outside an IT company at Hinjewadi IT Park when three men threatened him and asked him to hand over money and car key. They then forced Shinde out of the cab and drove away. Kate said that with the help of CCTV footage and technical investigation, police came to know that the carjackers were from Talegaon Dabhade. Probe revealed that five people were involved in the crime. “We laid a trap and took Borade into custody on October 1. The remaining four were taken into custody after questioning,” Kate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-of-carjackers-gang-arrested/articleshow/78501496.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Youth electrocuted in south Delhi; probe on||NEW DELHI: A 24-year-old man died of electrocution after he came in contact with an electricity pole in the Nizamuddin area on Sunday night. Police have registered a case to probe the incident. The deceased, Jubair, lived in Nizamuddin Basti and worked at a shop that sells car seat covers in Lajpat Nagar. According to police, a PCR call was received at the Hazrat Nizamuddin police station and the caller said that a man had died after getting electrocuted. A police team arrived at the spot and found out that the man had been rushed to AIIMS where he was declared dead. His body was sent for autopsy and family members were informed about the tragedy. An initial inquiry suggested that the man was talking on the phone when he touched he pole and got electrocuted. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said they have registered a case under IPC Section 304A for causing death due to negligence against unknown persons. Meanwhile, a BSES spokesperson said, “The stretch and the pole in question are not maintained by BSES.” Jubair is survived by his three brothers, apart from blind mother and father who live in Amroha, Uttar Pradesh. He had come to Delhi to be able to support his family back in the village, his kin told the cops. Rehman, Jubair’s cousin who lived with him here, said that when Jubair was talking on the phone, he touched the pole and got electrocuted. “People who saw him collapse, separated him from the pole. He was taken to a hospital where doctors declared him dead. We then reported the matter to police,” he added. Rehman said that Jubair had got engaged 2-3 months ago and his marriage was scheduled this winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youth-electrocuted-in-s-delhi-probe-on/articleshow/78501604.cms||---
October 6, 2020||India||Buzz of YSRC joining NDA as Jagan set to meet Modi||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy left for New Delhi on Monday evening, raising fresh speculations on the possibility of YSRC joining the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. The chief minister is scheduled to meet PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday. Speculation has for sometime been rife in YSRC circles about Jagan having been offered one cabinet berth and two berths for junior minister. However, Jagan is believed to have stuck to his demand of getting special category status for Andhra Pradesh to join the NDA. The YSRC supremo had anchored his entire assembly election campaign in 2019 on this one demand. Both Jagan and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will be attending the meeting of the Apex Council on river disputes in Delhi on Tuesday to resolve their fight over the sharing of the Krishna waters. KCR, however has decided to attend it via video conferencing from Hyderabad. For Jagan, on the other hand, this is his second visit to the national capital in a fortnight. He was in Delhi on September 23 and 24 during which he held two rounds of meetings with Union home minister Amit Shah. BJP, sources said, wants YSRC to join the NDA as the exits of Shiv Sena earlier this year and the Shiromani Akali Dal last month have brought down the NDA's strength in the Rajya Sabha to 113. UPA's strength remains at 60, while other parties have 70 members. Sources added that with 28 MPs - 22 in Lok Sabha and six in Rajya Sabha - YSRC could make BJP's life easier in Parliament. The party had voted for farm bills in the just-concluded session. Jagan's September meeting with Shah was ostensibly over Andhra Pradesh getting financial support from the Centre and fulfilling all promises made during unified Andhra Pradesh's bifurcation in 2014. But it was during this meeting that Shah is believed to have placed a formal request before Jagan to join the NDA. Watch Amid buzz of YSRC joining NDA Jaganmohan Reddy to meet Narendra Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/buzz-of-ysrc-joining-nda-as-jagan-set-to-meet-modi/articleshow/78504364.cms||Gopi Dara
October 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai dengue cases come down, but health dept on alert||MADURAI: A total of 214 dengue cases have been reported so far since January this year in Madurai as per data from the district health department. However, health officials assured that there is no reason to panic as only three cases have been reported since July. Dengue control measures are also being tightened anticipating a rise in cases during the monsoon season. “The steep rise in dengue cases in January was due to a spillover from the aftermath of monsoon in 2019. There were a couple of blocks, particularly bordering Virudhunagar district that saw an outbreak of cases. Last year, in October and November, cases were at its peak in Madurai,” said a health official. Out of the 214 dengue cases, 134 were reported in rural limits. The official said there was a drastic decline in cases and that in September, there have been only three dengue cases, which is minimal compared to last year. Notably, since April, hardly few cases have been reported. Dengue control measures are currently underway across the district, alongside Covid-19 prevention measures. As many as 1,086 domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) have been deployed for door-to-door surveillance. Madurai district deputy director of health services, Dr KV Arjun Kumar said that DBCs are carrying out surveillance for both Covid-19 and dengue. “So far, only a few sporadic cases have been reported. We have 305 DBCs for the 13 rural blocks, 141 for nine town panchayats, 90 for the three municipalities and 550 for the Madurai Corporation areas,” he said. Efforts are also on to remove probable mosquito breeding places, spraying of abate solution and sprinkling bleach powder. Fogging is also being done once in 15 days to cover all areas across the district. Health officials said that this year, preventive measures for Covid-19 is also helpful in containing viral disease and fevers from spreading. So far, not just dengue, fever cases are also on the decline, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-dengue-cases-come-down-but-health-dept-on-alert/articleshow/78503026.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 6, 2020||Nashik||14 grape exporters’ licences suspended on Russia plaint||Nashik: The department of plant protection, quarantine and storage, which functions under the Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare, has suspended the licences of 14 grape exporters from Nashik district for providing inferior quality grapes to Russia. “Russia had complained about residue of pesticides detected in 41 grape containers sent by these exporters during the 2019 season, that is from December to April. Each grape container meant for export to Russia is filled with 16 tonne of grapes,” sources from the department of plant protection, quarantine and storage “We have suspended the licences of 14 exporters exporters and are investigating the issue,” said the sources, adding that they are planning a new channel of export to avoid the chances of such complaints in future. Office-bearers of Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagayatdar Sangh (MRDBS) — an association of grape growers — denied the presence of pesticide in the consignment that was exported to Russia. “We have already approached the National Research Centre (NRC) in this connection. We are expecting the issue to be resolved soon,” said Kailas Bhosle, a senior office-bearer of the association. Bhosle said that Russia has been insisting on a ‘pest-free area’ certificate for the past two years. Jagannath Khapre, president of Grape Exporters Association of India (GEAI), said, “The exporters are not at fault. They had sent the grapes to other non-European countries and there were no complaints. In fact, the consignment sent by these exporters to various countries, including Russia, were packaged in the same packaging facilities.”.Manik Patil, director of MRDBS, said the 41 grape containers were worth around Rs 6.5 crore. “The exporters had diverted four containers to other destinations while Russia had accepted the remaining 37 containers following fumigation of the fruit. The exporters are yet to receive their payment for 37 containers, which is estimated around Rs 5.9 crore,” he said. “The new grape season is expected to begin by December this year and the export will begin from the first half of January. We are expecting the issue with Russia is resolved by that time,” said Patil.Nashik district exported 1.09 lakh tonne of grapes during the 2019-20 season against the 1.44 lakh tonne exported in the previous season.Of the 1.09 lakh tonne, 80,433 tonnes grapes were exported to European countries like the Netherlands, Germany and the UK, while the remaining 29,454 tonnes were exported to countries like Russia, Malaysia and Dubai. The district had exported around 19,000 tonnes of grapes to Russia during the 2018-19 season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/14-grape-exporters-licences-suspended-on-russia-plaint/articleshow/78503032.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Jaipur reports biggest single-day spike of 450 new cases||JAIPUR: While the Covid-19 death toll has gone down significantly in the city in September as compared to August, the city reported biggest single-day jump of 450 new infections on Monday. It's for eighth day in a row that the city has reported 400 plus cases daily. In the state, 2,165 people tested positive bringing the overall tally to 1,46,195. Fourteen people died, taking the state’s toll to 1,559. Jaipur’s active cases touched a new high of 8,722 on Monday, which were 8,415 on Sunday. At a time when the city is witnessing surge in Covid cases, the number of deaths in the city has gone down significantly. In October so far, six people have lost their lives to the virus. In September, too, the city reported noticeable dip in deaths. Only 46 people died of Covid in September, while 87 had died in August. The state mortality rate due to coronavirus, too, has come down to 0.4% in September; it was 1.6% in August. Health department officials claimed that expansion of critical care for patients helped reduce the number of Covid deaths in Jaipur. "Apart from expansion of treatment facilities, people have also become aware. They are getting the treatment from doctors early with the onset of symptoms," said Dr Ajit Singh, superintendent, RUHS hospital. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (450), Jodhpur (365), Bikaner (273), Alwar (190), Ajmer (112), Bhilwara (109), Jalore (49), Udaipur (47), Pali (46), Bharatpur (42), Dholpur (40), Churu (35), Jhunjhunu (34), Barmer (31), Sriganganagar (30), Tonk (28), Rajsamand (27), Kota (25), Sirohi (24), Dungarpur (24), Chittorgarh (24), Nagaur (22), Karauli (18), Hanumangarh (17), Banswara (14), Jaisalmer (13), Sikar (13), Jhalawar (12), Baran (11), Dausa (10), Pratapgarh (10), Bundi (10) and Sawai Madhopur (10). Two persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 327, two died in Jalore, taking the toll to 24, while Jodhpur reported its 149th, Bikaner 116th, Ajmer 110th, Pali 66th, Alwar 46th, Sikar 36th, Baran 24th, Bhilwara 24th, Banswara 22nd and Dungarpur reported its 17th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-450-new-cases/articleshow/78501507.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Ensure firecrackers don't harm patients with lungs disorder: SHRC||Jaipur: The state human rights commission (SHRC) has asked the chief secretary, principal secretary (Home), district collectors and district superintendents of police to ensure bursting of firecrackers do not harm people suffering from asthma, allergies and other problems. TOI on Monday got a copy of the order by the SHRC’s acting chairperson Justice Mahesh Chandra Sharma, who has opined that the state government must ensure bursting of firecrackers do not harm people suffering from lungs disorder. Taking cognizance of the news reports stating firecrackers and its pollution can harm people with poor lungs or suffering from any other lung-related disease, Justice Sharma asked the state government to save people from the pollution created by the firecrackers. "The authorities should check pollution that emerges after bursting of firecrackers and should take appropriate action to stop it from harming public, especially those suffering from asthma, COPD and other lungs ailments," said Justice Sharma in his order on Sunday. The chairperson, while quoting the letter written by head of the department, medicine, SMS Medical College, appreciated their opinion and said, "Prevention is better than cure," he added. SHRC has also sought a report in this regard from the authorities by October 12. The acting chairperson has also stated that while the whole world is suffering from Covid-19, there is a possibility that the number of patients may increase if firecrackers are lit on Diwali.It may be recalled that SMS Medical College’s head of department of medicine Dr S Banerjee, Senior Professor Dr Raman Sharma, Dr Abhishek Aggarwal and Dr Sunil Mahawar have written a letter to the medical college principal expressing the sentiment that due to Covid-19 there should be a complete ban on firecrackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ensure-firecrackers-dont-harm-patients-with-lungs-disorder-shrc/articleshow/78501519.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Police bust illegal abattoir, arrest 2 men||Pune: The Kondhwa police on Sunday morning raided an illegal slaughterhouse in Undri and arrested two men. The police also recovered the remains of nine animals, identified as eight cows and one bullock by a veterinarian. A third suspect is on the run. Inspector Mahadeo Kumbhar said a caller tipped them off about the abattoir. “We arrested e the butcher Wasim Shaikh and Iqbal Shaikh, an autorickshaw driver hired to transport the meat,” senior inspector Vinayak Gaikwad said. — Asseem Shaikh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-illegal-abattoir-arrest-2-men/articleshow/78501505.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 6, 2020||Pune||MLC Neelam Gorhe, Maharashtra minister Yashomati Thakur raise Hathras protest pitch||PUNE: Member of Legislative Council Neelam Gorhe has written to Union home minister Amit Shah demanding action against police personnel in connection with the death of a 19-year-old girl at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. Woman and child development minister Yashomati Thakur said the Supreme Court should transfer the investigation and hearing of the case to another state to ensure justice for the victim’s family. Gorhe, in a video released to the media, said she was shocked to see how “the police manhandled Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on her way to Hathras”. She requested the home ministry to ensure that the accused “are not given bail” and an “efficient and experienced public prosecutor” be assigned for the case. “The case should be held in a fast-track court and the accused punished within a month,” she wrote. Thakur, who participated in protests in Mumbai and also Amravati, said the Supreme Court should transfer the investigation and also hearing of the case to another state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mlc-gorhe-minister-thakur-raise-hathras-protest-pitch/articleshow/78501517.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||New orange variety Daisy to be released next year||Nagpur: Daisy— the name may be misleading for a fruit and so are its looks. National Research Centre for Citrus (NRCC) has come up with a new variety of orange that looks like a mosambi (sweet orange). Named Daisy, the researchers hope once it is released for commercial farming, it may emerge as an option for the region’ orange cultivators, apart from the traditional Nagpur orange that they have been growing.A part of the Indian Council for Agriculture Research (ICAR), NRCC is a national level research agency for citrus fruits like oranges, lime and mosambi.NRCC director M S Ladhaniya, who presented the latest variety before the press, said, “The fruit has got a higher juice content. Its texture may not be exactly like the Nagpur orange, but it can still be eaten.”Ladhaniya said Daisy’s advantages include it is an early variety and can be harvested in September, a month earlier than the regular oranges. It has a thick peel which makes it sturdier due to which it can be transported long distances with less chance of damage. The fruit has 50% to 52% juice content as against 45% to 46% in the orange or mosambi, he said.The fruits were successfully grown for about six years and can be easily cultivated in Vidarbha. NRCC plans to distribute the plants to the farmers from next year. Thus, fruits may be available in the market in four to five years. NRCC has also developed another similar fruit Pearl Tangelo which is sweeter than the traditional orange or mosambi, he said.Daisy is a cross between Fortune and Fremonth varieties from California and was released by USDA in 1988. NRCC also presented other varieties of mosambis- blood red malta, jaffa, westin, and hamlin in the conference. Manoj Jawanjal, a director of Mahaorange, an association of orange growers, said these varieites were already known to handful of progressive farmers.NRCC had given these on experimental basis but the fruits did not find an acceptance in the market may be due to taste or texture. Hence, the farmers were not keen to take it further. Jawanjal said, however, Daisy and Pearl Tangelo were completely new to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-orange-variety-daisy-to-be-released-next-year/articleshow/78500445.cms||Shishir Arya
October 6, 2020||Nashik||Study material for ZP students to be broadcast on TV||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has decided to broadcast education material for students of zilla parishad schools through a dedicated channel on television. The move comes after a large number of students are unable to get into the online education mode due to the lack of mobile or internet infrastructure. Such students are deprived of attending online classes or, at times, access study material that has been uploaded through social media. “Students of zilla parishad schools residing in remote areas find it extremely difficult to benefit from the online mode of education which is why we have come up with the system of having a dedicated television channel through which they can access online education,” Mandhare said. He was addressing a meeting of officials while discussing online education. The meeting saw the participation of ZP CEO Leena Bansod, education officers of ZP as well as local cable network operators. “While the content broadcast will be for students of class I to VIII of zilla parishad schools, students from schools across the district (including Nashik city) will be able to view the content developed and presented by the teachers of Marathi medium ZP schools,” Mandhare added. The administration has reached an understanding with the cable operators who would air the content throughout the day so that students can choose a suitable time slot and hook on to the education lectures. “Since people have TV sets and cable connections at almost all households today, this mode of education will be the easiest way to reach students without forcing them to get some device like mobile or tablet and even get the internet data recharged frequently. In addition, the study material broadcast by the channel will be totally free of cost,” a senior officer from the district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/study-material-for-zp-students-to-be-broadcast-on-tv/articleshow/78503763.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 6, 2020||Mumbai||Woman falls into open manhole in Mumbai's Ghatkopar, body found in Worli sea||MUMBAI: More than 24 hours after a 35-year-old homemaker fell into an open manhole on a flooded road near her home in Ghatkopar’s Asalpha village during Saturday’s downpour, her body was found floating in the sea near the Haji Ali traffic chowky, more than 20km away, late Sunday. Autopsy revealed Sheetal Bhanushali had died due to drowning and was Covid-19 positive. The incident is eerily similar to the death of Dr Deepak Amarapurkar in 2017. He was walking to his Prabhadevi home when he slipped into an open drain on a flooded road. His body was found in Worli two days later. While the doctor’s umbrella next to the drain provided the clue that he had fallen into it, in the Ghatkopar incident, the woman’s bag was found next to the manhole the next morning. TimesViewDespite the BMC’s clear denial, a full-fledged investigation must be carried out in the matter by the police and responsibility fixed in case it is established that the woman indeed fell into a manhole. The reason the civic body does not inspire confidence is that a similarly horrific incident had taken place in 2017 in which a doctor lost his life. If civic authorities are found responsible, action should be initiated swiftly against negligent officials and staff.While local residents and politicians blamed BMC for negligence, officials claimed the manhole was not big enough for an adult to fall into and that the Ghatkopar drain is not connected to Worli nullah. BJP’s Kirit Somaiya, who filed a complaint against BMC with Ghatkopar police, was the first to tweet, “Sheetal died due to criminal negligence of BMC…drawn in the manhole at asalpha Ghatkopar, Mrutdeh (dead body) found at Worli.” He said the residents had told him that the drain had cement covers, but in January, the BMC took up repairs and did not replace many manhole covers. However, Manish Vallunj, assistant municipal commissioner of L ward (Kurla) said the manhole where Sheetal is reported to have slipped into was not wide enough to fit an adult. “Besides, there are pipelines inside the manhole. Also, the drain network from here travels via Safed pool near Saki Naka and flows into Mithi river, which further drains into the Arabian Sea at Mahim. This network is not connected to the Worli nullah. We are investigating how her body reached there,” he added. Sheetal was married to Jitesh, who works in a readymade garments shop in Dadar, for 14 years. The couple has son Jay (12) and a two-year old daughter. Sheetal was last seen with her son Jay on Saturday evening. Jitesh’s cousin Sanjay told TOI: “The mother-son duo had stepped out around 6.20pm. Jay bought stationery for his school project and returned home, while Sheetal went to the flour mill. At 6.45pm, when it started raining heavily, Jay called her on WhatsApp and she told him that she was on her way home. But minutes later, her mobile was unreachable.’’ The family searched the area and scanned CCTV cameras on private premises, but could see anything as it was dark and raining. They then lodged a missing complaint with the Ghatkopar police. On Sunday morning, the family resumed their search as the water had receded. They found her flour bag next to an open manhole. By then, around 11.30pm, Tardeo police received a wireless message about a woman’s body being spotted in the waters behind Haji Ali traffic chowky. “Our team fished out the body and sent it to Nair hospital,” said Tardeo senior police inspector Feroz Bagwan. A Ghatkopar police team reached the hospital and identified the body as Sheetal’s from the photograph submitted by her family. The Bhanushalis were informed about Sheetal’s death on Monday morning. Sanjay said: “Nowadays, manholes are fitted with plastic covers that open with the water pressure when drain overflows. Had the BMC placed a cement cover, it would have saved Sheetal’s life.’’ Ghatkopar police said initial investigations indicate that Sheetal fell into the manhole and drowned. An accidental death case has been registered at Tardeo police station. Watch Mumbai: Woman falls into open manhole, body found in Worli sea two days later||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-falls-into-open-manhole-in-ghatkopar-body-found-in-worli-sea/articleshow/78503791.cms||Clara Lewis
October 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: MMR crosses 5 lakh cases; Maharashtra and Mumbai see dip in new infections||MUMBAI: Even as the state and city registered a dip in cases on Monday, the Covid-19 caseload of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) went past the 5 lakh mark to reach 5,02,583. The region reported 79 deaths on Monday, taking its toll to 16,376. The state’s case tally is 14.5 lakh now. The latest one lakh cases in MMR were added in 21 days, and the surge in Mumbai in the past 15 days has been a factor. Also, Thane district is close to the 2 lakh mark, with the most active cases (30,563). MMR has 70,919 active cases in all now. Meanwhile, the ‘Sunday effect’ was apparent as the state added 10,244 cases, lowest since August 17, and 263 deaths, lowest in 7 days. Mumbai reported 1,813 cases and 47 deaths.The state’s total toll is now 38,347. A state government official said staff shortage over the weekends always results in a lower tally in Monday’s reports (results are computed over a 24-48-hour cycle instead of real-time additions). The city’s tally now stands at 2.15 lakh and its toll at 9,152. MMR’s 3,603 cases for the day also marked a 21% drop over the previous day. The drop was sharper at 44% in the Pune circle, where 1,884 cases were registered as against 3,408 the previous day. In Mumbai, civic officials said 2,000 is the average daily figure that is likely to stay for a few days due to increased testing. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said 70% of the sectors had opened up in the city. “There is already substantial movement of vehicles and people in the city. On an average, we get around 2,000 cases, but we don’t anticipate a further climb in the number,” he said, adding that the BMC already has adequate beds to handle the pandemic. If people participate in keeping the Covid transmission in check by wearing masks and observing hand hygiene, the curve won’t rise further, he said. The BMC update on Monday showed the total number of active cases in the city dropped to 24,199 after a reconciliation exercise in the 24 municipal wards resulted in removal of 2,173 cases as they were either duplicate or patients from out of Mumbai. A total of 284 new cases were registered in Thane city on Monday, taking the count to 38,632, while five fatalities took the toll to 1,029. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 280 new patients and seven deaths, taking the tally there to 44,064, with 857 deaths. On Monday, 405 patients recovered there, taking the number of discharges to 39,763 patients. Only 3,444 patients are under treatment in the KDMC area, officials said. In Navi Mumbai, 366 cases were added on Monday to the tally, which now stands at 38,468. NMMC reported five deaths, taking the toll to 783. The PCMC areas reported 121 cases and 20 deaths. In positive news for the second day in a row, the daily recoveries in the state were higher than daily additions. A total of 12,982 people recovered, taking the total recoveries to 11.6 lakh and the rate of recovery to 80%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, Umesh K Parida and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mmr-crosses-5l-cases-state-city-see-dip-in-new-infections/articleshow/78504815.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 6, 2020||Goa||Roadkill rises as highways expand without underpasses||Keri: The expansion of highways in Goa to four and six-lane ones from the earlier two lanes has already started taking its toll on wildlife. Roadworks have been undertaken without taking into consideration wildlife crossings, which has begun resulting in increased wild animal roadkills in the state, said wildlifers. Other modes of transport have also proven detrimental to wildlife in Goa, with railways reported to have led to deaths of sloths and leopards, but roadways remain the biggest killers, said wildlifers. “When Ponda town along with other areas started developing with national highways and state and district roads cutting through them, the situation turned difficult for wild animals crossing the road to get from one place to another. Roads have been built without understanding wildlife crossings due to which otters, crocodiles, monitor lizards, snakes and even bisons are being killed on them,” said Ponda-based Charan Desai, who has been studying roadkills in Goa for a decade now. Following the construction of the Chorla Ghat road from Keri to Belagavi, which passes through forested areas, the number of roadkill cases on this stretch have begun soaring. In 1999, the Chorla Ghat area of Goa was included as a part of the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. But to date neither the forest department nor the public works department has taken any mitigation measures. “During the monsoon, caecilians, snakes, frogs, toads, civet cats and other wild animals die in large numbers as vehicle drivers are insensitive to the fact that driving at high speed can lead to killing of these animals,” said Ramesh Zarmekar, a wildlifer from Surla Sattari. Sanket Naik, teacher of a primary school in Kholpe, Sal, in Bicholim, has taken up an exercise of observing the movement of wild animals on the road near the school every Monday. The activity is taken up to sensitise children about the movementof wild animals on the road and the impact on the animals. “Though the road does not pass through forested areas, we have witnessed amphibians being killed.Our experiment is to help imbibe a good road culture among students from a young age,” he said. Vitthal Shelke, a member of the state wildlife board, said, “When a road passes through forested areas, emphasis should be given by planners on studying wildlife crossing and, wherever needed, underpasses should be provided. The forest department should restrict vehicular traffic during the night inside the core zone of the sanctuary or park. Speed limits should be imposed. If a planned effort is made, it will certainly reduce road kills and help wildlife to thrive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/roadkill-rises-as-highways-expand-without-underpasses/articleshow/78503849.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP demands Siddipet collector’s transfer||HYDERABAD: The state BJP unit on Monday demanded the transfer of Siddipet collector Venkat Ram Reddy saying that Reddy could influence the election officers during the Dubbak bypoll. In a representation to the state chief electoral officer, Shashank Goel, BJP leaders N Ramachander Rao and Antony Reddy said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and finance minister T Harish Rao belong to Siddipet district where Dubbak is located and the Siddipet collector has stayed put in the same place for six years. “It appears that the district collector is hand in glove with the CM and finance minister. Thus, there is every chance of him supporting TRS and influencing election officers in favour of TRS,” the BJP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-demands-collectors-transfer/articleshow/78501526.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: MMR crosses 5 lakh cases; Maharashtra and Mumbai see dip in new infections||MUMBAI: Even as the state and city registered a dip in cases on Monday, the Covid-19 caseload of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) went past the 5 lakh mark to reach 5,02,583. The region reported 79 deaths on Monday, taking its toll to 16,376. The state’s case tally is 14.5 lakh now. The latest one lakh cases in MMR were added in 21 days, and the surge in Mumbai in the past 15 days has been a factor. Also, Thane district is close to the 2 lakh mark, with the most active cases (30,563). MMR has 70,919 active cases in all now. Meanwhile, the ‘Sunday effect’ was apparent as the state added 10,244 cases, lowest since August 17, and 263 deaths, lowest in 7 days. Mumbai reported 1,813 cases and 47 deaths.The state’s total toll is now 38,347. A state government official said staff shortage over the weekends always results in a lower tally in Monday’s reports (results are computed over a 24-48-hour cycle instead of real-time additions). The city’s tally now stands at 2.15 lakh and its toll at 9,152. MMR’s 3,603 cases for the day also marked a 21% drop over the previous day. The drop was sharper at 44% in the Pune circle, where 1,884 cases were registered as against 3,408 the previous day. In Mumbai, civic officials said 2,000 is the average daily figure that is likely to stay for a few days due to increased testing. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said 70% of the sectors had opened up in the city. “There is already substantial movement of vehicles and people in the city. On an average, we get around 2,000 cases, but we don’t anticipate a further climb in the number,” he said, adding that the BMC already has adequate beds to handle the pandemic. If people participate in keeping the Covid transmission in check by wearing masks and observing hand hygiene, the curve won’t rise further, he said. The BMC update on Monday showed the total number of active cases in the city dropped to 24,199 after a reconciliation exercise in the 24 municipal wards resulted in removal of 2,173 cases as they were either duplicate or patients from out of Mumbai. A total of 284 new cases were registered in Thane city on Monday, taking the count to 38,632, while five fatalities took the toll to 1,029. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 280 new patients and seven deaths, taking the tally there to 44,064, with 857 deaths. On Monday, 405 patients recovered there, taking the number of discharges to 39,763 patients. Only 3,444 patients are under treatment in the KDMC area, officials said. In Navi Mumbai, 366 cases were added on Monday to the tally, which now stands at 38,468. NMMC reported five deaths, taking the toll to 783. The PCMC areas reported 121 cases and 20 deaths. In positive news for the second day in a row, the daily recoveries in the state were higher than daily additions. A total of 12,982 people recovered, taking the total recoveries to 11.6 lakh and the rate of recovery to 80%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, Umesh K Parida and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmr-crosses-5l-cases-state-city-see-dip-in-new-infections/articleshow/78503796.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 6, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: MMR crosses 5 lakh cases; Maharashtra and Mumbai see dip in new infections||MUMBAI: Even as the state and city registered a dip in cases on Monday, the Covid-19 caseload of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) went past the 5 lakh mark to reach 5,02,583. The region reported 79 deaths on Monday, taking its toll to 16,376. The state’s case tally is 14.5 lakh now. The latest one lakh cases in MMR were added in 21 days, and the surge in Mumbai in the past 15 days has been a factor. Also, Thane district is close to the 2 lakh mark, with the most active cases (30,563). MMR has 70,919 active cases in all now. Meanwhile, the ‘Sunday effect’ was apparent as the state added 10,244 cases, lowest since August 17, and 263 deaths, lowest in 7 days. Mumbai reported 1,813 cases and 47 deaths.The state’s total toll is now 38,347. A state government official said staff shortage over the weekends always results in a lower tally in Monday’s reports (results are computed over a 24-48-hour cycle instead of real-time additions). The city’s tally now stands at 2.15 lakh and its toll at 9,152. MMR’s 3,603 cases for the day also marked a 21% drop over the previous day. The drop was sharper at 44% in the Pune circle, where 1,884 cases were registered as against 3,408 the previous day. In Mumbai, civic officials said 2,000 is the average daily figure that is likely to stay for a few days due to increased testing. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said 70% of the sectors had opened up in the city. “There is already substantial movement of vehicles and people in the city. On an average, we get around 2,000 cases, but we don’t anticipate a further climb in the number,” he said, adding that the BMC already has adequate beds to handle the pandemic. If people participate in keeping the Covid transmission in check by wearing masks and observing hand hygiene, the curve won’t rise further, he said. The BMC update on Monday showed the total number of active cases in the city dropped to 24,199 after a reconciliation exercise in the 24 municipal wards resulted in removal of 2,173 cases as they were either duplicate or patients from out of Mumbai. A total of 284 new cases were registered in Thane city on Monday, taking the count to 38,632, while five fatalities took the toll to 1,029. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 280 new patients and seven deaths, taking the tally there to 44,064, with 857 deaths. On Monday, 405 patients recovered there, taking the number of discharges to 39,763 patients. Only 3,444 patients are under treatment in the KDMC area, officials said. In Navi Mumbai, 366 cases were added on Monday to the tally, which now stands at 38,468. NMMC reported five deaths, taking the toll to 783. The PCMC areas reported 121 cases and 20 deaths. In positive news for the second day in a row, the daily recoveries in the state were higher than daily additions. A total of 12,982 people recovered, taking the total recoveries to 11.6 lakh and the rate of recovery to 80%. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta, Vijay Singh, Umesh K Parida and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mmr-crosses-5l-cases-state-city-see-dip-in-new-infections/articleshow/78504814.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||NMC tests asymptomatic sanitary workers using RAT, violates norms||Nagpur: Already facing allegations of testing asymptomatic sanitary workers for inflating the number of tests, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is reportedly conducting Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on some of them despite they being asymptomatic and also not doing a retest using RT-PCR if the report is negative in the RAT.Till date, 187 sanitary workers have tested positive and all have been reportedly allowed home isolation despite lack of facilities at their residence and a large number of beds in NMC’s Covid Care Centres (CCCs) lying vacant.TOI had on October 3 reported the civic body going for testing around 7,000 sanitary workers after the number of tests declined in the city. Maharashtra Pradesh Safai Kamgar Mahasangh president Kishor Samundre and activist Narayan Ahuja had alleged that NMC was testing sanitary workers only to increase the number of tests conducted. Samundre had also alleged that NMC did not pay heed to the demand of testing sanitary workers between August third week and second week of September when six of them died and many tested positive.As per NMC sources, 3,497 sanitary workers were tested between September 30 and October 5. “We are sending sanitary workers in phases to six testing centres, 47 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) and special camps. Swab samples are being taken for RT-PCR at six testing centres and special camps. At UPHCs, testing is being done using RAT,” said NMC officials.The state government had, on August 21, issued algorithm for Covid-19 testing for government-run laboratories and testing centres. As per the algorithm, asymptomatic persons should not be tested using RAT and RT-PCR should be used. RAT was restricted only to symptomatic patients who need immediate admission in hospitals or need to undergo surgery etc.A few days ago, the government had also directed all agencies to retest using RT-PCR if anyone comes negative in RAT. The NMC has facilitated RAT as well as RT-PCR at all 53 centres, including UPHCs.NMC officials admitted that retest using RT-PCR is not being done on sanitary workers if their report comes negative in RAT.NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said he would review the matter. “Sanitary workers are being tested as they work on roads and in residential areas. Directives were given to test them using RT-PCR. I will have to check whether UPHCs are able to handle the load of testing all them using RT-PCR,” he said.As per NMC’s sanitation department, 187 of 3,497 sanitary workers have tested Covid positive. “All are asymptomatic and hence in home isolation,” an official said.Samundre said, “Sanitary workers are poor and reside in slums. They do not have proper facilities for home isolation. It will lead to transmission of disease to their family members and other people in the area. Those found Covid positive should have been admitted in NMC’s CCCs. Moreover, sanitary workers are not being tested using RT-PCR if their RAT report is negative. All this proves that NMC is testing them now only for increasing the number of tests.”NMC is operating 3 of the 8 CCCs — MLA Hostel, Pachpaoli Police Quarters and VNIT Hostels, which have a combined capacity of around 1,400 beds. As on Monday, only 194 beds were occupied in the three CCCs.Though 3,497 have already been tested, mayor Sandip Joshi, in a meeting held on Monday, directed civic officials to test sanitary workers. He also directed to reserve beds for sanitary workers in NMC-run Covid hospitals at LAD Square, Sadar and Imambada.IANSix sanitary workers died of Covid and many tested positive between 3rd week of August and 2nd week of SeptUnion’s demand for NMC testing all not heeded toNumber of tests started to decline in city from 3rd week of SeptNMC started testing around 7,000 sanitary workers from Sept 30Some sanitary workers being tested by RAT, violating government’s guidelinesGuidelines for retest using RT-PCR not followed, if RAT report is negative187 workers tested positive, asymptomatic and allowed home isolationOccupancy mere 194 in NMC’s 3 CCCs having capacity of 1,400 bedsUnion claims NMC wants to inflate number of tests using sanitary workers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-tests-asymptomatic-sanitary-workers-using-rat-violates-norms/articleshow/78500467.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 6, 2020||Goa||On third attempt, 3 bidders keen to set up cyber lab||Panaji: Finally, three bidders have shown interest in setting up the cyber forensic lab-cum-training centre for cyber crime cell of Goa police. On the earlier two occasions, the tenders had failed to attract a single bidder. With a poor track record of solving cybercrimes, Goa police is making yet another attempt to get the project off the ground. Last year, two tenders were floated by the state government, but they didn’t receive any bids. As a result, the state government decided to set up the lab through a public sector undertaking (PSU). A senior officer said that since the police were not getting what they wanted from the PSU, they decided to float a fresh tender for the lab. Currently, the crime branch has a small lab set up under corporate social responsibility (CSR). An alarming 80% of all cybercrimes reported in the state have remained unsolved due to lack of infrastructure and cyber experts. The lab is expected to be set up under the Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children (CCPWC) Scheme, and is likely to help the police solve the pending cases by identifying or locating the accused. The Centre has approved Rs 1.4 crore for Goa police to set up the cyber lab. Investigations into cybercrimes, including financial crimes, require computer skills, mainly for on-site imaging and on-site analysis and tracking of leads. In December 2013, the state government had granted permission to set up a cyber crime cell and to recruit technical persons for the same. A year later, the same was operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-third-attempt-3-bidders-keen-to-set-up-cyber-lab/articleshow/78503116.cms||Murari Shetye
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||No exemption to teachers from Covid work, says mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Monday clarified that NMC school teachers above 55 years of age and having comorbidities like diabetes, blood pressure, heart ailments etc cannot be exempt from Covid-19 duties. Rejecting the demands of Nagpur Municipal Corporation Teachers Association, the mayor directed the administration to utilise services of such teachers in office works instead of field. During a meeting with delegation of NMC teachers led by MLC Na Go Ganar on Monday, Joshi took note of their demand and directed the administration to ensure availability of beds for teachers and other civic body workers in NMC-run hospitals like Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya, Isolation Hospital and Ayush Hospital in Sadar should they need them.The memorandum submitted by Ganar included several demands-- health insurance, free treatment facility and special hospitals for them.The delegation also told the mayor that despite teachers working as Covid warriors, many senior NMC officials used abusive language towards them, which should be stopped. It also demanded the teachers be given office work at the zonal level instead of field work.It was clarified by the administration that it was not possible to appoint a medical team for oximeter examination. “Teachers should work with complete safety until the an option is available,” the mayor said, directing the civic administration to give seven days leave to the teachers concerned if there is no one to take care of any Covid-19 patient in their home.Regarding demand to release the teachers responsible for both Covid-19 work and online education, mayor sought information from administration in three days.TOI recently reported that 1,181 teachers from NMC schools have been engaged in Covid related work. Their roles include door-to-door survey of patients with comorbidities, duties at quarantine centres, and checking oxygen through oximeters during surveys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-exemption-to-teachers-from-covid-work-says-mayor/articleshow/78500459.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 6, 2020||Nashik||Over 200 students clear JEE Advanced||Nashik: Over 200 city students have passed JEE (Advanced) exam, the results of which were declared on Monday. These successful candidates will get admissions in different IITs and top engineering colleges across the country. According to Sunil Kumar, head of a well-known tutorial, over 63 students from his classes have qualified in the exam. Bhargav Choudhury of the coaching centre got All India rank of 973 while Aditya Kulkarni from the people with disability (PwD) category secured 105th position. Kapi Jain, director of another tutorial, said that over 90 students from his institute have made the cut in the exam. Redeem Dhake stood at 643 AIR, Pratham Kukure got 660 AIR and Durgaprasad Bhat secured 774 AIR. According to Vishwas Jain, chief of another reputed coaching centre, over 45 students of his institute have made successfully passed the exam with flying colours. Om Gunjal secured 348th All India rank. Promod Patil, who runs a well-known coaching centre in the city, said that a dozen of his students have succeeded in the exam. Akansha Chavan secured 93rd All India rank while Aditya Kudre secured 20th AIR in the economically weaker section (EWS) category. According to the heads of some of the tutorials in the city, students have done well in this exam given the fact that many of them were quite stressed due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Moreover, this year, the papers were a bit tough as compared to previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-200-students-clear-jee-advanced/articleshow/78503067.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress seeks disqualification of Kalvakuntla Kavitha, says TRS violating rules||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Monday lodged a complaint with Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora demanding disqualification of Kalvakuntla Kavitha, former MP and daughter of CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, who is the TRS candidate from Nizamabad Local Authorities MLC constituency that is going to bypolls on October 9. State Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the TRS leaders were not only violating the model code of conduct but also the Covid-19 guidelines by organising massive meetings. The ruling party is smothering democracy to win the MLC elections from Nizamabad, it said. Uttam, along with Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy and former minister Md Ali Shabbir, alleged that all democratic norms were thrown to the winds in the elections for Nizamabad Local Bodies MLC seat. “The TRS lacked the strength to win the MLC seat from Nizamabad Local Bodies constituency. But after fielding his daughter K Kavitha as TRS candidate, KCR is engineering mass defections of MPTCs, ZPTCs, councillors and corporators of opposition parties into TRS. People of Nizamabad had rejected Kavitha in the last Lok Sabha election. KCR is insulting people by luring elected representatives of other parties to join the TRS to make his daughter a Member of Legislative Council,” they alleged. Revanth said the Election Commission of India (ECI) should immediately act on the complaints lodged by the Congress regarding violation of poll code. “The TRS has kept the defected MPTCs, ZPTCs, councillors and corporators at various resorts,” he alleged and demanded that the ECI send its observers to probe poll irregularities by the TRS and take stern action. Shabbir Ali said MLCs Ramulu Naik and Bhupathi Reddy were disqualified when they supported the Congress in the last election, adding that the ECI did not show the same promptness when elected representatives of opposition parties defected to the TRS. As per the Panchayat Raj Act, a person elected on the party symbol cannot defect to any other party till the end of his/her term. Defection automatically leads to their disqualification. The Congress said that this rule is not being applied in Nizamabad MLC elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-seeks-disqualification-of-kavitha-says-trs-violating-rules/articleshow/78501549.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana refuses to budge on GST compensation||HYDERABAD: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Monday made it clear at the 42nd GST council meeting that the state did not want any option for borrowing and wanted the Centre to take loan to pay GST compensation to states. As the meeting failed to reach a consensus on ways to compensate states, the panel will meet again on October 12. During the meeting, the finance minister said options 1 and 2 were not acceptable to Telangana. “GST compensation is the right of states and the Centre should not escape from that. Earlier too, we said GST council got Rs 30,000 crore in the form of cess and that should be released. Three instalments are pending for the past six months. This is very important to states in view of Covid–19,” he added. The Union government gave two borrowing options to states to meet the revenue shortfall —states would not have to repay either the principal or interest amount if they borrow only Rs 97,000 crore to meet the GST revenue gap; they would have to bear significant interest costs if they choose the larger borrowing option of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The minister also stated that the borrowing limit set for states should not be linked with the Atmanirbhar package. Saying that pending IGST dues should be released to states immediately, he said Telangana should get Rs 2,638 crore out of Rs 24,000 crore pending for all states. Along with Telangana, West Bengal and Congress-ruled states have not agreed for any of the two options put forth by the Centre for borrowing to meet the shortfall in GST collections. Speaking to the media after the meeting in New Delhi, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Council decided for more deliberations. She said the panel decided to extend using GST cess collections to compensate states beyond previously agreed June 2022 timeframe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-refuses-to-budge-on-gst-compensation/articleshow/78501542.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Global experts dwell on psychological ailments in pandemic in online event||Nagpur: Experts from different parts of the world deliberated upon various psychological ailments and their remedies in the pandemic and beyond in a 3-day Online International Conference, organized by Psychiatric Society, Nagpur (PSN). The event was held by PSN under the banner of Indian Psychiatric Society, Western zonal branch, recently. More than 450 delegates attended the conference. Dr Salman Akhtar, renowned psychotherapist from USA, spoke on psychopathological syndromes associated with money, Dr Patrick McGorry from Australia, elaborated the early onset psychosis, Dr Subodh Dave from United Kingdom gave exciting inputs on psychiatry education in 21st century and Dr Nisha Karia from United Kingdom guided delegates on using EMDR therapy in children. Dr Dilip Jeste, past president of American Psychiatric Association, delivered his thoughts on ‘Loneliness and wisdom in the era of new pandemics’. Indian speakers were also acknowledged experts. Eminent psychotherapist Dr Anand Nadkarni spoke on ‘Mahatma and Mind’, Dr Malay Dave on managing autistic disorders in clinical practice and Dr Lakshmi Vijaykumar had startling insights in suicide and Covid. Along with the topics, free papers and posters were presented by postgraduate students across the western region. On the occasion, two city psychiatrists Dr Sudhir Bhave and Dr Avinash Joshi were honoured for their exemplary services. Dr Bhave received Dr LP Shah Oration Award and spoke on the topic, “Are psychiatrists really prepared for digital age?”. Dr Joshi, who runs a matrimonial service for mentally ill persons, leads reforestation efforts and champions yoga for health cause, was honoured with Dr VN Bagadia Endowment Award. Organizing chairman Dr Sudhir Bhave said, ‘The preparations for a physical conference had started a year earlier but with Covid pandemic in full force, the decision to completely move the conference to digital world was taken.” Dr Vivek Kirpekar added, “Webinars and CMEs were being organized on streaming platforms for many months but a full-fledged conference with over 20 hours of content spread over three days required lot of micro planning and coordination.” The task was carried out by organizing secretary Dr Pavan Adatia, assisted ably by co-organizing secretaries Dr Sushil Gawande and Dr Ashwin Bhattad. The trio finalized digital partner Webnxt, gave inputs to finalize the digital environment where the conference would be hosted, contacted all the speakers to finalize their topics and time slots. The efforts paid off well as the conference went without any hitch. “The best part of having a digital conference is that we got to hear from very eminent speakers from across the world in the safety of our home,” said Dr Abhishek Somani, president of PSN. During the conference, the next president of western zone Dr Laxmikant Rathi from Amravati was sworn in a simple online ceremony. Dr Pavan Adatia thanked all the moderators viz Dr Abha Bang Soni, Dr Rahul Bagal, Dr Priya Madavi, Dr Neha Bhave Salankar, Dr Anagha Sinha and Dr Sreelaxmi for their help in smoothly managing the sessions as well as Dr Rahul Tadke for organizational help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/global-experts-dwell-on-psychological-ailments-in-pandemic-in-online-event/articleshow/78501541.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Dine-in services resume in nearly 30% restaurants after six months||PUNE: Around 2,500 restaurants of almost 8,500-odd facilities in the city and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits on Monday resumed dine-in services at 50% capacity in accordance with the state government’s permission to such outlets. Extensive safety protocols, attempts by restaurateurs to quarantine staffers recently returning to the city from other states and employee shortage, however, kept over 6,000-odd restaurants from reopening . Though most popular eating joints in areas such as Koregaon Park resumed dine-in services, others like Vaishali, Rupali and Cafe Goodluck on F C Road chose to open on a later date. Wadeshwar, meanwhile, opened its branches on FC Road, Law College Road and Bajirao Road. Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) president Ganesh Shetty told TOI, “Around 25%-30% restaurants in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municpal corporation limits reopened on Monday. Most restaurants are still trying to get their staffers back. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) released the order on the deadline of operations late Sunday night. Based on it, the restos were required to ready the necessary number of waiters. Now that the deadline is clear, they are calling back the required staffers.” PRAHA will observe the customers’ response to dineins during the next few days. If the footfalls are good, the association may approach the civic body for an extension of the deadline for the restos beyond 10pm. Though the restaurants in Pune are allowed to function till 10pm, those in Mumbai can operate till 1am. Liquor service will, however, have to close at 12:30am in Mumbai. Shetty said more restaurants were expected to open during the next 10-15 days in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-restos-keep-shutters-down-for-safety-protocols-staff-crunch/articleshow/78501552.cms||Neha Madaan
October 6, 2020||Pune||Foodies savour return to favourite eateries amid health safety norms||PUNE: Food enthusiasts in the city were eagerly waiting for this Monday to step in to their favourite restaurants and eateries and have a dine-in experience after six long months. The limited menu, staffers sporting masks and spaced-out seating arrangements did not deter them from eating out, as several restaurants reopened for the first time since March. Working professional Avani Wele said, “I’m a foodie and love hanging out with friends at various restaurants. I missed going out for the past six months. On Monday, I finally visited one of my most favourite restaurants and I couldn’t have been happier. It was an amazing experience, especially because so much time has passed since I dined out last.” She said, “The staffers were wearing masks, face shields and gloves. The tables were regularly sanitized, temperature checked at entry and social distancing was practised. Even the table surfaces were marked with appropriate sitting arrangements. It feels great to see life slowly becoming normal.” Nigdi Pradhikaran resident Leo Carvalho said the day brought back a slice of routine he and his friends followed before the Covid-19 days. “My running buddies and I finally sat down and ate at the breakfast place we were regular at. It was a good and safe experience, as rules were followed. I hope people don’t become careless.” Anjali Pawar, also a working professional, said, “I visited a restaurant close to my workplace on Monday morning. I could see the crowd, many of whom had come out just because the restaurants opened on the day. Besides, there were some regulars like me.” Businessman Abhinit Samadhiya said,“I ate at a restaurant I was a regular at after a long time. It was a different experience, as there was a paper menu with limited options and tables far apart. But the feeling was same as you get to see the regular staffers, though some of them were missing, albeit wearing masks and serving people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/foodies-return-to-their-favourite-outlets-afer-six-famished-months/articleshow/78501587.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||HC quashes rape FIR against Ambatkar, family||Chandrapur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has quashed the FIR registered filed by Supriya Chavan at Sonegaon police station in Nagpur against Piyush Ambatkar and two others of his family. Chavan, a model cum artist from Nagpur, had registered offence against Maharashtra Shikshan Prasarak Mandal (MSPM) vice president Piyush Ambatkar of Chandrapur. She had accused him of raping her with false promises of marriage. She had also charged his father, MSPM president Pandurang Ambatkar, and his brother-in-law Amol Raghatate of carrying out her abortion without consent. Sonegaon police had registered the case on October 20, 2018. Piyush Ambatkar has informed that after hearing their plea, the high court observed that the complainant girl was already married to one Brijesh Chikhram. The complainant had not obtained any divorce from the person and was living with her husband at the time of the alleged offence. Thus the complaint filed by her was totally false. The court observed that the charges of forceful termination of pregnancy cannot be said to constitute any offence under section 313 of IPC. Thus the court observed that the FIR filed at Sonegaon police station on October 20, 2018, does not make out any offence in prima facie manner considering the admitted facts in the matter. Hence, any proceedings launched upon such fact will be abuse of process of court. The high court on February 8, 2019, quashed and set aside the FIR, Piyush Ambatkar has said in a written communiqué.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-quashes-rape-fir-against-ambatkar-family/articleshow/78516386.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: M Kodandaram to contest from graduates’ seat||HYDERABAD: Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) on Monday formally announced that its president M Kodandaram will make his electoral debut by contesting Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam Graduates’ constituency in the MLC elections. TJS vice-president PL Vishweshwar Rao made the announcement. Kodandaram has already been campaigning in Nalgonda meeting employees, graduates, students and the unemployed. He has been attacking TRS for failing to fill up over a lakh vacancies in the government sector. TJS has sought support of Congress, TDP, CPI, CPM, and other parties and organisations to support Kodandaram as a consensus candidate. These political parties said they would discuss the issue in their respective core committee meetings and get back to soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kodandaram-to-contest-from-graduates-seat/articleshow/78501558.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Farm laws: BJP to collect farmers’ signatures in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The state BJP will counter the opposition’s campaign against the new farm laws by collecting signatures of farmers who are in support of the farm laws and send them to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The signature programme will be conducted between 7 am and 1 pm on October 11. On October 12, the BJP leaders will also collect letters from farmers protesting against the state government’s stand on farm laws. At a press conference on Monday, Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy announced various initiatives for the campaign and said that the farmers remain in low income groups despite hard work while the young men find it difficult to get married. He said that people are unwilling to get their daughters married into a family of farmers. “The new farm laws will change this scenario. We will counter the opposition’s baseless allegations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farm-laws-bjp-to-collect-farmers-signatures/articleshow/78501581.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow theatre loses its ‘Light & Sound’||LUCKNOW: Vilayat Jafri, the man who first brought light-and-sound show production to the city in 1974 with his show 'Badhte Kadam' at Residency, died on Monday morning. He was 85. Popularly known as the 'Man of Light and Sound' programmes, the former director of Lucknow Doordarshan, who made a mark in the history of theatre with his numerous plays and serials, breathed his last in Mumbai where he was admitted last year for his medical treatment of cancer and stomach ailments. Writer of 10 books, 11 plays, creator of 22 light-and-sound show productions, and a number of radio and television shows like 'Neem ka Ped', 'Aadha Gaon', among others, Jafri hailed from Rae Bareli. He came to Lucknow from Delhi in 1986 when he got a job at Doordarshan. Jafri worked on hit TV projects like ‘Bharat Ek Khoj’ and ‘Tamas’But, his tryst with theatre and writing began when he was a student at Lucknow University. Before taking over the world of Doordarshan, Jafri had worked on several projects like ‘Bharat Ek Khoj’ (directed by Shyam Benagal) and ‘Tamas (directed by Govind Nihlani), but wanted to do something for Lucknow. “He penned the story ‘Neem ka Ped’ in 1956 and thought to make a serial based on it when he came to Lucknow. Since the story was about ‘zamindars and Dr Raho Masoom Raza hailed from a zamindar family himself, he brought him on board to write dialogues and the moment it was broadcasted, it became the biggest hit in the history of Lucknow Doordarshan. He made a significant impact on every theatre personality. He was also one of the founders of All India Kaifi Azmi Academy and it’s policy maker,” said Sayyed Mehdi, chief secretary of the Akademi. Jafri’s love and dedication to preserve ‘Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb’, his artistic works and his spirit to continue working, made him very familiar and popular among people of Lucknow. He converted Doordarshan as a cultural centre where he worked till 1993. His play ‘Shatranj ke Mohre’ was staged at Lucknow Raj Bhawan. Jafri was last seen on stage in June 2019 when he released his tenth book ‘Ghalib’ at Kaifi Azmi Auditorium, of which he was the patron and founding member. “It was as if he lived and breathed Mirza Ghalib. His love for writing was such that even at the age of 84, he was ready to publish another book. When his show Badhte Kadam was performed at the Residency, it was such a big hit that it ran for over 5 months and 158 shows. He belonged to a family of freedom fighters, his great-grandfather being sentenced to death in 1857 during the freedom struggle. His experiences and legacy was clearly visible in his works,” said Rakesh, national general secretary of Indian People’s Theatre Association, Lucknow, adding that Jafri was also closely associated with theatre doyen Habib Tanvir. “He always said theatre will survive despite serials and films. In 1991, when I and my team were travelling to Norway for our play, he saw one of our rehearsals and told us that when you come back to India, the play will be shown on Doordarshan,” added theatre artist Mridula Bharadwaj. Jafri is survived by his wife, Krishna, son Umber and two daughters Hina and Chandni. His body will be brought to Lucknow on Tuesday and his last rites will be performed in his family cemetery in Rae Bareli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-theatre-loses-its-light-sound/articleshow/78503111.cms||Aditi Singh
October 6, 2020||Pune||Veg restaurants witness encouraging footfall||Pune: Customer footfall to vegetarian restaurants, including the fine-dine eateries, witnessed an encouraging footfall on the first day of reopening on Monday, with a Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) estimate revealing 35% of the 50% capacity at these outlets filling by evening. PRAHA President Ganesh Shetty told TOI that the trend was not the same at the non-vegetarian restaurants due to factors such as Adhik Maas, Vibhuvana and Sankashti Chaturthi (on October 5). “The picture on the footfall will be clearer within a couple of more days,” he said. Crowd controlling was a challenge for some restaurants, particularly the popular food joints, on Monday. Swanand Bhave, founder and brand owner of Wadeshwar, said, “ By late Monday morning, customers in groups of eight or more began queuing up outside our FC Road branch. We had to request those queuing outside the resto to maintain social distancing, which at a point became difficult.” On other branches of the restaurant in the city (Baner, Market Yard, Kalyaninagar, Bajirao road), Bhave said, “We have arranged the existing kitchen and local staff for operating Kalyaninagar and Baner branch.” Praful Chandawarkar, director, Malaka Spice, said, “The restaurant had six-seven reservations by afternoon on the first day, and we expect it to be at least 50% of the pre-Covid-19 period by the next few days. The restaurants are working with a lot of additional costs, and sales are 1/10th at the moment. The next 12 months is a litmus test for the industry, hence, landlords have to be supportive and cannot expect the rents to go back to normal in a short time.” Ravish Arora, director, Incognito Restaurant, Bar & Cafe, said the restaurant on Balewadi High street opened at lunch time on Monday, with a couple of reservations and a few walk-in guests in the afternoon.“We have not faced any issues so far with social distancing or crowding,” he said. On Pune and Maharashtra, Moksh Chopra, chief marketing officer, KFC India, said, “With dine-in being operational Monday onwards, consumers are beginning to step in to the restaurants for meals; perhaps some take away orders now preferring to dine-in.” (With inputs from Rujuta Parekh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veg-restaurants-witness-encouraging-footfall/articleshow/78501565.cms||Neha Madaan
October 6, 2020||Nashik||Collector seeks cop help in clandestine sale of Remdesivir||Nashik: The district administration on Monday sought the help of Nashik city police to investigate into the alleged clandestine sale of Remdesivir vials outside civil hospital and find out the person involved in the illegal activity. “I have directed civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande to register an FIR with Sarkarwada police, a copy of which has also been marked to the police commissioner with the request that he should help in getting to the root of the issue,” said district collector Suraj Mandhare. A section of media had on September 30 alleged that Remdesivir vials were being clandestinely sold by some ‘contractual’ employee of the civil hospital to the relatives of Covid-19 patients who were in need of the same at rates lower than the market price.A four-member enquiry team was set up to investigate the matter. The committee gave a clean chit to the civil hospital saying the batch of the vial in question never came to the hospital. “The enquiry has established that the vial did not belong to the civil hospital. The question is how the contractual employee gained access to the ‘vial’ from any of the hospitals or pharmacies, whether it was being sold in the name of the civil hospital or was there some old stock in the hospital that was not registered properly or if some one from the hospital was involved in bringing out these vials. These are the questions we need the answers to and hence police help is required,” said Mandhare. On the changes being made for administering vials, Mandhare said that as far as the civil hospital was concerned, a practice was being set up to ensure the vial went out of the stores the same day it has to be administered and the empty vial is returned to the stores the same day.Private hospitals will be asked to ensure the empty vials are returned to the relatives of the patients the same day and compulsorily destroyed in the premises of the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-seeks-cop-help-in-clandestine-sale-of-remdesivir/articleshow/78503121.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 6, 2020||Nashik||Other cities start breathing O2 into Nashik industry||Nashik: Industries in Nashik have started getting oxygen cylinders from cities like Aurangabad and Mumbai as supply from local oxygen manufactures are yet to resume despite district administration’s order to partially restore the supply. According to some of the industrialists, they have resumed operations after getting oxygen cylinders from other cities. The District Industries Centre (DIC), Nashik, said they are in the process to resume the oxygen supply to industries in a couple of days.“We need at least 40 oxygen cylinders every day and our manufacturing had been badly affected after the district administration cut our supply from September 12. We managed to continue production for the next 10 days using the existing stock, but thereafter we had to stop the work,” an industrialist said.“We have now started getting oxygen tanks from Aurangabad and resumed operations. But we are getting it at higher rates as we have no option but to start the production,” he added.Another industrialist also reiterated the same and said that they are getting oxygen tanks from Mumbai. DIC general manager Satish Bhamre said that modalities are being worked out so that local industries can get oxygen supply from the local suppliers.“We have received a demand of 866 oxygen cylinders from 113 industries in Nashik. We are in the process of resuming supply in a day or two,” he said, adding that daily production of oxygen in Nashik is around 4,500 cylinders and the demand for medical oxygen is around 4,000 cylinders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/other-cities-start-breathing-o2-into-nashik-industry/articleshow/78503090.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Raj unsafe for women: NCRB report||JAIPUR: The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019 paints a dismal picture of the condition of women in Rajasthan with the state topping the list when it comes to cases of assault on women, domestic violence as well as attempt to rape. While 6,977 cases were registered of assault on women which is the highest in the country, the desert state had 18,432 cases of domestic violence. While Rajasthan is leading in the number of rape cases, it is also on top with 1,019 attempt to rape cases. The state was also in the top five when it came to assault on women with the intention to outrage her modesty with 8,802 cases. This category is led by Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Maharashtra. A total of 452 dowry deaths were also reported in the state in 2019. The desert state was yet again the top five in the country for unnatural offences with 118 incidents registered though the list was led by Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. “While it is a matter of concern that Rajasthan has this number in multiple categories of crime against women, it also means that we are registering all cases that come to the cops as well as investigating them as swiftly as possible. Safety of women and children is a priority for the state police,” said a senior official. A total of 69 incidents were also reported for causing insult to the modesty of women. While recording the highest number of cases in India in domestic violence (IPC section 498 A), only two incidents were registered under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. Similarly, under the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, only four incidents were recorded, while five incidents were reported under the Indecent Representation of Women Prohibition Act, 2012. Kerala has reported highest number of such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-unsafe-for-women-ncrb-report/articleshow/78501564.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Rajkot||Amid pandemic, community to preserve ‘Betha Garba’ tradition||RAJKOT: When Navratri begins next month, a group of women will dress up in traditional garba wear and gather at a place in Rajkot. But they won’t be swirling to the tunes of garba. Instead this group will sit next to each other and dish out some melodious garba songs with a touch of classical ragas for all nine nights. And for the first time, their performance will be broadcasted live on social media. It was one of the unique garba traditions in Nagar community that started nearly two centuries in Junagadh but gradually vanished over the last few decades. The Covid-19 pandemic, though, has given the women from Nagar community an opportunity to revive their traditional ‘betha garba’. “This year, Navratri won’t be organized as it would be risky for large crowds to dance together amid the pandemic. So we decided to organize our traditional Navratri where women gather, sit in a group and sing garba in classical form. The idea is to keep our tradition alive and also showcase it to the people,” said Dhwani Vachhrajani who will be the lead singer of the Kalavati Group. An assistant professor at English department in Saurashtra University, Dhwani had organised this garba for the first time in the city’s Hemu Gadhvi Hall last year. This time, the group will also encourage women from Nagar community to organize ‘betha garba’ in their homes. Apart from being sung in pure classic ragas, what makes ‘betha garba’ different is that only instruments like harmonium and tabla or dholak are used in the performance. The community members say that the tradition of this garba started in 18th century during the rule of Nawab Mahabat Khan in Junagadh. “Our forefathers told us that our community started ‘betha garba’ as they feared that the men of Nawab Mahabat would kidnap or attack the women playing garba in public. The Nagar community believed in peace and wanted to avoid problems. So the tradition of women singing and enjoying Navratri in the home began,” said Dr Arpita Tripathi, a community leader and psychologist from Junagadh. The Nagar community had a huge settlement in Junagadh during medieval times. Kanan Chaya, who is working to revive this garba tradition in Rajkot, said, “We don’t have documentary evidence but it’s believed that when India was invaded by the Mughals, women stopped going out alone. But to continue enjoying Navratri, the Nagar community started this tradition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amid-pandemic-community-to-preserve-betha-garba-tradition/articleshow/78500511.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||JMC yet to begin fogging in city||Jaipur: Monsoon is over but Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) is yet to begin fogging the streets. Usually, fogging is done after monsoon is over to kill mosquitoes that breed in the garbage. This year however, nothing has been done after the sanitization drive during the lockdown period. Vikas Kothari, a former councillor in Walled City, said neither the dirty lanes were cleaned, nor fogging has started. “Every year, fogging is done to kill mosquitoes and insects breeding in the dirty lanes of Walled City. This year, JMC did not float any tender to clean the dirty lanes and fogging has not begun,” said Kothari. JMC additional commissioner Arun Garg said, “We did fog before the lockdown and in winter season. Now, it is being done on demand or following any complaints by residents about excessive breeding of mosquitoes. Wherever necessary we are doing the work.”Giriraj Khandelwal, a resident of Jaipur city, said JMC was running away from its responsibilities. “After sanitisation during lockdown, JMC officials are neglecting their routine work. It is important to begin the fogging which they haven’t done anywhere. Garbage collection is not working properly and fogging has not been done. City will become breeding ground for mosquitoes,” said Khandelwal. Every year, tenders are also invited to clean the lanes in Walled City. There are more than 6000 dirty lanes in the city that are cleaned every year before monsoon, but this year tenders were not floated. The reason given by the officials was that process got delayed because they were busy doing sanitisation and ration distribution during lockdown. Similarly, JMC invited tenders for the cleaning of city drains very late. Usually it takes five months to clean the city drains. Tenders are invited in February but this year they were invited in May-end and not even 50% of the work was completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-yet-to-begin-fogging-in-city/articleshow/78501579.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: High demand for protein-rich food sends daily sales of eggs soaring||PUNE: The daily consumption of eggs in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad has gone up by 10 lakh units in the month since the Ganeshotsav, according to a poultry farmers’ collective. The National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC) said increased consumption was driven by a rising demand for high-protein food, which is believed to boost immunity. NECC’s Pune chapter head Sham Bhagat expected the demand to go up further, now that restaurants are beginning to open for dine-in services. “More people are consuming eggs as part of their immunity-boosting diet and the demand has gone up particularly after Ganeshotsav,” Bhagat said. The situation is in stark contrast to March, when many farmers had to shut shop due to a drop in consumption of poultry products. “Currently, there is a demand and supply mismatch, which will not change for at least 5-6 months. Increasing the production of eggs is not immediately possible, as many poultry farmers are not in a position to reopen their sheds. They have suffered huge financial losses because of misinformation about chicken and egg consumption. Many farmers do not have the capital to invest in the purchase of new birds to jump-start business,” Bhagat said. The farmers rear an Italian breed of chicken — the white leghorn — for eggs. “A healthy hen of this breed will lay its first egg when it is 18-24 weeks old and thereafter, lays eggs nearly daily. This means if a farmer starts the poultry shed, s/he will need at least five to six months to get production going. So, going by this calculation, we feel that the demand and supply will not equalize soon,” Bhagat added. Currently, eggs are being sold at the rate of Rs65-70 per dozen, against last month’s rate of Rs55-60. Babu Damnia, a retailer in Vishrantwadi, said, “The cost of chicken too has gone up in the past few weeks. Many people cannot afford to have chicken or mutton in their diet, so most are opting for eggs over other non-vegetarian foods. It is much cheaper.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rising-demand-for-high-protein-food-sends-daily-sales-of-eggs-soaring/articleshow/78501608.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Married woman alleges rape for 5 months, three detained||KOTA: A 25-year-old married woman, mother of two kids, lodged a rape case against three youths of her neighborhood accusing them of sexually assaulting her repeatedly for the last five months in Jhalawar on Sunday. The police detained the three youths for interrogation on Monday. In her statement to police, the woman aid the accused would often tease her. The woman from Scheduled Caste community reached mahila police station on Sunday evening and lodged a case of rape against three youths identified as Ghotya Kashyap, Banti Kashyap and Jittu, all around 20-22 years old, and alleged that they had been sexually abusing and raping her for last five months, Jhalawar mahila police station SHO Ramesh Kumar Meena said. Acting on the complaint, police lodged a rape case against three accused under sections of IPC and sections of SC/ST Act for rape and initiated investigation into the matter, he added. The rape survivor was sent for medical examination on Monday and the report is awaited, he said. The rape survivor is reported to be slightly mentally challenged and is changing her statements, the SHO said, adding she denied of rape in her statement under section 161 to police on Monday, though she stated that the three youths would often tease her, touch her hands and cheeks. The rape survivor was also produced before a magistrate for recording her statement under Section 164 but the magistrate gave another date for recording her statement, DSP and CO Gopal Lal Meena, who is investigating the case, said. The survivor in her recorded statements to the police also denied of rape but admitted to have been teased by two youths, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/married-woman-alleges-rape-for-5-months-three-detained/articleshow/78501596.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress leaders observe deeksha||HYDERABAD: Congress leaders observed ‘satyagraha deeksha’ here on Monday condemning the rape and murder of a Dalit girl at Hathras in UP and also in protest against the UP police’s manhandling of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. State Congress president N Uttam Kumar condemned the rape and murder of the girl and charged Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in UP of trying to hush up the case. Uttam said the situation in Telanganais not different as a girl from the minority community was allegedly raped and murdered by a TRS leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-leaders-observe-deeksha/articleshow/78501601.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Power department team attacked in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The electricity department has lodged a police complaint saying that a team led by one of its executive engineers that went to check power theft in an RO plant in a residential area in Jaisalmer was attacked by anti-social elements. They also tried to make engineer drink urine and damaged his digital camera.The police booked 5-7 accused under IPC sections 332, 382, 353, 143 and SC/ST Act and started the investigation. Two persons have been arrested under IPC section 151 for disturbing peace.Kotwali police station SHO Balwanta Ram Gothwal said that Jodhpur Discom executive engineer Jeevana Ram Garg giving a report said that AEN Chhatar Singh Bhati, JEN (city first) Mahesh Jatav, technical staff Pawan and others received information about power theft in an RO plant at Babbar Magra area. They went there and saw the RO plant owner stealing power. When the team was clicking his photos 5-6 people including Dhan Singh and Ugam Singh attacked them and snatched the camera. They also tore the vigilance checking report book.When people living in nearby areas came to know about it they intervened and got them released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/power-department-team-attacked-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78501593.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kochi||Gold smuggling: Court slams NIA’s probe into terror angle||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court in Kochi on Monday strongly criticized the probe into the terror angle behind the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case and asked NIA to produce the case diary while considering the bail petitions filed by eight among the 31 accused persons. Swapna Suresh was granted statutory bail in the original customs case by the additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences). The bail was granted since customs (preventive) was yet to file a final report in the case, 60 days after her arrest. The court has directed Swapna to execute a bond of Rs 2 lakh each or two solvent sureties equal to the bond amount. She also has to surrender her passport and appear before the investigation officer whenever required. Around 15 accused persons have already been granted bail in the customs case. Meanwhile, the confession statement of accused Sandeep Nair was recorded by Aluva judicial first class magistrate on Monday. Sandeep had told NIA court earlier that he was willing to give a statement under 164 CrPC. He had told the court that he was ready to voluntarily state the facts of the case before a magistrate despite the NIA court warning him that there was no guarantee that he would be allowed to turn approver in the case. The agency will now go through the confession statement before deciding on whether to make him an approver or not. Sandeep, the fourth accused in the case, was arrested along with Swapna from Bengaluru by NIA. According to sources, the NIA court orally observed that at this point the court cannot continue to believe that there was enough evidence against accused persons under various sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) as charged by the agency. Sources said that the special court told NIA to separate the 30 accused persons into three categories, i.e. those directly involved in the smuggling, the conspirators and those who invested money for the gold that was smuggled through the diplomatic channel. According to sources, the defence counsel argued that the investors got involved in the crime to make money and not to fund terrorist activities. Meanwhile, when the bail petition comes up for consideration in court on Tuesday, the additional solicitor general is likely to argue for NIA to present their case. Case diary will also be presented by the agency to back their findings. Anticipatory bail pleas of three others are also to be considered on Tuesday. NIA had said that the smuggled gold was for funding terrorist activities. The agency had taken the stand in court that the accused persons intended to destabilize Indian economy, when Swapna Suresh’s bail plea came up for consideration. Also, the change in tone in the narrative was visible in recent petitions filed in court where the agency stated that it ‘suspects’ that the gold was for funding terror.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-smuggling-court-slams-nias-probe-into-terror-angle/articleshow/78500530.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Mumbai||Pune boy tops JEE (Advanced) but will drop IIT seat for MIT||Pune boy Chirag Falor, already a student of Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), has topped the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) 2020. The qualifying aggregate marks for the JEE (Advanced) common rank list reduced to 69—a five-year low. The entrance results for the 23 IITs were announced on Monday where the number of candidates qualifying increased to 43,204. Falor scored 352 marks out of 396 to top the list, followed by Gangula Bhuvan Reddy and Vaibhav Raj for the AIR second and third ranks, respectively. Kanishka Mittal (AIR 17) is the topper in the female category with 315. The IIT-Madras zone has the highest number of candidates at 28 in Top 100 ranks, followed by IIT-Bombay at 24 and IIT-Delhi 22 this year. Falor will give up his IIT seat for his place at the MIT, online classes for which have already begun. Falor, who has been preparing for JEE since he was in Class IX, wants to be a researcher in astrophysics and not an engineer. “I have always loved the stars, planets, etc,” he said. Looking at my love for the sky, my father bought me my first telescope in Class VIII and I knew then that when I grow up, I would want to take up research in astrophysics,” said Falor. Although his MIT classes started online on September 1, Chirag misses the feel of the real MIT campus and student life. “The curriculum is hectic. The first year is common to all, and in the second year, I hope to choose either mathematics or physics. Some of my professors are actually behind the detection of gravitational waves,” he said, sounding literally star-struck. The total number of seats have increased to 16,053 this year from 13,000 in 2019. Meanwhile, Kanishka Mittal from the IIT-Roorkee zone, the girl topper, is in good company as the gender ratio is the best in five years. While in 2016, just 847 or 18.5% of the qualified female candidates were offered seats in the IIT, 1,852 (44.3%) were offered admission in 2018, and the number increased to 2,432 (45.4%) in 2019. “Right now, every sixth student at undergraduate level in our IIT is female,” said V Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT-Delhi. Four foreigners have also qualified in the JEE (A), apart from 133 OCI and 16 PIO candidates. More than 60% qualified in the OCI (overseas citizen of India) category. And, 70% of the registered students of Indian origin (PIO) qualified in the exam. Last year, only 36% qualified from this category. There were more OBC candidates who took the exam this year compared with those from the general category: 52,785 (9,349 qualified) took the exam versus 39,605 (18,028 qualified) from the open category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pune-boy-tops-jee-advanced-but-will-drop-iit-seat-for-mit/articleshow/78503848.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
October 6, 2020||Agra||Journalist, political leader slapped with sedition in UP as police file 19 FIRs across state||AGRA: A journalist and a political leader, both unnamed as of now, are among a bunch of unidentified persons who have been booked by the UP police for sedition, criminal conspiracy and attempt to instigate riots by spreading misinformation “on the Hathras incident”. The FIR was lodged on Sunday at the Chandpa police station. Three other FIRs lodged in Hathras booked 680 people, including Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, for section 144 violations. This was followed by a spate of FIRs on Monday in the state, 19 in all, that carried serious charges. At least 13 FIRs are tied to social media posts that “intended to disturb peace”. Five people have been arrested amid controversy and nationwide outrage over the alleged gangrape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras.ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI that the social media posts had the “potential to create disturbance in the state”. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath later said that “foreign funding” was being used to hatch conspiracies to spread caste and communal divide in the state. The FIR with sedition charges came after a complaint filed by sub-inspector Avdhesh Kumar who alleged that “some antisocial elements have been trying to disrupt social harmony in the state in a pre-planned conspiracy against the government”. It added that “the victim’s family was under pressure to give incorrect statements against the government and was promised Rs 50 lakh by a political leader” for doing so. “A journalist asked the victim’s brother to convince their father to give a statement saying they were not satisfied with the government's action in the matter,” the complaint alleged. It also said that medical reports had ruled out possibility of rape but the family had been “lured to distort facts”. TOI had earlier reported that forensic evidence for the report, which found “no signs of intercourse”, was based on samples collected 11 days after the incident. The FIR mentioned as many as 19 charges under the IPC, including 124A (sedition), 153-A (promoting enmity) and four of its sub-sections, 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) along with 195 (fabricating false evidence) and 195 A (threat for false evidence) among others. Two more FIRs — one registered at Chandpa and another at Hathras Gate — booked unknown people for disturbing peace and violations of prohibitory orders under section 144. The second FIR was registered against 200 people for organising a large gathering led by ex-BJP MLA Rajveer Pahelwan at his residence in Hathras. It doesn’t name Pahelwan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/journalist-political-leader-slapped-with-sedition-in-up-as-police-file-19-firs-across-state/articleshow/78500508.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t turn away Aarogyasri patients: Eatala Rajender||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Monday warned that the government will take serious action against network hospitals if they turn away patients who seek treatment under the Aarogyasri scheme. Interacting with the media after the launch of deworming programme for children, the minister said the state government had cleared the dues of more than Rs 850 crore for hospitals under this scheme. “Now only dues of about Rs 100 core have to be cleared on a monthly basis. We will take action against the hospitals, which charge more than what is prescribed under the scheme,” Rajender said. “If complaints are lodged against them, we will take action,” the minister said. Sources said that a cabinet sub-committee will meet to discuss the proper implementation of the scheme. Health minister Eatala Rajender said that quarantine rules for health workers including doctors who are treating non-Covid-19 cases have been changed. “Since all the hospitals expect Gandhi began non-Covid-19 services, quarantine rules for doctors have been changed. Quarantine rules will be applicable for only those working in Covid-19 wards” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-turn-away-aarogyasri-patients-min/articleshow/78501612.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Mission 2023 will see Congress CM in Telangana, says Manickam Tagore||HYDERABAD: Manickam Tagore, the new AICC in-charge of Telangana, has his hands full. Congress high command expects the young MP from Tamil Nadu to revive the party’s fortunes in India’s youngest state and dethrone the ruling TRS. Tagore took some time out from his hectic schedule and spoke to Roushan Ali. Excerpts: Despite playing a key role in Telangana statehood, Congress has been losing polls in the state. Why?In the 2014 elections, political gimmicks and narrative of TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao that he stood for Telangana statehood got traction with people. We lost the 2018 polls due to the success of the unholy alliance of ‘TRS-Election Commission-bank authorities’ and also the strategic mistake of Congress on forming poll-alliances. In brazen violation of poll norms, lakhs of farmers got Rythu Bandhu amounts in their bank accounts three days before they cast their votes. What is AICC leadership expecting from Telangana? AICC is of the strong view that the Congress should have won the elections in 2014 itself as Sonia Gandhi had kept her promise of granting statehood to Telangana. Not winning Telangana in 2014 was painful. Now, the task is to win the 2023 assembly elections and have a Congress chief minister here. Can Congress be revived to pose a threat to KCR-led TRS in 2023 elections? There is so much groupism here.I have a lot of hope and trust in Congress members who strongly believe that TRS can be defeated only by our party. I don’t see any organised groups here like Kerala or other states. Will there be a change of leadership in the state? Can it revive the party here?Leadership change is the domain of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. I believe it has to be teamwork like a cricket game. Do you think Congress is responsible for giving space to BJP in Telangana? It’s wrong. Traditionally, Bharatiya Jan Sangh, RSS and BJP have been working in some areas by polarising voters on religious lines. BJP is confined to a limited space in Telangana. BJP claims it is the main opposition party here?BJP and TRS are two sides of the same coin. TRS is a trusted ally of BJP at the Centre and helped it in passing every critical legislation in Rajya Sabha. Will Congress go for any tie-ups in Dubbak, MLC constituencies and GHMC polls?A sub-committee has been formed to look into the issues. It will be a team decision taken in due course of time. What is your comment on chief minister, TRS party’s election promises and welfare schemes?KCR is a ‘chota bhai’ of PM Narendra Modi. KCR has promised sky to the voters. The biggest threat to democracy is the money earned through escalation in costs of irrigation projects and real estate in Greater Hyderabad being distributed to buy votes. Do you mean to say that Congress has never distributed money to voters?Congress has not distributed money like this. Every vote price is being fixed at Rs 5,000 or more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mission-2023-will-see-congress-cm-in-t-says-tagore/articleshow/78501591.cms||Roushan Ali
October 6, 2020||Pune||Malls focus on digital ways to ensure patrons’ safety||PUNE: Most malls in the city have launched an assortment of digital services, including contactless ordering and payments, for patrons visiting the on-premises food courts and restaurants for dine-ins. Besides, regular sanitization, reduced seating capacity, division between food outlets and seating areas are some of the measures that the malls have taken to ensure minimum human interface and prevent the spread of Covid-19. working professional Sanjay Jadhav, who visited Westend Mall on Monday, said the ordering process was seamless. “I didn’t have to speak to the staff at the outlet in the food court. as I could place the order and make payment online. The staff members were wearing masks and gloves while the food court was sanitized regularly. I also saw that there were fewer tables at the food court. I think more people will begin to opt for dine-ins once they are sure of the safety,” he said. Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, chief operating officer of Amanora Mall, said, “We recorded around 35% of the footfall during the same period last year at the food court and restaurants on the first day of reopening. All the 30 Food and Beverage (F&B) outlets in the mall reopened on the day. We have taken several measures, including placing distance markers and signage, sanitization of tables and chairs every time a customer leaves, sanitization of regular touchpoints and contactless payment, to ensure the patrons’ safety.” Arun Arora, centre director at Phoenix Marketcity, Pune, said, “With the opening of the food court, we saw a steady increase in footfall throughout the day. Many outlets have opened, while rest are gearing up to open in the coming days. Ordering and payments have been digitized through QR code technology.” Likewise, Nexus Malls, which owns WestEnd and The Pavillion Malls in Pune, has opted for the QR code technology and reduced the seating at the food courts by 50%. “Around 50% of the F&B brands at WestEnd and 40% of those at The Pavillion opened on Monday. Typically, the crowds at the food court built up towards the evening. We have joined hands with DOTPe to ensure contactless food ordering and payments where one needs to scan a QR code at the counter to place the order and make payments,” said Dalip Sehgal, chief executive officer, Nexus Malls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/malls-focus-on-digital-ways-to-ensure-patrons-safety/articleshow/78501595.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 6, 2020||Nashik||No. of active containment zones drops in Nashik||Nashik: The number of active containment zones in Nashik city has come down from 2,121 to 1,761 in the past 10 days owing to rise in number of recoveries. A Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) official said, “Around a fortnight ago, the city used to register over 900 new cases every day, but of late the number cases have reduced to a large extent. The rise in recoveries and drop in number of new Covid-19 cases have overall led to drop in active containment zones in the city.” Moreover, the NMC has also reduced the number of antigen tests and increased the RT-PCR tests for the past few days. “Currently, 1,200 antigen tests are being conducted in the city along with similar number of RT-PCR tests in the city. We have reduced the antigen tests from previous 2,000 per day around two-three weeks back to 1,200,” the official said. “We have also decided to conduct antigen tests at fever clinics only. We have already started conducting antigen tests in 24 fever clinics in the city for early detection of Covid-19 patients. We have already started health surveys of city residents to find out Covid-19 suspects and co-morbid patients under the My family, My responsibility programme,” he added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-of-active-containment-zones-drops-in-nashik/articleshow/78503143.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||AMC issues notices to 269 shops for UD tax||Ajmer: The Municipal Corporation of Ajmer has warned shops and business establishments in the city to deposit the urban development tax and has issued notices to 269 people. The corporation claimed that it has collected Rs 2.55 crore in tax from June to September. Two shops were seized in the last one week who were unable to deposit tax. AMC officials on Monday issued notices to 269 people to deposit urban development tax immediately. AMC warned that it will seize their shops and impose penalty if they fail to pay the tax . Officials said the urban development tax is the main source of income for the municipal corporation and therefore they are asking shop owners and business establishments to deposit tax immediately. Last week, two shops at Purani Mandi and Ravan ki Bagichi were seized by AMC. Meanwhile, business owners said this year they ran into losses due to the pandemic and lockdown and therefore unable to deposit the tax. They said that looking at such conditions, the state government must give relaxation in tax or in time period so that businessmen can earn something and pay the taxes. Certain market associations also sent memorandum to the chief minister to get relaxation this year. But AMC claimed that they have to collect tax for the development of the city and therefore cannot provide any relaxation. "We will start seizing 20 to 30 properties every day in the coming days," warned an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amc-issues-notices-to-269-shops-for-ud-tax/articleshow/78501584.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK cadres display 160ft-long banner calling OPS ‘future CM’||MADURAI: As the AIADMK is likely to announce their CM candidate on Wednesday for the next assembly election, the battle of banners between loyalists of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam continued on Monday. Cadres hand held a 160-feet-long banner calling OPS the ‘future chief minister’ (Nalaya Muthalvar) with pictures of the deputy CM and former CM Jayalalithaa on it. The banner was held at Aranmanaipudur in Theni enroute Nagalapuram where he flagged off mobile public distribution system shops. Theni district fishermen wing secretary and a former councillor for two terms Vaigai Karuppu, 55, who organised the event told TOI that it was to express the desire of cadres that OPS should become the next CM. Cadres also burst crackers and raised slogans calling OPS the next CM as his convoy paused at the place. OPS, who met his loyalists including MLAs at his residence in Periyakulam from Friday, started from Theni to Chennai on road at 3.15pm accompanied by loyalists in other vehicles. His loyalists are sceptical about the party announcing the CM candidate on Wednesday. They said various factors have to be analysed by the committee and that there would not be a delay in announcing the candidate. However, interacting with reporters at Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district on Monday, information and publicity minister said that the question of the next CM did not arise at the party’s executive committee meeting last week. He said that there was a discussion about the alliance. The minister added there was nothing wrong in the deputy CM’s tweets and that it only conveyed that there is no problem within the AIADMK. In an earlier interaction with journalists in Tuticorin late on Sunday, the minister had stated that it is natural for debates in the executive meeting as it is a democratic party. He added that at the end of four hours of debating they had come to the right decision. He also took a dig at the DMK and criticised them of conducting a namesake executive committee meeting through video conference, unlike the AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-cadres-display-160ft-long-banner-calling-ops-future-cm/articleshow/78503183.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Inbound passenger traffic overtakes departures at Pune airport in last 2 months||PUNE: The inbound passenger traffic at the Lohegaon airport has clocked an increase of around 123% in September when compared to June, the statistics provided by the Airports Authority of India stated. The Maharashtra government had allowed the resumption of domestic flight services in a staggered manner in the last week of May. In June, the number of outbound travellers had trumped the arrivals by 26,557 passengers. In September, the inbound passengers gained a lead on the departures by 18,509, the data revealed. The number of arrivals had remained subdued between May-end and July, when compared to the outbound passengers. The trend showed a marked shift in the months of August and September, with a rise of 15% and 21% in the inbound travellers as against the departures, respectively. An airport official said the passenger traffic graph at the facility had been going up since domestic flights resumed operations on May 25. “On October 2, the Pune airport recorded the highest passenger traffic, counting both arrivals and departures, since May 25,” the official said. “The increase in passenger traffic is primarily because of the significant increase in the number of flights being operated. The state government's Mission Begin Again is easing restrictions and opening economy, resulting in increased activity in sectors like infrastructure, construction, industrial and manufacturing units and transport. The opening up has led to increase in the movement, with the substantial migrant force now returning to work,” aviation analyst and expert Dhairyashil Vandekar said. The sources in the know of the development stated that considering the consistent increase in the number of passengers travelling from the Pune airport, the authorities concerned were looking at the quick resolution of bottlenecks in the transfer of land from the Indian Air Force (IAF) to the Pune airport authorities for the facility’s expansion project. The airport advisory committee would hold a meeting on Tuesday to address this issue in details and come up with solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inbound-passengers-traffic-at-pune-airport-trumps-departure/articleshow/78501615.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 6, 2020||Goa||Hackers threaten to sell drugs on actor’s website||PANAJI: Actor Pooja Bedi on Monday said that her e-commerce website has been hacked and she has been threatened that drugs would be sold on her website if she doesn’t pay a ransom. Based on the complaint, Goa police filed an FIR against unknown persons for hacking. “Dear @DGP_Goa my ecommerce website http://happysoul.in HACKED AGAIN last night & this time they state if i don’t pay ransom they will sell DRUGS on my website. I have registered FIR in old goa police cyber cell last week but no action from cops. My company regd in Goa @goacm,” Bedi tweeted. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena told TOI they received a complaint from Bedi and accordingly an FIR is being registered under Section 66 of the IT Act. He added that cyber crime cell (CCC) team is in touch with the website developer’s technical team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hackers-threaten-to-sell-drugs-on-actors-website/articleshow/78503858.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Minor raped in Baran while parents were in religious function||Kota: A 20-year-old youth was arrested on Monday for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl in a village while her parents were away fora religious function in a nearby village.Baran Sadar station police on Monday arrested the youth identified as Ganesh Mali for allegedly raping a class-9 student at her home on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, circle inspector at Baran Sadar police station Anis Ahmed said.The minor, a resident of a village under Baran Sadar police station, along with her parents reached the police station on Friday evening and lodged a rape case against Mali, the CI said. The accused is student of class 12, he added.The survivor in her report stated that her parents had gone to attend a religious function in a nearby village and she was asleep with her younger sister in her house on Thursday. The girl alleged that Mali knocked on the door of her house on Thursday night and on opening the door, he forcibly overpowered her chocking her mouth and raped her there in a room while her younger sister remained sleep, the CI added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-raped-in-baran-while-parents-were-in-religious-function/articleshow/78501610.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana logs 2 lakh Covid-19 cases, festive season a big worry||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday became the 10th state in India to record two lakh Covid-19 positive cases. But, what was heartening was that the positivy rate came at a much slower pace than the other southern states. While other states, including neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, reached this dubious figure long ago, experts warned that like in the case of Kerala, there could be a second wave if social distancing norms are not followed ahead of the festive season. Maharashtra, AP, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Odisha and Kerala had already recorded over two lakh positive cases. Interestingly, this is same order of the states having the highest number of cases in the country. Apart from being the 10th state to touch the two lakh cases mark, Telangana also stands in 10th place to have the highest number of cumulative cases. UP, which has around six lakh Covid-19 positvie cases, is the only state in India to have conducted tests for more than one crore people. While the five southern states are in the top 10 Covid-19 positive list, Telangana’s Covid-19 tally is growing slowly. Health minister Eatala Rajender, however, cautioned people against letting the guard down. “We have seen in Kerala how people gathered in large numbers during Onam celebrations and the second wave of virus attack had started,” he said. “During Bathukamma and other important festivals, the regular norms will be applicable. But, it is the people who should understand that life is more important than ever before,” he added. Experts also cautioned people to be wary about a second wave of cases, which is now being witnessed in the UK, France and Spain. “Telangana needs to be on guard against the second wave of virus due to increased economic activity and also onset of winter. People should continue to maintain vigil. Adhering to social distancing and wearing masks are mandatory,” “Subodh Kandmuthan, professor and director of health care management Administrative Staff College of India, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-logs-2l-covid-19-cases-festive-season-a-big-worry/articleshow/78501621.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Southwest monsoon gave Andhra Pradesh its highest rainfall in 32 years||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state received 44% excess rainfall as a result of this southwest monsoon, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to IMD state director S Stella, this was the highest (738.2mm) rainfall received by the state in 32 years. The second highest was registered in 2007 with the rainfall of 722.8mm while the lowest was 312.5mm in 2002 during the period. Between June 1 and September 30, Andhra Pradesh received 738.2 mm of rainfall against an average of 514.4 mm. Rayalaseema districts received 84% excess rainfall while coastal AP received 24% excess rainfall. Srikakulam is the only district to have received deficit rainfall — 25% — but no water problems have surfaced yet. “Last year we received good amount of rain, but this year is the highest. It certainly helps all sectors and resources including drinking water and agricultural nutrients,” said IMD state director S Stella. Joint director of the agriculture department, Srikakulam, K Sridhar said while rainfall this year has been good for agriculture, crops have been affected in cases where the rainfall reported has been much above the average. In a record, Kadapa district received excess rainfall to the tune of 110% this year. The district received 843.6 mm of rainfall against its seasonal southwest monsoon average of 401.3 mm. The excess rainfall has come as a relief to the district, known to be the driest in Rayalaseema. Speaking to TOI, municipality commissioner of Jammalamadugu in Kadapa, G Venkatarami Reddy said, “We have never experienced this kind of excess rainfall in the district. We will not think about water for the next four to five years as all the water resources like the Penna river and Mylavaram reservoir are fully recharged.” In Vizag city, an official with the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) said Covid-19 and high rainfall ensured that there were no water shortages under its jurisdiction this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/southwest-monsoon-gave-ap-its-highest-rainfall-in-32-years/articleshow/78501972.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||West Godavari: Youth tonsured after failing to repay loan||ELURU: A 23-year-old youth was forcibly dragged in a car tonsured for failing to repay a loan in West Godavari’s Jangareddigudem on Sunday. The case comes following similar incidents in East Godavari and Visakhapatnam in recent weeks. According to police, Allaka Abhilash — a resident of Tadepalligudem — who works in the kitchens of Sasi Engineering College, had taken a loan of Rs 28,000 from one Dhana Lakshmi six months back. Abhilash had been in talks with Lakshmi over the repayment of the loan but when he failed to do so, the latter’s friend Yerasani Vijay, who works as a computer operator at the municipal office, along with two others — Rankireddi Markendeya and Nagur Meera Vali — went to Abhilash’s home and abducted him. The three took Vijay’s residence where they called a barber to tonsure Abhilash. They then left Abhilash at a bus stand near Vijay’s house. Following the incident, Abhilash lodged a complaint with Lakkavaram police station under Jangareddigudem sub-division. Cops booked a case against the three accused under IPC sections , 363, 342, 323 and 405 read with 34. The police went on to arrest Yerasani Vijay, Rankireddi Markendeya and Nagur Meera Vali who were all produced before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/youth-tonsured-after-failing-to-repay-loan/articleshow/78501688.cms||Samson Raj
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Industry to govt: Hear new payment disputes in facilitation councils||Jaipur: MSMEs battling liquidity crunch are urging the facilitation councils to enlist new cases of payment disputes and resolve the past ones which are estimated to have locked up close to Rs 800 crore.As per estimates by the industry, nearly 2,000 cases are now pending with the facilitation councils which were set up to resolve the disputes so that the MSMEs get the payments for which they had already supplied goods or offered services. Similarly, new cases of disputes in the past six months have not been accepted by the councils. Rajasthan Micro & Small Enterprises Facilitation Council (RMSEFC) under MSME Development Act, 2006 was created to help micro and small enterprises to recover their money unjustifiably held up by the purchaser or procurer, who in majority of cases are government departments and agencies.In order to fast track the depute resolution mechanism, the number of councils has been increased from one to four in the past one year or so. Now, the government has sanctioned to increase the councils from four to nine.“We compliment the state government for establishing nine MSME Facilitation Councils. Since there will be five more councils besides the existing four, which is unique in the country, we request the industries department to include the fresh cases. There are many companies which have got into disputes with their purchasers and they are not getting the money for which they have already supplied goods. MSMEs are hard-pressed to tie up working capital to run their operations and they want the payments,” said Vishal Baid, chairman, CII-Rajasthan.When TOI spoke to Archana Singh, commissioner industries, she said, “The government has issued sanction for the additional five councils. One additional director’s post has been created. He will be responsible for hearing cases where the disputed amount is below Rs 25 lakh.”Similarly, there is a demand to include cases involving medium size industries. Other members of the industry said since the quasi-judicial councils have been formed under MSME Development Act, 2006, the medium size enterprises should be allowed to report the disputes. The hearings of the councils have been impacted in the past couple of months because of the Covid pandemic. During these hearings, both the aggrieved parties and their lawyers remain present before the council officials. “It becomes difficult to follow social distancing norms during these hearings,” said an official involved in the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industry-to-govt-hear-new-payment-disputes-in-facilitation-councils/articleshow/78501613.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Nashik||One in 10 police personnel hit by Covid-19 in Nashik||Nashik: At least one in every 10 police personnel of the city and rural police has been infected by Covid-19 and keeping the morale high of police is among the top priorities, said senior police officers on Monday.Meanwhile, police head constable Nivrutti Jadhav (52), attached to the city traffic branch, succumbed to Covid on Sunday, making him the the sixth victim of the contagion in the city.The officers said that of the 3,300 personnel in the city police commissionerate, 360 took ill and 342 were found positive, hospitalized and recovered since the pandemic broke out. A total of 28 personnel were under treatment in hospital on October 4. According to the officer, the situation is same with the Nashik rural police, which has a force of 3,500 personnel out, of which 400 have caught the infection. Hence, more than 10% of the personnel have already caught the infection. Out of 400, 369 have been discharged. Currently, 17 are under treatment in hospitals. Superintendent of police Sachin Patil said, “Keeping the morale high of police personnel in such conditions is very important. We are also setting up a Covid care centre (CCC) near the headquarters of the rural police at Adgaon.”Patil said the message on using face masks and maintaining social distance is continuously beings spread among police personnel. The city police already set up a CCC last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/one-in-10-police-personnel-hit-by-covid-19-in-nashik/articleshow/78503180.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vapour leak at West Godavari district drug production unit||ELURU: Hydrochloric acid vapours leaked from a private intermediate bulk drug production unit in Pydiparru on the outskirts of Tanuku town in West Godavari district late Sunday night. Residents of Pydiparru, Mandapaka and Venkatraya Puram villages rushed out of their home when the leak spread and gathered at the facility, demanding the management arrest the leakage. Some persons developed respiratory trouble. Even as the management assured that there was no danger from the leak, police arrived at the spot to review the situation. PCB environmental engineer S Venkateswarulu said a circulation pump at Plutus Techlabs Private Limited failed for 15 minutes, causing hydrochloric acid to leak for half-an-hour. The vapours resulted in irritation to eyes of people in surrounding areas. Venkateswarulu said it will take another two days to stop all reactions at the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vapour-leak-at-wg-dist-drug-production-unit/articleshow/78501150.cms||Samson Raj
October 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh ready with report on river water sharing with Telangana||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh government is geared up to give a detailed presentation on sharing of river water with Telangana. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has convened the meeting in which chief ministers of the two Telugu states, besides senior officials of irrigation departments of AP and Telangana, officials of the river management boards, water dispute tribunals and Central Water Commission would be present. The first meeting of the Apex Council, which was held on September 9, 2016, had evolved a mechanism of joint monitoring on the Krishna and Godavari rivers in water sharing. However, AP claims Telangana has violated this agreement and went for new projects like Palamuru-Ranga Reddy and Dindi lift schemes. Nettempadu and Kalwakurthy are the only projects which were recognised or cleared by the river boards and Central Water Commission in Telangana region, while Handri-Neeva, Galeru-Nagari, Telugu Ganga and Pothireddypadu were cleared for AP. However, against this, Telangana had gone for Palamuru-Ranga Reddy, Dindi and other projects on both the rivers drawing additional water against the agreements. The AP government says that Telangana had gone against the tribunals and AP Reorganisation Act 2014. The Telangana government also opposed AP’s proposal to take up lift irrigation schemes in the Rayalaseema, though the projects were aimed at utilising the allocated and surplus water, while the TS is accused of drawing excess water beyond the allocation. Bachawat and Brijesh Kumar tribunals have allocated 811 tmcft of water to undivided Andhra Pradesh. In the bifurcation Act, this quota was divided between AP and Telangana at 511 tmcft and 299 tmcft respectively. However, the TS had planned additional projects to draw 255 tmcft additional water in the upstream of Srisailam reservoir. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy had reportedly told the water resources officials from the state to put up the state’s arguments firmly at the Apex Council meeting. The officials too have prepared the presentation to be given at the meeting and keep a check on the moves of the Telangana state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-ready-with-report-on-river-water-sharing-with-t/articleshow/78501144.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram: 18-month-old dies after swallowing plastic toy||VISAKHAPATNAM: An 18-month-old girl died after choking on a small toy found inside the packet of a branded snack at Chinagudaba village under Garugubilli police station limits in Vizianagaram district. The deceased was identified as G Mounika. The incident took place on Sunday night but came to light on Monday. Police said Mounika’s mother Sandhyarani purchased the snack on Sunday evening. While consuming the snack, the girl found a plastic toy inside the packet. She tried to chew and swallow the toy but it got stuck in her throat. She was found unconscious that same night. Mounika was shifted to the government hospital at Parvathipuram town but died on the way. Doctors declared her brought dead. Speaking to TOI, sub-inspector of Garugubilli police station, Y Simhachalam said the girl might have thought the small toy, packed as a freebie with the snack, was an edible item and tried to swallow it but the toy stuck in her throat. “Though it is a tragic and most unfortunate incident, we can’t blame anyone for the death of Mounika as no one was responsible for the incident. We have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death),” the SI said. Doctors removed the plastic toy and handed over the body to the girl’s family girl following the postmortem. Police appealed to parents to be observant as sometimes children may try to chew and swallow non-edible items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/18-month-old-dies-after-swallowing-plastic-toy/articleshow/78501926.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 6, 2020||Agra||Hathras visit: FIR against Azad, 600 others for violating Section 144||AGRA: Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, workers of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) are among 680 people that Uttar Pradesh police has booked for violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 after their visit to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died after she was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted. An FIR lodged at Kotwali police station against Azad and 500 unidentified people on Sunday evening said they visited the victim’s village despite prohibitory orders on gatherings and sat on dharna and blocked traffic when stopped by police. After his meeting with the family on Sunday, Azad had questioned the decision to not suspend district magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar and also said that the girl’s father had told him that the family “is not feeling secure as pressure was being exerted from all sides.” The Dalit rights leader has been booked under various sections of the IPC, including 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), as well as the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Two more FIRs have been registered at Chandpa police station against 180 unidentified workers of RLD and SP. According to the FIRs, only five-person delegations were allowed into the village but party workers tried to break through barricades, misbehaved with policemen and pelted stones, injuring women constables and the circle officer. Police had used lathicharge to disperse the crowd led by former MP Jayant Chaudhary on Sunday, leading to protests by party members on Monday. RLD leader Pradeep Chaudhary threatened to intensify the protests if action isn’t taken against police personnel who resorted to lathicharge. “We are giving eight days to the administration to act against policemen and suspend officials who were involved, otherwise we will stage protests in every district of west UP.” Meanwhile, a man from the upper caste community, identified as Deepak Sharma, threw ink on Rajya Sabha MP from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Sanjay Singh while the latter was interacting with the media after meeting the victim’s family. Singh had alleged that those raising their voices against the UP government were being harassed and cases registered against them. “We will provide support to the victim’s family in every manner. Her kin will not get justice until the probe is monitored under the supervision of a Supreme Court judge,” he said. Earlier in the day, AAP workers held a protest demanding suspension of Hathras DM.o||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fir-against-680-people-including-azad-for-violating-section-144-after-hathras-visit/articleshow/78500535.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP will win Telangana on its own: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that the BJP has no plans to destabilize any state government but will come to power in 2023 on its own. Addressing a press conference on Monday, he said that there is no truth to CM K Chadrasekhar Rao’s statements that the BJP is trying to dethrone state governments. “The Centre is observing every corrupt activity by the TRS government, and the agencies concerned will respond at the right time,” he said. Sanjay said though KTR said only 12 corporators do not have public support, it was actually 38 corporators. “TRS has lost credibility.,” he said, adding that in the last five years there was no development as promised. “In Dubbak polls, TRS and Congress are in hand glove,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-will-win-t-on-its-own-sanjay/articleshow/78501617.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Amaravati||Centre’s new agricultural laws push up procurement prices of dal||AMARAVATI: Following the passing of Centre’s new agriculture laws, prices of pulses have witnessed a steep jump in the procurement market. Earlier, prices would go up only after stocks reached the trades but this time prices picked up while the crops are still in the fields. Sources said that prices in the wholesale markets have also witnessed a steep jump in the last two weeks. They said prices went up particularly after Parliament clearing the agriculture reform bills last week. According to information, millers are picking up stocks rapidly after the Centre’s removal of the cap on stocks they could hoard. Red gram prices, which were around Rs 5,500 per quintal last month, have already touched Rs 7,000 per quintal. Interestingly, MSP announced by the state and Centre for red gram is Rs 6000 per quintal. “Prices might go up further in the coming weeks as recent rains and floods have damaged the crops in several states,” said Dara Mallikharjuna Rao, a market analyst. Sources said that production of pulses is likely to go down from the big producing states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh which is expected to increase the prices. Price of Bengal gram which was around Rs 3500 per quintal in the wholesale market till last month has jumped to Rs 5,000 per quintal. While black gram prices went up to Rs 7,000 per quintal from Rs 6,000, the prices of all other pulses have also witnessed an average increase of around Rs 1,000 per quintal. Although, it is common for dal prices to go up during the festive season, traders believe the increase was quite abnormal and was a direct impact of the agriculture reform laws. The price increase in the wholesale market has triggered a price rise in the retail markets where red gram prices are hovering around Rs 100 per kilo-mark from the Rs 80 to 90 range earlier. Meanwhile, the state government is now worried about the sudden spike in prices of pulses as it is likely to impose a burden of nearly Rs 150 crore per month for supply of 1 kilo dal per family on BPL rice cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/centres-new-agri-laws-push-up-procurement-prices-of-dal/articleshow/78501658.cms||Samdani MN
October 6, 2020||Kochi||CPM branch secretary murdered in Thrissur||Thrissur: The secretary of CPM branch at Pudussery near Kunnamkulam, P U Sanoop, was stabbed to death, by a group of people allegedly aligned to the Sangh Parivar, around midnight on Sunday. Three others, CITU activist Jithin and CPM activists Vipin and Abijit, were also injured in the attack. Vipin, whose condition is reportedly serious, is admitted to Jubilee Mission Medical College Hospital in Thrissur. The CPM leaders alleged that RSS and Bajrang Dal activists were behind the attack. But BJP leaders denied this and said ganja gang rivalries had led to the attack. Sanoop, 26, and his friends were attacked at Eyyal Chittilangad when they were escorting their friend Midhun, a CPM sympathizer, to his house. Midhun was reportedly bullied earlier by a group of people at Eyyal Chittilangad. The gang entered into an argument with them, and attacked Sanoop and others using arms they carried. Sanoop was chased and stabbed to death. City police commissioner Aadhithya R said several people were involved in the attack and four of them have been identified, and efforts were on to nab those involved in the attack. The injured persons have reportedly given the names of four people involved in the attack on Sanoop to police. The commissioner said the motive behind the murder can be ascertained only after taking the accused into custody and interrogating them. Kunnamkulam ACP T S Sinoj said the police had taken into custody an abandoned car near the hospital at Kunnamkulam, suspecting it to be the assailants’ getaway vehicle. However, it was realized that the victims’ friends had used the car. They rushed to to the hospital to know the condition of the injured, leaving the car on the roadside. Minister A C Moideen alleged that this was a ‘political murder’ by RSS and Bajrang Dal activists. He alleged that Sangh Parivar leaders were protecting ganja gangs. BJP district president K K Aneeshkumar said, “A clash between two rival gangs at midnight had led to the murder at Chittilangad. Minister Moideen is trying to attribute a political dimension to divert attention from the allegations he is facing in connection with the irregularities related to Life Mission housing project at Wadakkancherry. BJP has given a complaint to city police commissioner demanding action against Moideen for allegedly issuing false statements defaming the BJP and Sangh Parivar organizations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-branch-secretary-murdered-in-thrissur/articleshow/78500545.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Economic activity picking up, finds MCCIA survey||Pune: A survey of 150 companies in and around Pune has found the progressive unlocking of the economy is helping the industry get back on its feet. This is the sixth such survey, conducted by Mahratta Chambers of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), during the pandemic. About 150 companies surveyed said their current level of production has gone up from 50% in August to 55% last month. Further, active workforce has gone up from 56% in August to 67% in September. Around 63% of the companies surveyed were from the manufacturing sector and 24% were from the services sector. The rest were involved in both manufacturing and services. The surveyed companies were also asked about when their production levels were expected to get back to pre-Covid levels. About 22% of the respondents said that they expect their production levels to go back to pre-Covid levels in less than 3 months, while 55% said they expect it to take between three and nine months. The rest said they could not fix a timeline. Some companies that expected their recovery to take more than nine months in August now said they expect it to take three to nine months,” MCCIA said in a statement. Of organizations surveyed were 33% micro units and an equal number of small enterprises. Medium and large scale organizations comprised 17% each. “We are glad to see the month-on-month growth in production levels and employee strength. We hope these figures go back to pre-Covid levels by the end of this calendar year or, at the latest, by the end of this fiscal,” Sudhir Mehta, MCCI president, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/economic-activity-picking-up-finds-mccia-survey/articleshow/78501622.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech, ViroVax join hands for vaccine candidate||HYDERABAD: Bharat Biotech has joined hands with ViroVax LLC for using US-based company’s adjuvant Alhydroxiquim-II to boost immune response and longer lasting immunity of indigenous, inactivated virus Covid-19 vaccine candidate Covaxin, which is currently undergoing Phase II human clinical trials. Bharat Biotech said that it has entered into a licencing agreement with Kansas-based ViroVax for using its technology and has been using the adjuvant since the development of Covaxin began. Bharat Biotech chairman and MD Dr Krishna Ella said, “There is a critical need for development and availability of adjuvants that elucidate mechanisms of action inducing greater anti-body responses to vaccine antigens, resulting in long-term protection against pathogens. Adjuvants also enhance the sustainability of the global vaccine supply because of their antigen-sparing effect.” According to Ella, Aluminium hydroxide, a widely used adjuvant in the development of SARS CoV-2 vaccines, is known to induce a Th2 based response, which is important for eradication of extracellular parasites and bacterial infection but has a theoretical risk of vaccine-associated enhanced respiratory diseases (VAERD or ADE). “We have used Imidazoquinoline class of adjuvants (TLR7/8 agonists), which are known to induce Th1 based response which further reduces the risk of ADE (Anti-Body Dependent Enhancement),” Dr Ella said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-virovax-join-hands-for-vaccine-candidate/articleshow/78501634.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 6, 2020||Pune||Atmanirbharta will not help India globalize: Meghnad Desai||Pune: Meghnad Desai, professor emeritus, London School of Economics, said on Monday that India must learn “sensible” economics to realize its global potential. Desai was speaking at a lecture, ‘Future of Globalization: Pause or Reset Mode?’, chaired by former Reserve Bank of India governor Urjit Patel and organized by Pune International Centre. Terming India a “reluctant globalizer”, Desai said, “India has acted below its potential for 75 years. India must wake up and learn sensible economics. BJP was following that path, but seems to have strayed.” He further said ‘atmanirbharta’ was not a new concept. “Congress had a similar version in 1947. If you want atmanirbharta, you cannot have globalization,” Desai said. Further saying India was an “insignificant” player on the world stage, Desai said the country’s progress was hobbled by too many different ideological viewpoints, which he said need to be jettisoned in favour of globalization. Desai also added that the coronavirus pandemic has further affected globalization. “Coronavirus has threatened the viability of just-in-time (JIT) inventory system, which needs to be seamless to be economically viable,” he added. Patel too chimed in, saying that a disruption to globalization will be “catastrophic” and that all efforts must be made to avoid it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atmanirbharta-will-not-help-india-globalize-meghnad-desai/articleshow/78501630.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 6, 2020||Nashik||‘Punish Hathras culprits’ chorus gets louder||Aurangabad/Nashik: Different social and political organisations on Monday joined the agitation called by members of the Dalit communitiy to protest against the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh recently. The Dalit members in Aurangabad demanded a fast-track trial in the case and capital punishment for the culprits. About a dozen organisations gathered under Ambedkarwadi Atyachar Kruti Samiti at the statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar in Aurangabad and shouted slogans against the UP government and expressed their anger against a section of upper caste holding panchayats in favour of the accused. The community members also raised questions over granting of Y-security to a Bollywood actress and demanded that the Hathras victim’s family be given protection from the local goons, who have been allegedly threatening them. The protesters also demanded Rs 50 lakh compensation for the victim’s family. Different student unions too joined the protest in Aurangabad. Student leader Sachin Nikam along with others demanded registration of offences under relevant sections of the atrocities act against the Hathras district collector as well as police authorities that performed the last rites on the victim’s body in the middle of the night. The Nashik city and district unit of Congress organised a ‘Satyagrah agitation’ to seek justice for the victim. The party functionaries gathered outside the district collectorate and condemned the inhuman act and at the same time torched the effigy of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “It is a gruesome murder by the state and not by any individual given that the state was unable to protect the 19-year old victim who faced hardships when she was alive by the people who are at large,” Nashik city Congress president Sharad Aher said. Nashik district unit president Tushar shewale condemned the UP government for preventing leaders of various political parties from visiting the victim’s family members. Vanchit Bhujan Aghadi, Nashik unit, led by Pawan Pawar, expressed deep concern over the manner in which the woman was allegedly raped and killed. The party members cited the victim’s dying declaration and demanded that the government take action against the culprits immediately. The Nashik-based Hussnain Foundation also registered its protest against the incident. Foundation chief Shakil Tamboli submitted a memorandum with the district collector, addressed to the President and Prime Minister, saying that those responsible for the rape-murder of the young woman should be prosecuted at the earliest and no repeat of such incidents should happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/punish-hathras-culprits-chorus-gets-louder/articleshow/78503188.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Judgment in Thanagazi rape case today||Alwar: A SC/ST court in Alwar will pronounce its judgment in the Thanagazi rape case against the five accused on Tuesday. For one minor, who is the sixth accused, court proceedings are already on in a Pocso court.Special judge, SC/ST atrocities prevention court, Brijesh Kumar completed hearing the arguments on September 11 and fixed September 24 as the date for pronouncement of judgment. However, due to Covid-19 situation, the court work was stopped till October 1. Thereafter, the final date of the verdict was fixed as October 6. The court has already completed trial of five accused in this matter. "During initial months, the court proceedings were not smooth, however, since May, there has been continuous hearing in this case. The judgment would be pronounced on Tuesday against five of the accused while for the sixth accused, who is a minor, hearing is on at a Pocso court," said Kuleep Jain, assistant public prosecutor.It may be recalled that on May 2, 2019, a case of gangrape and kidnap was registered against five people for raping a woman in front of her husband. Police after arresting the accused had filed a charge-sheet against five people. The minor had allegedly made the video of the incident and had further circulated it. The arrested accused are Ashok, Indraj, Mahesh, Hansraj and Chotey Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/judgment-in-thanagazi-rape-case-today/articleshow/78501623.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Agra||UP govt provides round-the-clock security to Hathras victim’s family||AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday provided round-the-clock security to the family of the Hathras victim, providing her brother with two gunners, while also beefing up security in the village to maintain law and order. Hathras superintendent of police Vineet Jaiswal told TOI that two security personnel have been provided to ensure safety of victim’s brother 24x7. “A Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) unit has been deployed permanently outside the victim’s house,” he said. Sources said the decision was taken after assessing “the security threat to the family”. ADG (Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Police Academy, Moradabad) Rajeev Krishna who visited the victim’s village along with ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand on Monday told reporters that besides providing the family ‘personal security’ through personnel who will accompany the family everywhere, another group has been stationed outside the house to keep an eye on visitors. Meanwhile, 15 police jawans, three station house officers and one deputy SP-rank officer have been deployed to maintain law and order in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-govt-provides-round-the-clock-security-to-hathras-victims-family-pac-now-stationed-outside-house-permanently/articleshow/78500543.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||1,330 new cases in Telangana, recovery rate at 86%||HYDERABAD: Telangana crossed the two-lakh novel coronavirus caseload mark on Monday, with 1,335 new cases and eight deaths. While the total caseload rose to 2,00,611, the cumulative deaths reached 1,171. Among the two lakh cases, 1,72, 388 people have recovered, and on Monday 2,176 people were declared recovered on a single day. Currently, 27,052 people are under treatment and 22, 134 are under home isolation. The weekend dip in number of samples tested continued with only 36,348 people tested, explaining the low number of cases. The reports of another 695 samples are awaited. The medical and health department has so far conducted tests on 32,41,597 samples since the pandemic broke. The per million tests figure also escalated standing at 87092. The recovery rate has reached nearly 86 per cent while national recovery stands at 84 per cent. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) also stands much below ( 0.5) percent than the national CFR of 1.5 percent. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) had a high number of cases (262) followed by Ranga Reddy (137) Medchal Malkajgiri (91) and Karimnagar (83).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1330-new-cases-in-state-recovery-rate-at-86/articleshow/78501624.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Delhi||60° relief for those who risk lives by walking to Dilli Haat||NEW DELHI: Shoppers, pedestrians and residents of the newly redeveloped government colony of East Kidwai Nagar often risk their lives crossing the road to reach Dilli Haat on the other side of the busy Aurobindo Marg. That ever-present danger look set to disappear with the Public Works Department planning a pedestrian underpass in the area. According to PWD officials, the proposed pass under the traffic artery will connect Dilli Haat with Gate No 4 of East Kidwai Nagar as part of the decongestion of Ring Road and Aurobindo Marg. The 70-metre-long, 2.7-metre-high and 5-metre-wide pass will descend at Dilli Haat near the INA metro station and go below the loop of the elevated Barapullah Road to the gate of the housing colony. It will be a disabled-friendly underpass with lifts and ramps. Currently, there is a subway connecting Dilli Haat to the Yellow Line metro station, no facility for pedestrians coming from East Kidwai Nagar and wishing to cross the road. “This underpass will be constructed at a 60-degree angle,” an official said. “It will not only aid movement from East Kidwai Nagar, but also create a safe road for residents of NBCC Colony and GPRA office complex.” More than 3,000 families live in the flats at East Kidwai Nagar and more in NBCC Colony. The officer explained, “On Aurobindo Road, there is no pedestrian crossing from East Kidwai Nagar towards INA. Due to this lack, people coming from that side have to take a long route from AIIMS and Green Park and then take a U-turn to reach Dilli Haat.” The risks people took to avoid this longer route had created a vulnerable point, which, traffic police officers said, had become a site for accidents, big and small. A PWD official said that once the work on the underpass started early next year, the pedestrian facility is expected to be completed by the end of July 2021. “Many pedestrians hop past incoming vehicles or jaywalk across the road. This underpass will provide them a safe and time-saving crossing,” a senior PWD official said, adding, “The underground passage, to be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 12 crore, will also mean a safe walk for a large number of tourists and government officials going to Dilli Haat, INA, Jorbagh, Sarojini Nagar and South Extension.” The tender for the project has been floated and the construction is scheduled to begin around January next year and finish in around six months. PWD officials assured that if the Covid pandemic still remained uncontrolled, all precautionary measures would be taken by the project workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/60-relief-for-those-who-risk-lives-by-walking-to-dilli-haat/articleshow/78501637.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 6, 2020||Goa||Two Russians arrested for growing cannabis in Goa||PANAJI: Pernem police arrested two Russian nationals-- Aleksei Perevalov, 31, and Aleksei Rebriev, 41-- for allegedly growing cannabis at a rented apartment in Mandrem on Monday. PI Jivba Dalvi told TOI they received a tip-off about two foreigners growing cannabis and selling it. The information was verified and accordingly a team was formed and a raid was carried out on Monday afternoon at Gawdewada, Mandrem. During the raid it was found that the Russians had a full-blown cannabis plantation in their apartment and a suitable environment was created using tubelights, exhaust fans and other equipment to facilitate the proper growth of the plants. The police also noted that it was a commercial plantation. “A total of five fully cultivated cannabis plants along with dry ganja weighing 2.5kg, all worth Rs 3.5 lakh have been seized under the NDPS act. Cash of Rs 25,000 was also recovered during the search,” Dalvi said. An offence under sections 20(a)(i), 20(b)(ii)(A), and 25 read with Section 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the accused persons for cultivating cannabis, and against the owner of the house for allowing his premises to be used for the cultivation and thereby being a part of the conspiracy. The Russian nationals were staying at the premises since May this year. The raiding team comprised Dalvi, PSI Praful Giri, PSI Harish Vaingankar, PSI Sanjit Kandolkar and constables Ravi Maloji, Anishkumar Poke, Vinod Pednekar, Sabaji Rawool, Devidas Malkar and Deepa Virnodkar. Panaji: Pernem police arrested two Russian nationals-- Aleksei Perevalov, 31, and Aleksei Rebriev, 41, for allegedly growing cannabis at a rented apartment in Mandrem on Monday. PI Jivba Dalvi told TOI they received a tip-off about two foreigners growing cannabis and selling it. The information was verified and accordingly a team was formed and a raid was carried out on Monday afternoon at Gawdewada, Mandrem. During the raid it was found that the Russians had a full-blown cannabis plantation in their apartment and a suitable environment was created using tubelights, exhaust fans and other equipment to facilitate the proper growth of the plants. The police also noted that it was a commercial plantation. “A total of five fully cultivated cannabis plants along with dry ganja weighing 2.5kg, all worth Rs 3.5 lakh have been seized under the NDPS act. Cash of Rs 25,000 was also recovered during the search,” Dalvi said. An offence under sections 20(a)(i), 20(b)(ii)(A), and 25 read with Section 29 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the accused persons for cultivating cannabis, and against the owner of the house for allowing his premises to be used for the cultivation and thereby being a part of the conspiracy. The Russian nationals were staying at the premises since May this year. The raiding team comprised Dalvi, PSI Praful Giri, PSI Harish Vaingankar, PSI Sanjit Kandolkar and constables Ravi Maloji, Anishkumar Poke, Vinod Pednekar, Sabaji Rawool, Devidas Malkar and Deepa Virnodkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-russians-arrested-for-growing-cannabis/articleshow/78503219.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Jaipur||Raj tops in property related crimes, frauds||Jaipur: Rajasthan tops in cases for offences related to documents and property, says the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2019 report. According to the bureau, a total of 26,433 cases were registered under this category, which include counterfeiting, fraud and others. Rajasthan is followed by Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. The state registered 93 incidents of counterfeiting of property documents as well as bank notes and only West Bengal had a higher number with 208 such cases.Similarly, when it came to cases of fraud, Rajasthan was again at the top with 5,149 cases which was the highest in the country followed by Uttar Pradesh, which had 2,661 such incidents in 2019. Talking about increasing number of cases in the state among almost all the categories, DGP Bhupendra Singh said, “The number should not be a cause of worry as now more FIRs are being registered. The number of cases is important as it shows the impact of crime. In terms of recovery and cases being solved, Rajasthan is doing better than other states.” In the fraud category, ATM fraud was again the highest with 709 cases being reported followed closely by Haryana with 705 similar FIRs. In credit/debit card fraud, Rajasthan clinched the second spot with 226 incidents while Maharashtra had the highest with 385 cases. In the category of cheating, the desert state managed to get the dubious distinction of being the ‘winner’ with 17,160 cases followed by Telangana with 9,233 incidents. In incidents of forgery, the state had 4,031 incidents, which was yet again the highest amongst all the states and Union territories. However Rajasthan had no offences related to elections in 2019. Fraud CasesState No. of cases Rajasthan 26433 Uttar Pradesh 14378 Maharashtra 13468 Telangana 10796 West Bengal 8143||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tops-in-property-related-crimes-frauds/articleshow/78501619.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Local trains to resume services from October 12||PUNE: Local train services will resume from October 12. However, only government employees engaged in essential services will be allowed to travel on them. The railways are likley to operate two locals — one from Pune to Lonavla and the other from Lonavla to Pune. A special QR code-based pass provided by the Pune police commissionerate will be required to travel on local trains, rail authorities said on Monday. “We are currently preparing the timetable. Those not engaged in essential services should not come to the station as they will not be allowed to travel on local trains,” said Manoj Jhawar, public relations officer, Pune rail division. The state government announced resumption of train services last week under the latest unlock guidelines. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI that letters were sent to all government departments on Monday, requesting them to send details of employees engaged in essential services. “However, we haven’t received any request until now. The government offices may take some time to reply to our letters,” he said. Railway sources told TOI that two locals are likely to be operated — one from Pune to Lonavla and the other from Lonavla to Pune. “While one train is likely to leave Pune for Lonavla in the morning, another rake is expected return from Lonavla during the same time. The same arrangement is likely to be carried out in the evening. The final order about the trains will be issued in a day or two,” another official said. “The QR code on passes will have all the information about passengers, including name, type of work etc. Only those with passes will be allowed to enter the platform and board the train,” the rail official said. During pre-Covid times, five rakes made 42 local trips within the Pune division, mainly between Pune and Lonavla. As many as 80,000 to 90,000 passengers travelled on these trains daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/local-trains-to-resume-services-from-october-12/articleshow/78501639.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||For the first time ever, centuries-old Ramlilas of Uttarakhand to be on hold due to Covid||Dehradun: Barely a week is left for the starting of the ‘Sharadiya Navratra’---- the period when Ramlilas are traditionally staged across the country. But in the hill town of Pauri — which has had an unbroken tradition of staging Ramlilas for over a century— there is no flush of excitement that precedes the beginning of the festive season every year. No Ram, Ravan or Sita are rehearsing their parts, the stage lies empty and the only sign of activity is when somebody comes to light a ‘diya’ in the evening in the small temple built inside the Ramlila ground. It’s a similar scene at Almora which like Pauri, also has a unique, over a century-old Ramlila based on the ‘Geya Paddathi’ (Singing way). Both the Pauri and Almora Ramlilas were documented by Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), New Delhi under its project to document the oldest and unique Ramlilas of India. These Ramlilas used to get thousands of spectators during the 10-day-long festival that ends on Dussehra every year. But this year, for the first time ever in their history, they will not be staged for the public due to the Covid-19 threat. Gauri Shankar Thapliyal, president of the Pauri Ramlila committee, told TOI that “although this was the 120th year of the Ramlila, we are forced to make it a simple affair.” “There will only be a daily ‘aarti’ which will be performed by around 15 people, following social distancing. We do not have resources to ensure social distancing for big crowds. Also, most of the organisers are old and they don’t want to take the risk of contracting the infection,” added Thapliyal. Incidentally, Pauri is the first Ramlila to have extensive women participation with the role of female characters here being essayed by women (and not men who usually play female parts in many Ramlilas). In Almora’s 145- year-old Ramlila — where children play the lead roles — the organisers will just have the relay recitation of Ramcharit Manas at their respective homes. “Our Ramlila wasn’t stopped even at the time of Spanish flu in the early 1900s or the influenza that gripped the country in 1957-58. But due to Covid, this will be the first time in our history that we will not be organising Ramlila for the public,” said Tribhuvan Giri, one of the organisers of Almora’s Hukka Club Ramlila. Interestingly, though the old, established Ramlila organisers have decided to not hold the event, the relatively newer ones like 35-year-old Shri Ramleela Committee Karnatak Khola in Almora will go live on Facebook to reach out to a wider audience. The organisers have already started rehearsals which are also being shown live on Facebook, to ensure that more and more people tune in for the actual event. Bittu Karnatak, organiser of the Ramlila, told TOI, “Breaking tradition is not necessary as technology has the means for us to move ahead, notwithstanding the pandemic. We are trying our best to ensure that our three-decade-old tradition doesn’t break because of Covid- 19,” he added. In Nainital, too, Sri Ram Sevak Sabha and Ramlila Committee has decided to go digital rather than dropping the event. Himanshu Joshi, one of the organisers, said, “People will get to see our Ramlila from home and through the local cable TV channels, Facebook and YouTube live.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/for-the-first-time-ever-centuries-old-ramlilas-of-uttarakhand-to-be-on-hold-due-to-covid/articleshow/78499440.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bail to man in 3 riot cases, court says cops ‘blowing trumpet’||NEW DELHI: A city court on Monday granted bail to a riot accused in three cases and noted that the investigating agency had been “blowing its own trumpet” that the probe in the cases was under way and the remaining people of the “unlawful assembly” had to be identified and arrested. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav added that the chargesheets in the cases had already been filed. Police had opposed the bail of the accused, Noor Mohd, stating that he had a total of nine cases, including the current three, against him. There were several instances of vandalism in a particular area during the riots, and Mohd’s role was under investigation “from the point of view of an individual and collectively being part of the conspiracy”. Appearing for Delhi Police, the prosecutor submitted that the applicant had refused to undergo the “test identification parade” in the three cases, and therefore, an adverse inference was liable to be drawn against him. However, it came on court’s record that Mohd wasn’t named by any of the complainants in their respective statements, which was the basis for filing of the FIRs in the three cases. “It also does not appeal to the senses that initially, all the three complainants did not specifically name the applicant in their respective complaints, but later, after about 40 days of the incident, all of them identified him at the Khajuri Khas police station,” the court noted. The bail order highlighted that there was no electronic evidence — either CCTV footage or call data record location — available against the accused to show his presence at the crime scene. The court found it noteworthy that in all the three cases, only Mohd had been chargesheeted. “In terms of IPC Section 141, to constitute an ‘unlawful assembly’, there has to be at least five members, which admittedly is lacking in all the three cases. At this stage, the only material against him is his refusal to undergo a judicial test identification parade. The effect will be seen at the time of trial. The identification of the applicant by police witnesses is hardly of any consequence to the prosecution,” it said. The court said the incident had taken place on February 24, and till date, apart from the accused, police hadn’t been able to identify any other member of the “so-called unlawful assembly”. The court, therefore, said he couldn’t be made to “incarcerate in jail for infinity just on the ground that the investigation in the cases is under way”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bail-to-man-in-3-riot-cases-court-says-cops-blowing-trumpet/articleshow/78501650.cms||Aamir Khan
October 6, 2020||Goa||ESG CEO Satija transferred||Panaji: Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) chief executive officer Amit Satija has been transferred to Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu administration following an order by the Union minister of home affairs on Monday. Before ESG, Satija, a 2008 batch officer, was posted as excise commissioner. The order issued by the under-secretary Rakesh Kumar Singh stated that the officer must be relieved immediately to join the new posting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/esg-ceo-satija-transferred/articleshow/78503859.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Agra||‘This clearly is murder of democracy', says DCW, seeks action against Hathras DM||AGRA: A team from the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) met the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras — who died after she was allegedly gang-raped and assaulted — on Monday and demanded action against the Hathras district magistrate for allegedly threatening the family, calling the aftermath of the incident a “murder of democracy”. DCW member Sarika Chuadhary said it was “unacceptable” that the victim was cremated in the absence of the family by Hathras DM Praveen Kumar Laxkar. “We don’t trust the state government or police or investigating agencies working under the guidance of the government,” she told reporters after meeting the family, adding that justice would only be given by the Supreme court. The DCW had earlier written to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) to urge the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the incident. On being asked about the initial medico-legal report of the hospital claiming “signs of force” and later ruling it out, Chaudhary said, “The entire system is under the same government…” Chaudhary also uploaded a video statement on her Twitter account, claiming that the victim’s kin seem to be “scared and insecure”. “Government and police are trying to divert the issue. This is what we have concluded after talking to several people,” she said, adding that the state and central government are ruled by the same party so the family has little expectations of justice. “The probe should be monitored by a Supreme Court judge,” she said. Meanwhile, Babasaheb Ambedkar’s great-grandson, Rajratan, who has offered legal aid to the family said he would help them move out of the village within a week. “They are not safe here, especially from police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/this-clearly-is-murder-of-democracy-says-dcw-seeks-action-against-hathras-dm/articleshow/78500574.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Be considerate towards teachers: Telangana government||HYDERABAD: The government, on Monday, instructed schools and colleges to be considerate towards teachers amid the pandemic and pay their salaries. A high-level meeting was held by ministers K Taraka Rama Rao, Sabitha Indra Reddy, Malla Reddy, Puvvada Ajay, Mohammad Mahmood Ali with representatives of private educational institutions at MCRHRD. During the meeting, the ministers clarified that government is completely against the corporatisation of the education sector. Rao said, “The information technology department will provide complete support to the engineering, polytechnic students in placements. Through TASK, government will help the students train, upskill and make them industry ready.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-considerate-towards-teachers-govt/articleshow/78501643.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Doctors continue to care for babies with clubfoot||Coimbatore: Despite the Covid-19 situation and growing instances of hospital infection, the institute of orthopedics and traumatology in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital has treated 45 babies born with clubfoot.Clubfoot refers to a condition in which a newborn’s foot or feet appear to be rotated internally at the ankle. The affected leg may also be smaller than the other. Though the exact cause of the defect is not known, genetics and a faulty position of the baby in the womb is believed to play a role.Institute director Dr Vetrivelchezhian says that without treatment, the foot remains deformed, ending up with the affected people walk on the sides or tops of their feet, which can cause calluses, foot infections, difficulty in walking, and disability. “While initially, surgery was the only way to correct the defect, we now have the Ponseti method through which we can correct the condition in most babies by moulding plaster of paris around it. It is then followed by the baby wearing a brace to prevent the foot from reverting to its original position,” he said.The process involves changing the cast four to six times. Doctors have to touch the affected babies, teach the family about gentle manipulation techniques to prevent stiffness and deformity of the foot. Though it does not fall in the ‘emergency procedure’ category, the orthopedics department continued to help every case since May. “The condition can be treated better if the treatment is given as early as possible after birth. While it is not emergency, it can affect the child’s lifestyle,” said Vetrivelchezhian. “So, we take all precautions including wearing masks, PPE kits and gloves while handling such babies and interacting with their families. We also insist that they wash hands and wear masks before meeting us, for us and their own safety,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/doctors-continue-to-care-for-babies-with-clubfoot/articleshow/78501654.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Noida||Did you know DND Flyway was blocked for 3 hours yesterday||NOIDA: Monday morning brought with it the blues of commuting. Office-goers travelling between Noida and Delhi spent hours on the road as the Noida Expressway got choked after a truck overturned on it and the DND witnessed long snarls after police sealed the borders with the capital for three hours apprehending another Congress cavalcade. Police said one of the tyres of the overloaded truck burst on the Noida Expressway early on Monday and the vehicle crashed into a tractor near Amity University in Sector 125. The truck overturned under the impact and the sacks of grains it was carrying fell on the road. Although the accident took place in the wee hours, the police could remove the two vehicles only around noon. By then, the queue of rush-hour vehicles had spanned several kilometres. Even though the truck and the tractor were removed, the heaps of grain still lay on the road, causing the vehicles to move at snail’s pace. Commuters said they were delayed by 40 minutes on an average. “The truck was overloaded, which is why it overturned. I was returning from Pari Chowk towards Noida when I got stuck in the jam around 2km before the accident spot,” said a youth who crossed the spot around 10.15am. Brajesh Sharma, who regularly travels from Noida to his office in Delhi, was also one of those who got stuck. “Around 500 metres ahead of the Mahamaya flyover, I saw the two vehicles that had collided and the sacks of grain lying on the road. The truck and the tractor had covered almost half of the entire breadth of the road. Policemen were present at the spot and were guiding vehicles. But this caused me enormous delay in the morning,” he added. The traffic situation eased somewhat during the noon, but the sacks of grains were still there on the road till the evening. DCP (traffic) Ganesh Saha agreed that it took time to remove the two vehicles with a crane. He said the police received calls about the traffic mess till late evening, when the heaps of grains were still being lifted. Travel between Noida and Delhi was not just hit on the expressway, but also the DND, where the police put up barricades at the border after receiving information that a Congress cavalcade led by party functionary Udit Raj would enter Noida on its way to Hathras. Only two lanes were open for traffic between Noida and Delhi. While the border remained sealed for at least three hours, Raj’s cavalcade took the Ghaziabad route via UP Gate in a last minute change of travel plans. Subsequently, one more lane was opened for traffic for entering into Noida and four lanes were opened for going to Delhi. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said five sub-inspectors and 25 constables were deployed at the DND, fearing another protest by Congress supporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/monday-mess-cops-block-dnd-again-for-3-hours/articleshow/78502487.cms||Shikha Salaria
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jailbird who fled Gandhi hospital Covid ward caught, hunt on for 3 others||HYDERABAD: A month after four undertrials escaped from Covid-19 prisoners’ ward at Gandhi Hospital, police have managed to lay their hands on one of the fugitives. He told police that the mastermind behind the prisoners’ ward break was vehicle thief Javeed of Chandrayangutta. While they were on the run, some gang members stole two-wheelers in the city and Karnataka. During the early hours of August 27, the quartet — Mohammed Javeed, 35, Mohammed Abdul Arbaz, 21, P Narasimha, 44, and Soma Sundar, 20 — had escaped from the prisoners’ ward on the second floor of the eight-storied hospital building by scaling down from the toilet window using a rope made out of bed sheets. A few days ago, Chilakalguda police, who had kept a watch on the family members and associates of the four fugitives, got information about the movement of Soma Sundar in the city and picked him up. Soma Sundar confessed to have committed over half a dozen bike thefts in the city and Karnataka after the escape. Sundar, who is the youngest among the four, told police that the plan was hatched by Mohammed Javeed. “When Javeed discussed the plan with Sundar, the latter agreed. Later, they convinced Narasimha to join them. While the trio was escaping, Arbaz noticed them and he too joined them,” Chilkalguda police official said. The gang first went to Gulbarga in Karnataka, where Javeed has relatives. After reaching Gulbarga, Javeed started insisted that they commit bike thefts for survival, but Narasimha, did not agree for that. After an argument with Javeed, Narasimha left Gulbarga. The remaining three started committing bike thefts in Gulbarga and surrounding areas. Later, Arbaz parted ways and finally Soma Sundar also had to leave and return to Hyderabad. “Soma Sundar reached Hyderabad on a stolen bike and stole a few more two-wheelers here before we caught him,” a police official said. A special team of Hyderabad police is camping in Gulbarga and, in coordination with Karnataka police, launched a manhunt to nab the absconding accused suspected to be moving in Karnataka and Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jailbird-who-fled-gandhi-hosp-covid-ward-caught-hunt-on-for-3-others/articleshow/78501662.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 6, 2020||Agra||Discom staff protest against privatization, boycott work in Agra||AGRA: More than 40,000 electricity department employees, including junior engineers, sub-divisional officers, executive engineers and superintending engineers, boycotted work on Monday in response to a call given by the UP Vidyut Karmchari Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti to protest against the proposed privatization of the Varanasi discom - Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL). In Agra, over 2,000 staffers of Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (DVVNL) remained off duty on Monday. Around 115 sub-substations in the district were non-functional. Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) was deployed at the office of the managing director. Hundreds of staffers gathered at the transmission office to hold a protest meet. Protesters declared that they would not resume work till the state government assures them that the plan to privatize will be dropped. On Sunday, the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) management held talks with the Sangharsh Samiti members to persuade them to withdraw the boycott. However, the members rejected their proposal. Regional coordinator of the Sangharsh Samiti OP Gupta said, “State government is neglecting the interest of common people and employees of the power department for the interest of a few capitalists. We will not allow the privatization of PVVNL at any cost. Our protest will continue till the state government formally announces cancellation of the plan." Regional spokesperson of the Sangharsh Samiti Sanjay Upadhyay said, “Privatization of the power sector remained unsuccessful in Delhi, Odisha, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. Privatization is against the masses because power would become costlier. Only business houses would benefit. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath should intervene and do something about the increasing unhappiness among the power department workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/discom-staff-protest-against-privatization-boycott-work/articleshow/78500581.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Customs records TV Anupama’s statement||T’puram: Women and child development department director TV Anupama, who was the director of social justice department when the imported dates were gifted to poor homes and orphanages in state by UAE consulate, is learnt to have appeared before customs on Monday to give her statement. It is reliably learnt that she was summoned by customs to enquire about the details of the consignments sent to various districts, arrangements made and instructions received in this regard. Customs sources said that the agency has already received the answers to the questionnaire it had sent to the department secretary Biju Prabhakar. However, more clarifications were required on submitted answers, which is why it summoned the then director. It is learnt that the director had then apprised M Sivasankar, who was the then secretary to CM, regarding the arrangements made for the distribution of dates in districts. Customs had asked the department to produce the communique between government and the UAE Consulate regarding the distribution of dates. However, general administration department sources said there was no written communique and the whole programme was arranged by CM’s office and necessary arrangements for the distribution of dates was made on the basis of direct instructions from Sivasankar. CM had on May 26, 2017, inaugurated the programme in which one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh had also participated along with UAE Consulate officials. The department in its report, had informed customs that it had received 9,000kg dates that was distributed among 40,000 inmates in various homes, special schools, buds schools and orphanages in state. Customs sleuths are comparing details provided by the department against the details and statements of those arrested to find if there are discrepancies. Customs had found that 17,000 kg dates were imported by UAE Consulate in various consignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-records-tv-anupamas-statement/articleshow/78500586.cms||KP Saikiran
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE Advanced 2020: Love for computers key to Hyderabad's Hardik’s success||HYDERABAD: His love for computers, desire to learn more and hard work helped Hardik Rajpal secure sixth rank in the Common Rank List in the JEE Advanced 2020. A student of Narayana Junior College, Madhapur, Hardik said that he dedicated the last one year to IIT preparation as he used to study from 6 am to 10 pm every day. “Although I was satisfied with my performance in the intermediate first year, I realised that I could excel further if I put in more effort. That’s when I decided to shift from being a day scholar to hosteller so that I can study for more hours,” Hardik told TOI. The 18-year-old said that he has been staying in Manikonda for the last four to five years. “I have been studying here since class 8,” he said. He credited his parents and the faculty for his success. Hardik, who hails from MP, said music provided him a much-needed break during preparation. “I used to listen to Taylor Swift. Sitcoms helped me unwind as well,” he said. “I am still interested in computers and little inclined towards pursuing computer science engineering, but also want to look at other possible combinations,” said Hardik, whose father works in the travel industry and mother in administrative wing of an international school in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/love-for-computers-key-to-hardiks-success/articleshow/78501656.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||Teachers’ recruitment scam: State government to verify documents of over 33k teachers within four weeks||Nainital: The Uttarakhand government on Monday submitted to the high court (HC) that it will verify over 1.3 lakh documents of more than 33,000 teachers within four weeks and submit a report by November 2. The state’s response came while the HC was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) alleging thousands of teachers at government-run schools do not have qualifications needed for the job, which they got by furnishing fake degrees. The undertaking was made by the counsel appearing for the state government before the division bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, after the court refused the accept the earlier statement by the counsel that the government needs at least 18 months to verify and investigate all the documents. Since each teacher will have furnished four documents each, a total of 1,32,000 need to be verified, the counsel said, adding that since many of the teachers had completed their education from outside the state, verifying their background would be time-consuming. The PIL had alleged that even though a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was formed in 2018 to investigate the scam, the progress has been very slow. “After the court refused to accept the (state’s) statement, the state government has now promised that it will verify the documents of every teacher within a period of four weeks and submit a report before the court by the next date of hearing on November 2,” said an advocate present in the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teachers-recruitment-scam-state-government-to-verify-documents-of-over-33k-teachers-within-four-weeks/articleshow/78499453.cms||Prashant Jha
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||With 468 new cases, dist’s Covid-19 tally nears 35k||Coimbatore: The district recorded 468 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, pushing up the total number of cases to 34,558. Officials said 460 people had been discharged on Monday, while the number of active cases in the district was 4,890. The total number of patients recovered rose to 29,199, with a recovery rate of 84.4% one of the highest the district has seen recently. The district also recorded seven more deaths, taking the toll to 469.The deaths include a 49-year-old man who died within 24 hours of hospitalization, a 62-year-old man,a 69-year-old man, a 75-year-old woman and an 89-year-old man with heart disease.On Monday, officer on special duty Dr Vadivelan completed his four-day tour and inspection of the Covid-19 spread containment activities. He appointed block medical officer cadre offices in each of Coimbatore's five zones to monitor patients within them. This is likely to reduce the work burden of health officers within those zones. The day also saw health officers discover a cluster of 10 employees of a copper wiring company in Narasimanaickenpalayam test positive. Officers were dispatched to isolate the remaining employees who were in contact with them for 14 days, and to fumigate the premises. The Valparai GH, which was closed for a day for fumigation after a Covid-19 patient was brought dead, was also reopened for patients on Monday.Focusing on rural areas, collector K Rajamani met officials from all 12 blocks and ordered them to start conducting fever camps in identified hotspots within each block. The officers have also been instructed to inform the village panchayat heads before conducting these fever camps. “This is to mobilize local residents, especially symptomatic and old people, to attend the fever camps,” said joint director of medical services, Dr Krishna. “This will help in early detection of cases, isolation and preventing them from infecting others,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/with-468-new-cases-dists-covid-19-tally-nears-35k/articleshow/78501665.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Usual suspect did not plan the escape: Hyderabad police||HYDERABAD: The police earlier suspected that P Narasimha, the oldest among the four fugitives, was the mastermind of the escape plan. The reason behind the assumption was Narasimha’s record. In 2011, Narasimha had escaped from prisoners’ ward at Government Hospital for Mental Care at Erragadda. He was caught a few days later. However, Narasimha, who is a life convict in a rape and murder case registered at Medchal police station in 1999, did not turn out to be the mastermind in the latest escape. In fact, after escaping from Gandhi Hospital, Narasimha, tried to persuade the other fugitives to not commit more offences. He even had an argument with the main conspirator, Javeed, about the issue and parted ways despite the gang members warning him that he would be able to survive alone. His whereabouts are not yet known. Few days after Narasimha left the group, Arbaz also parted ways with the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/usual-suspect-did-not-plan-the-escape/articleshow/78501680.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 800 from Gujarat qualify for IITs||AHMEDABAD: The lockdown seems to have worked helped Gujarat candidates going by the JEE Advanced results that were declared on Monday. More than 800 candidates from the state have qualified for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), the premier engineering colleges of the country. Last year some 650 candidates from the state had cleared the entrance test. As many as seven students from the state are in the Top 100 All Indian Rankings (AIRs). Six of them are from Ahmedabad while one, Nisarg Chadha, is from Vadodara. The parents of six of these seven candidates are doctors, but their wards have all chosen to become engineers. Ahmedabad-based Harsh Shah ranked the highest among Gujarat candidates. He stood 11th in the Common Rank List (CRL). Shah obtained 320 out of 396 marks. Another candidate from the city, Niyati Mehta, topped among girls in the IIT Mumbai region with an AIR of 62. She got 288 out of 396 marks. Vadodara-based Nisarg Chadha, who ranked in the 100th percentile in both JEE-Main exams, ranked 17 in JEE Advanced. On all fronts, candidates from the state seemed to have fared better than last year. This year 50 students from Gujarat made it to the AIR Top 1,000 list compared to 30 last year. Similarly, as many as 135 candidates from Gujarat made it to the Top 5,000 AIR list compared to 90 candidates last year, said sources. A total of 1,50,838 candidates from across the country took both papers 1 and 2 of the JEE (Advanced) 2020. A total of 43,204 candidates have qualified in JEE (Advanced) 2020. Chirag Falor of IIT Bombay zone is the top ranker in CRL in JEE (Advanced) 2020. He obtained 352 marks out of 396 marks. Kanishka Mittal of IIT Roorkee zone is the top ranked female with a CRL 17. She obtained 315 marks out of 396.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-800-from-state-qualify-for-iits/articleshow/78501684.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Remove stigma attached to reptiles: Wildlifer||Panaji: Stigma surrounding snakes and crocodiles must be eradicated from a young age, wildlifer Shreecharan Desai said while calling for a scientific approach to handle these reptiles in the state. Desai, who is founder member of Study and Awareness of Wildlife and Environment (SAWE), a Goa-based environmental organisation, was speaking as part of Wildlife Week celebrations on Monday. “We must have the willingness to respect the presence on reptiles in our environment and coexist with them. Inculcating this must start from a young age, from schools itself. Parents play a very important role,” he said. Desai said there are about 45 snake species in Goa and at least 1,200-1,500 snake bites registered every year. He insisted that doctors be more experienced to treat snake bite cases and said that victims must go to hospitals instead of primary health centres for antivenom. The wildlifer said that while there are not many deaths associated with snakes or crocodiles, the phobia is substantial, owing to which many people are unwilling to help reptiles in distress. “People have killed many monitor lizards in Goa and this has brought the population down. Crocodiles often get stuck in fishing nets or traps placed for wild boar. Sometimes, small crocodiles are attacked by stray dogs. We are studying the life cycle of crocodiles and their habitats in Goa to understand them better,” he said. By talking to senior citizens and villagers, Desai is trying to estimate the crocodile population of Goa. For now, he has established that crocodiles are in every river of Goa, besides streams and lakes. He is soon going to take up a more in-depth research on how crocodiles survive in salt water habitats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/remove-stigma-attached-to-reptiles-wildlifer/articleshow/78503867.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Cong demands justice for Hathras rape victim||Coimbatore: Congress cadres on Monday staged a protest demanding justice for Hathras gang-rape victim.Led by Tamil Nadu Congress committee working president Mayura S Jayakumar, party cadres staged satyagraha at Sivananda Colony condemning the BJP government rule in Uttar Pradesh. While condemning the government for handling of the case, the protesters also attacked the police there for the manner in which Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were treated when they visited Hathras.The protesters said that police attempted to hush up the case by cremating the rape victim and destroy evidence. Besides, the UP police also thwarted democratic means of protest. “There is no guarantee for women’s safety under BJP rule,’’ Jayakumar said. Congress also conducted similar protests in Tirupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cong-demands-justice-for-hathras-rape-victim/articleshow/78501664.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Agra||Agra Metro: 21-hectare pasture to be turned into forest in Fatehabad||AGRA: To compensate cutting of 1,823 trees for making way for Agra Metro Rail project, 21 hectares of pasture land at Matgai village in Fatehabad sub-division will be developed into a forest area. Besides, 21 hectares of barren land has also been identified at Gadhwar village in Bah sub-division for the same purpose. A proposal to the effect has been sent to the the state government by the district administration. Rajendra Prasad Tripathi, Agra Development Authority secretary, said, “The development of the metro rail infrastructure will require cutting of 1,823 trees in the city. Following a Supreme Court order, for cutting one tree, at least 10 new saplings of trees are required to be planted. To compensate for the cutting of trees, a forest area will be developed in 21 hectares of land in Fatehabad block.” According to the detailed project report approved by the Union Cabinet, the Agra Metro Rail project will comprise two corridors -- a 14-km Sikandara to Taj East Gate corridor and another from Agra Cantt to Kalindi Vihar, which would be 15.4 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-metro-21-hectare-pasture-to-be-turned-into-forest-in-fatehabad/articleshow/78500595.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||25 from Telangana make it to JEE Advanced top-100||HYDERABAD: In a splendid performance, Telangana students secured 25 ranks in the top 100 including one in the top 10 in the JEE Advanced 2020 exams, the results for which were released on Monday. While the management of Sri Chaitanya Group of Institutions said that 12 of their students secured a spot in the top 100 in the open category, Narayana Group claimed that about 22 students, most of whom are from the Telugu states, made it to the top 100 chart. “In these challenging times, securing three open category ranks in the top 10 along with excellent follow up ranks below 100 and below 1,000 is a huge achievement. We are expecting the total number of qualified students to go up significantly from last year,” said P Sindhura, managing director, Narayana Group, adding that due credit goes to quick adoption to digital platform of Narayana - nlearn, their curriculum and hard work of students and staff. While a total of 28 students secured a spot in top-100 from IIT Madras zone, at least 24 are said to be from Telangana. A total of 140 students from the IIT Madras zone have secured ranks below 500.  Sushma Boppana, academic director, Sri Chaitanya Group said, “I am also very proud of our team for enabling online digital learning and transitioning so quickly through these difficult times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-from-t-make-it-to-jee-advanced-top-100/articleshow/78501677.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 6, 2020||Dehradun||‘Indian team has good chances of qualifying for FIFA world cup’||Dehradun: Doon boy Anirudh Thapa, who recently became the only footballer in the country to win the “Best Emerging Footballer of the Year (Men)” award twice (he was given the award this year on September 25 and got the same recognition by the All India Football Federation in 2017-18 as well) says that India has good chances of qualifying for the FIFA World Cup in the near future. “Our team has a lot of young players. It is a long journey but I firmly believe that we have good chances of qualifying for the 2030 FIFA WC,” he told TOI in an exclusive conversation. Thapa, who plays as a midfielder in the Indian national football team, is also part of Chennaiyin FC in the Indian Super League (ISL). Recalling his journey,Thapa, who has featured in 24 games for the Indian national football team so far, said, “I developed a passion for the game very early on. In fact, when I was a Class I student, my teacher wrote — next David Beckham — in my assessment. Today, I am where I am because of my coaches — Ratan Thapa and Surinder — and my family. I have received immense support from them,” he said. When asked about the football scenario in Dehradun, Thapa said, “I used to watch matches in the city with my dad as a kid. At that time, a good crowd would turn up and there were a lot of local teams. Dehradun used to have a very vibrant football culture but unfortunately, things aren’t the same anymore. Apart from Pavilion Ground, there aren’t any football fields fit to hold marquee events in Dehradun.” He added, “Dehradun needs young talent. We can take a cue from Kolkata or Kerala. They support their young players, have a number of good grounds, and give a lot of emphasis on their local leagues.” Speaking about the role of ISL, he said, “ISL teams mostly had senior players, who were either well-settled or in the twilight of their career, during the first three years of the tournament. But today, around half of the players in the teams of every franchise are under 25 years of age. This league has been great in giving a platform to the youngsters.” When asked about the chances of ISL becoming at par with the English Premier League or La Liga, he said, “This is possible but it will take time. Initially, we need to focus on becoming a top league in Asia. Once we achieve that, we can shift our focus on becoming at par with European football tournaments.” The midfielder, who is currently in Goa for the upcoming ISL, said that he is excited to play matches in a bio-bubble environment due to Covid-19. “It will be interesting to see how the game is played in the stadium without spectators because it is the encouragement of the crowd that makes us take our game to the next level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/indian-team-has-good-chances-of-qualifying-for-fifa-world-cup/articleshow/78499483.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 169 new cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded an all-time one-day high of 169 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally to 4,746. About 122 patients recovered and were discharged on the day. With this, 3,866 patients has so far recovered in the district. The recovery rate is 81.5%.As many as 852 active cases are being treated at various health facilities. While 17 patients are being treated at ESI hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 264 patients are under home quarantine. The remaining patients are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-169-new-cases/articleshow/78501678.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Agra||Covid spreads in Meerut's Nari Niketan, 59 new cases in Agra||MEERUT/AGRA: At least 21 girls of a Nari Niketan in Meerut tested positive for Covid-19 late on Sunday. While the number of Covid cases in Meerut, till Monday morning, was 9,842 and the death toll 239. “On Sunday, test reports of as many as 2,891 Covid samples arrived – out of which 134 were positive. Of the 134 cases, 21 girls belonged to Nari Niketan. Containment activities in the area are on to check the virus,” Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO, said. In Agra district, at least 59 new Covid cases surfaced till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 6,002. A district excise officer was among the infected. Also, 87 Covid patients were discharged. Of the 6,002 cases, 88.4% have been declared "cured and discharged", and 570 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-spreads-in-meeruts-nari-niketan-59-new-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78500598.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||GSHSEB to cut syllabus by 30% due to corona situation||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) had decide to reduce the syllabus by 30% for Classes IX to XII due to the Covid-19 crisis. The decision was taken after the education minister held several rounds of discussions with experts and academicians. On July 8, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced a similar move where it reduced its curriculum by 30%. After this, a committee was constituted by the Gujarat board.Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said the Class X and XII board exams that are conducted in March each year are will likely be held in May next year, due to Covid-19 crisis. The exams for Classes IX and XI will be held in June 2021, the minister said on Monday.Schools have been closed for more than six months now due to restrictions in the state. While online education is being carried out by several schools, the ministry has been receiving complaints about students not being able to study properly in these classes. The Gujarat board decided to make a similar move to the CBSE’s and reduce the syllabus, said sources. Four meeting were held by a newly formed committee, according to sources. At a meeting on September 29, attended by Chudasama and education experts, this decision was arrived at, said sources.In the examination, questions will not be asked from chapters that have been excluded from the syllabus. Chapters that are important for competitive exams will not be excluded, sources added. The syllabus will be revised only for the academic year 2020-21, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gshseb-to-cut-syllabus-by-30-due-to-corona-situation/articleshow/78501692.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Now, get corpn’s building plan approval by courier||Coimbatore: The city corporation has started to send the building plan approval certificates directly to the applicant’s residence through courier service. According to government norms, public seeking permission to construct residential buildings up to 7,000 square feet and commercial buildings up to 2,000 square feet will have to approach the city corporation through licensed building surveyors (LBS) while those constructing residential building over 7,000 square feet and commercial buildings over 2,000 square feet will have to approach the local planning authority (LAP) for the approval. A corporation official said, “Planning approval certificates for the buildings up to 2,000 square feet would be dispatched to the applicant’s house within three days and the buildings between 2,000 and 7,000 square feet would be dispatched within seven to ten days after scrutinizing the applications. In case of collecting the certificates from the corporation office, the applicants will have to come in person and it would not be handed over to anyone else.” The civic body has already started following the procedure for the past few months. Meanwhile, corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian had rolled back the order that empowered the zonal assistant commissioners to provide plan approval for both residential and commercial buildings up to 2,000 square feet recently. On July 31, the then corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar has empowered the zonal assistant commissioners with the power to grant the permission for the buildings constructed in 2,000 square feet of land apart from monitoring the submission of building planning applications, payment of fees among others to the zonal assistant town planning officers (ATPOs). The zonal office was, also, given powers to initiate necessary action against the unauthorized buildings and the buildings that were built with deviation of rules. Kumaravel Pandian, in a letter dated September 30, said the order empowering the assistant commissioners to provide plan approval was revoked due to administration reasons and the approvals would be granted only by the deputy commissioner. All the assistance executive engineers (planning) at the zonal offices were directed to send the related files to the town planning section of main office without any delay, the letter added. The corporation have, also, decided to remove all the contract workers functioning at the town planning section in the zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-get-corpns-building-plan-approval-by-courier/articleshow/78501685.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Eight injured as slab of IT tower collapses in Gachibowli; case booked||HYDERABAD: Eight workers were injured after the slab of an under-construction IT tower in Gachibowli collapsed late on Sunday afternoon. The workers were rushed to a nearby private hospital for treatment. According to police, five people suffered minor injuries, while two of them were injured on their head and one hurt his leg. Following the incident, the Gachibowli police booked a case under IPC Section 337 (causing hurt to any person due to negligence), against the builder. The seven-storey IT tower is being built by Mahaveer Properties on an area measuring 6,000 square yards (approx). As on date, two floors have been raised. The accident occurred when the labourers were laying the slab for the second floor. Initial investigation by officials of the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) suggest that the Ready Mix Concrete Machine (RMC) machine used to lay the slab was not handled properly, which led to the mishap. “The construction material was not evenly distributed on the slab and as a result it was unable to take the load of the people and machine. Since it was weak, it collapsed,” said an official from TSIIC. The corporation has decided to serve a notice to the builder seeking a detailed report about the incident. “Based on the reply, appropriate action will be taken,” said C Vinod Kumar, zonal manager, TSIIC of Vikarabad, Hyderabad and parts of Ranga Reddy including Serilingampally. The official said that the builder had applied for high rise building permission under the Telangana State Industrial Project Approval and Self-Certification System (TS-iPASS) Act and, as a part of the routine process, submitted an affidavit agreeing to take all precautionary measures. Speaking to TOI, an official of Mahaveer Properties said that they are yet to identify the reason for the incident. “We have outsourced the construction activity to SK Constructions,” said the official, maintaining that only seven people were injured of which five have already been discharged from hospital. “One worker visited the OP as there was no need for him to get admitted while another worker will be discharged tomorrow (October 6). Structural engineers will prepare a report about the incident,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slab-of-under-construction-it-tower-collapses-eight-injured-case-booked/articleshow/78501694.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 6, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Coconut, copra will fetch good prices, say experts||COIMBATORE: Domestic and export market intelligence cell (Demic) functioning at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has forecast that copra will fetch prices above the minimum support price (MSP) this season in the market. Coconut will also fetch a decent price. The cell analysed coconut and copra prices over the last 18 years that prevailed in the Avalpoonthurai regulated market in Erode and Perundurai Cooperative Marketing Society. “Price of good quality coconut during October-December will be Rs 15-Rs 17 per nut. Good quality copra price will rule around Rs 100-Rs 110 per kilogram and subsequent price fluctuation will be subjected to the arrivals from Karnataka and Kerala,” a Demic representative said. The prevailing price of copra is around Rs 100-Rs 105 per kilogram, which is higher than the minimum support price of Rs 99.6. “The price is subject to the northeast monsoon. If the monsoon is good, there would be arrivals from the neighbouring states, especially Karnataka, and the price may fall accordingly. It is subjected to weather risk, not market risk,” said a Demic official. “Any which way, the price of copra will be above the MSP.” Meanwhile, farmers in the district said that after a lull for the past four months, the price of coconut has seen a boost over the past one week. “In the previous months, coconut sold for Rs 20-Rs 22 per kilogram. It has gone up to Rs 38-Rs 40, which translates to Rs 17-Rs 20 per nut,” said R Periasamy, district vice-president of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association. “Copra price is showing indicators of increasing. First quality copra sells for around Rs 114-Rs 116 in the market. Small farmers sell coconuts for retailers for rate per nut, while farmers with more produce sell it in bulk.” The release from Demic quoted trade sources, that from January to August 2020, coconut production in major districts in Tamil Nadu were low compared to the previous season. “Demand is firm and arrivals of copra to the Perundurai market is mainly from Mysuru and parts of Tamil Nadu. Arrivals will start from Kerala and Tamil Nadu from January to February,” it said. Farmers cited lack of rains and the rugose whitefly pest infestation as reasons for low coconut production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/coconut-copra-will-fetch-good-prices-say-experts/articleshow/78514502.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||‘Javadekar should have spoken about Mhadei’||Panaji: Union minister Prakash Javadekar should have spoken about Mhadei and Mollem, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte on Monday after launching a new harvesting machine for farmers in Socorro. “Javadekar came to Goa to speak about the farm bills. How much he interacted with the farmers during his visit, we cannot say. But he did interact with a few and took their opinion. However, it was his responsibility to speak about the Mollem issue, the environment and Mhadei,” he said. A new harvestor was launched by Khaunte for Sai farmers’ club in Porvorim. “About 12 years ago, there were only about 50 farmers in Porvorim. However, over the past decade a farmers’ club was formed and various initiatives have been taken up for them,” Khaunte said. He also said that farmers have been provided with a tractor in the past and he encouraged the farmers to motivate the next generation to take up agriculture. He also urged farmers who lost their crop to heavy rain to apply for compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/javadekar-should-have-spoken-about-mhadei/articleshow/78503277.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Coconut, copra will fetch good prices, say experts||COIMBATORE: Domestic and export market intelligence cell (Demic) functioning at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has forecast that copra will fetch prices above the minimum support price (MSP) this season in the market. Coconut will also fetch a decent price. The cell analysed coconut and copra prices over the last 18 years that prevailed in the Avalpoonthurai regulated market in Erode and Perundurai Cooperative Marketing Society. “Price of good quality coconut during October-December will be Rs 15-Rs 17 per nut. Good quality copra price will rule around Rs 100-Rs 110 per kilogram and subsequent price fluctuation will be subjected to the arrivals from Karnataka and Kerala,” a Demic representative said. The prevailing price of copra is around Rs 100-Rs 105 per kilogram, which is higher than the minimum support price of Rs 99.6. “The price is subject to the northeast monsoon. If the monsoon is good, there would be arrivals from the neighbouring states, especially Karnataka, and the price may fall accordingly. It is subjected to weather risk, not market risk,” said a Demic official. “Any which way, the price of copra will be above the MSP.” Meanwhile, farmers in the district said that after a lull for the past four months, the price of coconut has seen a boost over the past one week. “In the previous months, coconut sold for Rs 20-Rs 22 per kilogram. It has gone up to Rs 38-Rs 40, which translates to Rs 17-Rs 20 per nut,” said R Periasamy, district vice-president of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association. “Copra price is showing indicators of increasing. First quality copra sells for around Rs 114-Rs 116 in the market. Small farmers sell coconuts for retailers for rate per nut, while farmers with more produce sell it in bulk.” The release from Demic quoted trade sources, that from January to August 2020, coconut production in major districts in Tamil Nadu were low compared to the previous season. “Demand is firm and arrivals of copra to the Perundurai market is mainly from Mysuru and parts of Tamil Nadu. Arrivals will start from Kerala and Tamil Nadu from January to February,” it said. Farmers cited lack of rains and the rugose whitefly pest infestation as reasons for low coconut production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coconut-copra-will-fetch-good-prices-say-experts/articleshow/78501704.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kochi||Chennithala sends legal notice to Unitac owner for Rs 1cr compensation||Kochi/T’puram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has sent a legal notice to Santhosh Eappen, owner of Unitac and Sane Ventures, demanding a compensation of Rs 1 crore for alleging that an iPhone was given to him as a gift as part of UAE National Day celebration at Thiruvananthapuram last year. The legal notice sent through advocate T Asaf Ali calls upon Eappen to amend the petition filed before the high court, in which the allegation was raised, and to tender an unconditional apology by publishing it in three prominent Malayalam dailies and visual media or pay a compensation of Rs 1 crore within 15 days. Appropriate legal action will be initiated if Eappen fails to respond, the notice stated. Further, the notice said Eappen colluded with CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and gold smuggling key accused Swapna Suresh in raising the allegation. A copy of the petition filed before the high court, challenging CBI’s FIR in Life Mission scam, was circulated to the media soon after filing. As soon as the news was aired, Kodiyeri came live on Facebook and made a statement quoting the averments in the petition that an iPhone was presented to Chennithala as instructed by Swapna, the notice said. The legal notice also pointed that the pleadings in the petition regarding Chennithala is in no way connected to the allegation made by CBI against Eappen in the FIR. It says that Chennithala has an unblemished antecedent as a public man and highly reputed public image that has been gained through selfless public service in the last 50 years. It is with a deleterious motive to portray him as a man of bad repute… that such remarks have been made against him in the writ petition, Chennithala said. Eappen is under probe by the CBI in connection with the probe into charges of violation of foreign contribution regulation rules in Life Mission apartment project in Wadakkancherry. Chennithala had petitioned state police chief Loknath Behera demanding a probe to trace the mobile phones using IMEI numbers so that the persons who are using them can be identified. Chennithala had said that while he had not received any phone, one was presented to state assistant protocol officer and former staff member of Kodiyeri, A P Rajeevan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chennithala-sends-legal-notice-to-unitac-owner-for-rs-1cr-compensation/articleshow/78500606.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Water to be released from Aliyar dam||COIMBATORE: The state government has announced release of water from Aliyar dam beginning October 7. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, in a statement issued on Monday, said that he has directed officials to release not more than 2,548 million cubic feet of water for irrigation in and around Pollachi for 80 days. “The water would benefit 22,116 acre of agricultural land,’’ he said. The chief minister said he had received several requests from farmers that water be released in Pollachi canal, Vettaikaranputhur canal, Sethumadai canal and Aliyar canal. He urged farmers to use the water judiciously and reap a good harvest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/water-to-be-released-from-aliyar-dam/articleshow/78501695.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Prime accused in murder case arrested||Coimbatore: Police on Sunday arrested the prime accused in the murder of a 27-year-old man at Nallampalayam near Thudiyalur on September 28.Police identified the prime accused as S Anwar Basha, 42, of Nallampalayam. Police had arrested K Karthi, 25 and P Pandy, 32, residents of Kovilmedu in connection with the murder.The deceased was identified as M Nagaraj, a resident of Rathinapuri. According to police, Anwar and S Kannan, 30, of Sanganoor, were friends and were doing idli batter business. Kannan was upset as Anwar used to sell batter at a lower price to his customers, said a police officer. “On September 28, Kannan along with his friends Nagaraj, Shanmugam and Karuppasamy visited Anwar at his house to ask him not to interfere in his business. Anwar, along with a few others including Karthi and Pandy attacked them with sickle. Nagaraj sustained fatal injuries to his neck and cheek,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/prime-accused-in-murder-case-arrested/articleshow/78501693.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Footboard traveller suffers fatal fall in city||Coimbatore: A 20-year-old man, who was travelling on the footboard of a bus, suffered a fatal fall on Variety Hall Road in the city on Sunday. The deceased was identified as M Akash, a native of Trichy. He was staying at Gandhipuram and working at a bakery shop at Ukkadam, police sources said. “He was standing on the footboard of a private bus that operates on the Gandhipuram-Thondamuthur route. When the bus reached the Variety Hall Road, Akash fell on the road. Commuters took him to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), but he was declared brought dead,” a police officer said.The body was sent for postmortem. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/footboard-traveller-suffers-fatal-fall-in-city/articleshow/78501689.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Salem||Salem: Fifth accused held in triple murder case in Yercaud||SALEM: The Yercaud police in Salem district arrested the last accused involved in a triple murder case from a hideout in a private estate in Yercaud on Sunday night. The accused has been identified as K Puthram, 30, part of a five-member gang that had killed a couple from Jharkhand at an estate in Yercaud on October 1. The deceased couple were identified as Konda Bagan, 41, of Jharkhand and his wife Suthi Kenes, 36. Police officials had identified the five gang members as Meechere, 37, Ramcho Nayak, 35, Suk Ram, 33, Puthram, 38 and Hara Putra, 35, all hailing from Jharkhand. During inquiry, police officials came to know that the five-member gang had killed the couple, who were employees at an estate in Yercaud, over some past enmity. While Meechere, Ramcho Nayak and Suk Ram had been arrested, Hara Putra’s body was found near the Yercaud hills on Friday. Police suspect that the last accused, Puthram may have murdered Hara Putra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/fifth-accused-held-in-triple-murder-case-in-yercaud/articleshow/78501741.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Erode||Covid-19 tally crosses 21,000 in Salem, 7,400 in Erode district||SALEM: With 337 new cases added on Monday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 21,386 in Salem district. The number of active cases stands at 2,655, according to Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of district health services. As many as 348 people have died from Covid-19 in the district till date, with four new deaths being recorded on Monday. Neighbouring Erode district currently has 7,488 positive cases, with 93 new cases being added on Monday. A total of 95 people have died from the infection in the district, with two more deaths being recorded on Monday. Namakkal district added 144 new cases, taking its tally to 6,231 cases. Of these, 1,061 are active and are undergoing treatment in both private and government hospitals. A total of 78 people have died from the infection, including two persons, on Monday. Krishnagiri district added 74 new cases, pushing its positive case tally to 4,993. The district has 745 active cases. A total of 69 people have died from the infection, including three on Monday. Dharmapuri district added 72 new cases to its tally of 4,156 cases. “Out of these, 762 are active,” said, S Malarvizhi, district collector, adding that 30 people had died from the infection, including one on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/covid-19-tally-crosses-21k-in-salem/articleshow/78514225.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Kodanad case hearing adjourned to October 8||UDHAGAMANDALAM: After examining three witnesses in the Kodanad murder and burglary case on Monday, a district magistrate court here adjourned the case to October 8. Till now, the court has examined 26 witnesses, including three witnesses on Monday. According to public prosecutor Bala Nandhakumar, there are 32 more witnesses who need to be examined in the case. The Madras high court has directed the district magistrate court to complete the hearings in connection with the case before December 15. Police had produced all the ten accused in the case before the court for hearing. After the hearing for the day, six accused were sent to Coimbatore central jail, while the remaining four are out on bail. On August 21, police had produced only two accused before the court. The remaining eight accused were absconding. Hence the court had issued an arrest warrant against those not present. Police then arrested four accused while the rest surrendered before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kodanad-case-hearing-adjourned-to-october-8/articleshow/78501714.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents rejoice over decision to upgrade Anaikatti high school||COIMBATORE: Children from tribal communities in and around Anaikatti, and adjacent areas on the other side of the state border, have a reason to rejoice. The Tamil Nadu government has decided to upgrade the Anaikatti Government High School to a higher secondary school. All these years, those who graduated to Class XI either had to shift to other schools in Thadagam or in the city. As this proved to be inconvenient, many students discontinued studies or joined the industrial training institute (ITI) nearby. Manuel Lourderaj’s daughter Marina Jencey, a student of the school, had completed Class X last academic year. “As there is no Class XI and XII there, I sent her back to my native Cumbum to continue schooling,” he said. Jencey used to come to the school from Sholayar in Attapadi in neighbouring Kerala. “We have long been expecting the school to be upgraded. Had it been done already, my daughter could have stayed here and continued her studies,” said Lourderaj, who came to Sholayar a decade ago to work as a labourer. Mary Samadhanam of Anaikatti, a mother of two girls, said her kids had to shift to the higher secondary school in Thadagam for Class XI. “They had to travel all the way, which was tiresome. My eldest daughter Salonia was the school topper. If the school had been upgraded earlier, she would have continued her studies here. She is now doing a physician assistant course.” Residents of Anaikatti have been representing the issue to officials for several years. “We submitted several petitions. I am happy that children will get to study till Class XII here,” Mary said. The upgradation order, dated August 26, was received 10 days ago, said school representatives and tribal welfare department officials. But there are some practical hassles to implement it this year. Postgraduate teachers have to be appointed, classrooms and labs have to be set up and the school needs a permanent HM before it can be upgraded. As of now, only science group has been sanctioned. The authorities have asked for Commerce, Accountancy, and vocational groups also, as it would be helpful for students to have a choice, said HM in-charge V Balachandar. “We have communicated to the district administration officials that we can upgrade the school from the next academic year. As the order came after all Class X students were declared pass this year, students now have gone to other schools and also to ITIs. We have 60 students in Class X this year. We plan to continue Class XI with them from the next academic year,” he said. The school has 213 students and 11 teachers. The district adi dravidar and tribal welfare department is planning to upgrade the school from the next academic year, officials said. However, parents and social workers want the school to be upgraded this year. “We are trying to meet district administration officials to talk about it,” said Joshua GPN, a social worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-rejoice-over-decision-to-upgrade-anaikatti-high-school/articleshow/78501705.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kochi||A 7-yr Prarthana makes a difference in N Paravur||~ By Kurian GeorgeThe 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi last Friday was not just another holiday for the trustees of Prarthana Foundation, a charitable trust in North Paravur municipality in Ernakulum. Instead, it brought a sense of accomplishment as their efforts to do something for the transformation of society had yielded some positive results in seven years. In 2013, CK Padmakumar – a Dubai-based entrepreneur from North Paravur and his wife Dimple – launched a charitable trust to uplift the underprivileged neighbours in their hometown that was constantly troubled by floods and rain. Prarthana Foundation adopted three wards of North Paravur and two from Ezhikkara panchayat to ensure basic amenities and designed support activities in health, rehabilitation, education, geriatric care and environment protection. Beneficiaries were selected according to need and service areas with women volunteers from respective wards offered support for the foundation’s activities. Now, 17 volunteers are serving beneficiaries from 550 families. Anganwadis were modified with pleasant ambience and toys. In seven years, beneficiaries under housing support rose to 92 families with works amounting to Rs 1.2 crore. Drinking water was ensured for 118 families by spending Rs 11 lakh and toilets with septic tanks were built for 176 families at Rs 62 lakh. Also, monthly medicines, free groceries to ill and invalid persons respectively were ensured to bring about a change. The foundation then floated a scheme to address hunger by providing free mini-lunch to poor patients and bystanders at taluk ayurvedic hospital and Cottolengo vocational training school. To mitigate the pain of poor terminal patients, a joint palliative care venture was launched with the help of Don Bosco hospital in N Paravur. An old age home for 15 men is being set up with Ambady Seva Kendram now. It then chose women empowerment as its next goal. A registered association of lady volunteers – Gramasevika Sangham – was set up to manage development activities of the foundation. Members keen on farming were provided land and support; nearly 100 families benefitted from farming and allied activities. Rajagiri College of Social Sciences signed an MOU to support the foundation’s community development projects. SCMS Group of Institutions offered technical support for projects and Palliyakkal Cooperative too joined hands for agricultural and farming support. Prarthana found that there were 300 disabled adults in the vicinity of N Paravur without a livelihood and chose to rehabilitate them. After a study by Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, a project was prepared. The first step was to seek the support of National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation to identify the trainable adults and their skills. This was kept on hold due to Covid-protocol guidelines. The second step was to train them, support production and market their products to generate a sustainable income. Prarthana inked JV with Gandhi Grama Seva Kendram to share the infrastructure and training for a development project on BOT basis. Phase-I saw training & skill development including setting up of a training-cum-production centre; this included tailoring, paper product making, beautician course, cleaning and packing of grains. A subsidised store was set up under the name ‘Sarvodaya’. The store is to be a venue for small farmers and disabled persons to sell their products at a fair price. Phase-II was agri tourism where the aim was to highlight traditional agricultural, rainwater harvest, waste management methods and vintage gallery of agricultural tools, equipment for the information of tourists along with a traditional art and artisans centre. Phase-III plan is to brand ‘khadi’ as a legacy product. Phase-I is functional now and the foundation is proposing funding for phase-II. For phase-III, more compatible partners and benefactors are expected to join hands. (The writer is a retired banker and chief volunteer, Prarthana Foundation)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-7-yr-prarthana-makes-a-difference-in-n-paravur/articleshow/78500647.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Salem||Covid-19 tally crosses 21,000 in Salem, 7,400 in Erode district||SALEM: With 337 new cases added on Monday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 21,386 in Salem district. The number of active cases stands at 2,655, according to Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of district health services. As many as 348 people have died from Covid-19 in the district till date, with four new deaths being recorded on Monday. Neighbouring Erode district currently has 7,488 positive cases, with 93 new cases being added on Monday. A total of 95 people have died from the infection in the district, with two more deaths being recorded on Monday. Namakkal district added 144 new cases, taking its tally to 6,231 cases. Of these, 1,061 are active and are undergoing treatment in both private and government hospitals. A total of 78 people have died from the infection, including two persons, on Monday. Krishnagiri district added 74 new cases, pushing its positive case tally to 4,993. The district has 745 active cases. A total of 69 people have died from the infection, including three on Monday. Dharmapuri district added 72 new cases to its tally of 4,156 cases. “Out of these, 762 are active,” said, S Malarvizhi, district collector, adding that 30 people had died from the infection, including one on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/covid-19-tally-crosses-21k-in-salem/articleshow/78501733.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bareilly||Sena district chief booked in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: The Shiv Sena zila pramukh [district chief], Pankaj Sharma, a resident of Pilibhit city, has been booked for sharing an "objectionable" remark against the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on social media. The police acted upon the complaint by a social worker, Prashant Pratap Singh of Puranpur city, on Sunday. The complainant expressed fear of "communal tension and riots" due to such "provocation". He further claimed that the Sena office bearer was "defaming the state government's image". Puranpur Kotwali SHO SK Singh said Pankaj Sharma has been booked under various sections of the IPC along with sections 66 (C) and 66 (D) of the IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sena-district-chief-booked-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78500630.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Inspections must along TSIIC, say experts||HYDERABAD: in wake of the incident, experts stressed the need for periodic inspections along the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) corridor, by various bodies — GHMC, HMDA and TSIIC. “Inspections should be taken up during important stages of construction activity to avoid such accidents. It should be conducted by a team of expert government engineers or a third party,” said Prof N V Ramana Rao, civil engineering expert and director of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal. Experts also said that heavy penalties should be levied on builders for flouting norms. The builder of the IT tower has maintained that all the precautionary measures were put in place to ensure that no worker gets hurt. - Nabinder Bommala||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inspections-must-say-experts/articleshow/78501740.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Rain in September improves groundwater level in Chennai||CHENNAI: There has been a marginal increase in the groundwater table in 11 of the 15 zones in the city in September when compared to August due to the 88mm of rain the city received last month. There was a decrease in the groundwater level in Tiruvottiyur, Adyar, Perungudi and Alandur. In Tiruvottiyur (- 0.18m) and Alandur (- 0.1m) the fall was more compared to Adyar and Perungudi. In Kodambakkam, the groundwater level remained static. Last September, the water table was comparatively lower in Tiruvottiyur and Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar. While the depletion level was 0.42m in Tiruvottiyur, it was 0.22m in Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar. This year, the water table has fallen by 0.18m in Tiruvottiyur but has improved in Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar. “Here there has been an increase in the water table by 0.8m during last month,” said a Metrowater official. “Areas such as Adyar, Perungudi and Sholinganallur have sandy soil where the water levels will improve gradually. In these areas, the ground water levels will sustain for a longer period than in clayey and hard rock areas of the city,” the official said. “Velachery, Madippakkam, St Thomas Mount and Alandur have clayey and hard rock formations. Due to this, the groundwater table will show an increase but it will get depleted very fast. These areas cannot hold the groundwater for a longer period,” the official said. With groundwater levels improving, Metrowater officials are also breathing easy. An official said the agency has kept the agricultural wells in Tiruvallur district, Chikkarayapuram and Erumaiyur quarries as reserves. Moreover, the northeast monsoon has yet to set in and it is expected to fill the four reservoirs. “Apart from this, if the northeast monsoon fills Mettur reservoir, Veeranam will get filled for the second time in a year. Besides these sources of water, the Krishna water is also flowing in and will continue till the end of March next year. It will help in filling Poondi reservoir,” an official said. The combined storage level at the four reservoirs – Poondi, Cholavaram, Red Hills and Chembarambakkam on Monday stood at 4,747mcft. On Monday, 24.36 million litres of water was supplied through tankers in the core areas and 13.56 million litres was ferried to added areas. An official said Metrowater is supplying nearly 540 million litres of water to residents in core areas and another 91.54 million litres to added areas. The demand for tanker supply is mainly from the commercial units that have started operations after the lifting of the lockdown last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rain-in-september-improves-groundwater-level-in-city/articleshow/78501737.cms||P Oppili
October 6, 2020||Bareilly||2 youths on bike hurt in 'attack' by wild animal||BAREILLY: Two youths, Mohammed Irfan and his cousin Qasim, on way home through a forest in Nighasan area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday night were thrown off their bike and injured when a wild animal, which they claimed to be a tiger, suddenly pounced on them. Passersby took them to hospital. Before they could react, other vehicles stopped at the spot and the animal slipped into the forest. Forest officials who rushed to the spot said they could not find any pugmarks of a tiger. Divisional forest officer Anil Patel told TOI, “Both bikers have sustained injuries due to an accident. We have not found any evidence to confirm the movement of a tiger in that area. But our team is keeping an eye there. It looks like the bikers mistook some other wild animal to be a tiger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-youths-on-bike-hurt-in-attack-by-wild-animal/articleshow/78500657.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Justice delayed: 75% cases of crime against women pending in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Over 75% cases of crimes against women are pending trial in different courts of Telangana, while over 10,000 cases are still awaiting investigation from the previous year, revealed data released by the National Crime Records Bureau of India (NCRB). Activists say that due to pendency rate being high, most victims eventually lose hope in the justice system and choose to settle the matter outside or compromise. “When a case goes on for years, the victims either prefer to withdraw the case or opt for a compromise. Imagine, a rape survivor who took over a year to get over the trauma has to re-live it again as she is made to repeat it during court trials,” said Jameela Nishat from a women’s right NGO Shaheen. According to Telangana police’s Women Safety Wing, most cases get delayed because of pending forensic reports. “Due to delay in getting reports from various department, the investigation also gets delayed. In terms of cases pending investigation, even after we file the charge sheet, the case is still taken as under investigation until the trial dates are provided,” said Swati Lakra, additional DGP of women safety wing. The officer further suggested a special court for rape cases that will help clear the pendency in court. “After the child-friendly court was launched in the city, the conviction rate in Pocso cases went from less than 10% to 30%. To fast track the pending rape cases, a similar plan is needed in the state,” added Lakra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/justice-delayed-75-cases-of-crime-against-women-pending/articleshow/78501887.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Visamo Kids student cracks the test||AHMEDABAD: Vijay Makwana set a precedent on Monday for students like him to follow when he qualified for admission to the IITs in the JEE (Advanced) exam. He is the first student from Visamo Kids Foundation to have cracked the entrance test for entry to the top engineering institutes of the country. Visamo Kids is a shelter home at Bopal, housing around a hundred less-fortunate children from as young as 5 years, enabling them access to quality education in partnership with English medium schools in the city. These children stay at Visamo Kids and complete their schooling from Class I to Class XII, attending schools under the CBSE, ICSE and GSHSEB. Makwana, who is from Tarapur town, is an now inspiration to the other children at Visamo, enabling them to dream to achieve similar feats, said Ami Shah, the boarding in-charge at Visamo Kids. Makwana is deeply interested in science and wants to study computer science at IIT Kharagpur or IIT Rourkee. He wants to do something meaningful for children like him. Makwana ranked 1,849 rank in the SC category. He was very good at mathematics and used to teach students at Visamo. He was offered a 50% scholarship at coaching classes where he went to prepare for the IIT entrance test. His father is a farm labourer and his mother is a housewife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/visamo-kids-student-cracks-the-test/articleshow/78501810.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bareilly||Rare conjoined twins born in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A rickshaw puller and his wife welcomed pair of conjoined Ischiopagus twins, fused at the lower halves of their bodies, on Monday morning. The twins, both girls, were delivered through caesarean section at a private hospital in Shahjahanpur. Both are doing well, doctors said. Conjoined twins occur once in every 200,000 live births. The survival rate of conjoined twins is low and separation is also difficult in most of the cases because the twins either share the same heart, lives or digestive organs. Ischiopagus twins are considered rarest of rare. The birth of the twins took doctors by surprise. Doctor Gaurav Mishra, obstetrician, said, “During ultrasound, it was not very clear that the twins were joined. They are joined at the abdomen and pelvis, have four arms and two legs. Initially the condition of the babies was poor but we revived them and they are under constant observation. We have contacted senior doctors at a higher centre to advise on their treatment." The hospital has waived off the treatment charges.While people crowded the hospital to get a glimpse of the twins, their ecstatic parents, Mohammed Yaseen and Shaheen Begum, who hail from Hardoi, said the babies have brought good luck for the family. "The hospital administration has waived off all the fee right after their birth. I have a five-year-old daughter who was born through normal delivery,” said Shaheen, happy at the attention her newborn twins have brought to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rare-conjoined-twins-born-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78500668.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Why outer areas got more SW monsoon rain||CHENNAI: The Indian summer monsoon, which is nearing its end in other parts of the country after bringing good spells, may have left little to be happy about in core city areas. The city’s central weather station in Nungambakkam, which covers core localities, has recorded 293.4mm rain with a 149.2mm deficit between June and September. This was the lowest rainfall since 2009 when it recorded 233mm. But Meenambakkam, which covers some of the city’s suburban area, has recorded double that of the city’s station with 596.6mm leaving an excess of 108.8mm rainfall for the season. However, the showers in the second half of September made up for the deficit as the season closed with one percent excess rainfall for Chennai subdivision with 443.6mm against an average 439.6mm this season. The subdivision comprises Numbambakkam and Meenambakkam stations, and rain gauges at Anna University and the DGP office among others. Meteorologists said sea breeze, which can penetrate several kilometres into the land, plays a major role in bringing rainfall and suburbs, which have relatively less temperatures than the areas closer to the sea, have been receiving more spells than the city as the atmosphere in the interior areas are conducive for convective activity due to less development and more greenery. Further, wind convergence, which is the meeting of the westerly and the easterly winds, resulting in convection happens in the interior areas when the monsoon currents from the west are weak. "Convective activity which brings rainfall is better in the outskirts because the atmosphere is able to lift warm moisture that flows in from the sea as the surface temperature is low due to trees. In the city, which has seen development over the years, the temperature is high and warm atmosphere may not be able to lift the warm moisture which could lead to convection and rainfall," said N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD. Former deputy director general of IMD Y E A Raj said while rain recorded in Nungambakkam has been unusually low this year, average rainfall in the city during this period over the past 50 years has increased by 15 to 20%. "We receive less rainfall in June and July and it increases in August and September. This year the pattern was different. We got in June, it reduced in July and was relatively dry in August before rainfall picked in the second half of September," he said. "For Chennai, this season is important as it arrests the decline in groundwater, which happens during our harsh summers. Then the northeast monsoon rises the groundwater level further," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-outer-areas-got-more-sw-monsoon-rain/articleshow/78501808.cms||U Tejonmayam
October 6, 2020||Kochi||Ramakrishnan discharged from hospital, vows to continue to fight||THRISSUR: Dancer and actor RLV Ramakrishnan, who was admitted to Apollo Adlux Hospital, Karukutty, reportedly after attempting suicide on Saturday evening, was discharged on Monday. Talking to TOI over phone from his home at Chalakkudy, Ramakrishnan said he was feeling better now. “I have taken kanji, though I have some pain while swallowing. There is a mild headache, and drowsy feeling. But on the whole I’m fairly alright.’’ The dancer said he had taken the extreme step as he was deeply pained when Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Academy denied him an opportunity to perform Mohiniyattam, which was his core discipline. “When academy chairperson KPAC Lalitha stated that she had not spoken to me I felt terribly upset. First they insulted me by denying an opportunity to perform, subsequently, they are creating an impression that I was lying,’’ he said. Earlier, the Kerala Cherama Sambava Development Society leaders K K Suresh and V K Thankappan released an audio clip of Ramakrishnan stating that he would proceed legally to establish the right of the male artists to perform Mohiniyattam. Suresh and Thankappan demanded that academy chairperson KPAC Lalitha should be removed from her post for making false statements against Ramakrishnan. They also demanded that cases must be registered against the secretary Radhakrishnan Nair for castesist discrimination against Ramakrishnan. Ramakrishnan said the academy could have easily avoided the issue by giving an opportunity for a 20-minute Mohiniyattam performance by him. He said he was not speaking against the government, but was only protesting against the discrimination of an artist by the academy. It was the attitude of the academy secretary that had created this situation, Ramakrishnan said. Congress leader Benny Behanan, who is the Chalakudy MP, visited Ramakrishnan at his house in the evening, and assured all support to him. Meanwhile, poet and actor Balachandran Chullikkad expressed strong protest against the Sangeetha Nataka Academy for forcing Ramakrishnan, who is an eminent artist from the dalit community, to attempt suicide. He said the government and cultural affairs department should intervene and ensure justice to Ramakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ramakrishnan-discharged-from-hospital-vows-to-continue-to-fight/articleshow/78500688.cms||T Ramavarman
October 6, 2020||World||Trump leaves hospital to fly back to a White House hard hit by coronavirus||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Monday left the hospital where he has been treated for COVID-19 and boarded a helicopter to return to a White House hit by a wave of infections and a campaign further shadowed by the pandemic four weeks before election day. Wearing what appeared to be a white surgical mask, Trump pumped his fist and gave a thumbs up as he walked down the steps of the Walter Reed Medical Center outside Washington, responding to a reporter's question about how many people were infected at the White House by saying: "Thank you very much." The Republican president, running for re-election against Democrat Joe Biden in the Nov. 3 US election, was admitted to the hospital on Friday after being diagnosed with the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. "Feeling really good!" he said on Twitter earlier. "Don't be afraid of Covid. Don’t let it dominate your life. We have developed, under the Trump Administration, some really great drugs & knowledge. I feel better than I did 20 years ago!" The disease has killed more than 1 million people worldwide and more than 209,000 in the United States alone- the highest death toll of any country. Trump, 74, has not had a fever in more than 72 hours and his oxygen levels are normal, his medical team told reporters in front of the hospital. The doctors declined, however, to discuss any toll the disease could have on the president's lungs or disclose when Trump last tested negative for the coronavirus. The team added that the president had received supplemental oxygen twice in recent days. "He may not entirely be out of the woods yet," Dr. Sean. P. Conley, the White House physician, said. "If we can get through to Monday with him remaining the same or improving, better yet, then we will all take that final, deep sigh of relief." However, Conley said the medical team believed Trump was ready to leave the hospital, stressing he would have world-class medical care around the clock at the White House. Conley said doctors were in "unchartered territory" because Trump had received certain therapies so early in the course of the illness. Watch Doctors hope to discharge Trump as soon as Monday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-leaves-hospital-to-fly-back-to-a-white-house-hard-hit-by-coronavirus/articleshow/78504405.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Rajkot||Environmentalist found hanging in office||RAJKOT: An environmentalist who was appointed ‘green ambassador’ of Amreli district allegedly committed suicide by hanging at his office in Amreli town on Monday. Jitu Talavia (64), whose father late Shamji Talavia was a freedom fighter, was founding from the ceiling of his office at Rajkamal Chowk. Talavia ran ‘Paryavaran Rakshak Trust’, an NGO working for the environment protection. “The reason for the drastic step is not clear yet. We will be recording the statements of his family members and known people to get more clues,” said an official from Amreli city police station. Talavia is survived by his son and daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/environmentalist-found-hanging-in-office/articleshow/78500737.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Gambler’ tries twice to turn self in, turned down||AHMEDABAD: Idris Movar’s case is somewhat reminiscent of famous American writer O. Henry’s short story ‘The Cop and the Anthem’ in which its character Soapy unsuccessfully resorts to various petty crimes in his desperation to go to the prison. In quite a diagonally opposite direction, Movar, a resident of Dudheshwar, tried unsuccessfully in court to persuade the judges to take him into judicial custody, so that he could avoid the harassment from police he anticipated. In this case, Madhavpura police booked five persons including Movar in a gambling case in the first week of June. The FIR said that Movar had organized the game under a lamppost in a public place in Dudheshwar. While four alleged gamblers were arrested, Movar managed to escape, the complaint said. Police knew Movar well, as he was arrested in an offence of assault last year. After this FIR, Movar approached the Gujarat high court seeking change of investigation in the gambling case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He withdrew this plea in July. He filed another petition seeking quashing of the FIR against him claiming that he was wrongly framed by the Madhavpura police with an oblique motive. The HC refused to entertain the quashing petition in the gambling case which is a bailable offence and Movar could have obtained bail from the police station only. After withdrawal of his second petition from the high court in August end, Movar approached the metropolitan court to surrender and requested it to take him into judicial custody. He told the court that he was apprehensive of ill treatment by cops and alleged that Madhavpura police were asking for bribe money. After hearing him, the metropolitan court rejected his application for custody. This brought Movar to the city sessions court, which last week refused to take him into its custody and rejected his surrender application. Additional sessions judge P N Rawal observed that there was no point in accepting his surrender in a bailable offence, and ordered him to present himself to the Madhavpura police station with a guarantor for bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/to-avoid-cops-gambler-twice-moves-court-to-surrender-but-fails/articleshow/78501868.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: CBI questions UV Jose, Life Mission officials||KOCHI: Life Mission CEO UV Jose appeared before CBI on Monday to give his statement in connection with the case registered over alleged Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violations in Wadakkancherry Life Mission housing project funded by UAE’s Red Crescent. Jose arrived at CBI’s anti-Corruption unit office around 11.15am and remained indoors till late at night. Apart from issuing a notice to Jose to appear before investigators, CBI had also issued a notice seeking documents relating to the project at Wadakkancherry. “Though we sought originals, we were given copies of some of the documents, citing that the originals were with the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau which is also probing a case related to this issue. Presently, we are examining these documents. The next step can be decided only after thoroughly examining them,” said a CBI officer. CBI sources added that all files that were sought were not presented by Life Mission officials claiming that some of the papers, related to the project, were not in their possession. Jose was the person who signed an MoU for the project with UAE consulate. CBI is also probing parties who initiated the deal. “He cooperated with us and shared the facts he knew. He is a person who knows every aspect of the project. Hence, he would be summoned again to get further clarity on the issue,” sources said. Apart from Jose, Wadakkancherry municipal secretary Mohammed Anas and two other officials of Life Mission also appeared before the agency on Monday. Around six files – including documents related to the MoU, correspondence between the parties concerned (Life Mission, UAE Consulate, UAE Red Crescent, Unitac Builders, and Sane Ventures) were sought by CBI from Life Mission. The two officials of Life Mission arrived to submit and explain the project documents. Anas was questioned a week ago. The Wadakkancherry project’s worth is around Rs 20 crore. FCRA violation allegations surfaced after it was revealed that fund for the housing project under Life Mission was contributed by UAE’s Red Crescent without permission from the central government. It was during a multi-agency investigation into Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, agencies found that the prime accused Swapna Suresh had acted as a go-between for the project and received commission from contractors. CBI – which is probing the FCRA violations and criminal conspiracy – is yet to invoke corruption charges in the case. Presently, Santhosh Eappen of Unitac Builders, Sane Ventures and unnamed officials of Life Mission are named as accused in the case. It was claimed that Swapna and others received over Rs 3.5 crores as commission for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbi-questions-uv-jose-life-mission-officials/articleshow/78500724.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bareilly||Cops raid house, thrash woman, kids in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A woman in Pilibhit has alleged that a team of four policemen forcibly barged into her house after breaking open the main door on Sunday night. They were looking for her husband. After failing to find her husband, the cops started vandalising the place. When she tried to stop them, the team - without any woman constable - allegedly thrashed her and confined her in a room. She alleged that her children were also not spared. The woman said that her husband had been booked in some criminal case. The police, however, dismissed all her allegations. Puranpur Kotwali SHO SK Singh said, "The police had raided the house of one Nizam. He is wanted in a case of cow slaughter and has been on the run. Her charges against the police team are absolutely false."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cops-raid-house-thrash-woman-kids/articleshow/78500718.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s Covid toll crosses 3,500-mark||AHMEDABAD: WAs thirteen more patients succumbed to the Covid-19 in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, Gujarat’s Covid death toll crossed the 3,500-mark to hit 3,512. The 13 deaths include three patients from Ahmedabad district, five in Surat district, two in Vadodara district and one each in Bhavnagar, Mahisagar and Rajkot districts. This means there has been a drop in the average deaths per day in Gujarat. In the past 35 days, the state’s toll rose from 3,000 to 3,500. A hundred deaths were reported in nine days, instead of every seven days, implying the average rate of Covid-19 deaths is falling. With 1,327 new Covid cases reported across the state in these 24 hours, the state’s total number of cases rose to 1,44,027, according to data furnished by the state health department. Gujarat has 16,745 active cases as of Monday. Of these 94 patients are on ventilator support while 16,651 are stable. Some 1,405 patients were discharged in these 24 hours. The state reported a higher number of recoveries than fresh cases. The total number of recovered patients is now 1,23,770, according to the state health department.In a statement, the department also said that the recovery rate in Gujarat is now 85.94%. With 172 new cases, the diamond city of Surat continued to record the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the state. According to the state health department, some 276 new cases were reported in Surat district in addition to 187 in Ahmedabad district, 155 in Rajkot and 124 in Vadodara.Some 57,153 tests were conducted across Gujarat in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, at a rate of 884.82 tests per day per million people. This took the total number of samples tested so far in Gujarat to 47,02,776, the department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/states-covid-toll-crosses-3500-mark/articleshow/78501884.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mayor, others violate social distancing rules||AHMEDABAD: The BJP office-bearers of the AMC sparked a controversy by not maintaining social distancing at the inauguration of the Biodiversity Park on Monday. Senior officials said that at the time of the inauguration the office-bearers and councillors were crowding and standing close to each other. The AMC and state government has stated that there should be a distance of at least six feet between two persons. But at the inauguration, ever since the mayor and other office-bearers arrived, they were seen surrounded by the councillors and other people. However, as a saving grace, all councillors and office-bearers were wearing masks. Recently, a deputy municipal commissioner had been fined for not wearing a mask at a public function. An officer said that on an average more than 350 people are fined daily in the city for not wearing masks and for not following social distancing norms. Establishments like malls and jewellery shops were sealed as their owners had failed to impose social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mayor-others-violate-social-distancing-rules/articleshow/78501971.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Ganja smugglers use bikes to give police the slip||CHENNAI: Smugglers appear to have taken to using motorbikes to transport ganja from Andhra Pradesh as police intercept most cars coming from the neighbouring state. On Sunday, more than 12kg of the narcotic was seized from seven bikers in two separate incidents, police said. A team of the Kavarapet police arrested four Chennai residents and seized two kg of the narcotic apart from two bikes. The team led by sub-inspector Sivaraj was engaged in a vehicle search at Puthuvayal junction near Gummidipoondi in Tiruvallur district when they stopped the four men and found the narcotic. Divakar, 21, Kamalesh, 21, Ravindra Kumar, 27, and Dinesh Yadav, 34, all residents of West Saidapet in Chennai were nabbed before a court sent them to jail. They had sourced the ganja at Naidupet in Nellore district of Andhra Pradesh, police said. In the second incident, a team of police personnel conducting a vehicle check at the modern integrated post at Elavoor near Gummidipoondi in Tiruvallur district stopped a motorcycle with three men coming from Andhra Pradesh and found as much as 10kg of ganja. This consignment too was sourced at Naidupet, police said. Manikandan, 20, Balasathya, 20, and Vijay, 25, all residents of Chennai, were arrested and were later remanded in judicial custody. An investigation officer said enforcement officials mostly stopped cars and other heavy vehicles and those smuggling ganja used other means to transport the contraband on bikes. Another officer, who was part of the recent busting of the ganja smuggling racket, said most of the smugglers were using detours to sneak into Tamil Nadu. “Later, they assemble at a chosen point and hand over the smuggled goods to the person assigned to deliver it to the buyers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ganja-smugglers-use-bikes-to-give-police-the-slip/articleshow/78501931.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rise to occasion to help poor in this pandemic: HC to govt||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Monday asked the state government to rise to the occasion and render meaningful help to its citizens in this time of Covid-19 pandemic.The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala called for proactive action for the poor on part of the government in response to a PIL demanding financial assistance for auto rickshaw drivers who are financially in distress due to the lockdown and the pandemic. The high court has ordered the government to discuss the issue of extending financial support at the top level and come out with a decision in this regard in four weeks.Petitioners, the two associations of auto drivers, contended that other states like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Delhi have extended financial support to auto rickshaw and taxi drivers after the lockdown. Their advocate K R Koshti had requested the court to direct the government to act on similar lines. The high court said that it cannot direct the government to emulate other states and observed, “It is ultimately for the state government to rise to the occasion and consider the empathy and the precarious conditions in which the poor families are living their lives as on date. This is the time for the State Government to really rise to the occasion and render meaningful help to its citizens.”When the plight of daily wagers was presented before the HC, the judges said, “We may only say that we should not shy away from the fact that the people hailing from the poor strata of society are suffering the most during this period of pandemic…It is no doubt true that in such circumstances the state government should consider rendering financial assistance in a more meaningful manner. In other words, rendering actual financial help and, while at the same time, ensuring that an undeserving or non-eligible person is not successful in getting such benefit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rise-to-occasion-to-help-poor-in-this-pandemic-hc-to-govt/articleshow/78501987.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM to discuss women safety||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has convened a meeting with top police officers of the state at Pragathi Bhavan here on Wednesday. The CM is expected to discuss the law and order situation in the state, women safety, protection of forests, controlling timber smuggling, regulating the use of drugs like ganja and other issues at length with the officials. Necessary decisions on the issues will also be taken. Home and forest ministers, secretaries, chief secretary, DGP, Additional DGPs, IGs, DIGs, police commissioners, SPs and principal chief conservator of forests will participate in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-to-discuss-women-safety/articleshow/78501933.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Chennai||CLRI team develops tanning agent sans toxic formaldehyde||Chennai: A team of researchers from the CSIR-Central Leather Research Institute has developed a synthetic tanning agent without the toxic formaldehyde traditionally used to enhance leather quality. Formaldehyde, which is used to crosslink or bond two chemical compounds, leaves a residue on the leather. Long-term exposure to this colourless gas, which is also used as a preservative in seafood but banned in many countries, could be harmful to humans while its discharge is toxic to aquatic life. A team led by K J Sreeram, director, CSIR-CLRI, and chief scientist J Raghava Rao has developed a chromium-melamine synthetic tanning agent, free of formaldehyde, for use after the primary tanning process to enhance leather quality. “We have used a combination of chromium, which gives strength, colour and thermal stability to the leather, with melamine to make the synthetic tanning agent. We have replaced formaldehyde with a patented eco-benign material,” said Rao. “Our technology not only improves the leather quality but is also environmentally safe,” he added. After the primary chrome tanning process to convert hides and skins into leather, the leather undergoes a re-tanning process to make its surface smooth, fill the pores and tighten the material. For this, scientists said, traditionally phenol-formaldehyde resins or melamine formaldehyde are used. While phenol is an expensive petroleum byproduct, there was a challenge to find an alternative to formaldehyde, whose release and presence were banned. “When you procure leather from different sources, the tanning technology usually varies. Re-chroming is done to bring a uniformity in the leather quality. Usually chromium and melamine are usually used separately in the process. Our new synthetic tanning agent has a combination of both,” Rao said. Scientists said besides meeting the current environmental stipulations, the newly developed agent also enhances leather by tightening the hide, leaving a fine grain effect, and good buff-ability with natural sheen. The technology, which won CSIR Technology Award 2020, has been transferred to industry for commercial production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/clri-team-develops-tanning-agent-sans-toxic-formaldehyde/articleshow/78501888.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Bareilly||MJPRU to remove ‘applied’ from all its PG courses||Bareilly: The authorities at Mahatma Jyotiba Phule (MJP) Rohilkhand University have decided to withdraw the word “applied” from all its post graduation courses citing difficulties faced by pass out students in finding jobs. According to the information from University authorities, MJPRU around 30 years ago, had introduced PG courses of MA and M.Sc for Philosophy, Psychology, Economics, Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics with the word “applied”, as advance courses, on the lines of JNU. However, it has been observed that the pass out students of MJPRU (across Rohilkhand division comprising nine districts) have been facing problems in employment. The matter will be heard in an executive council meeting of the University, following which, a final decision to the effect will be taken up. MJPRU VC said all mark sheets and degrees given to the pass out students will be replaced and provisional documents will be provided. The process will take a month. MJPRU vice chancellor professor KP Singh told TOI, “The MJPRU, on the lines of many popular universities, had introduced PG courses of M.Sc and MA with 'applied' word in five subjects during the 1990s. Many universities, unlike MJPRU, successfully made necessary changes and removed the applied word from the courses after complaints from pass out students. However, this has been causing a problem for pass out students, who while applying for the post of assistant professor or opting for civil services, are facing difficulties. Many students have complained that at the time of job applications, they do not get 'applied' mentioned with courses when they are filling the qualification section. Later, at the time of producing documents, which states qualification carries ‘applied’ before the subject in which they acquired a degree. This doesn’t match the information they are provided online.” VC Singh added, “Such degrees and mark sheets are being termed as inauthentic and being turned down, thereby resulting in difficulties in the recruitment process.” MJPRU, therefore, has decided to withdraw the word applied from all its PG courses. A final call will be taken at the 20-member executive council meeting. It comprises VC and 14 professors, among others. MJPRU, in the meantime, has requested all the students who have passed out from the university or affiliated colleges across Rohilkhand division, to submit their mark sheets and degrees at the university campus in Bareilly so that old documents can be replaced. The students facing any interviews/written examination, can collect an equivalence certificate from university campus for their convenience. According to the information from officials, there are 458 MJPRU affiliated colleges across Rohilkhand division that comprises nine districts — Bareilly, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Pilibhit, Moradabad, Rampur, Sambhal, Amroha and Bijnor. Around 5.5 lakh students are studying in these colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mjpru-to-remove-applied-from-all-its-pg-courses/articleshow/78500743.cms||Maria Khan
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tejas Express from mid-Oct||AHMEDABAD: The railway board has decided to permit the operation of the Tejas Express between Ahmedabad and Mumbai, the train operated by IRCTC, from mid-October at a meeting in Delhi. The date operations will begin will be decided by IRCTC. Officials said that the inaugural service of this train was in mid-January this year and was halted after three months of operation. The train which is operated by IRCTC covers 493km in six hours and 30 minutes and runs six days a week. The train has executive class and AC chair cars and has dynamic pricing. It has six stops: Nadiad, Vadodara, Bharuch, Surat, Vapi, and Borivli. Officials said there are currently four special trains operating between Ahmedabad and Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tejas-express-from-mid-oct/articleshow/78501978.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Students protest against JNTUH-Hyderabad exam decision, cops resort to mild lathi-charge||HYDERABAD: Tension prevailed at the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) on Monday as hundreds of students gathered at the main gate to protest against the university’s decision to conduct semester exams for first, second and third year students amid the pandemic. The police had to resort to mild lathi-charge to disperse the crowd even as students, led by the National Students Union of India, raised slogans against the university. Some students tried to barge into the campus by climbing the university gate. The varsity is set to conduct semester-end exams for first to third year students from October 13. The students are demanding cancellation of the exams and for the authorities to promote all students based on internal marks or past performance. “The university’s decision to conduct semester exams is arbitrary as our syllabus was not completed and classes for the next semester have commenced amidst all this. We want the university to promote all students,” said a protester. Students and NSUI members were even taken into preventive custody by KPHB colony police. “Around 37 members were taken into preventive custody. However, an hour after the crowd dispersed, 21 members again gathered and continued the protest,” said Laxmi Narayana, KPHB colony inspector. Close to 55 cops were deployed at the spot after the protest started at around 11.30 am. According to police, the students gathered to protest without any prior permission, obstructing the traffic. Twenty-one members were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant.), Section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and Section 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. “They were released on bail,” said the inspector. Despite the protest, the university authorities said that the exams will be held as per schedule. “We are conducting only supplementary exams in October where the number of students appearing is very less. In the second phase, regular exams will be held in November. We are allowing students to appear for the special exam as a one-time measure. Those who are not willing to appear for this phase can appear for the special exams later,” Kamakshi Prasad, director (evaluation), JNTUH, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-protest-against-jntuh-exam-decision-cops-resort-to-mild-lathi-charge/articleshow/78501975.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Lucknow||Take a virtual heritage walk on Lucknow university campus with online magazine||LUCKNOW: If you want to witness the beauty of the 100-year-old Lucknow University’s Indo-Saracenic architecture from up the sky, then the newly launched virtual magazine ‘Tourecdotes’ is what you need to look at. In a first, the sprawling campus of the university has been captured using drone cameras and high-resolution videos in the virtual magazine available on YouTube. The online magazine made by the university’s institute of tourism studies begins the virtual tour from the main gate of the campus and covers both new and historical places on campus. The journey that begins from gate number 1 of LU travels through sports ground and captures Canning College of the colonial era and marvels of the Nawabi period such as Machhali Dwar and Lal Baradari. One can also take a heritage walk of the campus along descriptions of the various historical buildings by accessing the magazine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/take-a-virtual-heritage-walk-on-lu-campus-with-online-magazine/articleshow/78503356.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Bylanes in T Nagar turn illegal parking lots as shoppers return||CHENNAI: Residential colonies in T Nagar have become parking lots post relaxation of lockdown norms as shoppers and employees park their vehicles along interior streets. Motilal Street, for instance, is choked with autos and two-wheelers leaving residents no space for pedestrians. B Kannan, a resident, said: “Rangan Street, Sarojini Street, Rammeshwaram Road and Usman Road are blocked due to illegal parking. The streets have become narrow as shops have hijacked public space causing traffic snarls. The western-end of the street is under the control of auto drivers as they park their vehicles in two rows leaving very little space for incoming vehicles.” Jayashankar C, another resident, said during lockdown the street was blocked as it was a containment zone. “However, once shops opened everyone began using it as it is opposite Ranganathan Street. There are a lot of people who are collecting parking fee illegally,” he said. The residents have taken videos and have sent it to police but no action has been taken. S Parathasarathy, another resident, said the crowd could be a source of coronavirus and with autos blocking the road there is no space for ambulances to enter. “More than 400 houses are located here. A restaurant owner is allowing parking of vehicles on the road. With hundreds of people visiting the streets, we are worried. We may catch the virus. Almost every day there are fights between customers and residents due to the illegal parking of vehicles,” he said. Corporation officials said they will request police to patrol the area. An official said the multilevel car parking will be completed in October “end this issue permanently”. V S Jayaram, a member of T Nagar Residential Welfare Association, said after the relaxation of lockdown regulations, shoppers are flocking to T Nagar. “On Sunday, (October 4), there was a big crowd on Usman Road and Ranganathan Street. But there were no police or corporation officials to enforce wearing of masks and social distancing. Though the government has prescribed standard operating procedures and threatened stringent punishments for violators, shops/establishments do not follow the guidelines. The vendors/hawkers who operate on footpath and on the sides of the roads do not take the precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bylanes-in-t-nagar-turn-illegal-parking-lots-as-shoppers-return/articleshow/78501968.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Patna-bound flight diverted due to technical snag||AHMEDABAD: Passengers aboard a Patna-bound flight from Ahmedabad had a tough time as the flight was diverted to Varanasi due to a technical snag. The SpiceJet flight SG-8917 which left Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport in Ahmedabad on Monday according to its scheduled departure at 5.55am, could not reach Patna on time due to some technical snag. Sources revealed that the pilot had raised concerns over trouble in landing the aircraft, as a result of which it was diverted to Varanasi. After the snag was fixed, the flight departed for Patna at 5.40pm from Varanasi airport. Tired and distressed passengers aboard the flight, whose journey stretched for up to more than 12 hours were served refreshments at Varanasi airport, confirmed sources in SpiceJet. A Hyderabad-bound flight was also cancelled at SVPI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/patna-bound-flight-diverted-due-to-technical-snag/articleshow/78502030.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Three found dead in Krishna district; scene staged as accident||VIJAYAWADA: Three persons were found dead, allegedly murdered by unidentified persons, and the crime scene staged to make it appear as an autorickshaw accident. The incident took place at Vissannapet in Krishna district on Monday. Nandigama DSP JV Ramana Murthy said the bodies of the three—identified as Pelluri Chinna Swamy (36), Tirupatamma (25) and Meenakshi (11)—were found near NSP Canal. Police said a preliminary examination of the crime scene pointed towards an autorickshaw accident but forensic evidence failed to add up on further investigation. Nor did the injuries on the bodies of the deceased point to an accident. Police then identified all three to be victims of a premeditated murder which the culprits made to look like an accident to avoid suspicion. The bodies were found in a mango orchard and three kilometres from the crime scene, police found sticks and rods, allegedly used to kill the victims. Based on a complaint from the deceased’s family members, police said they suspect one Dasari Venkanna from Chintalapudi village in West Godavari district. A clues team and dog squad were pressed into service. The DSP said they expect to soon nab the culprits. A case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered at Vissannapet police station. Further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-found-dead-scene-staged-as-accident/articleshow/78502033.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ghaziabad||For 2 hours, sisters in car chased and harassed by 3 private executives on NH-34||GHAZIABAD: As India outraged over the savagery on a Dalit girl at Hathras, a minor girl and her elder sister had a spine-chilling experience on the national highway on Sunday afternoon as three men in another car remained on their trail for two hours, making lewd comments, taking photos and videos and performing overtaking manoeuvres. The three men, including two engineers employed with an MNC and an employee of an event management company based in Gurugram, were eventually arrested in Ghaziabad’s Sihani Gate area and booked under charges of stalking. The two girls were returning to Noida from Meerut via NH-34. The stalkers, who began harassing them just 10 minutes after they had hit the highway in Meerut around 2pm, remained on their trail for 46km. Both girls – the older of the two is 21 – are nieces of a BJP MLA and were returning to their Noida home from their grandparents’ house with a personal security officer (PSO). The three accused, all aged 25 years, have been identified as Romil, who is originally from Rajasthan, Rajat Rana, a resident of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, and Shubham Pandey, who lives in Gurugram. While Romil and Rana share a house in Indirapuram and work as engineers in a multi-national company based in Sector 63, Noida, Pandey is a media manager of a mobile application company in Gurugram. Police said the trio was also returning from Meerut in an SUV. They allegedly made obscene comments when they first spotted the car in which the girls were travelling and kept overtaking and falling behind every five to 10 minutes. “The accused were initially passing lewd remarks but then near Muradnagar, they started making videos of the girls. And when the PSO asked them to not follow them, they abused him as well and made obscene gestures,” a police officer said. The PSO spotted a traffic constable near Sihani Gate and approached him and the SUV with the three men was made to stop. However, one of the three threatened the constable, saying his father holds a high rank in the government and will file a case against him. “A scuffle ensued and to tackle the situation a police team was called in. Following that, the PSO registered an FIR with the Sihani Gate police station and the accused were arrested,” a police officer said. SP (City) Abhishek Verma told TOI that the three accused were booked under sections 354 (molestation), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 279 (rash driving), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced in court, which remanded them in judicial custody. Watch Shocking: Sisters in car chased and harassed by 3 on NH-34||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/for-2-hours-sisters-in-car-chased-and-harassed-by-3-private-execs-on-nh-34/articleshow/78502062.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Post Covid-19 recovery, clots in eyes could affect vision||BENGALURU: While it’s fairly well know that a Covid infection could lead to clots forming in cardiac and limb arteries, doctors are now increasingly finding clots in retinal veins and arteries of the eyes. These clots form vascular blocks, which, in some patients, results in loss of vision. Doctors at Narayana Nethralaya recently treated a 66-year-old man who had recovered from Covid-19 but later lost vision in the right eye due to vascular blocks. Vascular occlusion is a blocked blood vessel, usually by a clot. Clots in arteries or veins in the eyes can lead to vision loss and haemorrhage, doctors say. When he was brought to the hospital in the first week of September, the elderly patient suffered fever, rash and body pain, besides bilateral blurring of vision. The man’s vision has been blurred for three days after his discharge from another hospital where he was treated for Covid. At Narayana Nethralaya, he was tested and doctors found that he had developed Covid antibodies. His was a case of arterial block which is said to be far more serious compared to venous block. Dr Chaitra Jayadev, senior vitreo-retinal consultant, Narayana Nethralaya, revealed the man also suffered from panuveitis or inflammation in the entire uvea layer of the eyes, besides blocks in the arteries of the eyes. In this case, the doctors were able to diagnose that the man suffered from an immune mediated event secondary to Covid infection. The man suffered inflammation in both eyes and eventually lost vision in the right eye. “However, it is not possible to figure out whether it was due to Covid in all cases of vascular blocks,” Dr Chaitra said. “Patients either do not reveal Covid positivity or they have not taken the test. Unless all such patients undergo Covid antibody testing, it’s hard to determine the actual cause for vascular blocks in the eyes.” Government-run Minto Ophthalmic Institute also had a Covid-19 patient – who was treated at Victoria hospital – who suffered from a block and mild haemorrhage, but recovered without loss of vision. Researchers at Minto are now conducting detailed studies on the condition. “Blood can become hypercoagulative among Covid patients,” said Dr BL Sujatha Rathod, director, Minto hospital. “It can present with blocks in the vascular system of the eyes too. We had seen one such case at Victoria. The patient suffered mild haemorrhage but no loss of vision.” Another patient screened at the hospital’s OPD had a vascular block and was asked to take the Covid test. “But the patient was lost in follow-up. He did not revert nor has he answered our phone calls. As there are possibilities of ocular manifestations, we suggest those presenting with vascular blocks take the Covid test,” Dr Rathod said. She said that in ocular manifestations of SARS-CoV-2, clots are seen in the eyes, just like the way they are seen in heart and lungs. Sankara Eye Hospital recently treated six patients with vascular occlusion. All six suffered partial vision deterioration. “While they didn’t lose vision completely, we did notice vision deterioration. They came to the hospital with deteriorated vision and it was learnt they were suffering from vascular occlusions. When tested for Covid, they were negative. We cannot categorically say whether it was due to Covid or not, as they had no other symptoms when tested after consultation,” said Dr Rajesh R, consultant, department of vitreoretina and ocular oncology, Sankara Eye Hospital. He said the time of testing also matters in Covid results and that the commonest cause of vascular occlusion in India is hypertension and diabetes. Of the six patients, some had diabetes, some hypertension and some had both conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/post-covid-19-recovery-clots-in-eyes-could-affect-vision/articleshow/78500050.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 6, 2020||Meerut||Covid spreads in Meerut's NariNiketan, 59 new cases in Agra||Meerut/Agra: At least 21 girls of a Nari Niketan in Meerut tested positive for Covid-19 late on Sunday. While the number of Covid cases in Meerut, till Monday morning, was 9,842 and the death toll 239. “On Sunday, test reports of as many as 2,891 Covid samples arrived – out of which 134 were positive. Of the 134 cases, 21 girls belonged to Nari Niketan. Containment activities in the area are on to check the virus,” Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO, said. In Agra district, at least 59 new Covid cases surfaced till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 6,002. A district excise officer was among the infected. Also, 87 Covid patients were discharged. Of the 6,002 cases, 88.4% have been declared "cured and discharged", and 570 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-spreads-in-meeruts-nariniketan-59-new-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78500788.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Meerut||Ex-Union min, 5-term LS MP dies of post-Covid complications||Meerut: Days after recovering from Covid-19, former Union minister and five-term Lok Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur Rasheed Masood (73) died at a hospital in Roorkee district in Uttarakhand on Monday. Masood had been admitted recently to a nursing home in Roorkee for management of some post-Covid-19 complications. According to sources, Masood had tested positive for coronavirus some time ago and had undergone treatment at a Delhi hospital. He had recovered from the infection there and had returned to Saharanpur. His condition, however, deteriorated a few days ago and he was admitted to a nursing home in Roorkee, where he died on Monday morning, said his nephew, Imran Masood, a former MLA. Several leaders, including UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav condoled his death. Masood had been a five-time member of the Lok Sabha from Saharanpur. He was also elected to the Rajya Sabha for a few terms. Masood had won the 1989 Lok Sabha elections on a Janata Dal ticket and was Union minister of state for health in the then government of VP Singh. (With inputs from Agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ex-union-min-5-term-ls-mp-dies-of-post-covid-complications/articleshow/78500806.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Restaurants serve empty tables as only a few turn up for starters||Nagpur: A few of the oldies were occupying their regular seats, and, for a moment, it appeared that nothing had changed at the Indian Coffee House, Sadar. The favourite haunt of generations of patrons, it opened its doors after six months on Monday. The old bustle was missing though, and waiters anxiously waited for footfalls, worry writ large on their faces.“There was no regular salary for last six months, I could not even pay my house rent. We had to manage with a few thousands in part payment from the little we got by giving takeaway parcels. There have been a handful of guests since morning, and hardly any orders for parcels,” said the man at the counter of Coffee House. It was lunch time and most of the restaurants in the area had just opened shutters.A guard wearing a mask and face shield welcomed guests at most eateries in Sadar. At one of the joints, a man was seen noting down names and phone numbers before letting in guests, even as an old couple waited to enter. At a bar close by, a group was having a drink at the counter, the tables were empty.As TOI went around restaurants across the city, not more than one or two tables were occupied in any joint. In the evening, signboards of many joints were glowing, but they were empty inside.“It’s just the first day, it may take at least a week for business to pick up,” said restaurateurs.Tarun Motwani of Liberty Restaurant, Sadar, said, “The entire staff has not returned yet. We only expect a little business initially.”“We are taking all precautions. The plates will be laid only after customers reach and washing will be done in hot water,” he said.Tarvinder Singh of Barbeque, Mount Road, said he would prefer Covid cases to come down. “This way we will ensure safety also. We are already running parcel service, which is doing quite well,” he said.All of the famed non-veg joints at Mominpura too opened shutters and the aroma spilt out into the crowded street, yet they failed to attract patrons like earlier. “It’s the first day, only a few turned up,” said the manager at ML Canteen in Mominpura. “I don’t think there is anything to worry about the infection in cooked food. I don’t mind eating here,” said one of the two customers at the joint.Even Saoji joints failed to attract numbers on the first day. “We did not get a single customer throughout the day,” said the man at Jadish Saoji near Gandhisagar Lake. An old woman waited at the door steps of another empty Saoji joint near the railway station.One person from a group finishing dinner at Sadar said, “No, I don’t find any reason to be scared and I came here because I always liked this place.”Ajay Joseph, a retired professor, also plans to resume his daily visits to the Coffee House. “I recalled the old days when I entered after months, but many of my group have not come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/restaurants-serve-empty-tables-as-only-a-few-turn-up-for-starters/articleshow/78500820.cms||Shishir Arya
October 6, 2020||Meerut||Day after cops 'attack' Jayant, RLD holds massive stir in UP||Meerut/Bijnor: A day after the brutal baton charge on Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary and his supporters during their visit to Hathras, party workers held massive protests in several UP districts of Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Aligarh and Bijnor on Monday. Chaudhary and his men were thrashed when the delegation was on its way to meet the Hathras ''gangrape" victim's family. The RLD leader was speaking to reporters when cops started attacking him. Protesting against the attack, hundreds of angry RLD workers gathered in front of commissionerate premises in Meerut on Monday and raised slogans against the Yogi government's police excess. Another protest was held in Pallavpuram where party workers tried to block the road and burn the CM's effigy. In Bijnor, the protest was led by district president Rahul Chaudhary and state secretary Praveen Deshwal, while in neighbouring Amroha, hundreds of activists led by state general secretary Ramveer Singh staged a 'dharna'. In both districts, supporters burnt effigies. According to senior office bearers, a mahapanchayat will be held in Muzaffarnagar district on October 8. Hathras case and the contentious farm laws will be on the agenda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/day-after-cops-attack-jayant-rld-holds-massive-stir-in-up/articleshow/78500817.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Meerut||In a first, dolphin safaris start at 6 places in Ganga||BIJNOR: In a move aimed at preserving Ganga ecology as well as promoting tourism in the region, a first-of-its-kind dolphin safaris were started at six places in the country, including near Haiderpur Wetland in Ganga in Bijnor, on Monday. On the occasion which coincided with the Gangetic Dolphin Day, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) launched the ‘Dolphin Jalaj Safari’ at six locations, including Bijnor, Brijghat, Prayagraj and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, Kahalgaon (Bihar) and Bandel (West Bengal). DG Namami Gange flagging off ‘My Ganga My Dolphin’ campaignIn Bijnor, NMCG director general Rajeev Ranjan Mishra said, “This is a unique initiative to integrate Gangetic dolphin and Ganga conservation with local livelihoods which is in line with the concept of Arth Ganga.” The 'Ganga Praharis' - trained volunteers from among the local community working for cleanliness of Ganga - will take tourists at these sites on boat rides to view dolphins in the Ganga. Besides, a new campaign, ‘My Ganga My Dolphin’, was also launched on the occasion to conduct a dolphin census in a 250 km- stretch from Bijnor to Narora. Currently, there are 36 dolphins in the Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary comprising five districts of west UP -- Bijnor, Amroha, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Hapur. Tourists were also promised sightings of gharials found abundantly in the region. Mishra said the concept is similar to gharial safari in the Chambal which has been running uninterrupted since its launch in 1999. India celebrates October 5 every year as ‘Ganga River Dolphin Day’ as on this day Ganga Dolphins were declared national aquatic animals in 2010.Dolphin conservation was initially started here in 2012 jointly by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and UP government. As announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, the Centre is also expected to release a detailed framework on conserving dolphins – the way India has been implementing conservation schemes for tigers and elephants under its dedicated ‘Project Tiger’ and ‘Project Elephant’ programmes. According to Suresh Babu, director (river, wetland and water policy), WWF, “Our goal is to ensure water connectivity and depth which are crucial to the survival of dolphins, and we are on a mission to create awareness among farmers to minimize waste of water they use for cultivation purposes. This will go a long way in ensuring adequate water in the river stream.” WWF, which has been associated with reintroduction of gharials in the Ganga stretch, has released 788 reptiles so far in the sanctuary in the last 11 years and more than 3,000 turtles ever since the turtle conservation programme began in 2012. (With inputs from Vishwa Mohan in Delhi) Watch India launches Dolphin safaris on river Ganga to boost eco-tourism||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-a-first-dolphin-safaris-start-at-6-places-in-ganga/articleshow/78500848.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Symbolic celebrations to mark Durga Pujo this year||Nagpur: Covid-19 pandemic has reduced the city-based Bengali community’s traditional ‘Durga Pujo’ with its festive galore to merely ‘Ghot pujo’ in which the bare minimum rituals for the home-coming of the Goddess with her four children will be performed.With the restrictions on religious gatherings imposed under the Epidemic Act still on, the Pujo this year (between October 22 (Shasthi) and October 26 (Bijoya Doshomi) would remain merely a symbolic affair. The organizers are planning to observe complete austerity unlike in the past when the celebrations often took centerstage including the sumptuous ‘bhog’.Whether the Katol Road’s Pujo, which was planned on a grand scale with a budget of Rs 25 lakh to mark it’s Diamond jubilee celebrations or Paschim Nagpur Bangiyo Samiti’s vibrant celebration, the organizers have decided to somehow maintain the tradition with minimal Ghot pujo. Soumendu Sarkar, joint secretary of Katol Road Durga Pujo Committee, said only a few members of the ‘pujo sub-committee’ would remain present. “We are inviting just one priest and a helper. The fruits offered to the Goddess would be also minimum and there would be no distribution of prasad or bhog, unlike in the past,” he said. “The gate of the pujo venue would be kept closed barring only a few helping in the rituals,” he said.Bidhan Bag of the Paschim Nagpur Bangiyo Samiti said no donations would be collected this year but whatever minimum expenditure would be required shall be met with the subscription fees of the members. “Complete following of social distancing, wearing of masks and sanitization of the venues will be observed,” he said.The Sarbojonin Durga Utsav Committee of Dixit Nagar too is replacing their ‘idol’ worship plan with ‘Ghot pujo’ on Ashtami (October 24) and Navami (October 25) followed by immersion. There would be no bhog. The committee has decided to allow only 10 persons for the ‘pushpanjali’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/symbolic-celebrations-to-mark-durga-pujo-this-year/articleshow/78500873.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Act against those without masks at rallies: HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday reminded the state government to take action against those who participate in political rallies but do not wear masks or follow social distancing protocol. The bench headed by the chief justice commented that people and leaders do not wear masks at political rallies. The HC had last month taken notice of political rallies and pointed out that Covid rules apply to commoners and politicians alike. It had said, “The flouting of the norms at the end of the political leaders would set a bad example for the people at large, and the same may prompt the people to defy the norms.” The HC called for action against violators of Covid rules when the state government placed a report on black marketing and bogus billing related to remdesivir injections in Rajkot. The HC last week asked the government to place a report on the situation, sources said. The state government has asserted that the drug was not spurious, but there was illegality in its sale and FIRs have been registered and the issue is under investigation. Rajkot police also informed the high court that as many as 3,409 cases have been registered for violation of public notifications involving 4,201 persons. Offences have been registered against 12,045 persons for their activities that could result in the spread of the disease. It was also submitted that Rajkot police have collected Rs 6.5 crore in fines. The court asked the government where it intends to spend the money collected in fines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/act-against-those-without-masks-at-rallies-hc/articleshow/78502211.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Meerut||UP govt school teachers to undergo training by NCERT||MEERUT: Teachers of Uttar Pradesh government schools will be trained in 18 NCERT modules in the second week of October. The training aims at making the teachers aware about certain pedagogies to improve learning outcome of students and to get hands-on experience in Information and Computer Technology (ICT). The training will also stress on teachers to introduce activity-based learning. “The teachers of state-run schools will be trained in 18 modules, which have been finalised by NCERT. The training will be done online to ensure social distancing and also to see that nobody misses the training,” said Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh, director, UP state council of educational research and training, in his order. “The training programme will be such that three modules will have to be completed each month for six months - thereby making it 18 modules in all,” he said. Singh directed that a monthly update in this regard should be sent to the state authorities on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-school-teachers-to-undergo-training-by-ncert/articleshow/78500895.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 6, 2020||Vadodara||116 test positive for Covid-19, 84 discharged||VADODARA: The number of new Covid-19 cases in the city and district since the week have given some confidence to the administration and health officials in the city and district. For the seventh consecutive day on Monday, the number of new cases reported during 24 hours remained below 120. In the 24 hours ending on Monday evening, the city and district registered 116 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of cases up to 12,381. The new cases were detected from 4,411 tests conducted during the period. The new cases included 73 from the city limits and 43 from other parts of the district outside the city. As many as 84 persons were discharged during the period from home quarantine or hospitals. This left 1,691 persons under treatment. These active cases included 76 on BIPAP machines or ventilators considered as serious and 183 others on oxygen support. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed the death of one more person due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. This took the total number of such deaths to 203.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/116-test-positive-for-covid-19-84-discharged/articleshow/78499746.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Advocates demand physical presence in courts, move plea||LUDHIANA: The District Bar Association (DBA) on Monday moved an application before the sessions judge, requesting time for a meeting to put their demand of physical presence in the courts instead of virtual courts. Vice-president of DBA advocate Rajinder Pal Singh Babbar confirmed that they had written to the sessions judge, seeking time for a meeting on the issue. He added that If virtual courts were not closed and physical hearing were not held, then they would sit on a peaceful protest as it was becoming difficult for the advocates to earn their livelihood. DBA office-bearers said that the mechanism for physical hearing of the cases would be discussed in the meeting. Secretary, DBA, Sham Sunder Ahuja said that advocates were already facing trouble in this regard. He added that they had called up the sessions judge and would meet him in a day or two. The secretary said that when restrictions had been lifted in phases, then there could be physical hearing of the cases also. He added that they could do it while maintaining social distancing. “To check crowding, the number of cases for hearing can be minimised. Even the number of persons inside the courts be brought down by exempting presence of the accused persons coming for marking their presence in courts. We will suggest that only those who have to depose in the courts and only the advocates from defence and prosecution side should be allowed to appear in the courts,” said Ahuja. He added that if presence of such accused persons were exempted, about 70% rush would come down in courts and instead it could be done online. Many advocates said that it was really becoming difficult for many of their colleagues to sustain themselves as they hadn’t been able to work properly since March end. “Even as well-established advocates have been impacted by such long lockdown, now after six months young advocates, who were helped by the local bar and bar council, are finding it difficult to survive. I can say that about 95% of advocates have been affected by such long lockdowns. In order to help advocates, cases wherein arguments are to be held and those under consideration can be taken up and the cases where there is scope of gathering should be avoided,” said Rakesh Gandhi, senior advocate at the district courts here. He added that such a system could be started with social distancing and wearing of masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/advocates-demand-physical-presence-in-courts-move-plea/articleshow/78500899.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Striking health department staffers could attract penal provisions||BENGALURU: With employees hired on contract under National Health Mission continuing their protests for the past 12 days, Karnataka chief secretary TM Vijayabhaskar on Monday cracked the whip and issued a notification stating that strikes are prohibited. Members of Karnataka state health and medical education department contractual employees’ forum have called for an indefinite strike, demanding pay parity with staff on rolls, health and life insurance and job security among other demands. The notification issued by the chief secretary said that the Covid-19 pandemic is a notified disaster and assistance is provided for its mitigation under the State Disaster Response Fund. The notification refers to powers conferred under relevant sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and points out that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) can take effective steps to prevent the spread of SARS CoV-2 virus. Disobeying or refusing to carry out work entrusted by a superior officer in connection with Covid-19 would amount to contravention of provisions of the said Acts, Rules or Orders made thereunder and attract penal provisions specified in the acts, the government notification said. It also states that disobeying or refusing to carry out work entrusted by a superior officer in connection with Covid-19 would amount to contravention of the Acts. However, protesting healthcare workers were defiant and have called for a meeting on Tuesday to decide on their next course of action. “Currently the protest is continuing. The government has ignored our grievances and demands until now,” said forum president Vishwaradhya HY. The protesting employees are also meeting the health minister on Tuesday. Besides affecting operations in hospitals, the strike has badly hit Covid-19 data management since many data entry operators are on strike. Arundhati Chandrashekar, mission director, NMH, Karnataka, had previously said behavior of protesters was “inappropriate” given the pandemic scenario. She had directed deputy commissioners to take strict action against staff who don’t cooperate. Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey had also said most of the demands of the staff were met including the hike in salary and Covid risk allowance for medical, paramedical staff. He had said a committee formed by the government has looked into their demands and their salary was increased. “It's time all employees of the health department work together.” It may be recalled that state govenrment doctors had staged a protest and restricted work to clinical responsibilities to press for their demands. They withdrew the strike after some of their demands were partially met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/striking-health-department-staffers-could-attract-penal-provisions/articleshow/78500152.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Drug cases rise and so does Ludhiana ranking among dists||LUDHIANA: As the menace of drugs continues to be a big issue in the state, Ludhiana commissionerate (Ludhiana CP) has been ranked seventh among the top 10 districts and commissionerates of the state with regard to the number of cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in 2019 are concerned. In 2018, Ludhiana commissionerate was at ninth place in the state as far as the number of NDPS cases were concerned. As per the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, 560 cases under the NDPS Act were registered in Ludhiana CP in 2019, which placed it at number seven position among the districts and police commissionerates of the state. Jalandhar rural and Sangrur were at number one and two spots with 955 and 807 such cases. In 2018, Ludhiana commissionrate was at ninth place in such cases with 495 being registered under the NDPS Act in that year. Amritsar (rural) and Jalandhar (rural) were at the number one and two spot with 1,179 and 950 such cases. Analysis of the sub-categories of the NCRB report of 2019 indicated that Ludhiana CP was at third spot as far as the cases of possession of drugs for personal consumption were concerned with 521 such cases. Sangrur and Patiala were at number one and two spots with 689 and 539 such cases, respectively, in 2019. As the number of cases related to NDPS in Ludhiana CP was 560 in 2019, it wasthe highest since 2016. “The number of cases under the NDPS Act is extremely disappointing to say the least as Ludhiana has been a drug hotspot. I am surprised why there has not been much recovery despite Ludhiana being part of the drug belt. It suggests that there is not much drug recovery there and whatever recovery is made by police officials is meant to show that they are doing something. When I was posted there, drugs were seized even in jails, so it is obvious what would be the condition outside,” said former DGP, Punjab, Shashi Kant. He added that there have been drugs related deaths in Ludhiana as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/drug-cases-rise-and-so-does-ludhiana-ranking-among-dists/articleshow/78500917.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Abolition of 70:30 regional quota in med admissions challenged||Nagpur: Aggrieved over Maharashtra government’s decision to abolish 70:30 regional quota in medical admissions, an aspirant has moved Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court for quashing the move and restoring Vidarbha’s regional quota. A division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryawanshi on Monday issued notices to the Medical Education and Drugs Department principal secretary and Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) asking them to reply in a week. Nikita Lakhotiya through counsel Ashwin Deshpande contended the government amended ‘Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Education Institutions (Regulation of admission to the full time professional undergraduate medical and dental courses) Rules, 2016’ by substituting new Rule 9 to abolish 70:30 quota that was in existence for 20 years. “The right of candidates like petitioners, who had 70% regional quota available for admissions and on whose basis preferences were to be given, is taken away. Its abolition caused serious hardship for Vidarbha aspirants, while Marathwada students would be benefited due to having just four colleges.” Stressing that there would be an encroachment on 70% seats that were earlier reserved region wise, the petitioner said the objective of getting a share for regional candidates in the admission process in their respective regions is totally removed. Pointing out that DMER had earlier defended 70:30 quota in the Nagpur bench while hearing the petition (No 2426/2016), Lakhotiya said it had clearly explained that the quota was introduced to protect students’ interest from three different development boards — Rest of Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada. In view of the government’s opposition that time for abolition of the 70:30 quota, HC had refused to grant interim relief to petitioners. “Considering procedure for seats distribution published every year after NEET exam, the 70:30 quota was implemented. It nowhere takes away the right of any meritorious candidates from getting admitted into medical or dental courses. Those are being given exclusively on the basis of the state merit list prepared after NEET results,” the petition said. According to her, out of 1,150 seats available for 2018-19 session in Vidarbha colleges, 805 were reserved for candidates from the region. In 2019-20, about 1,015 seats were reserved for students from Vidarbha. Due to September 7 notification, Vidarbha’s entire intake capacity would be available to aspirants all over the state, while those from this backward region would be at a loss. Terming the amendment as illegal, arbitrary, violative of Article 14 and in contravention to Article 371 of the Constitution of India, the petitioner prayed for striking it down. Distribution of medical seats in Vidarbha last year: Particulars --------------------------------Intake Capacity Colleges -------------------------2018-19---------------2019-20 Govt------------------------------850 ----------------1,150 Private --------------------------300---------------300 Total -----------------------------1,150 ---------------1,450 30% quota ---------------345---------------435 70% quota-------------805 ---------------1,015 Total------------------------------1,150 ---------------1,450||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/abolition-of-7030-regional-quota-in-med-admissions-challenged/articleshow/78502412.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Pandemic pushes up demand for male nurse in North Karnataka||Hubballi: The demand for male nurses has shot up in many districts in North Karnataka and is had been triggered by the pandemic. Many women nurses have quit fearing infection or of carrying the disease home and infecting family members and hospitals too are not keen on filling those posts with women, since many face family pressure. As a result, demand for male nurses, who normally migrate to Tier-1 cities, has increased and hospitals in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities are offering salaries almost on par with those in big cities. Dr Sanjay M Peerapur, state president, Karnataka Nurses Association Hubballi, said the demand for male nurses has been rising for the past two years. “However, the pandemic has multiplied the demand, especially in districts of North Karnataka,” he said. “Admission of boys to nursing courses was below 2.5% in 2013-14 but this year it has crossed 20%.” Peerapur, who is also principal of KLES’ Institute of Nursing Sciences, said the job is considered most appropriate for women, but that gender line is now blurring. Vincent Patil, nursing superintendent, Sankanur Hospital, Gadag, said the profession has peaked thanks to the pandemic. “Private hospitals are now hiring qualified male nurses, but it doesn’t mean men are grabbing jobs for women,” Patil said. “Many women nurses are quitting due to family and psychological reasons.” Saroja, a senior nurse in Koppal, admitted said, “Many women staff faced hurdles reaching their workplaces during the lockdown and could not attend to work,” Saroja said. “Hospitals therefore prefer men who can stay on the premises during emergencies or can reach the workplace on their own. However, we feel it’s just a temporary phase.” Veeresh Sullad, an overseas nurse practitioner, said gender does not count in healthcare, while Neelesh Sunkad, a nurse in a private hospital in Bagalkot, said hospitals generally prefer women especially to treat women patients, particularly pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-pushes-up-demand-for-male-nurse-in-north-karnataka/articleshow/78500183.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 6, 2020||Kochi||30 Kerala IAS, IPS officers to go on Bihar poll duty||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 30 IAS and IPS officers from the state have been deputed as general and police observers by the  Commission of India (ECI) for the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar and other byelections to be held in October-November. The IAS officers deputed for the elections include Biswanath Sinha, B Ashok, Puneet Kumar, Tinku Biswal, Biju Prabhakar, A Shajahan, Mini Antony, Rani George, Sharmila Mary Joseph, P Bala Kiran, S Venkatesapathy, N Prasanth, K Gopalakrishna Bhat, S Chandrasekhar, P M Ali Asgar Pasha, A Kowsigan, A R Ajaya Kumar, Amit Meena, B S Thirumeni, S Karthikeyan, P K Jayasree, Sheeba George, U V Jose, Veena N Madhavan and R Girija. The IPS officers from the state who have been appointed as police observers include IG Gugulothu Lakshman, DIG S Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar and SPs R Nishanthini, A Srinivas and K Karthick. While some officers have already been allotted districts where they will be serving as observers, beginning from the date of filing nominations till counting of votes, some are yet to be allotted districts. Meanwhile, ECI organized a virtual meeting of all officers deputed for the duty here on Monday at the office of the chief electoral officer. However, Covid-19 protocols were violated as the officers gathered inside the room of the chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena. Officials who attended the meeting said that even though the officials wore masks, no social distancing was maintained during the meeting, wherein even officials who recently recovered from Covid-19 were also present. The commission had originally asked all officials to take part in a virtual meeting from their respective offices. However, another communique from ECI to all officials appointed as observers asked them to be physically present in the office of the chief electoral officer in the state capital. Though officers appointed as election observers are given a briefing about their tasks and duties at the ECI office in New Delhi, it has been made online in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/30-state-ias-ips-officers-to-go-on-bihar-poll-duty/articleshow/78499785.cms||KP Saikiran
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after Rahul’s rally, opposition parties attack Congress||LUDHIANA: A day after Congress president Rahul Gandhi launched ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ campaign and addressed two rallies in Chakar and Jattpura villages of Ludhiana, he, along with the Congress, has come on the radar of the opposition. Whether its arch rival BJP, SAD or Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), all have launched a scathing attack against the Congress. Terming this as a publicity stunt, LIP MLA Simarjit Singh Bains questioned the use of special seats atop a tractor on which Rahul and other Congress leaders conducted the rally. Speaking to TOI, Bains said, “The ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ is just a drama by Rahul and his colleagues in Punjab only to project themselves as a crusader of farmers. If he was so serious about the problems of the farmers, why did he not hit the streets on foot or bicycle and instead acted like a VVIP and used a tractor with a specially fitted seats for his comfort. It was only the LIP which had started a real campaign for making farmers aware about these black anti-farming laws and we covered entire Punjab on bicycles while stopping at hundreds of villages to tell the truth about these laws.” Bains added that, “Rahul should explain how many villages he visited on Sunday and how many locals and farmers he interacted with and inquired about their agony and pain. The bitter reality is that the villagers were not even allowed to come anywhere near the route of his rally. So, it’s quite evident that he is least bothered about the problems of anyone and is only concerned with raking up issues which bring him instant publicity.” Lashing out against Rahul, SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon said, “The public rallies and tractor ride of Rahul Gandhi has totally proved to be a flop show as only a handful of people turned up in his rally. At majority of the places only Congress workers had gathered as there was no public support to this campaign of Rahul. Punjabis know that whether it’s Gandhis or Congress, both have always backstabbed them. The response of the public is giving sleepless nights to the Congress leaders, who tried to copy SAD’s Kisan March in which sea of common people, farmers and people from different walks of life turned up in huge numbers.” Firing a salvo against Congress, district president of BJP Pushpinder Singhal said, “Rahul Gandhi is the most idle politician in the entire country, that is why he reaches all spots where from he thinks he can grab limelight and media attention. If he was so serious about the farmers’ issues, then he should have read the farm bills and perhaps educated himself about these that these are not anti-farmer rather than misguiding them. This ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ of Rahul is a perfect example of hypocrisy of the Congress. On one side, FIRs were registered on the pretext of risk of Covid against opposition parties like the BJP even when we organised a small silent protest following social distancing norms. But now the same Congress is conducting rallies and public gatherings. These are double standards by chief minister Amarinder Singh, who on one side projects that he is very determined about combating coronavirus in Punjab, but on the other hand he himself is leading crowds to the rallies of Rahul and exposing them to the risk of coronavirus.” Meanwhile, Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid said, “Our ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’ is a big success already and this fuss being created by the opposition on the issue is evident of the fact that they have been stunned by the feedback they got from their sources about the yatra. People are very curious to see and hear our leader Rahul Gandhi, who is the youth icon of Indi. For this reason only they are turning out in large numbers in all his programmes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-rahuls-rally-opposition-parties-attack-cong/articleshow/78500976.cms||Mohit Behl
October 6, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat among top three states in custodial deaths||VADODARA: In one of the most sensational cases of custodial death in the state, six policemen from Vadodara were arrested last month for allegedly killing theft accused Sheikh Nishar Babu in Fatehgunj police station and disposing off his body. The incident that is being investigated by CID (crime) sleuths sent ripples in the police department. Now, the National Crime Records (NCRB) data has revealed that Gujarat is among the top three states in custodial death cases over the last three years. In 2019, 10 persons, who were arrested, died in police custody in the state that was second only to Tamil Nadu that saw 11 deaths in the same category. While nine of those died were not on remand, one was in police remand in Gujarat. Maharashtra shared the second position with Gujarat with 10 custodial deaths. At the same time, Gujarat police was the most proactive in custodial death investigations among all the states in 2019. Fourteen cops were arrested in the 10 custodial death cases last year, which is the highest in the country. Charge-sheets were also filed against all the accused cops while magisterial inquiry was ordered in one case. But in the last three years, not a single cop has been convicted in such cases. Out of the 10 who died in police custody last year, five were ill and died during the treatment in hospital, three committed suicide, one due to injuries sustained due to physical assault by the cops in custody and one in road accident during travel for the investigations. Suicide and illness were among the top causes for the deaths in custody in the state in last three years. 10 months on, cops clueless about body Sheikh Nishar Babu, 62, was picked up by Fatehgunj police from Sayajigunj area in December last year. When he disappeared, his son filed a missing persons complaint later and also approached Gujarat high court. The accused cops claimed that Sheikh had left the police station but the police inquiry showed that he never left the police station premises. Vadodara police filed a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the six accused cops but the Gujarat high court later asked the police to add murder charges two months ago. All the accused cops have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-among-top-three-states-in-custodial-deaths/articleshow/78499794.cms||Tushar Tere
October 6, 2020||Kochi||CU set to host one more Unesco chair||Kozhikode: Calicut University is set to have the unique distinction of hosting two Unesco (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) chairs with the UN body approving the varsity’s proposal to establish a Unesco chair on ‘indigenous cultural heritage and sustainable development’ at the varsity. The Unesco’s nod for establishing a chair on indigenous cultural heritage has come just five month after the varsity’s community-based disability management and rehabilitation programme (CDMRP) was recognized as a Unesco chair. Unesco presently has 10 chairs in various universities and higher education institutions in the country, including CDMRP at Calicut University. The varsity had submitted the proposal to establish Unesco chair on indigenous cultural heritage and development at its Institute of Tribal Studies and Research (ITSR), Chethalayam in Wayanad in 2019 during the tenure of former vice-chancellor K Mohammed Basheer. The Unesco authorities forwarded the draft agreement to the varsity for approval and the letter states that upon receipt of approval, the draft agreement will be submitted to the Unesco director general for her signature. Varsity officials said that the proposed chair will work for the individual dignity, equality, respect for the local cultural expressions and long-cherished traditions whilst promulgating the universality of humanity and human values. “The nod by Unesco to establish a second chair in the varsity is an international recognition for the varsity ,”said C L Joshy, varsity registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cu-set-to-host-one-more-unesco-chair/articleshow/78499803.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP officials to visit, monitor patients in home isolation||Bengaluru: Soon, officials will knock on the doors of those in home isolation in Bengaluru city. Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, has instructed health officials to conduct a door-to-door survey to check on infected people being treated at home and to ensure their condition is monitored. “Many people are in home isolation, but we do not really know about their health condition or if they are happy with the facilities,” Prasad told TOI. Prasad on Monday visited the Covid command centre to monitor management of the pandemic in east zone. During the inspection, he took stock of contact tracing efforts, home isolation, hospital beds management and ventilator supply. The commissioner has designated an official to keep constant check of those in home isolation. “With increasing cases many people have opted for home isolation and it becomes very important to ensure that all the facilities are provided to them,” Prasad said. He went on to say, “We need to have a detailed register of the facilities which we have provided to those in home isolation. Many convalescing at home might need certain support but we might not have reached out to them.” A feedback form will be sent to those in home isolation and on receiving their responses the Palike will take necessary action to improve management, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-officials-to-visit-monitor-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78500232.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Vadodara||Three disguised as women held for making obscene gestures||VADODARA: Three men, dressed as women, were arrested in Sayajigunj for making obscene gestures at passers-by. Sayajigunj police nabbed two persons identified as Pravin Thakor and Balaji Gehlot near the city bus stand and another person named Rajnikant Parmar opposite Pratapgunj police chowki on Saturday midnight. Cops said that the trio had disguised themselves as women and were making obscene gestures at passers-by, especially young men. When they were asked about their purpose of waiting there, the three men could not give any satisfactory reply, police said. Thakor is a resident of Kishanwadi while Gehlot is a resident of Sun Pharma Road and Parmar lives in Dabhoi. “The trio was posing as prostitutes to lure customers. They would either take people in a deserted lane in Sayajigunj or near the ravine of Bhukhi Nullah opposite Pratapgunj police chowki,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-disguised-as-women-held-for-making-obscene-gestures/articleshow/78499824.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Postcards with birds of Goa released for wildlife week||Panaji: To commemorate wildlife week 2020, a set of 10 picture post cards featuring birds of Goa and a special cancellation were released at the Tapal Bhawan, Panaji, on Monday. The first series in this was released on July 28. The postcards were released by post master general, Goa region, Dr N Vinod Kumar, senior superintendent of post offices, Goa Division, Dr Sudhir Jakhere and president of Goa philately and numismatics society Dr M R Ramesh Kumar. “The department of posts is doing a wonderful job by releasing the postcards on birds in the Western Ghats and a special cancellation on Covid-19 which will create awareness amongst the public on the need for building immunity by the motto ‘Eat Healthy, No Tobacco and Stay Fit.’” Kumar said. Photographers Prasanna Parab, Shashikant Naik and president of the Goa bird conservation network Omkar Dharwadwadkar, who captured the images of the birds on the postcards were felicitated with certificates. A set of 10 plain picture post cards will be available for Rs 150 and cancelled ones at Rs 250 at the head post office, Panaji. All the picture post cards have QR codes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/postcards-with-birds-of-goa-released-for-wildlife-week/articleshow/78503510.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Trichy||17 huts, tin sheet-roof houses gutted in fire in MGR Nagar||TRICHY: Seventeen huts and tin sheet-roofed houses at MGR Nagar in Sangiliyandapuram were gutted in a fire accident on Monday. No injuries and causalities were reported. The fire and rescue service control room got a call at 2.50am and a team led by station fire officer (SFO) M Melchioraja from the fire station at Trichy headquarters rushed to the spot with fire tenders. As the flames went uncontrolled, the SFO to sought help from the Srirangam and Navalpattu fire stations. As many as 40 fire-fighters doused the fire using two water tankers supplied by the Trichy Corporation. “The operation lasted nearly two-and-a-half hour after which we managed to bring the fire under control. Of the damaged houses, several were fully burnt and some partially burnt,” said Melchioraja. The team prevented the fire from spreading further in the area with more than 100 such huts and tin sheet-roof houses. Melchioraja said that the fire broke out at house of Selvaraj and was said to have been locked at the time. Palakkarai police sources said that preliminary investigation revealed that a spark from the lamp in a house spread to another house where the LPG cylinder caught fire. Trichy district administration officials also visited the area to assess the extent of the damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/17-huts-tin-sheet-roof-houses-gutted-in-fire-in-mgr-nagar/articleshow/78503916.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kochi||Landslide victim epitomizes Idukki district’s network deficit||IDUKKI: Come rain or shine, Job J Neriyaparambil remembers being greeted every day by the sight of a nursing student, holding her mobile phone, attending online classes. Now, the Eravikulam National Park range officer's recollection of Nishanthini, who was 20 and one of the victims of the August 6 Pettimudy landslide, is but a heart-wrenching memory. “She travelled over eight kilometers every day from Pettimudy to Rajamala because it was the nearest location with a mobile network,” says Neriyaparambil. Though Nishanthini’s parents, Murukan and Ramalakshmi, met with the same fate, her sisters-Saranya, 18, and Annalakshmi, 16-survived the disaster. “Nishanthini was always busy attending online classes and taking notes. Sometimes other students would accompany her,” recounts the official. Two months on, the tragedy continues to lay bare the poor communication facilities in Idukki, which has the distinction of being named the first district in the country to be fully covered by the high-speed rural broadband network. While the honour was conferred in January 2015, uninterrupted internet connection in many parts of the district still remains a pipedream. Nishanthini has come to epitomize the situation, which rather tragically resulted in news of the late-night disaster, which claimed 66 lives, reaching the outside world only the next morning. According to officials, Idukki has 1,66,636 school students enrolled from classes I to XII. This includes nearly 8,540 tribal students. “Due to the absence of a proper internet and mobile network over 50% of students in the district don't attend online classes. In the tribal village of Edamalakkudy over 100 students have been denied online classes due to the absence of power and road facilities,” an education department official said. According to Hadlee Ranjit, a Pettimudy rescue worker, “One of the main hindrances during the rescue mission was communication. Lack of a mobile network and proper internet facilities are main hurdles in the district, even in the key tourist destination of Munnar.” “Lack of mobile connectivity is a serious issue and it affects online education and other services in the district. Government service provider BSNL has informed us that it does not have the funds to develop a network here,” district collector H Dineshan told TOI. “Jio, a private player, is ready to provide a proper network and high-speed internet facilities in various parts of the district. They will fix mobile towers at the Idukki collectorate and Devikulam. The company has assured us that it will service the towers in Edamalakkudy, too. I don’t know if the forest department will oppose the Edamalakkudy proposal. We have no other way to ensure a proper network,” Dineshan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/landslide-victim-epitomizes-idukki-dists-network-deficit/articleshow/78499827.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Punjab farm fires up 9x in October this year||NEW DELHI: Satellite images of the first week of October have shown that there were 606 fires in Punjab and 137 in Haryana, nine and three-times higher, respectively, compared with the same period last year. Data compiled by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) revealed that 1,548 farm fires in Punjab and 308 in Haryana were observed from September 1 to October 4.  Track the pollution level in your cityLS Kurinji, research analyst, CEEW, said, “Districts such as Amritsar and Tarn Taran in Punjab recorded 3-4 times more fires from September 1 to October 4 compared with the same period last year. Similarly, Kurukshetra and Ambala districts in Haryana recorded nearly three times more fires.” “Farmers in Amritsar grow early maturing paddy varieties and cultivate vegetables like potatoes before sowing wheat. So, they might have burnt paddy stubble earlier. However, different factors need to be studied behind the rise in fire counts in other districts,” Kurinji added. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment, said, “The distinct feature is that stubble burning has started early this year, from September rather than the usual mid-October. It is occurring when winter has not yet set in. We need to study the reasons behind the early burning. It is also a warning that our preparedness for controlling fires should be ramped up before the onset of winter.” Pawan Gupta, senior scientist, earth sciences at Nasa’s Marshall Space Flight Centre, who analysed the satellite images, said, “Fires are picking up in the northern districts and slowly growing in central Haryana. However, fires in Punjab are still mostly concentrated in Amritsar and Tarn Taran, but other districts are picking up.” System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, on Monday said, “A sharp increase in stubble burning was observed on Sunday in Punjab, Haryana and neighboring border regions. The boundary layer wind direction is favourable for transport. As the ventilation coefficient decreases, stubble burning starts to impact Delhi.” Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was recorded at 179 in the moderate category on Monday. According to SAFAR’s forecast, the AQI would marginally deteriorate, but stay in the moderate category for the next two days. Watch Punjab farm fires up 9x in October this year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/punjab-farm-fires-up-9x-in-oct-this-year/articleshow/78502372.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 6, 2020||Pune||Biker snatches 78-year-old’s gold chain in Karvenagar||Pune: A motorcyclist wearing a helmet on Sunday night snatched a gold chain worth Rs63,000 from a 78-year-old woman in Karvenagar.The robbery occurred around 8pm just after she de-boarded from an autorickshaw and was about to open the gate of her bungalow. Sub-inspector Dhiraj Gupta of the Alankar police said the woman had gone out for some work on Sunday evening. “While she was opening the gate of her bungalow, a motorcyclist stopped near her and asked about some Shinde. Before she could say anything, he snatched her gold chain and rode away,” Gupta further said.“The footage of CCTV cameras in the area was not clear because of the darkness at night,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-snatches-78-year-olds-gold-chain-in-karvenagar/articleshow/78502370.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Vadodara||‘Will go for research in applied physics’||VADODARA: Every student aiming for admission into the premier Indian Institute of Technologies (IITs) would burn midnight oil till the final hour, but 17-year-old Nisarg Chadha took a break, even as the exams were a few months away.Nisarg, a student of Navrachana School, Sama, once again managed to get an All India Rank in the joint entrance exam (JEE) on Tuesday. He had bagged 100 percentile in both JEE-Main exams. “There was a time when I was reading material for the exam, so my teachers and parents asked me to go a bit slow,” said Chadha, who secured AIR-16 in JEE Advanced. Chadha used to watch movies and read novels until he again went full throttle with his preparation a month before the exam. Planning to research in applied physics, Chadha wants to improve the daily lives of the common people. “Earlier, I was interested in astrophysics, but then I realized that it may not change the daily lives like how applied physics can,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/will-go-for-research-in-applied-physics/articleshow/78499841.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Trichy||Tension in Trichy city after attack on dalit youth; vigil stepped up||TRICHY: Tension prevailed on East Boulevard Road in Trichy city after a group of upper caste men attacked a 25-year-old dalit man after making casteist remarks against him on Sunday. Gandhi market police booked a case against Sevatha Lingam, Pulidevan, Munish, Meenakshi Sundaram, Ramar, Lakshmanan of EB Road area and ten others on charges of uttering unruly words in public place, rioting, voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous weapons, criminal intimidation under various sections of IPC and abusing a dalit under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. The victim has been identified as D Vanavarayan, 25, of North Thara Nallur. Police sources said that Vanavarayan was on the way to his work place near Periya Pilliayar temple by 6.30 pm on Sunday. The gang assembled near the temple and picked up a quarrel with Vanavarayan. One of the accused, Munish, abused him by making casteist remarks. The others also joined him in the verbal slur besides attacking him with stones and wooden logs. He suffered several injuries on his body and damaged his two teeth. As the news about the attack spread, they got agitated. Meanwhile, another funeral procession also reached the spot. People from both groups started arguing with each other and a clash erupted. A large posse of police personnel rushed to the spot and controlled the clash. Demanding the arrest of the attackers, a group of people staged a sit-in on the road. Police held talks and filed a case against the perpetrators, following which the crowd dispersed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tension-in-trichy-city-after-attack-on-dalit-youth-vigil-stepped-up/articleshow/78503914.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Trichy||Residents oppose proposal for IBT in Kumbakudi||Trichy: The proposal by former Trichy AIADMK MP P Kumar to establish the integrated bus terminus (IBT) at Kumbakudi near Thiruverumbur has come in for criticism from the public. Stating that Kumbakudi was too remote a location, residents urged the government to construct the IBT at Panjappur, which is situated within the city limits.Kumar, who is also the secretary of Trichy suburban-south AIADMK, during a party meeting on Sunday, said that he would request the chief minister to establish the IBT at Kumbakudi-Navalpattu region as huge land parcels are available. “Though Panjappur is still under consideration, the under-construction semi ring road is an advantage for Kumbakudi-Navalpattu region,” Kumar told TOI. However, locals and welfare organisations alleged that it was a ploy to further slow down the long-pending project. “Earlier, Kottapattu was proposed for IBT but later dropped as it is very near to the central prison and international airport. Now, Kumbakudi-Navalpattu is proposed. We suspect political interference since Panjappur was proposed by the previous DMK government,” V B Jaganath, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES) said. “We will resist if the government proposes Navalpattu or Kumbakudi for IBT. Panjappur will be the only ideal location,” M Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations said. Trichy Corporation sources said that the civic body has about 100 acres of land in Panjappur, which is adequate for a bus terminus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-oppose-proposal-for-ibt-in-kumbakudi/articleshow/78503915.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 6, 2020||Pune||Four throw chilli powder, rob trader on Boat Club Road in Pune||PUNE: Four persons riding on two motorcycles intercepted a 60-year-old groundnut wholesale trader from Gultekdi Market Yard, threw chilli powder in his eyes, hit him on head and robbed his bag containing Rs 11,700 near Max Mueller Bhavan on Boat Club Road on Saturday. The incident occurred around 7.30pm. Senior inspector Pramod Patki from the Koregaon Park police on Monday said, “The injured victim, Sabjhan Bhojwani, was going to his residence on the same road on his scooter when the four men intercepted him. One of the suspects threw chilli powder in his eyes, another attacked him on his head with a blunt object, while the two others snatched his cash bag and sped away.” Sub-inspector Rupesh Chalke, who is investigating the, case said, “Two passers-by rushed the critically injured Bhojwani to a private hospital. He got five stitches on his head. The injured victim is a diabetic patient. He was initially in a state of shock. His doctor told the police that his statement cannot be recorded instantly because he was not in a position to talk.” Chalke said, “We visited the hospital after the man was treated for his injuries. We recorded his statement and registered a first information report under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.” He added, “We are checking footage of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras for establishing the identity of the suspects and the routes used by them. We hope to detect the robbery case at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-throw-chilli-powder-rob-trader-on-boat-club-rd/articleshow/78502369.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 6, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man gets 20-year jail term for raping girl||TRICHY: A mahila court in Pudukottai on Monday sentenced a 25-year-old man to 20 years imprisonment and a fine of Rs 10,000 for raping a minor girl with learning difficulties in September 2018. In case he fails to pay the fine, he will have to serve an additional one-year jail term. The accused, K Thangaraj alias Karuppaiah, 25, a daily wager, was living alone after his wife left him. The girl was his neighbour. He used to follow her whenever she went for rearing cattle in the village. One day, he took the girl to an isolated place and raped her. According to police, the accused had attempted to rape the minor on several occasions. He dragged her into a dry canal, raped her and left the girl there, who was later rescued by villagers. Following an alert from the villagers, police arrested the accused. The accused was booked under Section 5 (K) and 5 (L) r/w and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Besides convicting the accused, the court also directed the state government to give Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the survivor’s family. Pudukottai district superintendent of police L Balaji Saravanan appreciated the efforts of inspector Kavitha who investigated the case and court staff Karthika for her contribution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-gets-20-yr-jail-term-for-raping-girl/articleshow/78503919.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Trichy||BDU to hire CoE, research director||Trichy: Bharathidasan University is in the process of appointing a full-time director for the research section. With the approval of the syndicate, advertisements in this regard will be published soon to fill the post.The demand for a full-time research director is a long pending from teachers as well as students. The university had taken several steps to speed up the evaluation of PhD thesis and award degrees by creating a separate research wing in March 2018. This was to exclusively cater to the A-Z requirements of the PhD degree programme.S Muthusamy from the chemistry department holds additional charge of the research section from the time of its inception. Director-research is empowered to handle the candidate’s files right from their registration till the evaluation of PhD thesis. S Srinivasaragavan, head of library and science information department, holds full additional charge of the controller of examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-to-hire-coe-research-director/articleshow/78503918.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bhopal||Following Covid norms must for 63.38 lakh voters, 56000 poll officers at 9361 booths||Bhopal: By-elections to 28 assembly seats along with Bihar assembly polls and others being held under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, will not only be new experience for voters but also for the political parties and electoral officers. Amidst scare and rising numbers of new Covid cases, EC had laid down several guidelines for conducting ‘safe’ elections. By-polls are scheduled on November 3 in 28 constituencies across 18 districts of the state. A total of 63.38 lakh voters are present in these constituencies who would cast their votes to elect their leader. Polling will take place on 9,361 polling booths across these 28 constituencies where more than 56,000 poll officers would be deployed. Apart from other changes, number of officials deployed in each polling booth has also been increased by 50% this time. “Unlike four poll officials per booth, two more personnel will be deployed at each booth one for thermal scanning and other for sanitization,” joint chief electoral officer, Dharmendra Jain told TOI. EC had laid down detailed guidelines for the polling booth management, like the sanitization of every polling booth has been made mandatory it should be done preferably a day before polling. There would be three queues at each booth one for male voters, other for female voters and one for senior citizens or especially-abled voters. Each person will stand at a distance of 6 feet from the other says the EC guidelines. EC had also made it mandatory that there will be a helpdesk to provide token to the voters on first come, first serve basis so that they do not have to stand in queue. “If temperature of a voter is above the set norms of MoHFW at first reading, then it will be checked twice and if it remains the same, then the voter shall be provided with token/certificate and will be asked to come for voting during the last hour of polling. At the last hour of poll, such electors shall be facilitated to vote, strictly following COVID-19 related preventive measures”, says EC guidelines. At any given point, only one voter would be allowed in front of the polling officials. And hand gloves will be provided to the voters for signing the forms, besides hand sanitizers will be kept at each polling booths. Though the EC guidelines say that other than those poll officials who need PPE kits, poll officers will be provided with hand gloves, face shield, masks, sanitizers. “Every officer who will be on poll duty will be provided with PPE kits as the suspected Covid-19 patients will also vote during the last hours,” says joint CEO, Dharmendra Jain. The randomization of polling staff which was normally done 24 hours before the elections, has now been increased to 72 hours, i.e., the poll duty officials will be assigned with their polling booths around 72 hours before the elections. This has been done with an intent to avoid large gathering of personnel at randomization centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/following-covid-norms-must-for-63-38-lakh-voters-56000-poll-officers-at-9361-booths/articleshow/78500971.cms||Amarjeet Singh
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||HC questions Telangana over delay in forming women’s commission||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Monday sought to know from the state government on why it is dodging the setting up of state women’s commission and showing negligence in appointing key posts like commission chairperson, etc. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy appointed advocate Vasudha Nagaraj as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter. “Several statutory bodies are lying headless,” the bench said. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by Ramya Rao Regulapati of Karimnagar who said the commission had become defunct for the last two years ever since the term of the previous chairperson was over in 2018. “As of now, there are 48 complaints pending adjudication before the commission,” she said. Rekha Sarma, chairperson of National Women’s Commission, had even spoken to the chief secretary asking him to ensure that the post is duly filled and a full-fledged state commission is in place. “Even that effort did not work,” Ramya Rao said. She said atrocities on women are on the rise and perpetrators of these crimes are going scot-free. Advocate general BS Prasad sought four weeks’ time to convey the government’s efforts in this regard. The bench gave him a week’s time to convey the same. The bench said even the real estate regulatory authority has not been formed. “Its chairman post too needs to be filled,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-questions-t-over-delay-in-forming-womens-commission/articleshow/78502388.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Vaccine cover for 70% of world only by 2022, says Soumya Swaminathan||On March 11, Covid-19 was declared a global pandemic, while Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) was declared on January 30. Months on, in a wide-ranging interview with TOI, the World Health Organisation’s Chief Scientist, Soumya Swaminathan, discusses prevention measures, risks from cold weather and vaccine availability. Excerpts: When will the vaccines start to arrive? Nearly 40 clinical vaccine trials are ongoing across the world. Nine vaccine candidates are in the late stages of testing — either phase 2 or phase 3. India is currently undertaking clinical trials of three vaccines and planning more. But efficacy and safety data are key. Companies that started phase 3 trials between July and September should begin to publish results by later this year or early 2021. The first beneficiaries will be frontline workers and other high-risk groups. If we were to set a target to cover at least 60 to 70% of the population across all countries, it would likely not happen before the end of 2022. What do we do till then?The world is at a rather precarious stage. The winter months in the northern hemisphere will increase risk of indoor spread. People will need to use masks, practice physical distancing, wash hands and avoid crowded, poorly ventilated settings for the foreseeable future. Case fatality rates have been dipping for a number of reasons, including better management of seriously ill patients by medical staff. What can India do to bolster emergency response?We should focus on the implementation of the National Health Policy 2017, which prioritized strengthening of public health systems, including the need for a public health cadre. While guidelines are formulated nationally, responses to local health problems should be tackled bythe local leadership. We observed early in the pandemic that even high-income countries with excellent tertiary healthcare infrastructure struggled to cope as they became quickly overwhelmed. Others, with good primary healthcare systems, fared better then these countries. What steps should India take in this direction?India needs to invest in surveillance, preparedness for outbreaks; field epidemiology capacity; and in a laboratory network. We have to leverage new innovations to tackle our major health issues. Some examples are the use of contact-tracing apps, new diagnostic tools such as rapid antigen tests and the massive scale-up of molecular testing platforms, which can be leveraged to tackle other infectious diseases like tuberculosis. What is the road ahead? One way ahead will be to focus on three ‘R’s: Rebuild, Reimagine and Reject (systems that have not worked). There is a need to rebuild not just our healthcare delivery systems, but revisit policies and processes. There is also a need to reimagine methods of data collection — the old paper-based data collection is inefficient and slow. We need to use the digital technologies we now have. As a core principle, I would focus on equity and inclusiveness, which includes digital inclusiveness. This is most important for the health and education sectors as we need to avoid the situation of the most marginalized being left out. Along the way, we also need to work towards a sustainable and healthy future. We can start with ensuring our health facilities are run on solar energy and have adequate water and sanitation. The world needs to pay attention to climate change and deforestation, which increase the chances of zoonotic infections in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccine-cover-for-70-of-world-only-by-2022/articleshow/78502378.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb CM evades SYL issue playing terrorism card: Kataria||AMBALA: Union minister of state (MoS) for jal shakti Rattan Lal Kataria mocked Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s apprehensions on the revival of militancy if the issue of Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal was touched again. During a press conference held here on Monday, Kataria said whenever the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government raised the issue of SYL canal with the Punjab CM, he maintained that terrorism would revive in the state. The press meet was orgaised by the BJP at PWD Rest House in Ambala City to set the narrative in favour of the Centre’s three agriculture laws. MoS Kataria was accompanied by city MLA Aseem Goel, BJP Ambala district president Rajesh Batoura, BJP state spokesperson Sanjay Sharma and other local leaders of the saffron party at the press conference. Talking to reporters, MoS Kataria said the bills have been passed and laws enacted keeping farmers’ interests in mind. “In the near future, these bills will greatly benefit farmers. BJP workers, ministers and MPs are meeting farmers and making them aware of the importance of these agriculture laws. BJP workers will also expose the Congress Party, which is working to manipulate farmers on these bills while playing the role of middlemen. Farmers and people have come to know of the reality of these bills. The Congress and their friends are adopting such tactics only to save their own and their party’s base. They can go to any extent to save their mass base.” Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel said, “We will welcome Rahul Gandhi with garlands in Haryana if he comes with SYL water from Punjab and with the papers of the land of farmers of Haryana given to Robert Vadra. If he is coming to create a law and order situation in Haryana, he is not welcome.” MoS Kataria also talked about a recent meeting to resolve the SYL Canal issue held on August 18, 2020, between Punjab and Haryana CMs and Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. MoS Kataria attended that meeting and said in Ambala on Monday, “The meeting was called following orders of the Supreme Court about resolving the issue of SYL. We held a discussion for about one to one and a half hours. Amarinder Singh asked Union minister (Shekhawat) why he is getting involved in this jhanjhant (mess) and that the fire of terrorism has been extinguished in Punjab with great difficulty. He opened a case and showed us 10 different types of rifles. He said to Union minister (Shekhawat) that he knows who Gurjant Singh Rajasthani was as he was from his state and that they are active in spreading terrorism in Punjab. He said touching the SYL Canal issue will revive militancy in Punjab.” Kataria said the Punjab CM plays the terrorism card whenever they talk to him about the issue of SYL and he is diverting from public concerns. When asked if any efforts would be made to pacify Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which recently broke from its alliance with BJP, Kataria said, “Akali Dal has remained our old supporter and we walked together. But the present situation is not created by BJP, it is the independent decision of Akali Dal. We will also go to the public and who knows that in future, BJP grows in Punjab like it did in Haryana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-cm-evades-syl-issue-playing-terrorism-card-kataria/articleshow/78502380.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Naturally, candidate will be from BJP for Baroda bypoll’||Haryana agriculture and farmer welfare minister and BJP in-charge of Baroda assembly byelection Jai Prakash Dalal tells TOI’s Ajay Sura that the process to finalise a joint BJP-JJP coalition candidate would begin on October 10. He also describes the farmer protests against the Centre’s agri-marketing laws as an attempt by the Congress party to re-launch Rahul Gandhi in politics and claims that the protests are sponsored by some arhtiyas (commission agents) who are into the illegal business of financing and exploiting farmers. You have been visiting the Baroda assembly segment for the past several days. What are the key issues on the ground? Development is the main issue in the constituency. People have severe problems like lack of drinking water, water logging, no power connections for tubewells, compensation for crop damage etc. These are apart from unemployment, which is the main issue in the entire state, at present. Do you think that the farmers’ protest over new farm laws would be an issue in the byelection? Has your party failed to convince farmers? The entire protest is an attempt by Congress to project their leader Rahul Gandhi as farmers’ leader. Actually, farmers have no time for protest these days because of their engagement in harvesting paddy and cotton. They are in their fields, not on roads as projected by Congress. At least for the next 20-25 days, farmers cannot afford to sit on protest and all those seen on the roads protesting against the new farm laws are Congress workers. It is a relaunch of Rahul who has been protesting on a customized tractor to ensure he doesn’t feel uncomfortable while riding on it during the protest. What is the hurdle in giving a written assurance to farmers about MSP? Giving MSP to farmers is within the purview of the state government and we are committed to give it to farmers of the state. MSP has its origin in 1966 and till 2005 Congress ruled the state for most of the time. It was only after the BJP formed the government that most crops of farmers in the state were being purchased on MSP. We have tried to change the old system with the new agriculture laws. Farmers have not become rich or their condition has not improved in the prevailing system. Now they should also try the new system and if it appears prejudicial to them, there is always a scope to amend or change the law. If the law is extremely harmful to them, as projected by Congress, the people of the country would change us. Some of the JJP MLAs are openly supporting the farmers’ protest. Have you spoken to the CM or the JJP leadership? No, I have not spoken to anyone in this regard. The problem is that arhtiyas have strong influence in the state’s politics and they think they run it. However, several of them are into the business of financing under the garb of being an arhtiya, which is illegal. Such people are also instigating and sponsoring the protests in the name of farmers against the new laws. Some arhtiyas have been exploiting farmers for a long time and the new laws would save the farmers from their exploitation. Farmers are innocent; they take time to understand an issue. Even farmer leaders like Gurnam Singh Charuni talk about the interests of such arhtiyas. Who will be the candidate in Baroda? Will the party repeat Yogeshwar Dutt or will it be JJP candidate? The process to finalise the candidate would begin from October 10, when the party’s election committee holds its meeting. Thereafter, a meeting will be held with our alliance partner, JJP. As far as the candidate is concerned, naturally it will be from BJP, as we have a stronghold in Baroda constituency and our vote share was higher in the previous assembly polls. Both BJP and JJP contested the October 2019 assembly polls separately and received significant votes. As both are now in the coalition government, do you think it would be a cakewalk for the BJP-JJP candidate? In politics, it is difficult to predict whether a political party would be able to retain votes it received in the previous election or not. However, we are in a very strong position in Baroda, at present. People there want development and know that BJP can develop the area if they elect its candidate. They know the (bypoll) result would not affect any political party but it would certainly have an impact on the development of the constituency. It is said that Baroda is former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s stronghold and he would not let it go easily. It is a fact that BJP has never won Baroda seat. Hooda’s native place is near Baroda and Congress candidates have been winning from this seat for long. But Hooda is responsible for the backwardness of this constituency. People have started realising how Hooda always got votes from Baroda but did all the development work in his home constituency, Garhi Sampla-Kiloi. Hooda never gave a ticket to a candidate from Baroda constituency, but gave it to one from Kiloi. Are any big or national BJP leaders expected to campaign in Baroda? Why is the CM avoiding visiting there? Normally, big or national leaders do not come for a byelection. The state leadership is competent and capable enough to handle it. As of now, there are no plans of any national leader visiting Baroda to campaign for the party candidate. The CM would visit Baroda soon, once the candidate is finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/naturally-candidate-will-be-from-bjp-for-baroda-bypoll/articleshow/78502375.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Trichy||Painting contest for wildlife week||TRICHY: The forest department in Trichy is organising a painting competition for school children as part of ongoing wildlife week celebration. The competition is conducted with the aim of encouraging young children to take up nature conservation activities. The theme for the competition is ‘respect wildlife for a healthy future’. Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said that due to Covid-19 pandemic, candidates can send the soft copies of their paintings instead of being physically present for the competition. Participating students can their paintings to the email ID: wlwctrichy2020@gmail.com. Students are asked to mention their name, school name, class and phone number along with their entries. The entries must be sent by October 7 and the winners will be awarded prizes and e-certificates. There are a total of six categories for students from LKG to class XII, besides a category each for college students and differently abled candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/painting-contest-for-wildlife-week/articleshow/78503920.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Delhi||600 LED displays to put Covid info, Delhi govt policy details on the roadsides||NEW DELHI: In a bid to generate awareness about Covid-19, test centres and preventive measures like social distancing and face masks, PWD is going to install 600 LED displays across the city. These boards will also give information about the policies and initiatives taken by the AAP government during the pandemic. The tender for the installation of the boards will be floated after the survey of areas, finalisation of locations, preparation of standard operating procedure and selection of LED and camera types. The execution of the project, road digging, etc will require coordination among civic agencies, said a government official. PWD has floated tenders recently for consultancy services to assess areas for suitability and WiFi access, among other factors, to identify spots where these LED screens could be installed. Currently, LED screens of this sort are installed in areas such as ITO, AIIMS, and Safdarjung to provide information about pollution and air quality. “The new LED displays will provide details on government policies, road safety, women’s safety, pollution level, important helpline numbers, and so on,” said the official. “They will also display public-oriented information, including government schemes, doorstep delivery, hospitals, care centres, dispensaries allotted for Covid tests, etc.” PWD has also taken the initiative to install LED road illumination to boost women’s safety. The new lights under the Mukhyamantri Streetlight Scheme would first be put up in areas identified as “dark spots” SafetiPin in its Safety Assessment Report, 2019. This safety audit had been cleared in September 2019 by the Delhi cabinet. The survey of public spaces was conducted using two apps, My SafetiPin for crowd-sourced data and SafetiPin Nite for the collection of night-time pictures of the city. The factors considered were street lighting, presence of pedestrians, condition of footpaths, availability of public transport and the feeling of security at a spot. The streetlights, said PWD officials, will be controlled remotely, with a sensor turning on the illumination when dark and switching it off at dawn. To be installed on residential buildings, the power consumed will be adjusted in the electricity bill. The project is likely to cost the government about Rs 100 crore. Officials revealed that the number of lights in Delhi post-this installation will go up from seven lakh to 9.1 lakh under the chief minister’s street-lighting scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/600-led-displays-to-put-covid-info-govt-policy-details-on-the-roadsides/articleshow/78502396.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 6, 2020||Pune||Activists, residents seek more visibility of police on roads||Pune: The recent spurt in crime, including murder, carjacking as well as chain- and cellphone-snatching, prompted several residents and activists voice their concern over the criminals’ declining fear for law. The daylight murder of a developer on Monday in a busy area near the district collector’s office barely three days after the Shiv Sena’s youth wing leader, Deepak Maratkar, was stabbed 47 times in front of his house in Budhwar Peth out of old rivalry cast a poser on the city’s law and order situation. Several activists and residents attributed the steady rise in crimes to lack of visibility of police on roads. Academician Vinaya Patil said, “Incidents like the daylight murder near the collector’s office are least expected in a city like Pune, which has no Mumbai-like history of gang wars. I won’t feel safe even if there are policemen patrolling all areas 24X7. The change needs to come in the mindset of people, where violence needs to be conditioned out. The laws are in place, their implementation needs to happen.” Kalyaninagar activist Satish Khot said, “Police are busy in implementing the post-lockdown social distancing norms and are not seen enough on roads in terms of patrolling. The police presence on streets is a must for building confidence of people, feeling unsafe under the prevailing conditions.” Wadgaonsheri resident Rajendra Chauhan echoed Khot. Accepting that the impact of incidents like Monday’s daylight firing on the common man was bad, former director-general of police Pravin Dixit said, “Crimes like firing are pre-planned and deliberate acts. Such incidents need to be checked by curbing access to illicit arms and ammunition, stepping up of criminal intelligence and close monitoring of habitual offenders.” Referring to the current socio-economic situation, former additional director-general of police Rajendra Sonawane said, “Some people are in a desperate mode because of factors like job loss, financial crisis and closure of business establishments for long duration. Deterrence among criminals will increase if trials are expedited with better conviction.” Lawyer Pratap Pardeshi felt monetary and personal disputes were driving such brazen crimes. “Criminals are exploiting the police’s pre-occupation with Covid-19 duties. Newly transferred police personnel lack knowledge of criminals.” Software professional Vishal Ramaiya said, “A specific class in society now has nothing to lose because of the pandemic. It is only about their survival now, which may push them over the edge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-residents-seek-more-visibility-of-police-on-roads/articleshow/78502376.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Two from Delhi-NCR among JEE (Advanced) toppers||NEW DELHI: For the first time since 2017, no candidate from Delhi is among the 10 toppers of JEE (Advanced) this year. However, the national capital region does have two toppers from the IIT-Delhi zone — Vaibhav Raj, a resident of Ghaziabad, who has bagged all-India ranking (AIR) 3 but was studying in Kota, Rajasthan, and Keshav Agarwal of Gurugram at AIR 5. Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), the result of which was declared on Monday, is the qualifying examination for admissions to Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country. In 2017, the Delhi topper, Ananye Agarwal, had AIR 3, and, in 2018, Kailash Gupte also bagged the same rank. Last year, Delhi’s Himanshu Gaurav Singh came second and Archit Bubna third. However, in 2016, the topper from the capital had an AIR of 19. In the JEE (Main) result declared on September 11, among the 24 who had 100 percentile score, five were from Delhi. The JEE (Advanced) topper, Chirag Falor, had appeared from Delhi then. Falor is originally from Pune but was undertaking coaching here. JEE (Main) is the qualifying exam for JEE (Advanced). Its score helps students get admitted to National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and other engineering institutions. R L Trikha, director of coaching institute FIITJEE, highlights that there is no direct correlation between the two exams and JEE (Advanced) requires a different understanding. “JEE (Main) is an examination that checks speed and accuracy, but analytical skill is required to solve the problems of JEE (Advanced),” Trikha said. JEE (Main) has multiple-choice questions and now has also introduced five numerical-based questions, Trikha added. JEE (Advanced), on the other hand, has different types of questions and, “not only conceptual understanding, but deep parallel processes of analytical skills will also have to be developed to solve these problems”, he pointed out. One of the toppers from the city in JEE (Main), Gurkirat Singh, has a 297 score in JEE (Advanced). “First of all, I want to take admission to IISC Bangalore, so I was not focusing on IITs. Also JEE (Advanced) is a six-hour exam, three hours in the morning and three hours in the evening; I had got exhausted by then,” said Singh. In the IIT-Delhi zone, 22 students are in the top 100 and 110 in the top 500 in JEE (Advanced). The IIT-Madras zone has the highest number of students, 24, among the top 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/two-from-ncr-among-jee-advanced-toppers/articleshow/78507816.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 6, 2020||Ghaziabad||Two from Delhi-NCR among JEE (Advanced) toppers||NEW DELHI: For the first time since 2017, no candidate from Delhi is among the 10 toppers of JEE (Advanced) this year. However, the national capital region does have two toppers from the IIT-Delhi zone — Vaibhav Raj, a resident of Ghaziabad, who has bagged all-India ranking (AIR) 3 but was studying in Kota, Rajasthan, and Keshav Agarwal of Gurugram at AIR 5. Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), the result of which was declared on Monday, is the qualifying examination for admissions to Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country. In 2017, the Delhi topper, Ananye Agarwal, had AIR 3, and, in 2018, Kailash Gupte also bagged the same rank. Last year, Delhi’s Himanshu Gaurav Singh came second and Archit Bubna third. However, in 2016, the topper from the capital had an AIR of 19. In the JEE (Main) result declared on September 11, among the 24 who had 100 percentile score, five were from Delhi. The JEE (Advanced) topper, Chirag Falor, had appeared from Delhi then. Falor is originally from Pune but was undertaking coaching here. JEE (Main) is the qualifying exam for JEE (Advanced). Its score helps students get admitted to National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and other engineering institutions. R L Trikha, director of coaching institute FIITJEE, highlights that there is no direct correlation between the two exams and JEE (Advanced) requires a different understanding. “JEE (Main) is an examination that checks speed and accuracy, but analytical skill is required to solve the problems of JEE (Advanced),” Trikha said. JEE (Main) has multiple-choice questions and now has also introduced five numerical-based questions, Trikha added. JEE (Advanced), on the other hand, has different types of questions and, “not only conceptual understanding, but deep parallel processes of analytical skills will also have to be developed to solve these problems”, he pointed out. One of the toppers from the city in JEE (Main), Gurkirat Singh, has a 297 score in JEE (Advanced). “First of all, I want to take admission to IISC Bangalore, so I was not focusing on IITs. Also JEE (Advanced) is a six-hour exam, three hours in the morning and three hours in the evening; I had got exhausted by then,” said Singh. In the IIT-Delhi zone, 22 students are in the top 100 and 110 in the top 500 in JEE (Advanced). The IIT-Madras zone has the highest number of students, 24, among the top 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/two-from-ncr-among-jee-advanced-toppers/articleshow/78507817.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Two from Delhi-NCR among JEE (Advanced) toppers||NEW DELHI: For the first time since 2017, no candidate from Delhi is among the 10 toppers of JEE (Advanced) this year. However, the national capital region does have two toppers from the IIT-Delhi zone — Vaibhav Raj, a resident of Ghaziabad, who has bagged all-India ranking (AIR) 3 but was studying in Kota, Rajasthan, and Keshav Agarwal of Gurugram at AIR 5. Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), the result of which was declared on Monday, is the qualifying examination for admissions to Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country. In 2017, the Delhi topper, Ananye Agarwal, had AIR 3, and, in 2018, Kailash Gupte also bagged the same rank. Last year, Delhi’s Himanshu Gaurav Singh came second and Archit Bubna third. However, in 2016, the topper from the capital had an AIR of 19. In the JEE (Main) result declared on September 11, among the 24 who had 100 percentile score, five were from Delhi. The JEE (Advanced) topper, Chirag Falor, had appeared from Delhi then. Falor is originally from Pune but was undertaking coaching here. JEE (Main) is the qualifying exam for JEE (Advanced). Its score helps students get admitted to National Institutes of Technology (NITs) and other engineering institutions. R L Trikha, director of coaching institute FIITJEE, highlights that there is no direct correlation between the two exams and JEE (Advanced) requires a different understanding. “JEE (Main) is an examination that checks speed and accuracy, but analytical skill is required to solve the problems of JEE (Advanced),” Trikha said. JEE (Main) has multiple-choice questions and now has also introduced five numerical-based questions, Trikha added. JEE (Advanced), on the other hand, has different types of questions and, “not only conceptual understanding, but deep parallel processes of analytical skills will also have to be developed to solve these problems”, he pointed out. One of the toppers from the city in JEE (Main), Gurkirat Singh, has a 297 score in JEE (Advanced). “First of all, I want to take admission to IISC Bangalore, so I was not focusing on IITs. Also JEE (Advanced) is a six-hour exam, three hours in the morning and three hours in the evening; I had got exhausted by then,” said Singh. In the IIT-Delhi zone, 22 students are in the top 100 and 110 in the top 500 in JEE (Advanced). The IIT-Madras zone has the highest number of students, 24, among the top 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-from-ncr-among-jee-advanced-toppers/articleshow/78502385.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 6, 2020||Pune||Criminal held for theft of cellphone||Pune: The Yerawada police on Sunday arrested a criminal on record for attacking and robbing a private firm employee of two cellphones at Raj Chowk around 7.45pm on October 3. “The suspect, Navnath Adagale (35), was arrested after a CCTV camera captured him committing the crime on Saturday,” assistant inspector Balbhim Nanaware said. Nanaware said the employee — Rahul Bansode (46) from Yerawada — was on his way home when Adagale waylaid him and demanded money. “After Bansode refused, Adagale attacked him and robbed his two cellphones, worth Rs22,700, before fleeing the scene,” Nanaware added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-held-for-theft-of-cellphone/articleshow/78502386.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||2 involved in int’l drug and weapon smuggling racket arrested||Chandigarh: Punjab police have arrested two members of an international drug and weapon smuggling network being operated through BSF constable Sumit Kumar alias Noni, who was arrested earlier. Police, on Sunday, also recovered a 7.65 mm pistol etched with made in Italy markings, heroin, drug proceeds, two mobile phones, two wi-fi dongles and a KTM racing bike from their possession. DGP Dinkar Gupta said the two accused were arrested on October 4 near Kartarpur in Jalandhar when they were on a heroin delivery mission. The arrested accused include Simranjeet Singh alias Simran (26) of Dhirpur village in Jalandhar and Balram Singh (26) of Surakhpur village in Kapurthala district. He said the bike the drug smugglers were riding had been stolen from the parking lot of a private university. Police have registered a case against them under relevant sections of the NDPS Act, Arms Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Simranjeet was wanted in the murder case of sand gravel businessmen of Hamira village in Kapurthala about 10 months ago in Dhirpur village. He was at large. AIG, counter intelligence, Jalandhar, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said earlier, Punjab police arrested one Amanpreet Singh of Dhirpur village in a murder case of sand gravel businessman of Hamira village. Later, it was found that Amanpreet and his brothers were in contact with one Shah Musa of Pakistan for smuggling of drugs across the international border. During the probe, it came to light that Amanpreet had come into contact with Shah Musa through BSF constable Sumit who was lodged in Gurdaspur jail in connection with a murder case. The conspiracy to smuggle drugs and weapons from across the border had been hatched in Gurdaspur jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-involved-in-intl-drug-and-weapon-smuggling-racket-arrested/articleshow/78502387.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Vadodara||Auto driver thrashed over garbage burning succumbs, 3 booked||VADODARA: An auto-rickshaw driver, was attacked by three persons following arguments over burning of garbage last week, succumbed to injuries during treatment at a hospital in Ahmedabad on Monday. The 21-year-old auto-rickshaw Jignesh Pawar was resident of Ektanagar on Ajwa Road. According to police, Pawar was attacked when he was leaving for work on the evening of September 30. At a few metres from his house, a woman named Reshma Shabirsha and her son Bunty were burning garbage on road. As Pawar was irked by it, he started scolding the duo and soon the situation became tense as Pawar picked up a broom, while Bunty and his mother Shabirsha picked up iron pipes to attack each other. Bunty’s uncle too joined the duo in beating Pawar. Police said that Pawar was injured on his head and there was another injury near his eyes. Other people from his neighbourhood took Pawar to Jamnabai Hospital for treatment from where he was referred to civil hospital in Ahmedabad. “The injury on his head was grievous due to which he succumbed,” said a police official. The three accused were nabbed on the day of the attack and were sent to judicial custody. “Earlier they were booked for assault, but on Monday we added the section of murder in the original FIR,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/auto-driver-thrashed-over-garbage-burning-succumbs-3-booked/articleshow/78499884.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Accident victim’s bike stolen||Pune: A motorcycle worth Rs 20,000 belonging to an accident victim was stolen from the accident spot in Katraj ghat section while he was being shifted to a hospital in Dhankawdi during the wee hours of September 29. Police said Shivaji Shankar Khandagale (46) of Ambegaon Budruk had lodged a complaint in this regard. Senior inspector Vasant Kuvar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI, “Khandagale’s nephew Sunil Pandit Raut (31) was heading towards Pune from Kolhapur. Raut, a resident of Kolhapur, lost control over his motorcycle and collided against the road divider. The bike was at the spot when he was shifted to the Bharati Hospital.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/accident-victims-bike-stolen/articleshow/78502390.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen ask PSIEC to extend deadlines, waive penalities||LUDHIANA: After no significant bounce back in business since the lifting of the lockdown in a phased manner, businessmen are delaying the expansion plans of their factories and postponing setting up of new industrial units. But the businessmen opting for this decision are facing problems as in designated industrial areas like focal points, the authorities concerned like Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) has fixed the deadlines for submission of building plans, commencement of construction and commencement of production, etc. In case businessmen do not comply with these deadlines, they will be slapped with heavy penalties. In the wake of such a situation businessmen are now demanding that the PSIEC extends all its deadlines and waives penalties. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), said, “Due to coronavirus and lockdown, the industrial sector has been very badly impacted. Whether it was micro, small or medium-scale industry, all have been affected. Due to these reasons, there have been unprecedented losses to the industry and there are hundreds of businessmen who have deferred the expansion plans while some have even stopped or slowed down the construction of their new units due to lack of funds.” Kular added, “Most of such cases of stopping or postponing of construction of industrial units are being witnessed in focal points, where PSIEC is the nodal agency and the businessmen have been unable to comply with various deadlines fixed by it. Like in case of factory owners which have already submitted building plans and which were approved till June 30, 2019, the deadline of commencing production was September 30, 2020, but there is not even a single factory owner who has been able to commence production. So, the need of the hour is that the PSIEC extends all its deadlines, be it submission of building plan, commencement of construction or start of production date.” According to Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, senior vice-president of FICO, “We have already shot off a letter to chief minister Amarinder Singh and apprised him of this serious issue. Everyone is fully aware that during the past seven months Covid crisis has hit our industry and trade very hard and the lockdowns have made it very difficult for all industrial units to operate, so making any profits during this period is out of question. When there are no profits, where from the businessmen will bring money to construct and expand their factories. Industry needs a lot of time to come out of this situation and therefore these deadlines of building plans, construction deadlines, etc. should immediately be extended for at least two more years and in case any penalties had been imposed on any of the businessmen by the PSIEC, those should be rolled back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-ask-psiec-to-extend-deadlines-waive-penalities/articleshow/78500987.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyderabad: Case against She teams inspector||HYDERABAD: A case was registered against Cyberabad She teams inspector Sunitha based on the complaint lodged by a local businessman. Alleging that Sunitha is in illegal possession of the land that belongs to him, Hari Prasad lodged a complaint with Madhapur police on Saturday. “Hari Prasad claimed that he purchased 493 square yards land in Guttala Begumpet from Abraham in 2001. However, SHE Teams inspector Sunitha’s family also has a document showing purchase of the same land from Abhraham in 2008. The land is currently in possession of Sunitha. Based on the complaint of Hari Prasad, a case was registered against Sunitha under sections 447 and 421 of the IPC,” Madhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu said. Madhapur inspector P Ravindra Prasad said that Hari Prasad is a local politician cum businessman. “We will write to revenue authorities and obtain details. We also need to examine the documents in possession of both the parties,” the inspector said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-she-teams-inspector/articleshow/78502397.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Vadodara||Two held for bootlegging in Akota||Vadodara: The state vigilance sleuths raided a house in Akota near the police line on Sunday night and nabbed two persons for bootlegging activities.Police said that they had received information about two men selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor from a house in a Gujarat Housing Board building in Akota. Based on the tip-off, the raid was conducted and two persons — Jitendra Patil and Anil Uttekar were found there. When the house was searched, cops found 1,557 bottles and beer cans worth Rs 2.7 lakh.Jitendra told police that the illicit business is handled by his younger brother Yogesh Patil. Jitendra had been handling the business since a week in absence of Yogesh. During the police investigation, it was also learnt that the liquor stock was bought from the notorious bootlegger Lalu Sindhi. “The stock was bought from Sindhi on Sunday morning and they used to sell the liquor to retail customers,” a police official said.The seized liquor stock and the duo’s custody was handed over to Gotri police station, where an offence was registered against Jitendra, Yogesh, Uttekar and Sindhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-held-for-bootlegging-in-akota/articleshow/78499930.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Case of luxury car robbery solved in 4 hours||Chandigarh: Haryana police cracked a robbery case within four hours, in which a gang looted five Mercedes Benz cars worth Rs 3.5 crore from a container truck at gunpoint in Nuh district. One person was arrested. A Haryana police spokesperson said the incident took place on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. The miscreants took the driver hostage at gunpoint before fleeing with the vehicle, which was loaded with Mercedes cars worth nearly Rs 3.5 crore. A case was registered and special teams were formed to recover the looted goods by arresting the accused. Working on intelligence and other inputs, police teams conducted raids and arrested an accused, namely Razzak, a resident of Nai in district Nuh from near a petrol pump. The team also recovered the container laden with the cars. The arrested accused is being interrogated to nab the others involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/case-of-luxury-car-robbery-solved-in-4-hours/articleshow/78502394.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal’s Debmalya gets 27th rank in CLAT 2020||BHOPAL: With 27th All India Rank (AIR), Bhopal’s Debmalya Biswas made Bhopalis proud in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 results, declared on Monday. The 17-year-old Debmalya had decided to opt for law, after completing class 10. “I think that helped me score a good ranking as I got ample time for my studies,” said Debmalya, who did his schooling from Sagar Public School Saket Nagar and cleared the CLAT with a good rank in first attempt. He secured 98.25 out of 147 in the CLAT result. His father Dr Debasis Biswas works for AIIMS while mother Supti is a homemaker. About his preparation, he said, “I think regularly reading newspapers and being updated with the academics played an important role in getting me a good score. Focused approach and deciding much earlier about the career is important in cracking the exam.” The Consortium of National Law Universities published the result of both undergraduate and postgraduate law entrance exams at consortiumofnlus.ac.in. Around 75,183 candidates had applied for CLAT-2020 out of which 86.20 per cent appeared for the test. CLAT 2020 was originally scheduled in May but was postponed because of the pandemic and held in September. Because of Covid-19, the exam was held in computer-based mode, at 300 centres. Bhopal students’ abysmal show at JEE AdvanceThis year students from Bhopal did not perform well in the JEE Advance results. Topper from the state capital Divyansh Agarwal secured All India Rank 348. Students who qualify for the exam need to fill up the choices for the colleges and the branches. The seats across IITs, NITs, IIITs and other Govt. Funded Technical Institutes (GFTIs) will be offered and allocated through a common process by the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopals-debmalya-gets-27th-rank-in-clat-2020/articleshow/78501009.cms||Laveena Francis
October 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ice age returns, while you wait at IGI Airport||NEW DELHI: Wondering what to do with your time while waiting to board a flight from Indira Gandhi International Airport? Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) has come up with a solution. Passengers will now be able to enjoy the virtual experience of a roller coaster, an urban landscape, ice age and other scenic views through the “Virtual Reality Dome” set up inside the airport premises. The virtual reality apparatus has been set up in the domestic departures pier of Terminal-3 near gate 41 with shows ranging from 7 to 15 minutes based on the choice of a user, officials said. “IGI Airport has been a hub of experiences. With the launch of the world’s first Virtual Reality Dome at the airport, we continue to provide an enhanced travel experience to our passengers. The launch of this digital travel platform has been done keeping all safety measures in place given the outbreak of the pandemic,” said DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar. The virtual dome became operational last week and 80 passengers on average have been using the facility daily. The seats are sanitised after each user leaves the facility to prevent the next one from getting infected. “Only eight people are allowed at a time to be seated inside the dome, which is about five metres in diameter, to ensure social distancing. Users also enter the dome with their shoes covered to prevent contamination by the novel coronavirus,” said a DIAL official. The digital platform has been developed by a Hyderabad-based concessionaire. It integrates 360-degree virtual reality content for the global travel and tourism industry. Developed as a mini-planetarium, the semi-circular structure boasts of a curved screen that gives a life-size cinematic platform to provide real immersive end-to-end travel experiences to passengers, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ice-age-returns-while-you-wait-at-igi/articleshow/78502402.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Pune||Burglars hit 5 places, steal Rs 9 lakh booty||Pune: Cash and gold ornaments collectively worth Rs9 lakh were stolen in separate burglaries in Pimpri Chinchwad in the last three days. The thefts took place at Chinchwad, Bhosari, Chakan and Dehu Road. Burglars broke into a house at Chinchwadenagar and made off with Rs10,000 cash and gold ornaments worth Rs6.20lakh. Burglars looted gold ornaments worth Rs1.87 lakh from a flat at Nisarga Pride society. CCTV camera and recorder worth Rs18,000 were stolen from Khed taluka. Rs65,000 worth of parts were stolen from Chakan, while cellphone and cash worth Rs16,000 were stolen from Dehu Road. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-hit-5-places-steal-rs-9-lakh-booty/articleshow/78502401.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hemanth case: Four missing accused held in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: Four missing accused, including the hired assailants, who were involved in the murder of Chintha Yoga Hemanth Kuma, were nabbed by the Cyberabad police on Monday. The four accused S Raju, Y Krishna, Mohammed Pasha and B Sayanna were apprehended at Vattinagulapally. Raju is said to have coordinated with the assailants Krishna, Pasha and another accused Bichu Yadav, who was arrested earlier. The hired killers were assured money by Yugender Reddy, a prime accused and uncle of Hemant’s wife Avanthi. Yugender is also Raju’s friend. They conspired together on the wishes of Avanthi’s parents to carry out the honour killing. Both Humanth and Avanthi were kidnapped from their residence in TNGO colony. While both of them managed to jump out of the moving vehicle, Hemanth was kidnapped again. He was strangled to death with his hands and legs tied and his body was later thrown out of a car at an isolated place in Sangareddy. Following the murder, police arrested 14 accused, including the prime accused and Avanthi’s parents. The ornaments of the deceased, which the accused had stolen after committing the offence, were also recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hemanth-case-four-missing-accused-held/articleshow/78502413.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bhubaneswar||As complications rise, govt shifts focus to post-Covid care||Bhubaneswar: With many patients showing symptoms even after recovering from Covid-19, and some even passing away, the state government is now focusing on long-term care of recovered individuals. Additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra on Monday said more than 85% of Covid patients with no symptoms or mild symptoms were not showing any post-Covid complications, but a miniscule percentage was coming back to hospitals with complications aggravated by comorbidities. “Our team of experts are advising patients on dos and don’ts depending on their clinical condition. They are sensitising them to possible complications and such patients are encouraged to seek treatment in hospital,” Mohapatra said. “All the medical colleges are ready to deal with post-Covid care. Like Covid patients, the condition of Covid-recovered patients will continue to be monitored,” he added. Senior BJD MLA Pradeep Maharathy had to return to hospital within two days of his discharge on September 28 with post-Covid bilateral viral pneumonia complicated with bacterial pneumonia, urosepsis with scrotal cellulitis and severe acquired respiratory distress syndrome. He died of septic shock with multi-organ failure leading to cardiac arrest on October 4. Maharathy had type-2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and morbid obesity. Nihar Ranjan Parida (60), a physician posted at Jaypatna community health centre in Kalahandi district, had died on August 27, three days after he was discharged from a Covid hospital on August 24. Parida had been admitted in a Covid hospital in Bhubaneswar on August 15 after he tested positive for the virus. Alok Kanungo, a known diabetologist and founder chairman of Kanungo Institute of Diabetes Specialities, said people discharged from hospitals after treatment of Covid infections must note the fact that the virus might have gone, but the damage caused by it to internal organs might lead to complications. “Many people are reporting strokes and cardiac arrests. Post-Covid, one must guard against comorbidities and self-monitor their blood sugar and blood pressure. In case of any doubts, one should consult a doctor,” Kanungo said. Jayant Panda, the government’s technical adviser on Covid-19, said weakness and fatigue for some days were common to many patients and were not a cause of worry. However, people should monitor their comorbidities and consult doctors in case of any problem, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/as-complications-rise-govt-shifts-focus-to-post-covid-care/articleshow/78499910.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Negative report must for ‘outside’ devotees to attend Theerthodbhava||Madikeri: In a bid to limit the number of devotees arriving for the annual Cauvery Theerthodbhava festival at Talacauvery, district police, following a directive from Kodagu district minister V Somanna, have made a Covid negative test report mandatory for devotees from other states. The event attracts pilgrims from across Karnataka, mostly Bengaluru and Mysuru, and from neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu and Kerala. This year’s event is scheduled for October 17. Kshama Mishra, superintendent of police, said, “We are chalking out strategies to limit the number of people coming from other states. We will soon decide whether to organise checking at border or elsewhere.” MLA and former speaker KG Bopaiah said the decision was taken during Somanna’s recent visit to Kodagu. “I had brought it to the notice of the minister and he instructed authorities to make it mandatory for those coming from outside the state to have a Covid negative certificate. People coming from districts in Karnataka should compulsorily wear masks. Thermal checking and sanitising will be done for all before they enter temples.” B Thammaiah, president of Talacauvery and Bhagamndala temple committee, confirmed the decision and requested pilgrims to maintain social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/negative-report-must-for-outside-devotees-to-attend-theerthodbhava/articleshow/78500136.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Teachers hope to get their jobs back after schools reopen||BHOPAL: Gradual reopening of schools has brought smiles on the faces of teachers. Many of them had lost their jobs during lockdown; but now they hope to get them back as life stumbles back to normalcy. With schools closed for months, citing financial losses, the managements had either cut down their salaries or removed many teachers from jobs. But some of the teachers said that school authorities have recently approached them to resume their services. “I was at home for almost six months. It was not an easy time as my husband and I were running home together. After I was removed from service, the entire burden came on him. He had also witnessed a salary cut, which created many problems for our family,” said a school teacher Neha Verma. She added that the school has asked her to join again from next month. “This news has brought a sense of relief to my family. I am not the only one facing such a crisis; there are several other teachers facing the same problem. I request the schools to give their jobs back to them,” said Neha. Teachers who witnessed salary cuts are also expecting revival of their salaries. “I am the only earner in my family; we have been in deep financial trouble. I am hoping that schools will revive the salary after opening their campuses,” said Vineet Singh, a private school teacher. School managements, however, said that they have no problem in recalling the teachers, but they expect proper fee payment from parents. “After the court order, several parents have started paying the fee which is a good sign for schools. However, there are still a lot of parents who have not paid the pending dues. I request all of them to pay the tuition fee, so that schools can pay the teachers,” said a school owner, requesting anonymity. Most of the schools have reopened in Bhopal since September 21. As per the DEO Bhopal Nitin Saxena, almost 75 per cent schools have opened again and others are likely to be reopen after October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/teachers-hope-to-get-their-jobs-back-after-schools-reopen/articleshow/78501073.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 6, 2020||Ludhiana||With trains suspended, transporters do brisk business||LUDHIANA: After the passenger and parcel trains remained suspended for almost a week due to farmers’ agitation and with no certainty of its resumption, transporters are doing brisk business. City businessmen (majority of who are in garment business), who used to dispatch their out-of-state orders through the railways have now started getting these booked through road transport. The transporters, meanwhile, are reporting an increase in queries and business, but are of the view that this is just a temporary situation and will not benefit them in the long run. Vinod Thapar, chairman of the Knitwear Club said, “After more than six months, demand for garments and hosiery goods has started picking up, but unfortunately the railways, which is the lifeline of the garment industry, had to suspend its operations due to farmers’ agitation. A huge quantity of cartons of garments were brought back from the railway station by our member factories after all trains were suspended last week from Ludhiana. Now, all consignments are being dispatched through road transport. Moreover, we have decided that until the operations of the railways resume fully, we will use road transport only. Though it’s costlier than railways, we are helpless as we cannot afford to take risk of cancellation of our orders.” Charan Singh Lohara, chairman of All India Motor Transport Congress, added that, “There has been a little increase in inquiries from customers during the past few days, especially for longer routes like Assam, West Bengal, etc. This movement in our business is temporary and whenever in the next few days trains will start running the situation will be again the same for us. Our trade has suffered the most in the last months as we had to sit idle without business as the factories, shops, stores, etc. were not open. But there was no respite for us in terms of expenditure and as a result every transport owner has been left cash-strapped now. All our requests to the central government to help us have fallen on deaf ears and it seems unlikely that anything will be done for the transporters in this country.” According to Niranjan Singh, another transporter from city, “As of now, we are getting maximum queries from garment factories while rest of our business is still at about 40% as compared to earlier times. In the long run the garment industry will never opt for road transport for their deliveries for long routes as trucks take lot of time for delivery as compared to railways and freight of road transport is costlier too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-trains-suspended-transporters-do-brisk-business/articleshow/78501037.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Chennai||Subsidised cement scheme hit as pvt manufacturers back out||Chennai: The lack of support from private manufacturers has hit the government’s Amma Cement Scheme that offers at a flat Rs 190 a 50-kg bag that retails at Rs 340-Rs 370. Procurement by Tamil Nadu Cements Corporation Limited (TANCEM), the nodal agency, has dropped from more than 1 lakh tonnes a month a year ago to just 30,000 tonnes a month now. Beneficiaries in Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts received an approximate 1,500 tonnes in September. In 2016 and 2017, beneficiaries in Chennai alone got 2,300 tonnes to 4,200 tonnes a month, shows official data. The plunge in procurement comes at a time when prices of portland pozzolana cement (PPC) have risen by Rs 120 a 50-kg bag in the past four months. The Amma scheme, under which an individual sourcing 750 bags can save about Rs 1.3 lakh on construction cost, appears to have disappeared in Chennai and suburbs, after active implementation till a few years ago, said Builders Association of India state treasurer S Ramaprabhu. A TANCEM official said procurement had taken a beating due to private manufacturers refusing to provide cement. “They have been citing the rise in input cost and dip in production for reducing the supply. The government has convened a meeting with cement suppliers to resolve the issue,” the official told TOI. While distribution in Chennai and neighbouring districts had not been affected, rest of Tamil Nadu has been hit, the official added. Manufacturers say the government had failed to revise the procurement rate for seven years and demand that the authorities concerned take a decision in this regard immediately. Ramco Cements Limited chief executive officer Dharmakrishnan said the state government was procuring cement from manufacturers at Rs 185 a bag, which did not go to cover even the production cost. “We have appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to increase the procurement cost during a recent meeting. Moreover, the government also has pending dues for manufacturers regarding procurement for the scheme,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/subsidised-cement-scheme-hit-as-pvt-manufacturers-back-out/articleshow/78501089.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||Deoghar boy tops state in JEE(A), bags 2nd rank in national SC category||RANCHI/DHANBAD: The JEE Advanced results were declared on Monday and Deoghar-based Souravdeep Das became the state topper by securing an All India Ranking (AIR) of 120. A student of Ramkrishna Mission Vidyapeeth, Deoghar, he secured the second place at the national level in the SC category, the school said in a statement. Das is planning to take admission in IIT, Mumbai in order to pursue a course in computer science. He has also qualified for the Indian Institute of Science through the Kishore Vaigyanik Portshahan Yojana. Dhanbad-based Anushka secured the second position in Jharkhand by scoring an Air of 177. A student of Doon Public School, 17-year-old Anushka said, “I believe studying every day from 4am to 1pm contributed to my success. I made conscious effort of staying away from social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram and even uninstalled WhatsApp about a year ago.” She added that she would often listen to music to de-stress and listening to Korean boy band BTS was her biggest stressbuster during her prep for JEE. When asked to give a word of advice to all the JEE aspirants, she said, “Studying every day for five to six hours is necessary to cover the entire syllabus and to revise whatever one has studied.” DPS, Ranchi student Dayal Kumar topped in the city by scoring an AIR of 259 while his classmate Akshat Kumar came second with AIR 290. Dayal, who scored 99.99 percentile in JEE Mains, said he was a bit disappointed with his ranking. “I was planning to study computer science in IIT, Delhi but now that’s not possible with this ranking,” a dejected Dayal said. When asked about his preparation for JEE, Dayal said he started the preliminary prep from Class 9 itself and his preparation was on in full swing soon after graduating to Class 11. “With school and coaching classes going on in full swing, there wasn’t much time to prepare and I studied wherever and whenever I got the time.” Like Dayal, Akshat was expecting better performance as well. He claimed that the computer at the test centre malfunctioned while he was taking the exam, leading to a wastage of time and his answers getting delayed. DPS stated that as many as 55 students from the school have qualified in JEE Advanced. As many as 46 students from Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli have qualified in JEE Advanced. Among them, B Anshuman got AIR 651 and Harshit Raj secured AIR 934. School principal Samarjit Jana said, “I hope they become successful engineers after graduating from IIT.” Sankalp Parashar, whose father works at Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited in Patratu, secured AIR 29. Parashar, however, completed his studies from Patna and Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/deoghar-boy-tops-state-in-jeea-bags-2nd-rank-in-natl-sc-category/articleshow/78502881.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||Bihar seat deal likely today, says JMM||Ranchi: The seat-sharing arrangement between JMM and RJD for the Bihar assembly election was likely to be announced on Tuesday, JMM leadership in Ranchi hinted on Monday. Party’s senior office bearers said the final contours of the deal will be chalked out between JMM working president Hemant Soren and his RJD counterpart Tejashwi Yadav in a telephone conversation that was scheduled late on Monday night. “A discussion is due between the two leaders late in the night. We are hopeful that things will be finalized and announced by Tuesday,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya told TOI. The mahagathbandhan coalition in Bihar had agreed last Saturday that JMM will be allotted seats by RJD from its quota of 145 along with Mukesh Sahni’s VIP. JMM had been demanding between 12-18 seats in Bihar’s bordering districts with Jharkhand and assembly constituencies with a considerable population of tribal voters. However, the grapevine has it that the RJD leadership is unwilling to allot more than four seats considering that JMM does not have any stronghold in Bihar and has no organizational base. On June 29, JMM had officially staked claimed to contest in Tarapur, Katoria, Manihari, Jhajha, Banka, Thakurganj, Rupauli, Pranpur, Banmankhi, Jamalpur, Pirpainti and Chakai assembly seats. JMM has been contesting in Bihar assembly polls since 1985 and had pulled off its best performance in the 1990 polls by bagging 19 seats. It did not win any seat in the 2010 and 2015 polls. This year, JMM has been allotted a walking stick as its poll symbol as its bow and arrow bears resemblance with the election symbol of JD(U), which is one of Bihar’s principal parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bihar-seat-deal-likely-today-says-jmm/articleshow/78502781.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||Tipplers ditch kadha for brandy, black rum, wine||Ranchi: Seven months into the pandemic, people who had changed their diet and choice of drink are now back in the habit. After spending their evenings through the summer months with the bitter kadha, vitamin pills and spices to keep the coronavirus at bay, many tipplers are now trying out booze-based “tonics to stay health and increase immunity”. Looking for a “happier” alternative to the desi kadha, Sunny Agarwal, a 41-year-old realtor in Ranchi, is counting on a concoction of black rum, warm water cinnamon powder and honey to ease his sore throat. He has also experimented with his “magic tonic” on family elders. “We sometimes use honey, tulsi and lemon with a shot of vodka to manage fatigue,” he said. Taking the doctor’s advice to include Vitamin C-rich citrus fruits in daily diet to boost immunity to the heart, Amit Chokhani has given up on water and soft drinks and now uses freshly prepared orange juice and Aloe Vera extract to mix up his daily fix of vodka. “No matter what anyone says, alcohol is not just intoxicating, it also boosts immunity. This is evident from the fact that we feel rejuvenated after a couple of pegs at the end of a tiring day,” the Dhanbad-based coal trader said. In the garrison town of Ramgarh, Anish does up a dose of brandy for his family every evening. “This drink is the only form of alcohol that is healthy and recommended by doctors. Most brands of brandy are not commonly available here, so I got a few bottles from Kolkata and use it regularly in small quantities to keep cold and cough at bay,” said the businessman. Even those who loved to beat the evening heat with a bottle of chilled beer have altered their taste as per the times. Petrified by the idea of standing in a queue outside a liquor store, Utpal (name changed on request) learnt how to brew beer from rice at home in the days after the lockdown was eased in June. “I learnt the method on the Internet and now regularly make my beer at home. It is surely better than the ones available in the market, which have unhealthy preservatives. It may not help me fight coronavirus, but it is definitely a healthier alternative,” he insisted. These instances are not anomalies -- even though medical experts have said that alcohol does not have any magical effect of cold and fever, liquor retailers have seen a rise in demand for certain drinks even though alcohol sales have plummeted in the state in the last few months. Amitesh Chakravorty, manager of Suvidha Supermart, which introduced an alcohol corner a couple of months before the lockdown in March, said, “Our customer base was always small as we deal in premium liquor brands. Our regular customers are now picking up wine bottles instead of Scotch as they believing that fruit-based beverages are be rich in vitamins.” However, medical experts have advised against the use of alcohol and said it does not have any property that cures flu or Covid. ENT specialist Dr Abhishek Ramadhin said, “Most recover from viral infections without even getting a fever. Even those who develop a cold or a cough will also recuperate in a few days irrespective of the tonic or drink they consume,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tipplers-ditch-kadha-for-brandy-black-rum-wine/articleshow/78501148.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||Black pepper in diet can prevent Covid, says IIT(ISM) study||SINDRI: In an encouraging development, a computational study conducted by researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (ISM) in Dhanbad have found that piperine, which is commonly present in black pepper, can bind and inhibit the coronavirus. The study conducted by Professor Umakanta Tripathy and his PhD students — Janmejaya Rout and Bikash Chandra Swain — got recently published in the Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics. Tripathy, who teaches at the department of physics in IIT(ISM), said that the coronavirus uses proteins present on its surface to enter human cells. “Our research team, therefore, started looking for natural compounds that could bind to the virus protein and stop it from entering our cells. We picked up 30 molecules found in common spices and started exploring their role as a therapeutic agent,” he added. “Using computer-based techniques like molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation, our research team zeroed in on piperine, an alkaloid present in black pepper and responsible for its pungency. It emerged as a strong inhibitor of the virus protein among all the molecules tested,” Tripathy further said. “Our results look promising as we found that the antiviral properties of pepper, when consumed with diet, can prove to be a boon with no side effects. Although the study is purely computational and requires testing in laboratories for further confirmation, it is still an important lead,” Tripathy said. The computer-based studies are often considered as the first step before laboratory tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/black-pepper-in-diet-can-prevent-covid-says-iitism-study/articleshow/78502616.cms||Anil Ashutosh
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||With 4 deaths, state toll nears 750-mark||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported four Covid casualties, 816 fresh cases and 1,284 recoveries on Monday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 88,046. Of these, 10,436 are active, 76,843 have recovered and 747 have died. The deaths were reported in Ranchi, Dhanbad, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum. The positivity rate was pegged at 4.3% as just 18,929 were tested through the day. Ranchi record the highest numbers on new infections with 319 cases followed by East Singhbhum with 70 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-4-deaths-state-toll-nears-750-mark/articleshow/78502571.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Over 1,500 job seekers turn up for GMC’s interviews, flout Covid prevention norms||PANAJI: The health ministry came under fire on Monday after over 1,500 walk-in interview candidates crowded the administrative block of the Goa Medical College (GMC) in total disregard of the social distancing protocol. The interviews were for 85 multi-task staff posts advertised by the GMC, appointments for which are on contract basis. TimesViewSocial distancing went for a stroll on Monday during the walk-in interviews held by the health ministry for posts of multi-task staff. Scenes of candidates pressing against each other while in a queue to get to the counter were appalling. What’s questionable is the decision to hold interviews at GMC that has several wards full of Covid patients. The interviews would have been better managed if they were spread over a few days and held at a bigger venue, such as a stadium. Better still, interviews for South Goa candidates could have been held at Margao. Given the spike in unemployment during the ongoing pandemic, health authorities should have well expected an overwhelming response from candidates and made necessary arrangements for social distancing. The authorities should have learnt a lesson after the commotion witnessed at GMC last year for collection of job forms, and in 2018 outside the North Goa collectorate at Panaji during walk-in job interviews.“It was complete chaos and even security personnel were unable to maintain discipline with so many applicants present,” an eyewitness said. Video clips of candidates jostling in the administrative block went viral on social media and drew many comments on the safety of those present as well as that of the GMC staff. Some pinned the blame on the health ministry saying it could trigger further spread of Covid-19 while many others said that the authorities ought to have made better arrangements to facilitate candidates to maintain social distancing while attending the walk-in interview. A senior official with the health ministry, however, said that they were taken by surprise by the overwhelming response for the posts of multi-task worker. He said in the past few months response for the posts of multi-task workers advertised was poor due to the pandemic. “Total recruitments could not be done though posts were advertised more than once, as people feared working in a hospital despite the starting salary offered was Rs 18,000,” he said. More than a month ago when the need for more hands was felt with the state expanding health infrastructure for Covid patients on war footing, health minister Vishwajit Rane had spoken about the difficulties faced in recruiting people to work as multi-task workers. Varied jobs are clubbed under the post of multi-task staff. The person appointed could be a patient attendant or could be asked to carry out any other non-technical jobs in a clinical set-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-1500-job-seekers-turn-up-for-gmcs-interviews-flout-covid-prevention-norms/articleshow/78502417.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||No need for test if Covid patient recovers, in good health: Experts||Ranchi: Medical experts in the state have recommended that recovered Covid-19 patients and those who have mild symptoms should not be tested before their discharge from healthcare centres but sent for 10-day home isolation. The recommendations came six months after the pandemic hit the state and various changes were made in protocols of quarantine, isolation, treatment and discharge procedures. After having dealt with a total of over 87,000 infections, the experts now said repetitive tests, which can show positive results, have severe adverse impacts on these patients. They have negligible chances of infecting others but suffer from anxiety and depression even after the beating the virus because of the results, the experts said. Talking to TOI, Dr Jitendra Kumar, a senior microbiologist at the CCL Central Hospital here said, “In asymptomatic patients, the virus load is less and weakened while patients showing symptoms have the virus multiplying inside them. But once the patients recover after a week-long treatment and are in good health, they should not be tested again. The test results might return positive but the virus has been either eliminated or is present in very little amount.” He further said, “There is only one way such a patient can infect another person — transmission by droplets of body fluids through coughing or sneezing. But when the potent source is eliminated, the presence of the less potent virus in the droplets becomes negligible thereby making chances of infecting others very bleak.” The experts also said asymptomatic patients should not worry after getting repetitive positive results from the RT-PCR method as researches by the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention of the Union ministry of health and family welfare has categorically said the RT-PCR can continue to detect “dead” virus fragments for the next three months even after recovery. Dr Jitendra said, “RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard for detection of viruses in swab samples and it is the best possible way to determine infectiousness by amplifying the genetic material of a virus. But the mere presence and detection of amplified genetic material don’t confirm the effectiveness of the microorganisms (the Covid virus in this case). So, RT PCR is a method of detection of a particular microorganism with utmost high sensitivity but its disadvantage lies in the fact that it fails to differentiate between viable and non-viable microorganisms. So a patient with the non-viable virus in their samples will continue to test positive even if the patients have recovered.” Public health experts also said repetitive positive results among mild and asymptomatic patients, who have recovered, harm their mental health and aggravates other diseases. Public health expert and associate professor of preventive and social medicine (PSM) department of Rims, Dr Devesh Kumar, said, “As recovered patients continue to test positive even after they turn asymptomatic and are in good health, they are forced to stay in hospital or at quarantine centres. It makes them get anxious and suffer from depression. The situation worsens when they see severely ill patients in the same ward and start thinking negative.” He added, “If a patient is asymptomatic, I strongly advise them to stay in home isolation so that they can at least have mental support from their friends and family. They should not be worried about a positive test.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-need-for-test-if-covid-patient-recovers-in-good-health-experts/articleshow/78501218.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: CBI raids 14 locations linked to DKS, brother in graft case||BENGALURU: The Central Bureau of Investigation raided 14 locations in Karnataka, Delhi and Mumbai linked to Congress state president DK Shivakumar and his brother, Bengaluru Rural MP DK Suresh, on Monday. The CBI launched the raids around 6am after the Karnataka government gave central sleuths permission to probe corruption charges against him. The raids are likely to continue on Tuesday. The raids come nearly one year after the Congress troubleshooter secured bail in an alleged money-laundering case after spending 50 days in Tihar jail. CBI said it has filed a case against Shivakumar based on allegations of possession of Rs 75-crore disproportionate assets in his and family members’ names. It claimed to have recovered Rs 57 lakh in cash and documents during the raids. The CBI FIR says the DKS family’s assets increased from Rs 33.9 crore in April 2013 to Rs 162.5 crore in just five years. Shivakumar said: “I won’t get bogged down by the ruling party’s intimidating tactics.” Congress leaders questioned the timing of the raids ahead of the November 3 bypolls to Sira and RR Nagar assembly constituencies, terming it ‘vendetta politics’ in the backdrop of Shivakumar exposing the alleged corruption in the BJP government in Karnataka in the procurement of Covid-related equipment. The BJP described protests by the Congress over CBI raids as “ridiculous and meaningless”. The Congress leader was arrested on September 23, 2019, by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the money-laundering case and was lodged in Tihar jail. He was released on October 23 after the Delhi high court granted him bail. Shivakumar, facing money-laundering and income tax-related cases, is facing charges of amassing wealth when he was energy minister in the Congress government from 2014 to 2018. ED sources said they came across alleged larges-cale irregularities during tendering of solar power plants and approving applications to set up solar rooftop panels. Transactions with private generators are under the scanner. In 2017, income-tax officials, while searching premises owned by Shivakumar, reportedly found documents linked to his alleged involvement in money-laundering, besides Rs 7 crore in cash. They referred to the case to the ED. “As the ED has no jurisdiction to probe a graft case, the state government decided to hand over the case to the CBI,” said CBI counsel P Prasanna Kumar. The government’s decision to give permission to the CBI to investigate was challenged by Shivakumar, but it was dismissed. But the high court had, in a ruling on September 28, said there should be no coercive action against Shivakumar. AS Ponnanna, who served as additional advocate general during the Congress government and now a Congress spokesperson, said, “The court had clearly said, ‘Do not precipitate.’ What I understood from this is: ‘They (CBI) should not have acted.’ They should have got it vacated from the court and acted after permission from the court.” Deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayan said the CBI, ED and IT are institutions with functional autonomy to investigate and bring to justice fraudsters. “The raid is in continuation of investigations started by the ED in 2017,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cbi-raids-14-locations-linked-to-dks-brother-in-graft-case/articleshow/78503732.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||No road, Chatra villagers cross river with body on shoulders||Chatra: With no road connectivity, residents of a village in the tribal-dominated Chatra district had to wade across a river, carrying the body of woman on a cot on their shoulders, to take it for postmortem to a hospital 35km away on Sunday evening. A villager said Kaushalaya Devi (35), wife of a farmer Lalesh Ganjhu, died in a lightning strike on Sunday and they had to take her body to sadar hospital for autopsy, which would be needed for the family to get any kind of compensation from the government. “We tied her body on a charpoy and crossed the river with it on our shoulder. We have to take this risk for routine work every day,” said Banshi Ganjhu. Some sources in the village said that a road link would probably have saved the woman as well. “She sustained grievous burn injuries, but could not be rushed to hospital due to lack of a road here. There are chances she would have survived if she received timely treatment,” another villager said. He added that work to construct a bridge across the river began two years ago, but it is yet to be completed. Pictures of locals from Lupugara village under Sikidag panchayat in Kunda block went viral on social media on Monday, exposing how several remote hamlets in the state are still without proper road link. Villagers said such incidents happen every monsoon and people are forced to cross the river by foot to reach a cemented road a km away every time they have to visit the block or district headquarters. Kunda block development officer Shravan Kumar Ram assured the locals that he will pursue the authorities to speed up the work on the bridge. He said, “As per the rules, a compensation of Rs 4 lakh is being processed for the woman’s family on a priority basis. We will try to speed up the work on other infrastructural facilities in the village.” Village mukhiya Gyanti Devi said, “I will take up the matter with the authorities concerned and administration to find out why the construction of the bridge has been stuck.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-road-chatra-villagers-cross-river-with-body-on-shoulders/articleshow/78502550.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||Cong protests against Hathras rape, UP police ‘atrocities’||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) on Monday held a statewide silent “satyagraha” against the alleged gang-rape and murder of a minor dalit girl and manhandling of Congress functionaries in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district. JPCC president Rameshwar Oraon led the programme near the Gandhi statue in Morhabadi in Ranchi and party workers took out a candle march in Harmu in the evening. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The incident, which has caused a nationwide uproar, has exposed that the law and order has failed in the BJP-governed Uttar Pradesh, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi remains silent.” Another spokesperson, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, added that attempts are being made to thwart democratic voices in UP. “They (the UP government) first stopped our central leaders from visiting the victim’s family and the media is also being threatened by them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-protests-against-hathras-rape-up-police-atrocities/articleshow/78501350.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||Decor cut, Puja panels spend more PPEs & sanitisers||Ranchi: As the pandemic looms large, Durga Puja organisers have tweaked their budget and concentrated all their resources on arranging masks, sanitisers and other protective kits at the pandals to curb the virus spread. Some are even planning to live stream the rituals in an effort to prevent pandal-hoppers from gathering at the mandaps. Ashok Purohit, president of Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti (RZDPS), said, “We are going to make provisions for distribution of masks, thermal scanning of members/visitors to pandal and arrange for sanitisers. We have already tweaked our budget and cut down our spending on lighting and other decorative items in and around the pandals to accommodate the Covid safety measures,” he said, adding, “All our affiliated puja samitis have been asked to comply with the same.” Around 100 puja samities are governed by RZDPS. Following the government’s recently issued guidelines on Durga Puja which allow a maximum of seven people inside the pandal/mandap at any given time, the organizers are busy drawing up plans for live streaming the proceedings on their respective social media pages. Purhoit, who is also the president of Rajasthan Mitra Mandal puja samity (RMMPS) which is one of the oldest pujas in the city, informed, “We have asked all our puja samities to make arrangements for live streaming their puja. The idea is to prevent gatherings and excessive turnout at the pandals.” He added that RMMPS has already made a Facebook page and made an account on Instagram and other social media platforms for live streaming of the key puja rituals. “Celebrating a festival like Durga Puja, which attracts scores of devotees, amid a pandemic is going to be a challenge. But we will work in tandem with the district administration to make sure that the festival is celebrated with all precautions intact,” Purohit said. Ashok Choudhary, the president of Bakri Bazar Puja Samiti, said they have slashed their puja budget by more than 90% this year. “We usually spend at least Rs 40-45 lakh every year on Durga Puja. But this time, our budget is around Rs 5 lakh and our puja will be low-key without the pomp but with ample safety measures,” he added. He further said that they are exploring options for virtual screening of their puja to deter crowd from turning up at the pandal. “We anticipate lesser crowd this time since we won’t have a lavish pandal. But having said that, we are looking at live streaming the puja to prevent gatherings at the mandap,” he added. Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, a senior office-bearer of Shri Mahavir Mandal puja samite, said they are currently working on their budget to facilitate the procurement of masks and sanitisers for distribution them among the members and the visitors. “Our yuva dastas (youth volunteers) will be made in-charge of overseeing the Covid safety norms at the puja venue,” said Mishra, who on Sunday held a meeting with other puja organizers to chalk out detailed plans in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/decor-cut-puja-panels-spend-more-ppes-sanitisers/articleshow/78501018.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 6, 2020||Ranchi||Cong poll panel to meet over Bermo candidate tomorrow||Ranchi: The state election committee of Congress will meet on October 7 to decide its candidate for the upcoming by-poll in Bermo. The Bermo constituency, which fell vacant after its sitting MLA Rajendra Singh died in May, is scheduled to go to polls along with the Dumka assembly seat on November 3. While JMM, Congress’s ally in the state government, has named chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother Basant Soren as its candidate for Dumka, the grand old party has not chosen a candidate for Bermo yet. Nominations for the two seats will begin on October 9. State Congress chief Rameshwar Oraon said, “We will meet and recommend names for the Bermo seat to the central leadership of the party. The name of our candidate would be announced at an appropriate time.” Congress sources said that Jaimangal Singh, the son of late Rajendra Singh, is the likely candidate for the Bermo seat. The district unit of the party, however, has sent half a dozen names for Bermo. JMM’s Basant Soren has already started campaigning in Dumka, which is considered as a prestige seat for the tribal party. Election in Dumka is necessitated after chief minister Hemant Soren vacated it to retain Barhait after the 2019 assembly elections. Pollsters, however, said that retaining the two seats might be difficult for the mahagathbandhan, as BJP has got the support of its estranged ally Ajsu Party. During the state polls last year, both BJP and Ajsu Party had fought separately. “The support of Ajsu Party will come in handy in Bermo, more than in Dumka. For the Sudesh Mahto-led party has a considerable base in Bermo,” said a state BJP member. Last week, BJP’s election committee empowered a three-member panel comprising state party president Deepak Prakash, leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi and organizational secretary Dharampal Singh to recommend names of potential candidates to the central leadership. “The names have been sent and an announcement is expected any time,” a BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-poll-panel-to-meet-over-bermo-candidate-tomorrow/articleshow/78501317.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 6, 2020||Goa||Cong: Calling all candidates at one go put lives at risk||Panaji: Congress on Monday accused the state government of endangering lives of patients as well as young job aspirants by organising walk-in interviews at Goa Medical College and Hospital. The party said the health department failed to ensure social distancing while conducting the interviews. “The defective BJP government in Goa has put thousands of young lives at risk by calling them all together for the interview at GMC for the multitasking vacancies,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. “The incompetent BJP government, led by Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane, is knowingly endangering lives of Goans. Calling so many candidates to GMC in a non-staggered manner during this pandemic shows their insensitive nature,” South Goa district president Joseph Dias said. Meanwhile, Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro accused the state government of trying to force the Centre’s agenda on the citizens of Goa. Faleiro said the doubling of the railway tracks, diversion of water from the Mhadei river basin and the rampant destruction of forests was not in the state’s interest. “Today the government of India is trying to impose its agenda to divert the water from Mhadei and to have additional railway lines because they want coal transportation,” Faleiro said. Further, he said Konkan Railway had failed in its assurance to provide jobs to Goans. “Konkan Railway took over lakhs of agricultural land and promised jobs to Goans. It promised land losers the same, but not a single job has been given to Goans,” he said. Interestingly, Congress itself faced flak a week earlier when it organised a protest march to Raj Bhavan where several hundred Congress workers failed to adhere to social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-calling-all-candidates-at-one-go-put-lives-at-risk/articleshow/78502424.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Goa||Promised last mnth, home isolated to get Covid kits today||Panaji: The distribution of Covid-19 kits for asymptomatic patients opting for home isolation will begin from Tuesday. Three weeks ago, health minister Vishwajit Rane had announced that the kits would be given within a week through the primary health centres. “We will start distribution from Tuesday,” said dean of the Goa Medical College (GMC), Dr S M Bandekar, who is also a member of the purchase committee that cleared the proposal. A week ago, a senior official of the health services said that the distribution of kits was delayed was because they had to go through various processes before an order could be placed and that the proposal had to be cleared by the purchase committee. The kits will contain disposal masks, a N-95 mask, pulse oximeter, digital thermometer, and medicines, including vitamins. Rane had said that people in villages choosing home isolation on testing positive may not have access to pulse oximeters, which is an important device to check the oxygen saturation level. If the oxygen saturation level drops, the person may need to be hospitalised. Though health officials regularly keep a tab on those in home isolation in their respective jurisdictions, patients can monitor their oxygen saturation level using the oximeter and immediately seek medical help if there is a drop. Majority of the patients are now opting for home isolation over a Covid care centre. Even those who can’t be home isolated, such as patients above sixty years of age with comorbid conditions, are unwilling to go to a Covid care centre, health officials said. Patients, who do not have a separate room and bathroom, are sent to a Covid care centre so that they do not spread the infection to others in the family. If all in the family test positive then they are allowed to remain in home isolation provided they meet other parameters, a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/promised-last-mnth-home-isolated-to-get-covid-kits-today/articleshow/78502427.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Goa||Mapusa temples shut till Oct 31||Saligao: The executive committees of various temples in Mapusa have decided to remain closed until October 31. It was also decided that all rituals will be performed without public participation. “The annual palki procession of the Hanuman temple, which takes place on the day of Dussehra, has also been cancelled,” president of the Vital Rakhumai temple, Tushar Tople, told TOI . The presidents and committee members of the Vithal Rakhumai temple, Shri Hanuman Maharudra Saunstha, Shri Ganesh temple at Ganeshpuri, Shri Sateri Devi temple, Laxmi Narayan temple, Shri Datta temple, Shri Ganesh temple at Khorlim, Shri Rastroli temple and Ghateshwar temple attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-temples-shut-till-oct-31/articleshow/78502432.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Goa||Post-Covid management at primary health centres soon, says Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said post-Covid management will begin in primary health centres once the infection rate is brought under control. “We cannot predict the number of cases, but whoever approaches a primary health centre for a Covid-19 test will be attended to,” he said. Sawant also said Covid care centres across the state would continue to operate till the infectious disease exists. He said that while some Covid care centres have been kept “on hold”, none has been closed. Some Covid care centres have very few patients as most opt for home isolation, the chief minister explained, due to which the patients at that particular facility are moved to another centre. “If any Covid-19 patients seek to stay at a care centre, they can do so,” he said. The state government is yet to take a call on reopening schools, the chief minister said.  He added that they would consult stakeholders in education and take an appropriate decision in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/post-covid-management-at-primary-health-centres-soon-says-sawant/articleshow/78502445.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Daily caseload has begun to plateau, says Betodkar||Panaji: Goa’s tally of active cases dropped slightly to 4,802 on Monday with recoveries exceeding new cases. As many as 423 people were cured and 391 new cases reported. Mortality count rose to 461with four deaths. Three deaths were reported from the Goa Medical College (GMC) and one from the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. Covid deaths include that of a 40-year-old man from Ganjem-Usgao who had diabetes mellitus and a kidney stone. He developed Covid pneumonia at the time of admission on Saturday. Other deaths include that of two men — a 75-year-old from Panaji and a 76-year-old from Benaulim, Salcete — and a 68-year-old woman from Cumbharjua. All three had comorbid conditions. The woman had respiratory failure when she was admitted to the hospital. Goa has been reporting 400 to 500 cases a day, but with a slight drop in the range of 10 to 15 cases a day, since Thursday, but state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said he would not term it as a “drop”. The only inference that can be drawn he said is that “the cases have plateaued”. “Now, every week we do not see the daily caseload crossing the 700-mark, neither do we see the infection steadily declining. So let’s wait for another ten days. Then I will be able to comment,” Betodkar said. On Monday, Panaji reported 15 more new cases of Covid infection taking its total of active cases to 236. Mayor Uday Madkaikar, who tested positive two days ago, has been shifted to a private hospital for further observation. He had chosen to be in home isolation. Porvorim’s active cases dropped from 297 to 320 owing to recoveries though a few new cases were also found. Three travellers were also found positive in North Goa. Ponda’s tally also dropped from 271 cases to 259 due to recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/daily-caseload-has-begun-to-plateau-says-betodkar/articleshow/78502436.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Goa||Bed shortage as critical cases need longer stay: Docs||Panaji: The shortage of beds for critically-ill Covid-19 patients is partly due to the fact that those who require hospitalisation require lengthy stays, and are only discharged after a fortnight. “People with moderate to severe Covid infection, once admitted, have to be kept for at least 10-15 days in hospital,” said GMC’s head of pulmonary medicine, Dr Durga Lawande. “If they are discharged prematurely, complications can occur.” Another doctor who treats Covid patients in a government hospital said that patients who are discharged sometimes develop breathlessness and collapse. “We have to keep them for 10-12 days,” the doctor said. “We repeat their x-ray. The scan has to be clear and all blood parameters have to be normal. They should not have any fever or cough, and should not turn breathless while walking.” TOI recently quoted health minister Vishwajit Rane as saying that beds for Covid patients are full. With the system overwhelmed, GMC has been accommodating patients even on stretchers and wheelchairs, and has been introducing more wards for the critically-ill . The government has also come under criticism for not making enough beds available when it had time during the lockdown. “It’s very difficult to discharge patients before 15 days,” said consulting physician Dr Oscar Rebello. “You cannot turn over the patients because the critically-ill require long stays.” Another doctor said the state should follow the practice of other hospitals in the country and transfer patients from a Covid ward to a non-Covid ward or non-Covid area after 10-15 days. “They may still be dependent on oxygen and may still test positive, but they’re no longer infectious,” he said. At the ESI hospital in Margao, which has a capacity of 208 beds, seven of which are dialysis beds, the average stay of patients with moderate to severe infection is around ten days. The hospital had 190 patients admitted on Monday morning. “The beds usually get filled up by the end of the day. It’s a very dynamic situation,” said a doctor at the hospital. The South Goa district hospital, with a capacity of 150 beds for moderate cases, also acts as a step down from ESI and GMC. It presently has around 70 admissions. It will take time before it can cater to severe cases as it has no ICU and oxygen therapies that match the requirement of an ICU or ITU. The Ponda sub-district hospital with a capacity of 130, admits moderate cases as well as antenatal, post-natal and children infected with the virus. Patients are also finding it difficult to get admitted to the four private hospitals treating Covid patients, as the beds here too are often full.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bed-shortage-as-critical-cases-need-longer-stay-docs/articleshow/78502448.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 6, 2020||Goa||Sale of fish along roadsides banned in Vasco from today||Vasco: The Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) on Monday decided that no vendor will henceforth be allowed to sell fish along roadsides. MMC chairperson Nandadeep Raut said that from Tuesday, fish will only be allowed to be sold at the fish markets. The MMC took the decision after Vasco’s fisherfolk community protested by shutting the fish market on Monday and demanding that a meeting with stakeholders be convened immediately. “We will not tolerate people selling fish at every nook and corner of Vasco. We lose our business because of this. We have already lost a lot of business since many fish selling points have mushroomed in Vasco,” said Caridade Pereira, a fisher vendor who headed the fisherfolk delegation at the meeting. Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, who chaired the meeting, directed police and Raut to make arrangements to stop the sale of fish outside the market. He assured the fisherfolk that necessary action would be taken against those who continue selling fish illegally. “In the pandemic, many of those who lost their jobs and businesses, including taxi drivers, took up to selling fish. We permitted them as we did not want crowding at once place. But, now this will not be permitted,” said the MMC chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sale-of-fish-along-roadsides-banned-in-vasco-from-today/articleshow/78502451.cms||Ruvina Khan
October 6, 2020||Goa||JMFC at Margao court tests positive||Colva: A judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) posted in Margao tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A bailiff functioning at the same court also tested positive. During the morning session, only advocates who had cases scheduled were allowed inside the premises. In the evening session, entry was largely restricted. During the last couple of months litigants have been barred entry in the premises, but are allowed to submit applications through the windows or receive documents. Sources said a safety system is being practiced by the court staff wherein upon receiving any application it is kept in a box and taken up for processing only after three days. On August 14, after two staff members tested positive, the court was sealed for three days and sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jmfc-at-margao-court-tests-positive/articleshow/78502473.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||3 days before exams, NU’s app giving tough time to students||Nagpur: With just three days left for Nagpur University’s final year examinations, the students are in a quandary following several problems in operating ‘Pariksha App’ couple with a slew of errors in hall tickets. With complaints multiplying with every passing day, the NU administration decided to set up ten dedicated helplines for examinees from Tuesday. Many students are unable to operate the app after downloading it as they couldn’t login. Others are facing difficulties in downloading hall tickets. Even after downloading them, there are numerous errors in their names and roll numbers. In some cases, the names are changed while in others the photos are either missing or wrong ones are posted. Even courses of students are wrongly mentioned or misspelt. Many examinees having iPhones aren’t able to download the app as it lacks an android system while some using Vivo handsets too are facing similar problems. The distressed students are approaching NU’s former and current statutory members with their difficulties in absence of any dedicated helplines. Admitting that they were receiving several complaints from the examinees, Board of Examination and Evaluation director Prafulla Sable told TOI that he along with the entire staff were sitting in the office to resolve their issues. “We would be launching ten helplines from Tuesday which would be managed by employees from university and Promarc Company that has developed the app. We had arranged their training session in the morning at the exam section. We had already set up coordination panels of young teachers at college level to help the students with the help of principals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-days-before-exams-nus-app-giving-tough-time-to-students/articleshow/78501195.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Encroachments stall NHAI bid to build service lanes in Vishakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: A year since it took up the project, the Visakhapatnam project implementation unit (PIU) of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has failed to remove encroachers from both sides of National Highway (NH)-16 to make way for service lanes. Speaking to TOI, NHAI authorities said they have been unable to implement the project due to lack of cooperation from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and the district administration. “From preparing the list of encroachers to consulting the GVMC, district administration and city police, we tried our level best to remove encroachers by any means. But nothing materialised. We were expecting better cooperation from these bodies, especially GVMC,” P Siva Sankar, project director of Visakhapatnam PIU told TOI. A report prepared and drafted by N Hari Krishna, former DGM of Visakhapatnam PIU, stated that the highway stretch of six kilometers that passes through the city’s limits has no less than 227 encroachers. Of these illegal encroachments, 208 have set up permanent stalls, which include popular bars, restaurants, bakeries, automobile units and garment houses. “Last year, when this report was prepared in June by the NHAI project director, he had asked the traffic police and GVMC to go out for an inspection. But we have seen that GVMC officials were least bothered about the matter,” a senior NHAI official said. Officials added that if these encroachments are removed, the NHAI can construct service roads on a few stretches adjacent to NH-16. Autorickshaws, two-wheelers and vehicles intending to take a diversion can use these service roads and ease traffic movement on highway. “The project was planned keeping in mind the future traffic flow on the highway within the city limits. However, it became all the more essential after the government announced setting up Visakhapatnam as the executive capital. Till now, apart from a few encroachers at Kommadi Junction, we could not remove a single one. That too, the drive took place following a high court verdict,” the official added. GVMC officials, however, refuted the claim that they were unwilling to remove encroachers. The civic body said it is not possible to drive away encroachers overnight, especially the permanent ones, as they have been operating for years with valid permits and licences. “We are issuing licences and permits to these stores for years. How can we ask them to vacate and demolish the structures overnight? But following a court order we did not waste time to remove the encroachers from Kommadi Junction,” a senior GVMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/encroachments-stall-nhai-bid-to-build-service-lanes/articleshow/78500121.cms||Arpit Basu
October 6, 2020||---||Votes for JD(U) will compel children to flee Bihar: Chirag||NEW DELHI: In less than 24 hours after announcing LJP's decision to go solo in the Bihar polls, its chief Chirag Paswan on Monday reiterated there will be a "BJP-LJP" government in the state under the leadership of BJP. "All MLAs of LJP will work under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi," he wrote in an open letter to voters on Monday, bringing out his contradictory approach towards the two NDA players and giving more reason for JD(U) to insist on his expulsion from the alliance. He and his party leaders have said they will accept any BJP chief minister. Chirag also escalated his attack on CM Nitish Kumar and warned voters that even a single vote for any JD(U) candidate will only compel their children to flee from the state, indicating a poll theme focusing on joblessness and migration. The party's ticket distribution is keenly awaited since it declared it will contest against JD(U). The possibility of LJP staying out of NDA and making "anti incumbency" against Kumar its chief plank was not anticipated either by BJP or JD(U). The LJP chief's indication to play up the migration issue just before the campaign has an obvious political connotation, given he had attacked Kumar on the issue of returning migrants during the lockdown. Sources said the party would raise the issue of the "unfulfilled promise" of the current government to bring back migrants by creating employment opportunities and accelerating development in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/votes-for-jdu-will-compel-children-to-flee-bihar-chirag/articleshow/78504482.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Amid Covid pandemic, dengue spreading its tentacles in Nagpur||NAGPUR: In a double whammy of sorts amid the deadly Covid-19 infection taking a heavy toll, dengue — mosquito-borne viral disease — cases are on the rise in the city. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s malaria and filarial department has detected 18 dengue cases, including four female patients, from different parts of the city in September. “From January 1 to September 30, dengue virus has infected 66 people and claimed one life in the city,” said a senior official from the department. In September, six dengue-infected persons were found from Ashi Nagar zone alone, followed by Mangalwari zone 4, Hanuman Nagar 3 and Dhantoli and Gandhibagh zones 2 each, revealed the department’s data. As per the data for September, one dengue patient each was detected from the prabhag of former mayor and MLC Pravin Datke and deputy mayor Dayashankar Tiwari. One patient was also detected from prabhag number one represented by health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja, while his neighbouring prabhag number 2, under Ashi Nagar zone, which has four Congress corporators including Manoj Sangole, has four patients suffering from dengue. Two dengue cases were detected from prabhag number 7 from where three BSP and one senior Congress corporator Sandeep Sahare got elected as corporators. “Dharampeth zone reported one dengue patient, while Satranjipura, Lakadganj, Nehru Nagar and Laxmi Nagar zones reported no dengue patient,” the data for September revealed. Amid the acute health crisis due to spike in Covid-19 cases, the vector-borne disease has returned to haunt the people of Orange City after a long hiatus, though the civic administration claims there is no reason to panic and appealed citizens to observe ‘dry day’ once a week to prevent mosquito-breeding, said the senior official. According to the data, private hospitals reported 403 suspected dengue patients in the last nine months, while NMC’s data claimed 66 dengue patients. As per the data, only one person from Prem Nagar has died of dengue in June this year. As per In August 2020, the city had recorded 16 dengue cases, while 10 patients were reported in July 2020 from across the city. As per the data, the city had recorded eight dengue cases in January, four in February and one in March. April had recorded zero patient of dengue fever, while May and June reported two and seven patients, respectively, revealed the statistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amid-covid-pandemic-dengue-spreading-its-tentacles-in-city/articleshow/78501221.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 4,256 Covid-19 cases, lowest single-day rise in 75 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 4,256 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,23,512. This is the lowest single-day case total in 76 days, after 4,944 cases were registered on July 21. The Covid-19 toll breached the 6,000 mark and it now stands at 6,019 after 38 more people succumbed to the disease. As many as 7,558 patients recovered on Monday. There are currently 51,060 active cases with 6,66,433 cumulative recoveries. This translates to a recovery rate of 92%. The recovery rate was 98% in Anantapur district. East Godavari reported 853 fresh cases on Monday, followed by Prakasam 666 and West Godavari 513. Altogether 10 districts reported fewer than 500 cases with Kurnool reporting the lowest case total of 86. This is the first time in months for any district to report daily new cases in double-digits. Of the 38 deaths registered on Monday, seven are from Krishna, five each from Chittoor and Kadapa, four each from Anantapur and Visakhapatnam, three from East Godavari, two each from Guntur, Nellore, Prakasam and West Godavari, and one each from Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Prakasam district touched the 500 Covid-19 death mark on Monday. Chittoor district has the highest death load of 680, followed by Guntur 546, East Godavari 544 and Anantapur 506. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 61.5 lakh samples, including 56,145 tested for the virus on Monday with a case positivity rate of 7.5%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 11.7%, while the mortality rate remained stable at 0.83%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-4256-covid-19-cases-lowest-single-day-rise-in-75-days/articleshow/78500139.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Strike for Covid-19 cover hits stamp duty collection||Nagpur: The state government may have reduced stamp duty to boost real estate market, but strike by employees of the non-gazetted cadre in the stamps and registration offices across the state has led to a sharp fall in the collections for last one week. The indefinite pen down strike by the employees was, however, called off on Monday evening after the government invited unions for negotiations. The talks will be held on October 7.Pointing out that seven staffers in the department have lost life due to Covid-19, including one in Nagpur, the employees are demanding Rs50 lakh Covid cover and approving promotions for the cadre, which, they say, are overdue for four years now.The strike has brought down the duty collection to less 10% of the pre-strike level in Nagpur district alone.Last month, stamp duty was reduced to 3% with an intention to boost realty-buying as the sector is undergoing a slump due to Covid pandemic.Similar impact is anticipated in other cities including larger centres like Mumbai and Pune, say union sources.Sudhakar Nimje, vice-president of Maharashtra Stamps and Registration Office, Non-Gazetted Employees Association, said on September 30, stamp duty collection for both Nagpur urban and rural areas stood at Rs3.72 crore, which came down to Rs37 lakh on October 1 when the strike began.Another union office-bearer Rajendra Doifode said non-gazetted cadre includes Class 3 and 4 employees. The sub-registrar offices where stamp duty is paid are headed by a Class 2 officer in urban areas. However, the entire paperwork is done by the lower level staff. As against 40-odd documents getting registered each day, it had come down to less than 10, said Doifode. Work had come to a complete standstill in rural areas because offices, which are entirely manned by non-gazetted staff, were hit by the strike, he said.Among the seven Covid deaths in the state, one was peon posted in one of the sub-registrar offices in Nagpur district, said Doifode.About the promotions, he said, “The matter is lingering for long. The employees had gone on a daylong strike in August, but despite assurances then, no concrete steps have been taken. Promotions are due after three years for the cadre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/strike-for-covid-19-cover-hits-stamp-duty-collection/articleshow/78501232.cms||Shishir Arya
October 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur GGH ramps up outpatient services||GUNTUR: The Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur, is witnessing heavy rush of patients for the four days after the opening of non-Covid-19 outpatient screening. The authorities have decided to deploy more staff including doctors for non-Covid-19 duties. The slowing down of Covid-19 cases has helped the GGH administration in shifting staff from Covid-19 wing to other departments. The number of Covid-19 cases has come down to 600 per day in the district, easing the burden on GGH. The number of active cases in the district are only around 5,000. GGH superintendent Dr N Prabhavati requested senior professionals and other staff to return to non-covid-19 duties. She said there was an urgent need to ramp up OP services of non-Covid-19 complaints. GGH is the biggest public health institution in the state with around 3,500 patient turnout before the outbreak of Covid-19. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-ggh-ramps-up-outpatient-services/articleshow/78500151.cms||Samdani MN
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt coaching classes making payment methods ‘friendly’||Nagpur: Private coaching classes which focus on competitive exams are offering ‘consumer friendly’ payment terms to deal with the economic fallout of the pandemic. Some are also offering discounts on total fee if paid in advance.Every coaching institute takes fees upfront, be it for entire year or quarter. Payment still remains upfront, but multiple instalment schemes have been introduced to ensure that parents can phase out their payments.However, no coaching institute was ready to accept on record that admissions have taken a hit. One institute owner said that ‘technically’ admissions have taken a hit but only for a while. “What’s happened is that admission enquiries have come in and parents are keen to send their children. But government has not yet given us permission to start physical classrooms, so many many parents are waiting for that,” said the owner.An institute owner said so far they have not faced fee reduction demands from parents and that easing payment pattern is to help them. Wishing to stay anonymous, an institute owner said, “Competitive exams are an important phase in a child’s career. No parent will bargain at this level because they only want the best. If our charges are more than that of others, it’s because of the quality being offered.” Admission is a problem for those who get quite a few students coming from catchment areas of Gondia, Bhandara, Wardha, Chandrapur etc. Another institute owner said for such kids to complete enrolment, both physical classrooms and hostels also need to reopen.“There are dedicated hostels for such students. Some institutes either have their own or have leased entire buildings, while some entrepreneurs simply offer their rooms only to such students,” said the owner. “Living in a relative’s home is not something which everyone will be comfortable with now, considering the pandemic,” he added.Online learning platforms have been launched by every coaching institute in the city. Some have gone for in-house proprietary software while some are using Zoom portal combined with WhatsApp groups for classes.One such institute which is operating with basic online infrastructure said that many parents are not comfortable with the online format. “Online format helps keep classes going for old students. But new ones are hesitant to join so soon as their parents feel online will simply be a waste of money. Since everybody expects that by November or December we will get permission to start, parents would prefer to wait,” said an institute director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-coaching-classes-making-payment-methods-friendly/articleshow/78501280.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 6, 2020||Amaravati||Declare zero year: Parents, teachers urge Andhra Pradesh government||AMARAVATI: Incidents of children contracting Covid-19 at school and tuition centres has raised the cry among parents and teachers for a complete holiday for the academic year. The state government, however, plans to reopen schools in November. Schools have been revamped under the government’s Nadu-Nedu programme and Jagananna kits containing a bag, books, shoes and socks have been dispatched to schools. The administration will distribute the kits on October 8, well in advance of the reopening. While the number of Covid-19 cases in the state is on the decline, the threat is yet to recede. “The government should not be in a hurry to reopen schools as the virus spread is not fully contained,” said retired headmaster L Mohan Rao. Packed in small classrooms, children would not only be exposed to the virus, he said, they could also become super-spreaders. Khaza Mohiddin, father of a class 3 student, said he would not be sending his daughter to school even if it were reopened. State president of the Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) S Ramakrishna said the government should consider exempting students of primary classes from attending school during the forthcoming academic year. “Since a vaccine is likely to be available only next March or April, it is better to declare zero academic year for primary classes,” he said. Teachers’ associations agreed it would be better to reopen schools for higher classes, from class 6 onwards. “This will also help maintain social distance in the classrooms and manage classes without any fear,” said a UTF functionary. Interestingly, some parents said an early decision on a zero academic year would help the government save on the Amma Vodi scheme, for which funds are slated to be disbursed in January. Under the scheme, the mother of each schoolgoing child in a BPL family receives Rs 15,000. The Nadu-Nedu programme, to be executed in three phases, will modernise infrastructure at 45,000 public schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/declare-zero-year-parents-teachers-urge-govt/articleshow/78500170.cms||Samdani MN
October 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CT scan price cap ignored by diagnostic centres in Andhra Pradesh: ASRAA||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Advocates Association for Social Responsibility and Awareness (ASRAA) is gearing up to carry out protests across the state over alleged violations by private hospitals and diagnostic centres of the government order that fixes the charge of high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) scan for Covid-19 tests. ASRAA chief patron Habeeb Sultan Ali on Sunday told TOI that as per GO Ms No 78 dated July 20, 2020, the maximum price for HRCT for a Covid-19 test was Rs 2,500. “But many private diagnostic centres across the state are violating government orders and collecting excess amount from the people,” he said, citing the example of a diagnostic center in Vizag city that charged Rs 4,300 for a scan. “I have bills of some diagnostic centres that charged over and above what the GO set out. We submitted a representation to all the DMHOs and collectors of 13 districts in the state, besides the chief secretary. We also conducted a formal protest at Gandhi statue in Visakhapatnam on October 5,” Ali said. Andhra Pradesh state Covid control special officer Dr C Prabhakar Reddy told TOI that apart from the HRCT scan, other tests based on blood samples are being conducted which are not necessary for people with mild symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ct-scan-price-cap-ignored-by-diagnostic-centres-asraa/articleshow/78500188.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Flare-up over property, CRPF sub-inspector held||VIJAYAWADA: A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) sub-inspector allegedly attacked three persons using a knife over a land dispute at Chennuvanipuram village of Pamarru mandal in Krishna district on Monday. According to Pamarru police, the incident happened at around 11 am, when the accused, identified as Boddu Chandra Sekhar, was constructing a temporary shed on disputed land. Chandra Sekhar owns a house near a government school. He approached the court claiming that few yards of land were encroached upon, and the case is currently sub-judice. Some of his relatives objected to him constructing the shed on the disputed land and soon tempers flared leading to a violent clash. Cops said that Sekhar, in a fit of rage, attacked Boddu Rajendra Prasad, Dhone Appala Swamy and Thummala Sri Ram causing grievous injuries to them. Upon receiving information, cops reached the spot and took Chandra Sekhar into custody and booked a case under Section 307 R/W 34 of IPC (attempt to murder) at Pamarru police station. Meanwhile, all the three victims were taken to a local government hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flare-up-over-property-crpf-sub-inspector-held/articleshow/78500208.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Proof in hand, woman to approach court against cops||Nagpur: Armed with CCTV footage of Lakadganj police personnel assaulting her in the police station on March 25, well-known RTI activist, advocate Ankita Shah plans to approach the court to get an FIR registered. She has fought a grim battle with the police department for over six months under the RTI Act to get CCTV footage of the physical and mental harassment meted out to her and husband Nilesh Makheja. The CCTV footage was finally handed over to her on October 2, and has gone viral. Police sources said ACP, Lakadganj division, RS Pardeshi had already conducted an inquiry and sent a default report against sub-inspector Bhavesh Kawde of Lakadganj police station for misdemeanour in the incident. Pardeshi’s report, in possession of TOI, clearly blames Kawde’s irresponsible action for the ruckus. ACP Pardeshi has also indicted senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station for not being able to do justice with ‘a lawyer’ and ‘educated member of the society’, and allowing the situation to aggravate. The ACP also mentions previous complaints of ill-treatment against Lakadganj police, which were also probed by his office. ACP Pardeshi’s report names eight cops, other than Hiware and Kawde, who were summoned and their statements recorded. He mentions women constables Chetna Bisen and Madhuri Khobragade could be spotted in CCTV footage manhandling Shah as she was dragged inside the police station. Pardeshi also mentioned cops had acted following Hiware’s instruction. The cops, in their statements, accused Shah of helping her father Kamlesh Shah flee though there was a warrant against him from a court at Akkalkot. They also accused Shah of threatening them of legal action. Former CP BK Upadhyay said he had ‘punished’ both officers indicted in the report sent to him. “The senior PI was strictly reprimanded. I also sanctioned fine or stopping his increment,” said Upadhyay. He also said Shah should refrain from confrontational behaviour, which can lead to offences against her. Shah said her RTI queries to CP and other offices, including state home minister, on action against the cops did not elicit any replies. “I want to seek and exhaust all remedies before approaching high court. Even the ‘state police complaint authority’ to receive grievances against cops cannot be found in city,” she said. “Police gave me CCTV footage of wrong camera angle to hide their actions, and that too after a long struggle,” said the activist. Shah, member of Animal Welfare Board under the ministry of environment and forest, had gone with her husband Makheja to Lakadganj police station to lodge a complaint against a neighbour and a security guard, who did not allow them to feed stray dogs. The guard had also pelted stones at the dogs. Though junior cops had already dealt with her complaint, sub-inspector Bhavesh Kawde confronted Shah’s husband Makheja, who was waiting outside police station. Kawde allegedly took offence at Makheja wearing Bermuda shorts in the police station, and asked him to leave the premises in an inappropriate manner, including hurling abuses. Makheja and Shah requested Kawde to refrain from using abusive language, but the sub-inspector allegedly became more aggressive. When Shah tried to record his objectionable behaviour on mobile, senior inspector Narendra Hiware rushed out and instructed women cops to snatch her mobile phone. In the process, Shah was manhandled, and suffered a cut on her left hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/proof-in-hand-woman-to-approach-court-against-cops/articleshow/78501318.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Boys rule the roost in JEE Advanced||NAGPUR: As the results for JEE Advanced were declared on Monday, it turned out to be an all boys show in city’s top three spots. Probable city topper Atharva Dabli secured All India Rank (AIR) of 101, followed by Aditya Kadoo with AIR 112 and Araj Khandelwal with 122. Ashutosh Hisaria, centre head for Allen Career Institute where all the three studied, said “It was heartening to see the results considering this is the first result season for us in Nagpur branch. The lockdown since March had hindered traditional format of teaching but both staff and students rallied around to adapt to online format of learning.” He added that even in the near future, he sees a hybrid mode of teaching in coaching institutes. “Till at least a vaccine is available for everyone, a mix of physical and online teaching will continue,” said Hisaria. Aditya said he looks forward to joining one of the ‘older’ IITs. “I am hoping to get computer science branch in IIT Bombay. Else, I will go for Delhi or Kanpur,” he said. Araj said he now looks forward to joining the computer science stream. “I am hoping to get a seat in IIT Delhi. If not, then I will opt for IIT Kanpur,” he said. He added that revising in the last few months was not as big a problem as anticipated. “Since we were connected online with our institute, there was no issue related to revision or getting our doubts clarified,” said Khandelwal. JEE Advanced is the sole gateway to the prestigious IITs. This year, the exam was conducted by IIT Delhi. JEE (Mains), the mandatory qualifying exam for this, is conducted by National Testing Agency (NTA). Both exams got delayed due to the pandemic. JEE (Main) results were declared on September 12 and the JEE (Advanced) was held in September end for those who qualified. The admission process for IITs will be announced by the authorities on their web portal. The rankings will decide which IIT and/or which branch a candidate gets to choose. The criteria for the rankings is that the aggregate marks are calculated as the sum of marks obtained in math, physics and chemistry. Candidates have to satisfy the subject-wise as well as aggregate qualifying marks to be included in a rank list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/boys-rule-the-roost-in-jee-advanced/articleshow/78501343.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Miyawaki way: Social forestry turns barren land into forest||Nagpur: Even as wildlife week is being celebrated on virtual platforms, there is some positive action on the ground. Miyawaki plantation model, implemented by social forestry department (SFD) in Patansawangi, 20km from the city on Saoner road, has turned a patch of barren land into oxygen park and an abode for avian fauna in less than a year.Miyawaki method was introduced by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki. It helps build dense, native forests in a short time using native plant species. In a bid to boost 33 crore plantations under the Green Maharashtra Mission, the state government had started implementing the scheme in 2019.In this technique, native plant species are planted close to each other so they receive sunlight only from the top and grow upwards instead of sideways. As a result, the plantation becomes approximately 30 times denser, grows 10 times faster, and becomes maintenance-free after three years. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Geeta Nannaware told TOI, “The work started in September-October 2019 on a 1.8 acre patch in social forestry nursery in Patansawangi under Kamptee range. The project cost Rs15.96 lakh. We planted 28 local species that included shrub, subtree, tree, and canopy trees.”Nannaware said 60 plots of 10x12, 10x15 and 10x18 metre were developed on which shrub species like sitaphal; guava, lemon and deekamali (8-12%) were planted while percentage of subtree species like bel, bakul, jatil, kanchan, and ritha is 25-30%.Besides, tree species like neem, bahava, shisu, shivam, moha, aonla constitute 40-50% and canopy tree species like pipal, tamarind, mango, umbar is 20-30%. Saplings of an average height of 6-7 feet were planted. All these species have started flowering and fruiting.Nannaware says, “Once a barren piece of land is now a haven for birds. Different species of butterflies can be seen on the plots, that now have dense green cover. The biodiversity has grown and the water table has also gone up. This is the social forestry department’s first Miyawaki model in Vidarbha.”The survival rate is 100%. The plantation has also reduced temperature in surrounding area apart from curbing soil erosion.Assistant conservator (ACF) Rajan Talmale said, “Miyawaki plantations have now become breeding ground for many birds and insects. It is also home for reptiles and small mammals like hare.”Range forest officer (RFO) Pramod Wade said small birds like ashy prinia, tailorbird and scaly breasted munia are nesting in this dense forest.“The floral and faunal diversity is drawing many visitors including school and college students, dignitaries, and senior forest officers too,” Wade said.“Many butterfly species like plain tiger, striped tiger, common emigrant, lime butterfly, tawny coster and many pancies have been recorded for the first time,” said forest guard Anand Tidke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/miyawaki-way-social-forestry-turns-barren-land-into-forest/articleshow/78501360.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 6, 2020||Vijayawada||City bus services bring relief to Vijayaw​ada residents||VIJAYAWADA: Occupancy rate in city buses run by Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has seen a rise over the last few days. The low cost of travel seems to have been the major factor in driving up occupancy. APSRTC shut all its services since the imposition of the Covid-19 lockdown. In such a scenario, cabs and auto-rickshaw drivers capitalised on the situation and hiked fares. There have been allegations of cabbies charging Rs 65 per kilometre. Upon receiving numerous requests from the public, APSRTC resumed services on September 20. The move seems to have got resounding support from the public, especially among people who found it difficult to afford cabs and autos. K Adiram from Ajith Singh Nagar, who works at a cloth store in Vasthralatha Comples, said, “I earn Rs 300 a day. Before the buses started, I had to spend Rs 90 per day on commute. Thanks to the city bus services resuming, I can reach my place of work by spending just Rs 15.” Encouraged by the response, APSRTC has started issuing route and general bus passes at multiple locations in Vijayawada. However, student passes will start being issued only after educational institutes reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-bus-services-bring-relief-to-vij-residents/articleshow/78500228.cms||Venu Lanka
October 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Controversy over VC appointment at ANU||GUNTUR: The appointment of new vice-chancellor (VC) to Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) has taken a twist after Lokayukta taking up a complaint against in-charge VC P Rajasekhar. B Ravindrababu, a Vijayawada-based advocate, has filed the complaint along with findings of the government appointed Chakrapani committee. The Chakrapani committee had cited irregularities in the university engineering wing and EPF payment to workers. Although the committee cited the alleged role of two senior officials in the engineering department, the VC in-charge dropped the charges without consulting the executive council (EC). The inquiry committee had said that its report submitted in sealed cover must be opened in the EC meeting. Sources said many professors, including executive council members, lodged complaints against Rajasekhar’s style of functioning with higher education department special chief secretary Satish Chandra. EC member and senior professor, Dr Ratna Sheela Mani, too, has lodged a complaint with the higher education department saying the VC in-charge ignored the EC. Assembly speaker had issued two privilege notices to Rajasekhar on protocol violation charges. Meanwhile, a resident of Mangalagiri, Goli Veeranjaneyulu, has submitted a complaint to the government against the university administration. He alleged many posts were filled by the interim administration without the EC’s nod. In this background, the decision of the search committee to include Rajasekhar’s name in the short-listed panel has triggered controversy. Senior faculty members are finding fault with the search committee’s move. The three-member search committee headed by former UPSC member YV Reddy held interviews with 230 candidates who have applied for the post of vice-chancellor last week. At the end of the three-day scrutiny, the panel has submitted a list with three names to the government, including that of Rajasekhar.  Recently, a PIL has been filed in the HC against Andhra University in-charge vice-chancellor Prasada Reddy. Rajasekhar did not respond to the allegations despite several attempts by TOI to seek clarification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/controversy-over-vc-appointment-at-anu/articleshow/78500267.cms||Samdani MN
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||Crime branch nabs 2 in MP for human trafficking||NAGPUR: A team of crime branch sleuths nabbed two of the four suspects from Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh on Monday for their alleged role in forcibly ‘marrying’ off two trafficked cousins from the city. Two cousins, 20 and 24, were lured with the promise of jobs to Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh, and ‘sold’ into marriage. The women were rescued by city police after they alerted a family member in the city. It’s learnt several other trafficking victims from the city are trapped as slaves in Tikamgarh region of the neighbouring state. City police chief Amitesh Kumar had transferred the probe to crime branch. Following his intervention, two women were rescued and an alleged trafficker Akash Shrivas was nabbed earlier. TOI in it’s Monday edition had highlighted about racketeers from city having sold off two cousins for Rs1.90 lakh to two persons as ‘brides’ around two months ago. The women were later subjected to repeated sexual exploitation by multiple members of the same family, including the man who had ‘married’ the victim and his son from the earlier marriage. The women were also made to work in fields and attend domestic chores too. Investigating officer ACP Sudhir Nandanwar said information about the racketeers who had married the women and more victims is being gathered. “The situation is very tricky and police are facing lot of challenges,” said Nandanwar. The officer is also trying to expedite compensatory benefits to the rescued victims, it was learnt. One of the victims and her relatives had said that more women and also younger girls from Nagpur are trapped as ‘brides’ and slaves in remote villages of Tikamgarh. “Only two chapatis and milk was offered as food to each woman in a day,” the relatives had claimed. City police team is learnt to be looking for another man, identified as ‘Muchhad’, from the remote localities of forested Tikamgarh with the help of local cops from Jatara police station. Simultaneously, a team of crime branch is also on manhunt for mastermind Sushil Paisadeli in city who has similar offences registered against him in the past. Paisadeli’s key aide, Shrivas, is already in police custody. Sources said Shrivas and his wife were involved in luring the cousins to accompany them to Madhya Pradesh promising to help them get jobs in event management companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crime-branch-nabs-2-in-mp-for-human-trafficking/articleshow/78501399.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘Bagheera’ to keep a watch on safari vehicles in Tadoba||Nagpur: Now ‘Bagheera’ will monitor safari vehicles entering Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). The park management on Sunday started trials of a mobile app named after Bagheera, a fictional black panther in Rudyard Kipling’s ‘The Jungle Book’.On Sunday, guides of 19 safari vehicles (8 in Kolara and 11 in Mohurli) entering the park were handed over the Bagheera tourism safari management app, which has a GPS tracker and monitors the vehicle speed and some other violations.TATR conservator of forest and field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar said, “The app is already in use in parks like Pench and Kanha in Madhya Pradesh. It helps us track the speeding and crowding of vehicles and whether the driver was involved in any sort of violations. We will need 60 such mobiles of which 28 have already been procured.”“Our purpose is not to harass people but to regulate tourism. There have been instances where drivers go too close to the tigers for a photo shoot. There are a few who jump entry restrictions and are also involved in crowding,” says Ramgaonkar.“Under the system, the cell phone is handed over to the guide after entering the vehicle number. The guide won’t be able to tamper or open the cell phone. While returning, he has to hand over the phone at the gate. We can synch the data and check where the vehicle went and what sort of violations it was involved in,” said Ramgaonkar.“The app has been designed for Tadoba by a Bengaluru-based IT firm. Right now trials are going on and after reviewing various issues involved we will implement the system only after taking guides and drivers into confidence,” said Nandkishore Kale, deputy director (core).Earlier, there was a plan to launch the app, but there was opposition from stakeholders. A section of tourists said, “As per NTCA norms, the maximum speed in a park is 20km ph but this limit is rarely followed.”“In parks like Tadoba, where the other end from Mohurli is 18km, at 20 kmph it is difficult to complete even one safari. Especially, when a tiger is sighted in Pandharpaoni during the time of return, either the tourists have to give up sighting or we have to speed up to reach the gate on time,” said a section of drivers.Kale says, “It is for this purpose we need to monitor vehicles. There have been incidents where speeding vehicles have hit wild animals. Our basic idea is to discipline both tourists, and drivers and guides, and also to ensure rules are followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bagheera-to-keep-a-watch-on-safari-vehicles-in-tadoba/articleshow/78501411.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Congress alleges raid raj before polls, BJP hits back||BENGALURU: The CBI’s searches at properties linked to DK Shivakumar, who is named in a disproportionate assets case, triggered an intense slugfest between Congress and BJP on Monday. The opposition accused the central and state governments of pursuing political vendetta and a “raid raj”, while BJP alleged that Congress was trying to protect the corrupt. Both sides made allegations on social media without providing any corroborating material. “Let the Modi and Yeddyurappa governments and BJP’s frontal organisations, i.e. CBI, ED and income tax department, know that Congress will not be cowed down by such devious attempts. Our resolve to fight for the people and expose BJP’s maladministration only becomes stronger,” Randeep Singh Surjewala, general secretary, All India Congress Committee (AICC), wrote on Twitter. Surjewala is the party’s Karnataka in-charge. “The insidious game of intimidation of the Modi-Yeddyurappa duo, which is being executed by a puppet CBI, won’t deter us. The CBI should be unearthing layers of corruption in the Yeddyurappa government. But raid raj is their only ‘Machiavellian move’!” Surejwala alleged. Countering this, newly appointed BJP national general secretary CT Ravi alleged Surejwala was known to lie. “It was the corrupt Congress government, led by Sonia Gandhi, that treated the CBI as a puppet against its opponents. Wasn’t huge unaccounted money seized during the I-T raid on Shivakumar’s house?” Ravi claimed. Karnataka Congress, which is headed by Shivakumar, claimed CBI raids had been ordered as some important elections were round the corner. “Elections bring the best out of our government agencies. CBI, I-T and ED are performing constant election duties across the country for BJP. Why do these agencies become hyperactive only before polls? This proves they are taking orders from their political bosses,” it tweeted. Karnataka BJP shot back that Congress should have anticipated such embarrassment when it garlanded Shivakumar on his release from Tihar jail. Shivakumar was earlier arrested by the Enforcement Directorate over allegations of money laundering. “He is a corrupt politician. But Congress is hell-bent on protecting him,” BJP wrote. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel asked why Congress was not allowing independent investigation agencies to conduct a free and fair probe. “I-T and ED authorities have completed their searches, and now the CBI has conducted raids. Agencies would have found something; otherwise why would the CBI raid him?” Kateel said. Siddaramaiah, the opposition leader in the assembly, said that ahead of the bypolls, the state government was trying to divert public attention from alleged corruption in procurement of Covid-19 equipment and from claims against the chief minister’s family. “BJP has always tried to indulge in vindictive politics and mislead the public. The latest CBI raid is another attempt to derail our preparation for bypolls. I strongly condemn this,” he said. Rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa said the law was the same for everyone: “When BS Yediyurappa faced corruption charges, Congress said if he was not guilty, he would come out of the case. I would say, if Shivakumar is not guilty, let him prove it and come out of this. There are no two laws for Congress and others.” JD(S), a former alliance partner of Congress, made a measured statement. “Every party in such circumstances claims political vendetta. If there is any politician who has worked with sincerity, then he should be ready to face any kind of investigation,” said HD Kumaraswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-congress-alleges-raid-raj-before-polls-bjp-hits-back/articleshow/78504123.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Business||You could soon order your favourite street food online||NEW DELHI: The urban affairs ministry and a major online food ordering and delivery platform have signed an MoU to enable street food vendors to tap a bigger market using the company's e-commerce platform for more business. To begin with, a pilot will be carried out involving 250 vendors across five cities - Ahmedabad, Chennai, Delhi, Indore and Varanasi - and this coverage will be expanded subsequently to other cities. The ministry said street vendors will be helped with PAN and FSSAI registration, training on technology and partner app usage, menu digitisation and pricing, hygiene and packaging best practices. The ministry said the agreement was signed with Swiggy on Monday as a part of Prime Minister Street Vendor's Atmanibhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme under which urban street vendors are getting loans of up to Rs 10,000 at subsidised interest rate to help them resume their livelihoods which was adversely affected due to Covid-19 lockdown. The scheme for easy finance was launched on June 1 with the target to benefit over 50 lakh street vendors who had been selling their eatables on or before March 24 in urban areas, including those from surrounding peri-urban and rural areas. Till Sunday, over 20 lakh loan applications had been received under the scheme. Out of these over 7.5 lakh loans have been sanctioned and over 2.4 lakh loans already disbursed. Watch Order your favourite street food online soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/you-could-soon-order-your-favourite-street-food-online/articleshow/78504523.cms||---
October 6, 2020||India||CBI raids 14 properties in 3 states linked to Congress’ DK Shivakumar||BENGALURU: The CBI raided 14 properties in Karnataka, Delhi and Mumbai linked to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar and his brother, Bengaluru Rural MP DK Suresh, on Monday. The CBI launched the raids at around 6 am, after the Karnataka government gave central sleuths permission to probe corruption charges against him. The searches are likely to continue on Tuesday. The raids come nearly a year after the Congress troubleshooter secured bail in a case alleging money-laundering after spending 50 days in Tihar jail. Addressing a press conference in Bengaluru, Shivakumar claimed that Yediyurappa sanctioned raids on him on September 30 to shift the media's attention from the Hathras case and to hamper his involvement in the Sira and RR Nagar assembly bypolls. "Yediyurappa must answer why he chose September 30 to sanction the raids, after a nationwide protest was announced over the Hathras incident. He must say why the raids were allowed to take place today, and not before September 30 or at a later date? I was never going to run away," he said. "I am not scared of the CBI raids. I will not get bogged down by these intimidating tactics of BJP." Shivakumar claimed the CBI seized only Rs 6 lakh to Rs 7 lakh from all his properties, including the ones in Delhi, on Monday, disputing the agency's statement that around Rs 57 lakh had been recovered. "As a businessman, I am eligible to keep that much money at my home," he said. A CBI statement said it has registered a case against Shivakumar based on allegations that he possesses Rs 75 crore in assets in his and his family members' names that are disproportionate to his sources of income. The CBI claimed it recovered Rs 57 lakh in cash and documents during the day-long raids. The Congress nata was arrested by the ED on September 23, 2019 in the money-laundering case and was lodged in Tihar jail. He was released on October 23 after the Delhi high court granted him bail. Shivakumar, facing money-laundering and income tax-related cases, is facing charges of amassing wealth disproportionate to sources of income when he was energy minister in the Congress government from 2014 to 2018. ED sources said they came across alleged large-scale irregularities during tendering for solar power plants and in approving applications to set up solar rooftop panels. Transactions with private power generators are under the scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-raids-14-properties-in-3-states-linked-to-congress-dk-shivakumar/articleshow/78504554.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Shivakumar asks BSY to explain timing of CBI raids||Bengaluru: Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar on Monday questioned the timing of the CBI’s raids at his properties, wondering why chief minister BS Yediyurappa sanctioned action in three-year-old corruption charges only now. Linking the searches to the upcoming assembly bypolls, he said he won’t bow down to pressure tactics. The CBI, which is investigating a case of disproportionate assets against Shivakumar and his family, searched properties linked to him for 12 hours in Bengaluru. Related enquiries were also made in other parts of the state. Addressing a press conference in Bengaluru, Shivakumar alleged that Yediyurappa sanctioned raids on him on September 30 to shift the media attention from the Hathras case and to hamper his involvement in the Sira and RR Nagar assembly bypolls. “Yediyurappa must answer why he chose September 30 to sanction the raids, after a nationwide protest was announced over the Hathras incident. He must say why the raids were allowed to take place today, and not before September 30 or at a later date? I was never going to run away,” he said. “I am not scared of the CBI raids. I will not get bogged down by these intimidating tactics of BJP.” He claimed the CBI decided to conduct a probe covering the years between 2014 and 2018, when he was a state minister. “Let them probe in detail all the departments I have held, including portfolios of energy and water resources. If I have committed the smallest of offence or misappropriation, then I am ready to face the punishment,” he said. Shivakumar claimed the CBI seized only Rs 6 lakh to Rs 7 lakh from all his properties, including the ones in Delhi, on Monday, disputing the agency’s statement that Rs 57 lakh had been recovered. “As a businessman, I am eligible to keep that much money at my home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shivakumar-asks-bsy-to-explain-timing-of-cbi-raids/articleshow/78504131.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Central agencies love my son, quips DK Shivakumar’s mother||BENGALURU: DK Gowramma, the mother of state Congress chief DK Shivakumar, jibed at investigating agencies on Monday, saying they loved her son so much that they didn’t want to leave him. She spoke to reporters outside her residence in Kodihalli, Kanakapura taluk, as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted searches at places linked to Shivakumar in a case of disproportionate assets. “We cannot lead a happy life till they (special agencies) are there. I don’t have much knowledge on these issues. ED, CBI and others love Shivakumar so much that they don’t want to leave him. If they have so much affection for him or DK Suresh [Bengaluru Rural MP], let officials take my sons away and keep them. If the agencies feel happy by putting Shivakumar behind bars, let them do it. They can take me, too. All I need is proper and timely food,” Gowramma said. On the questions she faced from CBI officers, Gowramma said: “They didn’t ask me anything. All the officers were courteous and respectful with me. Let them do their duty.” Around 6am, three SUVs brought an eight-member CBI team to Shivakumar’s residence in Doddalahalli. Only an attendant was present in the house. The team searched the property till 12.45pm before heading to Shivakumar’s bungalow in Kodihalli, about 6km away. Another team went there separately. CBI officers reportedly seized some documents and electronic devices, including pen drives and laptops, from the Kodihalli bungalow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/central-agencies-love-my-son-quips-shivakumars-mother/articleshow/78504139.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Offered work at wedding venue, Gurugram woman raped by two||GURUGRAM: A 25-year-old woman from Gurugram was allegedly lured on the pretext of work to an isolated place in Palwal and allegedly raped by two men on Sunday. A case has been registered against them and accused are on the run. According to the police, the woman works as a flower decorator and also welcomes guests at wedding venues with flowers. She used to get work from a contractor and visit different venues for work. On October 3, the woman received a call from a contractor, who identified himself as Jahir, a resident of Shah Chowk in Mewat, and offered her work. He asked her to visit a wedding venue in Hathin on the morning of October 4. The woman reached the designated place and met the contractor who asked her to get her dress from a room. “But two people were already present inside the room. They closed the door, overpowered me and took turns to rape me,” as she stated in her police complaint. Police said the two persons have been identified as Meenu and Doni. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/offered-work-at-wedding-venue-woman-raped-by-two/articleshow/78502204.cms||---
October 6, 2020||India||Groups offered Hathras girl’s family Rs 50 lakh to speak in their favour: UP DGP||LUCKNOW: In a concerted crackdown targeting organisations and individuals accused of "fomenting caste violence in the garb of seeking justice for the Hathras girl", UP police on Monday lodged 19 FIRs across eight cities and arrested six people on charges of spreading rumours to vitiate the atmosphere. Without naming any political party or organisation, additional DGP (law and order) Prashant Kumar told reporters in Lucknow that the police had got wind of an organised campaign to keep UP on the edge by playing on public sentiments and trying to buy off the family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl who died after being allegedly gang-raped by four upper-caste men. "Various groups have used social media platforms to spread hatred, inciting people on caste lines and organising unlawful gatherings amid the pandemic," Kumar said. "Some of these groups even offered Rs 50 lakh to the victim's family to speak in their favour." Six of the 19 FIRs have been lodged in Hathras. A FIR registered at Chandpa police station in Hathras is against those who allegedly tried to instigate the victim's kin to speak against the government and the local administration. Kumar said the family had been asked to say they were not satisfied with the assistance announced by the government. Another FIR at the same police station mentions unidentified groups, all of whom have been booked for sedition and incitement of caste violence. Some of the other charges are promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration and forgery for the purpose of cheating and harming someone's reputation. Sections of the IT Act have been slapped on the accused too. Cases have also been lodged in Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Lucknow, Prayagaraj, Mathura, Shamli and Saharanpur over "unlawful protests" and incitement through social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/groups-offered-hathras-girls-family-rs-50-lakh-to-speak-in-their-favour-up-dgp/articleshow/78504621.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 6, 2020||Mumbai||Hope on the menu: Restaurants, bars open doors after 6 months in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Limited menus and a skeletal workforce marked the first day of dine-in services for hotels and restaurants that reopened Monday after a Covid-19-imposed closure lasting six months. While 30-35% restaurants opened their doors for diners, the rest are expected to follow gradually. Principal secretary, excise, Valsa Nair-Singh announced on Monday evening that operating hours for bars and restaurants would be 8am to 10pm, clearing the earlier confusion. The uncertainty arose when excise officials began pressing bars to stop services in accordance with the 7pm deadline in force for liquor shops. The “unlocking” permits eateries and bars in Mumbai to cover 33% of their seating capacity as against 50% in the rest of the state. The law mandates them to provide masks and sanitisers, and install CCTV cameras and thermal scanners for public safety while restoring livelihoods. Restaurants and bars reported 50% business by end of day within the prescribed occupancy limit. Hotelier Vishal Karia’s new 160-seater restaurant at Todi Mill, Lower Parel, “had 28 people since 7.30pm when we threw open our doors and another 45-cover reservation from 9.30pm”. Bar Stock Exchange opened six of its outlets on Monday and was “happy” with the footfall. “On a regular Monday in pre-Covid times, we’d see 80% occupancy. Today we saw 40%,” said Amit Singh, its co-owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hope-on-the-menu-restaurants-bars-open-doors-after-6-months-in-mumbai/articleshow/78504687.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Will decide on civic polls after Diwali, Bengal SEC tells SC||Kolkata: The state election commission (SEC) told the Supreme Court on Monday that given the spike in Covid cases in Bengal, it would decide on municipal polls after Diwali. The apex court will hear the plea against the formation of Board of Administrators (BoA), to run civic bodies in Bengal even after completion of five-year term, again on December 4. Earlier, the Election Commission had told a bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Justice Dinesh Maheshwari and Justice Hrishikesh Roy that the jurisdiction to hold civic polls lay with the SEC. Advocate Vikas Singh said the petitioner had argued that if assembly elections could be held in Bihar amid the pandemic, civic polls should be held in Bengal too. Rakesh Dwivedi, counsel for the state poll panel, told the SC that there had been a considerable spike in Covid cases in Bengal; hence, it should be treated differently than election-bound Bihar. Dwivedi added that after Durga Puja and Diwali holidays a decision would be taken on poll dates. Chairman of BoA Firhad Hakim said they were nonetheless ready. “If the apex court tells us to hold the KMC elections tomorrow, we will carry out the order. We will wait for its directive, which is due in December, and act accordingly,” Hakim, however, maintained that he was against holding elections at the cost of lives. “There should be no risk factor when people step out to vote. If the situation improves tomorrow, we are ready to contest. But, people’s well-being is priority,” he added. According to a senior official in the BoA chairman’s office, the civic body was making preparations in anticipation of polls in another four-five months. “We are concentrating on several ongoing infrastructure projects that need to be completed by this year-end, presuming that polls may be held early next year. From augmenting water supply to modernisation of solid waste management, we are focusing on various key projects. Besides, we also need to augment our health infrastructure amid Covid,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-decide-on-civic-polls-after-diwali-bengal-sec-tells-sc/articleshow/78503433.cms||---
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Five killed in head-on car-bus crash in Alipurduar||Jalpaiguri: Four members of a family and the driver of the car they had hired were killed when the vehicle collided head-on with an NBSTC bus at Balasundar under Falakata police station of Alipurduar on Monday. A fifth member of the family is battling for life at a government hospital. According to police, the deceased — identified as Abhijit Sarkar (35), his wife Beauty (24), his cousin Habul Sarkar, brother-in-law Basudeb Karmakar and driver Prasenjit Mohonto — were residents of Shanti Nagar in Alipurduar, as is injured Sonam Biswas. The family was on its way to Siliguri for Abhijit’s liver ailment treatment when they met with the accident near Dudua river bridge between Falakata and Dhupguri around 7am. Sources said they had hired the car because they couldn’t get an ambulance. Witnesses have told police that both vehicles were speeding and lost control while negotiating a sharp bend. The crash triggered a major traffic bottleneck on the state highway. It took police a few hours to ease the snarl while metal cutters were used to retrieve the bodies from the mangled remains of the car. In a separate accident on Monday, an unidentified man was run over near Dhupguri bus stand. On Sunday evening, the labour welfare officer of Moraghat tea estate, Gopal Chandra Saha, was fatally injured when a speeding bike hit him on NH-31C. He died at Banerhat hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/five-killed-in-head-on-car-bus-crash-in-alipurduar/articleshow/78503342.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Tripartite talks: MHA focus now GTA, not Gorkhaland||Darjeeling: The ministry of home affairs on Monday issued a “corrigendum” to the agenda of the tripartite meeting called in Delhi on October 7, replacing issues relating to “Gorkhaland” with “Gorkhaland Territorial Administration”. The change of topic is likely to have repercussions as Hills parties may alter their stance, like they did on a similar meeting called on GTA on August 7. The meeting had fallen through. The corrigendum came on a day when Bimal Gurung, who leads a faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, extended an invite to Gorkha National Liberation Front and Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists to attend the Delhi meeting to talk Gorkhaland. Both GNLF and CPRM have opted out of the proposed meeting. GJM (Gurung) and GNLF are BJP allies while CPRM supports the Gorkhaland cause. GJM(Gurung) general secretary Roshan Giri had already sent an invite to GNLF and CPRM, saying Gorkhas should stand together on the Gorkhaland cause. “The talk presents us with an opportunity for a new beginning and will lay the foundation stone for a secure, peaceful and prosperous future for our people and the region. We therefore request one representative each from the GNLF and the CPRM to join the delegation to Delhi for the talk,” Giri had said in his letter. In July, the Centre had called a tripartite meeting on August 7 to review the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. Most political parties, including the Gurung faction, had refused to attend, saying talks must be for a separate state. This time around too, GNLF, CPRM and the Binoy Tamang faction of GJM have expressed their doubts about the sincerity of the BJP government. Earlier, CPRM had confirmed getting an invite from the Gurung-led GJM. “We will attend the meeting on October 7. It is important to know first the real intentions of the central government and Bimal Gurung. Sitting outside we will not know what transpired in the meeting,” spokesperson Govind Chhetri had said before the MHA corrigendum. The GJM (Tamang) faction flagged its apprehensions about the topic of the tripartite talk. “The central government has also invited the GTA principal secretary for the meeting on Gorkhaland,” said spokesperson Keshavraj Pokhrel. During the statehood agitation in 2017, the Centre had requested Gurung to end the shutdown with a promise to convene a tripartite meeting within a fortnight. Gurung, now in hiding, found himself in rough waters with little to offer supporters when the Centre didn’t call the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tripartite-talks-mha-focus-now-gta-not-gorkhaland/articleshow/78503377.cms||Deep Gazmer
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata: NEP lacks vision to drive students to do better||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday proposed two new universities and criticized National Education Policy-2020 introduced by the BJP-led Centre, saying it lacked the vision to encourage young students to be more competitive in studies. The universities proposed are Jai Hind University, in honour of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, and Babasaheb Ambedkar University for OBC students to provide them better opportunity for higher education. Speaking at the virtual felicitation of meritorious students who cleared board exams this year, Banerjee said: “I want a university in memory of Jai Hind, the slogan that evokes a feeling of nationalism. Like Vande Mataram, we use this slogan to express our patriotic feelings even today. Before Independence, the army too used this slogan. A university should be dedicated to this slogan.” Netaji Open University already exists in memory of the leader, who raised the ‘Jai Hi-nd’ slogan after the formati-on of Indian National Army. Reacting to NEP for the first time since it was cleared by the Union cabinet on July 29, Banerjee said: “I have heard that in the new policy, there is no scope for ranks. The struggle of students is very dear to them. They compete to excel in exams. If there is no ranking system, then students will get demotivated.” “We don’t support the new education policy, NEP,” she continued. “We are writing letters. There are students from very humble families who consider rank an achievement.” Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee had earlier opposed NEP 2020. The CM also criticised the Centre for not including Bengali as a language medium for JEE (Main). “This year also, students had to take exam either in Hindi or English. If Gujarati can be included as a language option, then why not Bengali? We are writing to the Centre regarding this,” she said. The CM felicitated 793 students who excelled in various board exams such as Madhyamik, higher secondary, madrassa and JEE. Urging them to return to Bengal and serve the state, Banerjee said: “Students are our future. You all should remember unity and brotherhood. There are people who play caste politics, want to play divisive politics on lines of religion. But blood has no colour apart from one. We are all together and should always remain together.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-nep-lacks-vision-to-drive-students-to-do-better/articleshow/78503285.cms||Saibal Gupta
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Titagarh leader murder: BJP accuses TMC; wait for CID probe, says govt||Barrackpore: The Bengal government ordered a CID probe into the killing of ex-councillor Manish Shukla, who was shot dead outside the BJP office, a stone’s throw from Titagarh police station, on Sunday night. The sensational murder sparked a high-decibel blame game, with Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh demanding a CBI investigation and Trinamool Congress senior Firhad Hakim calling it an “insider’s job”. The West Bengal Police tweeted on Monday urging people not to jump to conclusions. “Police is investigating the crime and looking at all possible reasons, including personal enmity, because the victim was accused in some cases of murder and attempt of murder,” the tweet said. The Barrackpore Police is looking into the source of arms used in the murder. There have been three attempts on the Titagarh Ward 7 outgoing councillor between 2018 and 2020. BJP workers hit the streets with vengeance in the morning and blocked Titagarh Tata Gate and Kundabari More in Barrackpore, that later extended to BT Road, Kalyani Expressway and Amdanga, Bhatpara-Kankinara-Ghoshpara Road at intervals, disrupting traffic. Party workers engaged cops in street battles with bombs, bricks and other projectiles, prompting the latter to burst tear-gas shells and beat back protesters to lift blockades. There was commotion at NRS Hospital morgue when police prevented BJP leader Arvind Menon and others to enter the hospital where Shukla’s body was taken for autopsy. Police later allowed Kailash Vijayvargiya and Mukul Roy inside. Tension spread in the morning when a three-member CID team reached Titagarh to collect samples from the spot. CID officers talked to locals and collected footage from two CCTV cameras. But Shukla’s loyalists claimed that a CCTV camera focusing on the lane in front of the party office had gone missing. “We saw it there on Sunday night. The camera has gone missing today,” a local BJP supporter said. According to eyewitness accounts, the miscreants came in a car around 8.15 pm while Shukla was standing at a tea stall outside the party office. The gunmen parked the car in front of a medical shop, they claimed. “They came and sprayed bullets on him,” a local youth said. Shukla had accompanied BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh to a Howrah meeting on Sunday. On return, they parted ways after reaching Dunlop. Locals said the attackers timed the action with precision and had prior information that Shukla’s two armed private security guards were on leave for the last couple of days. The seven unarmed men who used to shadow Shukla were also not there. On Monday, Singh brought an explosive charge against the state administration. “Supari killers hired by Trinamool did the job with precision. They used a 9 mm carbine from the police armoury at Barrackpore Latbagan. The miscreants took shelter at the local MLA’s house,” he said. Hakim hit back, saying: “The arms used were brought from outside, we saw them during the last elections. Arjun Singh brought them from other states.” Pointing at an intra-BJP war, he added: “Shukla had fallen out with Singh recently. He had been sending feelers urging to return to TMC.” Trinamool Panihati MLA and North 24 Parganas district observer Nirmal Ghosh rubbished Singh’s charge. “Shukla is a victim of bahubali politics in the Barrackpore belt. It is an insider’s job. How can miscreants take shelter in my house when it is under police surveillance?” he asked. Vijayvargiya spoke against two senior police officers after paying a visit to Shukla’s Kharda Adarsha Pally residence. “The role of Barrackpore police commissioner and deputy police commissioner should come under scrutiny,” he said. Roy also accompanied him. Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma said: “We are in the middle of an investigation. Ask them who have brought the charges against me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/titagarh-leader-murder-bjp-accuses-tmc-wait-for-cid-probe-says-govt/articleshow/78503206.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Track laid to revive route to B’desh from Haldibari||Jalpaiguri: A track has been laid and the link established to revive a rail route to Bangladesh that was closed in 1965. The work to connect Chilahati in Bangladesh with Haldibari (Cooch Behar) in India had started in 2017 as part of a 2011 treaty that India and Bangladesh had inked during PM Sheikh Hasina’s visit. The pact was for opening new rail links to promote cultural exchanges and various other activities between the two countries. Earlier this year, Indian Railways completed laying the track till the border fencing. Recently, the fence was cut open and the track laid till zero point. Railways is expected to test the track by running an engine up to zero point on Wednesday. Bangladesh rail minister Nurul Islam Sujon had said in a programme at Nilfamari that the much-awaited rail route would become operational on the country’s Vijay Diwas (December 16) this year or on its Independence Day (March 26). This was reported by North Bengal News, a leading Bangladeshi news portal. According to the report, Bangladesh Railways was also planning to modernise the coach factory at Nilfamari Sayeedpur. Once the track is operational, goods trains from New Jalpaiguri (NJP) are expected to take this route to Dhaka via Nilfamari, Jamalpur and Nasirabad. Railways might also run passenger trains to Kolkata from NJP on this track through Chilahati, Domar, Toronbari, Nilfamari, Sayeedpur, Darshana and Parbatipur before entering Kolkata through the Gede border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/track-laid-to-revive-route-to-bdesh-from-haldibari/articleshow/78503251.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
October 6, 2020||Kolkata||Investigate ‘terror’ angle in Titagarh murder, says guv||Kolkata: Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar wants sleuths probing ex-councillor Manish Shukla’s murder to “focus on all angles, including terror”, putting on record for the first time his differences with the state police over the approach to an investigation. Bengal police said it was probing all possible reasons and cautioned people against irresponsible social media posts. The governor conveyed his views to chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who went to Raj Bhavan on Monday afternoon. The meeting lasted for about two hours. “Conveyed my concern of the present alarming scenario to the new chief secretary. Am sure CM would be indicated on all these critical aspects… Political violence and targeted killings must stop,” Dhankhar tweeted. Neither did the state home secretary nor the director general of police turned up at Raj Bhavan after the governor summoned them. The governor saw the Bengal police’s tweet as an “all-out effort to cover up, fishing for alibis”. Dhankhar’s views also came as a shot in the arm for BJP leaders seeking a CBI inquiry. “West Bengal Police far distanced from fair investigation,” the governor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/investigate-terror-angle-in-titagarh-murder-says-guv/articleshow/78503236.cms||---
