October 7, 2020||Chennai||Vijayakanth admitted to Chennai hospital||CHENNAI: Actor and DMDK president Vijayakanth was admitted to MIOT hospital in Chennai on Tuesday night for secondary tests, the party said in a statement. "He is in good health. Request people not to believe in rumours being spread about his health condition," DMDK said in the statement. Vijayakanth, who tested positive for Covid-19 on September 22, underwent treatment for about ten days in the same hospital. He and his wife Premalatha, who also tested positive later, were discharged from the hospital on October 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vijayakanth-admitted-to-chennai-hospital/articleshow/78522192.cms||D Govardan
October 7, 2020||Goa||ATK Mohun Bagan’s long-term project is addictive: Jhingan||PANAJI: For a long time, Sandesh Jhingan was confused. He was being chased by several clubs and coaches explained the projects themselves. So while the India defender admired all the projects, he just couldn’t make up his mind. “I felt very good listening to all coaches and must thank them. That made this an even tougher call, but I eventually went with my gut feeling and said yes to ATK Mohun Bagan,” Jhingan told TOI in an exclusive interview on Sunday. It’s the same gut that has helped him take big decisions for the last eight years. It’s the same heart that made him ignore more lucrative offers and stay with Kerala Blasters in the past. And once he has taken a decision, there’s no looking back. “In my eight years (as a professional footballer), all decisions have been heart over mind. Some did not agree with my decisions in the past, but I’ve been always happy. Me joining ATK Mohun Bagan is part of the same thought process,” said Jhingan. Jhingan listened patiently to owner Sanjeev Goenka and coach Antonio Habas before he made up his mind. His family smiled after being told of the decision, and his representative, Anuj Kichlu, nodded in agreement. Like they say in football, it was a win-win situation. “The long-term vision of ATK Mohun Bagan is something so addictive. When I heard the project, I wanted to be a part. It’s a fantastic project and the commitment with which they are working towards it is amazing. “It helped that ATK Mohun Bagan have a champion squad. They have great players and a coach who knows how to win titles. Habas understands my game and I have no doubt I will improve under him,” said Jhingan, who has signed a five-year contract, the most valued in the history of Indian football. It is no secret that Jhingan wants to ply his trade abroad for a while, preferably in Europe. It’s a dream he says that 90 percent of Indian footballers harbour, even though not many will make it known. So while Jhingan’s focus from now till the end of the season will be on ATK Mohun Bagan – in Indian Super League and AFC Cup – the foreign dream remains safeguarded with exit clauses in his contract. “I am someone who believes in the moment. Nobody knows what will happen tomorrow. I live in the present moment, and for now, me being a ATK Mohun Bagan player, my body and soul belongs to the club. “I want to give it my all to bring glory to the club, not just by winning the ISL but also ensuring we make a mark in Asia. The club has to be feared beyond India and we can make this happen. The club has the potential to become a giant in Asia,” said Jhingan. Not everyone liked Jhingan’s decision to join ATK Mohun Bagan. Other clubs who chased him for a long time will obviously be disappointed, but the most hurt – on the evidence of comments on social media and elsewhere – are fans of Kerala Blasters where the defender spent six seasons. Many fans believe he betrayed their love, but for the star defender, nothing can be further from the truth. “When we parted ways, it was mutual and it was a mature decision from both ends. If my decision to leave Kerala was about money, I would have done that long ago when I had much-better offers. “I remained loyal because I loved the project, the club and the fans. I’ve given my all to the club. I’ve played with stitches, concussions and muscle problems,” said Jhingan, whose jersey No 21 at the club has since been retired. Jhingan is not the first star to leave the club, nor he will be the last. Iain Hume, Cedric Hengbart, CK Vineeth, Anas Edathodika, Bartholomew Ogbeche have all left with a bitter taste in their mouth, despite successful spells. For Jhingan, though, Kerala remains a happy memory. “Kerala Blasters will always remain a part of me. Nobody can take that away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/atk-mohun-bagans-long-term-project-is-addictive-jhingan/articleshow/78521619.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 7, 2020||India||No touching of idols or holy books, says govt SOP ahead of festive season||NEW DELHI: Cautioning people against the expected surge in Covid-19 cases during the upcoming festival season which may lead to public gatherings and complacency among people, the Centre has issued guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread. While suggesting to allow festive events only outside the containment zones, the government urged people residing in the restricted areas and vulnerable population, including pregnant women, elderly and those with co-morbidities, to celebrate all festivals inside their homes. Gatherings will also have to ensure adequate area for events with a detailed site map and proper markings to maintain social distancing and not allowing touching of idols and holy books to prevent the spread of infection, according to the SOP issued by the health ministry on Tuesday. It said that festivals, fairs, rallies, exhibitions, cultural functions, processions and concerts associated with the festivities are mass events and advised administrative requirement, such as identification of spatial boundaries and preparation of a detailed site plan in compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing, sanitisation, route planning etc. "In case of events that run for days or weeks, the crowd density doesn't remain the same throughout and usually peaks around certain hours of the day and some previously known auspicious days," the guidelines said suggesting that planning for the event should factor this so that crowds are regulated and managed to ensure physical distance and sanitisation. In case of rallies and immersion processions, the number of people should not exceed the prescribed limit and proper physical distancing and wearing of masks must be ensured. The number of such rallies and the distance covered by them may be kept within manageable limits. The ministry also advised to keep support of ambulance services on alert. Watch Govt releases SOP ahead of festive season fearing Covid-19 surge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-touching-of-idols-or-holy-books-says-govt-sop-ahead-of-festive-season/articleshow/78524618.cms||---
October 7, 2020||India||48% of Covid deaths reported from 25 dists in 8 states: Govt||NEW DELHI: Even as the total death toll due to Covid-19 mounted to 1,03,569, around 48% of deaths in the country are concentrated in 25 districts in eight states with Maharashtra alone accounting for 15 of these districts, health ministry said underlining the need to have area specific strategies to reduce the overall case fatality rate. On Monday, 884 people succumbed to the disease, of these over 29% were in Maharashtra. Ten states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, UP, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh - account for nearly 80% of the deaths. Maharashtra has recorded 38,347 deaths, considerably more than Tamil Nadu, which is next with 9,917. The two are followed by Karnataka (9,370) and UP (6,153). "We have focused our efforts on the specific districts where most deaths are concentrated and have also asked these states where these districts are located to formulate specific strategies and undertake measures to reduce deaths. Our aim is to bring down case fatality rate below 1%," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Apart from the 15 districts in Maharashtra, there are two districts each in Karnataka, West Bengal and Gujarat and one each in Tamil Nadu, Punjab, UP and Andhra Pradesh. Bhushan said India has recorded the highest number of recoveries from Covid-19 at over 56 lakh. While India's case fatality ratio has been falling, some states and cities continue to be a cause for worry. About claims made under the Rs 50 lakh insurance scheme for frontline healthcare workers, Bhushan said payments have been made in 95 cases and 176 claims are under process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/48-of-covid-deaths-reported-from-25-dists-in-8-states-govt/articleshow/78524660.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 7, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Saffron discards likely to cross over to LJP camp||NEW DELHI: A former Bihar BJP vice-president joined LJP on Tuesday after quitting the saffron outfit. Rajendra Singh will contest from Dinara constituency against JD(U) MLA and minister in Nitish Kumar cabinet, Jai Kumar Singh. LJP is likely to accommodate at least four BJP men in its first list of candidates, which would be released on Wednesday and in subsequent phases more saffron members will find place, sources said. Singh, who had fought the last elections unsuccessfully from the same seat in 2015, told reporters after meeting LJP chief Chirag Paswan in Delhi, "I can no longer remain with Nitish Kumar." LJP sources said several senior BJP functionaries were in contact with the party members amid indications that saffron ticket-seekers who won't find a place in the final list may knock at LJP's doors. Party sources said there is no plan to project Chirag as CM candidate since they have announced that LJP will accept any BJP chief minister in the state. A day after iterating that Bihar will get a BJP-LJP government after the polls, Chirag said, "As soon as the new government takes charge, all culprits involved in corruption in the Saat Nishchay (seven promises) scheme will be sent to jail and the remaining amount will be released so that the pending works can be completed." LJP members defended Chirag's frequent reference to PM Narendra Modi saying, "The PM doesn't belong to a party. He is the PM of the entire country. For us, the PM is a model for development and a thought to make India a developed country. We won't use him, rather we will take his thoughts and vision to people. We are fighting for the pride of Biharis and the PM also wants to give them respect." Party members maintained that while they will put 143 candidates, their focus will be only against JD(U) and other opposition candidates. “There may be some unavoidable situations where we have to put our candidates where the BJP will also be in the fray. But these will be friendly fights in those seats. As we have maintained we have no problem with the BJP,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bihar-elections-saffron-discards-likely-to-cross-over-to-ljp-camp/articleshow/78524727.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 7, 2020||---||NDA may be hit in JD(U)-LJP war of attrition||PATNA: LJP's relentless attack on Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has not only fuelled speculation about its possible impact on NDA's poll performance but also put BJP in a spot, forcing the saffron party to call out 'rebel' LJP and strongly back the leadership of the JD(U) chief. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi along with Nitish clarified their stand vis a vis LJP in a joint press conference on Tuesday to announce their seat-sharing formula. "We have no confusion in our minds," Nitish said. But LJP chief Chirag Paswan's sustained attack for over three months on the programmes and performance of Nitish and the stoic silence of the BJP brass had created a perception in political circles that the son of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan was playing to a game plan chalked out with a "hidden agenda". BJP leaders on Tuesday did not deny that LJP was a part of the NDA at the Centre. Jaiswal, in a damage control exercise, said only those who have faith in the leadership of Nitish will remain in the 'NDA in Bihar'. At the same time, it asked LJP not to use photographs of PM Modi for its electioneering or else they may have to move the Election Commission. LJP's decision to field candidates against JD(U) in the three-phase Bihar election and Chirag's statement on Monday that his party will form the government with BJP in the state left JD(U) seething with anger against the young Paswan, who is projecting himself as a chief ministerial candidate with his 'Bihar first, Bihari first' slogan. BJP's general secretary Devesh Kumar downplayed the fear of any damage to the NDA's prospects due to Chirag and reiterated the party stand that "it remains steadfast" in adhering to the coalition dharma. RJD is enjoying the developments. "Now, NDA means 'negative and defective alliance'. Their cadres are confused. BJP and JD(U) will have to suffer irreparable damage in the polls," RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/nda-may-be-hit-in-jdu-ljp-war-of-attrition/articleshow/78524742.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
October 7, 2020||Business||ED arrests CFO & internal auditor of Cox & Kings||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday arrested CFO of Cox & Kings Anil Khandelwal and the company's internal auditor Naresh Jain in connection with the Yes Bank money laundering case. A special court in Delhi remanded the two to seven days of ED custody. "During PMLA investigation in the Yes Bank case it surfaced that Yes Bank had a total outstanding of Rs 3,642 crore in respect of Cox & Kings Group of Companies. Further probe revealed that CKG forged its consolidated financials by manipulating the balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries," ED claimed. It said some board resolutions submitted to banks for sanctioning the loans were also found to be forged. "Further investigation revealed that the loan sanction from Yes Bank was driven by then CMD Rana Kapoor and was given bypassing the norms." The agency has said it has gathered evidence regarding 'clear instruction' of Rana Kapoor to the concerned bank officials to get the said loan continued and not to take efforts to recover it. "During 2015 to 2019 sales of Rs 3,908 crore was made to 15 non-existent fictitious customers. Majority of collection shown in ledgers from Ezeego (another group entity of CKG ) was not found in the bank statements," ED said. Another 147 customers also appeared to be suspicious and non-existent, the agency claimed. Cox & King Ltd has been accused of diverting Rs 1,100 crore to another stressed firm without any approval of the board which has no business relationship with the company. "Anil Khandelwal and Naresh Jain acquired the mortgaged property amounting to Rs 63 crore in their owned business entity Reward Business Solutions without paying a penny from their pocket," ED said. Watch Yes Bank money laundering case: ED arrests CFO, internal auditor of Cox & Kings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-arrests-cfo-internal-auditor-of-cox-kings/articleshow/78524781.cms||---
October 7, 2020||---||Mukesh Sahani joins NDA as an associate partner||PATNA: A set designer for the flicks from Bollywood for the past some years, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahani’s romancing with the rough and tumble terrain of Bihar politics came full circle on Tuesday, when BJP finally decided to rope him in as its “associate” partner in the NDA for the state assembly polls. On Tuesday, CM Nitish Kumar made special mention of Sahani’s party, saying BJP has brought in the VIP as its associated partner in the NDA and have been in talks with it over seat-sharing. During the announcement of the seat shares between JD(U) and BJP, the latter’s top leaders also appeared over-enthused at the prospects of having brought Sahani to the NDA fold, as it would bring the support of the Nishad (mallah or boatmen caste) people to the candidates of all the four NDA partners — JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. The BJP has decided to give six seats to the VIP. The details were being worked out. Earlier, when at the margins of the state’s politics, Sahani used to present himself as the ‘Son of Mallah,’ (a sub-caste group of fishermen found preponderantly in the state’s riverine areas in north and south Bihar). While he flirted with the BJP during the 2014 parliamentary elections, Sahani extended support to the BJP during the 2015 election, thinking that the BJP-led NDA would form the government, which, however, was dashed as Nitish became the state’s CM from the conglomerate called the grand alliance comprising JD(U), RJD and Congress. BJP could win only 53 of the 157 assembly seats it had contested. Sahni formed his party on November 4, 2018. Then on, he started actively flirting with RJD whose CM face is Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Before that, Nitish had switched sides and joined hands with BJP to form the NDA government. To build his stock, Sahani took to hyperbolic utterances, like his supporters would eat fish and rice — staple food of fishermen and boatmen — and work to defeat the NDA during the coming assembly polls. On September 4, Sahani quit the grand alliance, alleging that he had been “backstabbed” by Tejashwi, and a day later announced to fight all the 243 assembly seats. The BJP apprehended scattering of its votes and roped him into the NDA by night. For Sahani, indeed, his romancing with the state’s politics has now come full circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/sahani-joins-nda-as-an-associate-partner/articleshow/78522209.cms||Abhay Singh
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Cops draw up fresh Puja parking plans||Kolkata: Keeping in mind the Covid situation, the Kolkata traffic police department is planning to tweak last year’s plans to manage Puja crowd. While parking spaces at pandal complexes will definitely increase, a few zones will see separate entry-exit points. While each traffic guard submitted their proposals on Monday, a thorough discussion had to be curtailed as cops got busy with blockades and political agitations in the city. The final meeting is likely to conclude in the next three days. There is also a possibility that the plans will be announced during the co-ordination meeting with organizers later this week. “We had discussions on the parking issue. It is certain that more people will come using two-wheelers and cars. Parking space has to be increased. But they cannot be allowed to park too close to pandals,” said an officer. With an expected explosion in the number of bikes, dedicated space needs to be created where there are Puja clusters. For example, there are five major Pujas around Hatibagan and Deshapriya park. There are four more near the Rashbehari and Lake area each. While parking remains high on police priority list, crowding at traditional markets is also keeping them worried. With barely one weekend to go before Dwitiya, the cops have already increased their presence at some of the city’s marketing destinations like Gariahat, Hatibagan and New market. “All traffic guards have been instructed to be alert leading up to Durga Puja. This is especially true around the New Market-Park Street-Shakespeare Sarani belt. Besides local cops and traffic police, the watch section and anti-snatching section officers will be out in full force,” said a source. Major organizers like 66 Pally or Samajsebi said they had spoken to cops about specific requirements. “We have spoken of online sale of coupons that will allow cars close to our pandal. The cops have been appreciative about our plans,” said Pintu Sengupta of 66 Pally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-draw-up-fresh-puja-parking-plans/articleshow/78501098.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 7, 2020||Agra||4 ‘tied to PFI’ held on way to Hathras||Agra: A journalist and three others on their way to meet the Hathras girl’s family were taken into preventive detention by UP Police on Monday. The four men were arrested during a check near the Maant toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway and “sensitive literature” that had “potential to foment trouble” was seized from their possession, police said. Siddiqui Kappan (41) from Kerala’s Malappuram, a journalist with a Malayalam-language news site, Atikur Rahman (28) from UP’s Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmad (28) from Bahraich and Aalam (37) from Rampur are allegedly associated with the Kerala-based Islamic organisation Popular Front of India (PFI) and its student wing, Campus Front of India (CFI). The outfits are banned in Kerala and UP had tried to ban them last year. “All of them were produced before an executive magistrate and sent to judicial custody for 14 days under Section 151 of the CrPC (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences),” Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI. Police said PFI literature, their laptops and phones were seized. A source said the pamphlets they were carrying were titled ‘Justice for Hathras rape victim 2020’, ‘Dos and don’ts during protests and arrests’ and ‘Your rights’. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar said, “Investigation is on. We will check their background, ascertain why they were going there and what their plans were.” The Kerala Union of Working Journalists, meanwhile, has filed a habeas corpus petition in the Supreme Court and sought the release of Kappan, who they say was on his way to Hathras for reporting the case. “The Constitution protects freedom of press. Kappan’s arrest is in breach of constitutional values,” president of the union’s Delhi unit, Miji Jose P, said. “The state government is yet to give us any information about his whereabouts.” The union had on Monday written to the CMs and DGPs of Kerala and UP, urging them to step in and secure his release. They have now written to PM Narendra Modi as well. On Monday evening, an unverified Facebook page of CFI had posted a demand for their release and identified Rahman as the organisation’s national treasurer. In another post on Tuesday morning, Khan was identified as the organisation’s general secretary for the Delhi unit. The fourth person, according to the post, was their driver. Referring to the UP Police charges of “sensitive literature” in their possession, another post on Tuesday evening said, “We strongly demand that the police refrain from such baseless allegations aiming to tarnish individuals and organisations … We demand the immediate release of all leaders and journalists and the police should not stop anybody from visiting the family of rape victim.” (With inputs from our bureau in Kozhikode)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/journalist-3-others-on-their-way-to-hathras-arrested/articleshow/78519816.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 7, 2020||Patna||‘Hang Tejashwi if he’s found guilty in Purnia leader’s murder case’||PATNA: The murder of a Mahadalit and former RJD leader, Shakti Kumar Mallik, in Purnia on Sunday has stirred up a political storm in poll-bound Bihar. The leaders of the ruling alliance and those from the opposition camp have started trading charges against each other apparently in a bid to make the incident an election issue. Barely hours after deputy chief minister (CM) Sushil Kumar Modi fired a volley of questions on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and the leaders of Left parties for their silence on the Purnia leader’s killing, Vaibhav Walia, national secretary of the grand old party, tweeted, “Is Rahul Gandhi handling the law and order situation in Bihar for which he should be blamed?” Taking a dig at the Mahagathbandhan, which accepted RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the CM face of the opposition, SuMo had said, “I would like to know from Rahul Gandhi and the leaders of the Left parties if they still accept Tejashwi as their leader, who has been made a named accused in the Shakti Mallik murder case.” He added, “Leaders like Rahul Gandhi would be doing politics only after ascertaining the caste, creed, religion and gender of the victims. The RJD, whose leaders Tejashwi and Tej Pratap were among the six named accused in the case, will have to pay a heavy price for getting the Dalit leader killed.” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad asked, “Who will deny the fact that CM Nitish Kumar rid Bihar of the RJD’s jungle raj and established the rule of law?” RJD leaders defended Tejashwi, now the official CM candidate of the Mahagathbandhan. While the party’s national vice president Shivanand Tiwari demanded a CBI probe into the incident, Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha alleged that Tejashwi and Tej Pratap were being implicated in the case for political reasons. Tiwari said he would urge Nitish to ask his party leaders not to make any remarks about the leader of opposition till the investigation into the murder case was complete. Jha, on the other hand, asserted that Tejashwi should be hanged if he was found guilty in the case, but “making someone a scapegoat out of political vendetta is not a good sign”. Meanwhile, a senior police officer, who is associated with the probe, said the slain leader’s maid, Rita Devi, had lodged a case with the K-Haat police station in Purnia on September 7, accusing him of threatening her and her family members with dire consequences for demanding wages for work. Mallik, his second wife, Khushboo Devi, and close associates, Raja Kumar and Nand Kishore, were booked under sections 450, 354(B), 323 and 506 of the IPC. His clout could be gauged from the fact that he had built a palatial building on government land adjacent to the official bungalows of the DIG, SP and DDC in Purnia’s posh locality. Authoritative sources said Mallik’s father was an employee of the local municipality then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hang-tejashwi-if-hes-found-guilty-in-purnia-leaders-murder-case/articleshow/78522466.cms||Ramashankar
October 7, 2020||Business||SBI MD Khara to replace Rajnish as chairman||TNN New Delhi: The government has appointed State Bank of India’s MD Dinesh Khara, as the successor to Rajnish Kumar, chairman of the country’s largest bank and whose term ended on Tuesday. Separately. the Banks Board Bureau has recommended the appointment of Swaminathan Janakiraman and Ashwini Kumar Tewari as SBI MDs. Janakiraman, currently deputy MD of the bank, and Tewari, CEO of SBI Card, will replace Khara and Arijit Basu, who will retire this month-end. The bureau interviewed 16 top SBI group executives on Monday and named P C Kandpal, MD of SBI General, and AK Choudhary, DMD of SBI, on the reserve list. The notification, appointing Khara as chairman, which came late on Tuesday, said that he has been given a term of three years. Khara (59) who joined the bank as a probationary officer in 1984, is a commerce graduate and holds an MBA degree from Delhi University’s faculty of management studies. He was earlier head of SBI Mutual Fund, where he ramped up a business, which had been stagnating for a decade. He was head of the bank’s Bhopal circle. As MD, he oversaw the merger of five associates and Bhartiya Mahila Bank with SBI. Khara’s biggest challenge is to grow SBI without degrading asset quality at a time when private banks have raised over Rs 60,000 crore capital and set to grab market share from their public sector rivals. His predecessor Kumar, in his three-year term, has led the bank through one of the most eventful periods in its post-independence history. This started with the integration of the associate banks with SBI, followed by the RBI directive to initiate insolvency proceedings against top corporates who had defaulted on their loans. Even as the bank cleaned up its books, it was tasked with reviving Yes Bank, which was on the verge of collapse. A fortnight after the Yes Bank moratorium was lifted, India was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Even as the country went into lockdown, SBI branches were required to be operational and the bank — with other public sector lenders — was asked to distribute government benefits in rural areas. But more than all the headline-grabbing events that kept the bank management burning the midnight oil, Kumar’s lasting legacy is likely to be the digital transformation that he promoted both in a public forum and in behind-the-scenes technology implementation. The shift to digital and use of analytics & artificial intelligence is no less transformational than the move towards core-banking. It is also a leap of faith as it shifts the servicing capability from humans to software systems, which could expose the bank to new risks. But risk-taking is something Kumar never shied away from, whether it was taking up branch assignments in terrorist-infested areas early in his career or in taking bold decisions. When most public sector bankers expressed fear of the three Cs (Central Bureau of Investigation, Central Vigilance Commission and the Comptroller & Auditor General) passing judgments on commercial decisions with the wisdom of hindsight, Kumar took calculated risks, treating them as a matter of chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-md-khara-to-replace-rajnish-as-chairman/articleshow/78523779.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Row over retention wall plan along Bhukhi Nullah||Vadodara: A new row has surfaced at M S University as eyebrows are being raised over the university’s move to construct a 5-km long retention wall near Bhukhi Nullah, the tributary of Vishwamitri river that passes through the heart of the campus. Environmentalists have raised concerns over long term damage to ecosystem and biodiversity of the stretch before MSU chancellor Shubhangini Raje Gaekwad, who in turn has sought explanation from the university authorities on the plan. After reports of university’s plan of constructing the wall surfaced, former head of architecture department professor Shishir Raval termed it ‘saddening and maddening’. “The university is going ahead with interventions that are going to damage nature in irreparable manner. Despite years of urging and working with the powers that be of the university, they are going ahead with their retrograde, ill-advised plans to concretize the edges of Bhukhi Nullah and destroy its many ecosystem characteristics and services,” read Raval’s message, urging university members and Barodians to come together and stop the work. City-based Society for Clean Environment (SOCLEEN), which is headed by Gaekwad, has also expressed its concerns. “We have a strong objection to any tree being cut and any concretisation of this tributary,” said SOCLEEN’s joint organising secretary, professor Arun Arya. Questions are being raised as city has already witnessed ‘man-made’ floods quite often. University authorities, however, claimed that construction of the retention wall will not anyway damage the ecosystem of the stretch. “There was already an old wall that had broken in some portions. We are just repairing those portions which had collapsed. The debris of the broken portions is blocking the flow of the tributary. In fact, by repairing this stretch, we are clearing the blockages of the tributary and at the same time also ensuring that soil does not get eroded,” said MSU’s officiating registrar, K M Chudasama. Chudasama stressed that the construction plan is not new. “If we do not repair or re-create this wall, soil will continue to erode and enter the tributary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/row-over-retention-wall-plan-along-bhukhi-nullah/articleshow/78520925.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 7, 2020||Patna||NU launches MBA course in sustainable devpt & mgmt||PATNA: Nalanda University on Monday launched School of Management Studies with a futuristic academic programme christened ‘MBA in Sustainable Development and Management’. It is a full-time residential two-year MBA programme open to both working executives and freshers. Students who manage to find an early employment opportunity may exit the program after one year with a diploma, NU officials said, adding the students also have the option to do internships with the leading corporates and NGOs. The online launch-cum-orientation programme of the new school — the fourth stream in NU — was inaugurated by vice-chancellor Sunaina Singh. Singh said MBA in Sustainable Development and Management programme at Nalanda is an interdisciplinary programme that would train the management professionals to not only invent solutions for the economic challenges but also for the environmental and social challenges that the businesses are facing. “Following the lines of the Triple bottom line concept, the sustainability managers would not only have to be sensitive to the profit motives of the investors but also cater to the needs of the people and the planet,” Singh said. The VC emphasized on the need to remodel the social, environmental and developmental paradigm to achieve sustainable development goals and create sustainable society for one and all. Speaking at the launch webinar, Manoj Varghese, managing partner, Millard Reves Advisory and former Facebook and Google head, India, advised students on the role of the management professionals that he believes has been evolving over the last few decades. He further stressed on the fact that leadership and vision would become the two most important attributes for a management professional to achieve success in near future. Zinaida Fadeeva, the visiting professor at the University of Science, Malaysia, and former professor, United Nations University, Japan, opined that as countries across the globe start implementing sustainable development goals at national level, it will provide immense opportunity to sustainability professionals. Another guest speaker Kamal Singh, the executive director of UN Global Compact Network, India, said, “Sustainable education helps students learn the values and the motivation to take action for sustainability — in their personal lives, within their community and also at a global scale, now and in the future.” Earlier, Prof Sapna A Narula, dean of School of Management Studies, NU, presented an overview of the programme. She stated that it is very timely for the university leadership to think of this programme in line with the International Labour Organisation’s estimation of 24 million new green jobs by the year 2030.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nu-launches-mba-course-in-sustainable-devpt-mgmt/articleshow/78522635.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Patna||HAM(S) releases 7 names for polls||PATNA: Former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) released a list of seven candidates on Tuesday, which included Manjhi himself and two of his relatives. The HAM (S) chief would be filing his nomination papers for his Imamganj assembly seat in Gaya district on October 7. As per the NDA seat-sharing deal, Manjhi’s party has been given seven seats by JD(U) from its share of 122 seats. Earlier there had been speculation that HAM(S) candidates might be contesting on JD(U) symbol. In 2015, HAM(S) was an ally of the NDA. HAM(S) spokesman Danish Rizwan said the party candidates have started the process of filing their nominations. The candidates are: Jyoti Devi (Barachatti, Gaya), Shrawan Bhuyian (Kutumba, Aurangabad), Rajendra Yadav (Kasba, Purnia), Prafull Manjhi (Sikandra, Jamui), a former minister in Nitish’s cabinet and ex-MLA Anil Kumar (Tekari, Gaya) and Devendra Manjhi (Makhdoompur, Jehanabad). Devendra Manjhi is HAM chief’s son-in-law while Jyoti Devi is Devendra’s mother. Devi had earlier been elected from Barachatti on a JD(U) ticket in 2010. In 2015 the former CM had contested from two constituencies Imamganj and Makhdoompur but lost in the former. He won from Imamganj defeating then assembly speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary of JD(U). Once again Chaudhary is in the ring on an RJD ticket to challenge Manjhi. The HAM(S) after getting its share from the NDA bitterly attacked LJP and its chief Chirag Paswan, who has emerged as a new rival to JD(U) and a vocal critic of Nitish. Party’s spokesman Rizwan said since the BJP has cleared its stand on LJP, the party should be eliminated from the BJP-led alliance immediately. Welcoming the Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal’s statement asking LJP not to use BJP top leaders’ name, Rizwan said those raising fingers at Nitish and not accepting his leadership should be removed from the NDA on the national level too. HAM(S) president Manjhi said the campaigning has intensified in all the seats they were given and the party would work hard to strengthen the NDA- government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-releases-7-names-for-polls/articleshow/78522100.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 7, 2020||Patna||VIP IT cell manned by 60 experts||PATNA: Amid the Covid- 19 pandemic, as the other political parties have engaged experts to handle their IT cells to create awareness among the electors about their manifestos and local issues, the digital war room of Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahni is busy in telling people about the party’s main agenda. The party has set up its high-tech IT cell near the Dak Bunglow roundabout, which is being managed by 60 IT experts. The cell is equipped with smart phones, multiple TV screens, internet facilities. The cell is allowed to project its expertise in the media so that it can connect with maximum voters and spread the message of “Chunav Nahi Dil Jeetenge”. The war room experts said, “As IT experts work round-the-clock, they monitor the media content related to the party while another section is concentrating on the digital content on social platforms like Facebook pages, Twitter handle accounts and Instagram. Yet another module works as a research cell.” Ashish Yadav, who is managing the war room said, “All the volunteers engaged in this cell look after online campaigning on Facebook, Twitter and different apps. Over 1,200 WhatsApp groups have been created by the supporters and workers to reach maximum people. Besides, multiple teams are working in various districts at the ground-level to communicate with the electors. We have issued the toll free number to connect with the locals, who do not have access to social media platforms.” He added: “The SMS and recorded voice callings is also managed by the cell. We tried to build two- way communication between locals and the senior leaders of the party.” According to the strategists in IT cell, the team has been telling people about the six-year-long journey of party’s chief Mukesh Sahni, who left Mumbai to work for the upliftment of backward class and ‘Mallah’. “It is also the main agenda of the party to work for the development of backward class and people of Nishad community. The party would also work for the employment of youth. Our main focus is on young voters,” they said. The party will soon launch its digital ‘raath’ to reach people in rural areas and the live shows will be telecast in these vans through the party’s official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vip-it-cell-manned-by-60-experts/articleshow/78521647.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 7, 2020||---||Bihar BJP vice-president quits party to join LJP||PATNA: The state unit of the BJP received a jolt on Tuesday when its vice-president Rajendra Singh quit the party and joined the LJP led by Chirag Paswan, barely three weeks before the first phase of the state assembly polls. Singh, who is considered close to the RSS, joined the LJP in the presence of Chirag in New Delhi. He is likely to contest election from Dinara assembly seat in Rohtas district. In 2015, he had fought as a BJP nominee from Dinara, but lost to Jai Kumar Singh of the JD (U). After becoming an LJP member, Singh said, “I will work as a sincere worker. It is up to the top leadership of the party to decide what responsibility I am bestowed upon in the upcoming assembly polls.” A native of Rohtas district, Singh had played a pivotal role in the 2014 assembly polls in Jharkhand. He was shifted to Bihar ahead of the 2015 election and tipped off to be made the chief minister if the BJP was voted to power then. However, he had to bite the dust as the party did not fare well in the election. Sources in the BJP said Singh was unhappy over the denial of ticket from Dinara which has a sizeable population of Rajputs, the caste he belongs to. After the LJP’s exit, the NDA now consists of the BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) and VIP. “It’s part of the LJP’s strategy to field its candidates from the seats from where the JD (U) has fielded its candidates. And Dinara is no exception,” a senior LJP leader told this newspaper. He added, “Earlier, Jai Kumar Singh, who is a minister in the state cabinet, was not to be fielded from Dinara due to anti-incumbency. On Monday, he was given party symbol by JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar.” A local resident, Birendra Kumar Singh, pointed out, “It will not be a cakewalk for Jai Kumar Singh because Rajendra Singh also belongs to the same community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/bihar-bjp-vice-president-quits-party-to-join-ljp/articleshow/78522069.cms||Ramashankar
October 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar BJP vice-president quits party to join LJP||PATNA: The state unit of the BJP received a jolt on Tuesday when its vice-president Rajendra Singh quit the party and joined the LJP led by Chirag Paswan, barely three weeks before the first phase of the state assembly polls. Singh, who is considered close to the RSS, joined the LJP in the presence of Chirag in New Delhi. He is likely to contest election from Dinara assembly seat in Rohtas district. In 2015, he had fought as a BJP nominee from Dinara, but lost to Jai Kumar Singh of the JD (U). After becoming an LJP member, Singh said, “I will work as a sincere worker. It is up to the top leadership of the party to decide what responsibility I am bestowed upon in the upcoming assembly polls.” A native of Rohtas district, Singh had played a pivotal role in the 2014 assembly polls in Jharkhand. He was shifted to Bihar ahead of the 2015 election and tipped off to be made the chief minister if the BJP was voted to power then. However, he had to bite the dust as the party did not fare well in the election. Sources in the BJP said Singh was unhappy over the denial of ticket from Dinara which has a sizeable population of Rajputs, the caste he belongs to. After the LJP’s exit, the NDA now consists of the BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) and VIP. “It’s part of the LJP’s strategy to field its candidates from the seats from where the JD (U) has fielded its candidates. And Dinara is no exception,” a senior LJP leader told this newspaper. He added, “Earlier, Jai Kumar Singh, who is a minister in the state cabinet, was not to be fielded from Dinara due to anti-incumbency. On Monday, he was given party symbol by JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar.” A local resident, Birendra Kumar Singh, pointed out, “It will not be a cakewalk for Jai Kumar Singh because Rajendra Singh also belongs to the same community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-bjp-vice-president-quits-party-to-join-ljp/articleshow/78526523.cms||Ramashankar
October 7, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: RJD parliamentary board OKs 41 candidates for first phase||PATNA: The main opposition RJD’s parliamentary board on Tuesday cleared the names of 41 contestants who are being fielded in the first phase of the three-phase assembly polls scheduled to be held for 71 seats on October 28. The meeting held at the residence of former CM Rabri Devi discussed the seats and the candidates to be fielded as nominees in the first phase, mostly infested with Left wing extremist activities. The meeting was chaired jointly by Rabri Devi and Awadh Bihari Singh. A senior RJD leader Chitranjan Gagan said, “The names of the candidates are decided by the parliamentary board of the party. The contestants are being allotted symbols of the party accordingly. This has been the practice in the democratic set up.” He clarified that out of the 71 constituencies going to the polls in the first phase, the RJD would field its candidates on 41 seats. The rest seats have gone to the kitty of the Congress (21) and the Left parties (9), respectively, he added. Earlier, sitting MLA from Maner Bhai Birendra said that the state’s parliamentary board approved the names of the 41 candidates keeping ‘winability’ prospects in mind. “There may be some leaders, who have not been selected for tickets,” he told reporters. Bhai Birendra, however, evaded questions on close relatives of politicians having been booked on the charges of rape and molestation being given tickets. On being insisted, he said, “It’s not any individual but the party, which decides who to give tickets to.” Meanwhile, top sources in the RJD said that the JMM has decided to contest seven seats in Bihar alone. “The JMM took the decision after the RJD, which had announced earlier to accommodate from its quota of seats, offered only two seats in the upcoming election,” sources said. The JMM, which wants to contest the seats, are Jhajha, Chakai, Katoria (ST), Dhamdaha, Manihari (ST), Pirpaithi (SC) and Nathnagar. JMM state unit president Pranav Kumar said that the JMM earlier used to contest 30-32 seats in Bihar but staked its claim on 12 seats keeping in mind the alliance with the RJD. However, the party felt politically betrayed. On Monday, sources said, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren had called on Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in fodder scam cases, in Ranchi and discussed about the seat-sharing deal. “We will continue to honour Lalu ji despite being given a raw deal,” a senior JMM functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar-assembly-elections-2020/rjd-parliamentary-board-oks-41-candidates-for-first-phase/articleshow/78521812.cms||Ramashankar
October 7, 2020||Patna||Patna HC seeks reply on ambulance service||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday sought reply from the state health department within two days over alleged strike of 102 ambulance service employees amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL filed by one Gaurav Kumar Singh, who alleged that the ambulance service employees were on strike resulting in inconvenience to people in state amid the pandemic situation. The petitioner has urged the high court to direct the authorities concerned to consider their assumingly genuine claims and grievances in order to end the strike. The petitioner has annexed the clipping of TOI dated August 9 in reference with the strike to protest against their 12 hours of mandatory duty without even any weekly off and leave during festivals, too. In addition, they had to work four hours extra daily without getting any incentive. Clippings of several other vernacular dailies have also been annexed with the PIL with reference to their indefinite strike from September 14 over demands of wage increment, overtime payment and incentives for work during Covid-19 pandemic along with implementing labour law. Additional advocate general SD Yadav prayed for two weeks’ time to reply on the matter. However, the court observed that ambulance service is an essential thing and fixed Thursday for hearing the issue again. Yadav said he spoke to authorities concerned, who informed him accordingly that the strike had ended and 102 service was functioning smoothly. “The court would be apprised about it on Wednesday,” he added. Counsel Sumeet Kumar Singh appeared for the petitioner in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-hc-seeks-reply-on-ambulance-service/articleshow/78522382.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Business||Banking on digital will be outgoing SBI chief’s legacy||MUMBAI: Rajnish Kumar, who completes his term as chairman of the country’s largest bank SBI on Tuesday, has led the bank through one of the most eventful periods in its post-independence history. But more than all the headline-grabbing events that kept the bank management burning the midnight oil, Kumar’s lasting legacy is likely to be the digital transformation that he promoted both in a public forum and in behind-the-scenes technology implementation. Kumar’s term in 2017 began with the challenge of on-the-ground integration of the merger of the SBI’s associate banks with itself. While the balance sheet merger was completed by his predecessor Arundhati Bhattacharya, Kumar had the task of actual integration. Hardly had SBI digested the merger, the RBI forced banks to initiate insolvency proceedings against some of the top corporates which were not able to repay their loans. As a result, the bank had to provide for over Rs 1.5 lakh crore of loans in 2018. After emerging from the bad loan crisis, early this year SBI was roped in to rescue Yes Bank which, according to Kumar, was in ICU at that point. Within a week of the Yes Bank moratorium being lifted, the Covid lockdown was announced and banks were asked to remain operational and also distribute cash in rural areas. Even as he tackled the back-to-back crises, Kumar aggressively pushed for digitisation. According to analysts, the 214-year-old bank with over 22,000 branches has built a digital capability that many nimbler private banks do not have. While most public sector banks treat IT as a department that provides services to the bank, Kumar has never shied away from aggressively marketing the lender’s digital banking app Yono at every public forum. In a way, the foundation for digital technology was laid when in 2004, under chairmanship of A K Purwar, SBI decided to implement the world’s largest core banking platform. Considering the technology challenges then, there was a debate on whether the bank should go for centralised or distributed databases. SBI took a leap of faith and decided to go for a centralised database. The shift to digital and use of analytics & artificial intelligence is no less transformational than the move towards core-banking. It is also a leap of faith as it shifts the servicing capability from humans to software systems, which could expose the bank to new risks. But risk-taking is something Kumar never shied away from, whether it was taking up branch assignments in terrorist-infested areas early in his career or in taking bold decisions. When most public sector bankers expressed fear of the three Cs (Central Bureau of Investigation, Central Vigilance Commission and the Comptroller & Auditor General) passing judgments on commercial decisions with the wisdom of hindsight, Kumar took calculated risks, treating them as a matter of chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banking-on-digital-will-be-outgoing-sbi-chiefs-legacy/articleshow/78524281.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 7, 2020||Business||SAIF raising new $400 million India fund||BENGALURU: SAIF Partners has plans to raise $400 million for its new India-dedicated fund, according to a filing with US securities market regulator SEC. SAIF has been an early backer of unicorns (startups valued at over $1 billion), like mobile payments major Paytm and online food delivery platform Swiggy. The new fund is about 15% larger than its previous three funds, which have consistently been $350 million, as the firm continues to actively back startups despite the Covid-19 pandemic. “For SAIF Partners, fund-raising typically does not take long given their track record. They will look to close the fund by end of the year,” said one of the sources briefed on the matter. A SAIF spokesperson declined to comment when contacted by TOI. SAIF has closed about half a dozen investments this year across sectors like consumer brands, software, education technology and financial technology. These companies include energy bar maker Yoga Bar, sales tool Zomentum, coding classes player Camp-K12, and Jodo, which allows users to pay school fees in instalments. Some of the other notable companies in the portfolio of SAIF, which has over $1 billion in assets under management, include home services company UrbanClap, education tech startup Unacademy, baby care products retailer FirstCry and entertainment ticketing startup BookMyShow. The latest development comes as venture capital investments have started bouncing back, after dropping earlier this year due to pandemic. In the July-September quarter, venture capital firms invested $2 billion across 137 deals — up from the $1.4 billion across 134 deals in the April-June quarter, according to data from Venture Intelligence. But for the nine months of 2020, total investments are still down by 18% to $6.5 billion as compared $7.9 billion during the same period in 2019. SAIF’s new fund comes at a time when several other large new funds have also been closed, highlighting that despite Covid shrinking the global economy, capital flows in startups is not expected to dramatically slow down. TOI reported earlier in July that Sequoia has raised $1.4 billion for India and Southeast Asia, making it the largest pool of capital for startups dedicated to the region. Lightspeed also raised $275 million for its third India-focused fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/saif-raising-new-400m-india-fund/articleshow/78523657.cms||Madhav Chanchani
October 7, 2020||Patna||3 Covid hospitals to resume normal health services||PATNA: The state health department on Tuesday ordered resumption of normal healthcare services at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College (JLNMCH) in Bhagalpur and Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) in Gaya. Earlier, the three government medical colleges were declared dedicated Covid-19 hospitals almost six months ago due to which other medical facilities and academic works came to a halt in these institutions. In a letter issued by health department principal secretary Pratyay Amrit on Tuesday, the principals and superintendents of the three medical colleges were also directed to set up 100-bed wards for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “A decision in this regard was taken after considering the present status of bed occupancy in the dedicated Covid hospitals,” Amrit said. TOI had carried a news item titled ‘NMCH seeks permission to resume normal functioning’ in its Tuesday edition. Hospital superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh told this newspaper, “Soon after the health department’s order, we began making arrangements for resuming normal healthcare services. The OPD of the paediatrics department will begin functioning from tomorrow.” Other services at the NMCH will start from Thursday after thorough sanitisation of the wards. The deputy superintendent of the hospital, Dr Satish Kumar, said, “The Covid ward will have separate entry and exit points in order to check the spread of coronavirus.” He added that academic and clinical functions would be resumed by Thursday after ensuring that the 100-bed Covid ward is ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-covid-hospitals-to-resume-normal-health-services/articleshow/78522230.cms||VK Tripathi
October 7, 2020||Business||RBI’s MPC panel likely to hold rates||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has said that its bimonthly monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting will start on Wednesday. The announcement of the MPC dates came on Tuesday, less than 12 hours after the government notified the appointment of three new members to the panel. The six-member panel will announce its decision on interest rates on Friday. Although the three economists who have been appointed by the RBI as external members are seen as dovish and pro-growth, it is widely expected that the MPC will keep rates on hold. Given inflation pressures, the room for rate cuts is expected to emerge only in the fourth quarter. The RBI was forced to postpone its MPC meeting for the first time after the Centre delayed in appointing three external members to replace the earlier economists who completed their four-year term in August. The three new members are Ashima Goyal (professor at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research), Jayanth R Varma (professor of finance & accounting at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad), and Shashanka Bhide (senior adviser, National Council of Applied Economic Research). “Overall, the new external MPC members appear to be more neutral-to-dovish in their policy views. They are likely to be vocal on liquidity, credit market dynamics, and may not shy away from advocating for the RBI to look at unconventional or untested measures. They are likely to look through the current phase of elevated inflation and find space to lower rates further. In the previous external panel, Chetan Ghate was more hawkish. So, the composition of the current MPC has turned incrementally more dovish, in our view,” Nomura India economist Sonal Varma said in a research note. There is another school of thought that the late appointment of the panel would result in views of the RBI members holding sway in the forthcoming meet. The RBI members are governor Shaktikanta Das, deputy governor Michael Patra and executive director in charge of monetary policy Mridul Saggar. “We expect the RBI to hold policy rates steady, and to provide its updated economic forecasts at the October MPC review after a gap of eight months. Our inflation trajectory leads us to believe that the MPC will have no option but to leave policy rates steady in the near term,” said Barclays economist Rahul Bajoria. According to Axis Capital economist Prithviraj Srinivas, inflation is above the RBI’s tolerance band of 6% and would have been there for three quarters in a row once September’s inflation print is known next week. “The rules state that the MPC at this stage must write a letter to Parliament, explaining the reasons and likely remedial steps. This would be the most significant action of the new MPC in our view. And, it would cement the new MPC framework and inflation targeting policy into an institution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbis-mpc-panel-likely-to-hold-rates/articleshow/78523861.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Patna||Two dynasties see GenNext take over||PATNA: Bihar is witnessing a generational change in the two major political dynasties in the state — one led by Lalu Prasad and the other by Ram Vilas Paswan. Both have largely passed on the mantle of leadership to their respective political heirs — Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Chirag Paswan, who have emerged as two young possible contenders for the CM’s chair. While 30-year-old Tejashwi is leading the opposition’s front in the current state election after being unanimously declared the opposition’s chief minister face by all partners of the Grand Alliance; the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has decided to contest on 143 seats, out of the total 243 in Bihar assembly, meticulously presenting its chief 37-year-old Chirag as an ‘alternative’ to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for the days to come. “With the full backing of his father, Chirag now takes all important decisions of the party. It is he who decided to contest on 143 seats and put up candidates against all seats of the JD(U),” a state-level leader of LJP told TOI. “In the recent past, Chirag successfully established himself as a politician by making frontal attacks on ally JD(U) chief and CM Nitish Kumar on issues ranging from the alleged poor law and order situation in Bihar, alleged corruption in development works to alleged mishandling of covid-19 cases,” said Uday Shankar Choudhary, a social activist. “Like Chirag, Tejashwi, too, now takes all important decisions in his party. It is Tejashwi, and not father Lalu, who decided how much seats should be left for the Congress and how much for three Left parties during the recent seat-sharing,” a senior RJD leader considered close to Lalu’s family told TOI. “Many people in Bihar see the potential of being the future CM in Tejashwi ever since he gave a mesmerizing speech in the Bihar Assembly soon after CM Nitish Kumar broke his alliance with the RJD and rejoined hands with the BJP in July 2017. In that speech, Tejashwi not only articulately cornered Nitish Kumar over the latter’s move to rejoin hands with the BJP by hijacking the mandate of 2015 assembly polls but also showed his prowess of emerging a strong political leader,” Prof Hareram Mandal, a senior teacher of economics at the Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU), Darbhanga, told TOI over the phone. “If voted to power, Tejashwi will prove a better CM than many past CMs in Bihar. Tejashwi’s recent announcement to provide government jobs to 10 lakh youths in the state has created a ray of hope among unemployed youths. It has sent a good message about Tejashwi,” Prof Mandal said. Moreover, this assembly election has given a unique chance to both Tejashwi and Chirag to prove their political acumen in absence of their fathers who once held sway in the state politics. While Tejashwi’s father Lalu is currently at a hospital in Ranchi serving jail terms in some of the cases of fodder scam, Chirag’s father Ram Vilas is critically ill. Senior Paswan recently went through a surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-dynasties-see-gennext-take-over/articleshow/78522159.cms||Madan Kumar
October 7, 2020||Patna||115 candidates in fray for eight council seats||PATNA: Around 115 candidates have filed nomination papers for the biennial election to elect eight members to the Bihar State Legislative Council from Graduates’ and Teachers’ constituencies. The nomination process concluded on Monday. Of the total nomination papers filed, 71 were for graduates’ and 44 from teachers’ constituencies. The election is scheduled to be held on October 22. The graduates’ constituencies are Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Kosi while teachers’ constituencies are Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Saran. The candidates can withdraw their nomination papers on October 8. The scrutiny of nomination papers took place on Tuesday. The NDA has fielded four-time MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav from Patna teachers’ constituency. He would contest against Nayab Ali of Congress and seven others in the fray. Of the total nine candidates, four are PhD scholars while the remaining five are graduates. JD(U)’s Neeraj Kumar is contesting from Patna graduates’ constituency against RJD’s Azad Gandhi and 20 others. Most of the independent candidates are teachers, businessmen and lawyers. Altogether 22 contestants are in the fray of which four are PhD scholars, two postgraduates, three have LLB degrees, 12 are graduates and one diploma holder. In Darbhanga, 13 candidates are in the fray from teachers’ constituency and 18 from graduates’ constituency. Suresh Prasad Roy (BJP) has a direct contest against outgoing MLC and state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha from Darbhanga teachers’ constituency while Dilip Kumar Choudhary of JD(U) is facing RJD leader Anil Kumar Jha. Six candidates are graduates, three postgraduates, two PhD degree holders and one has Med degree. CPM candidate Kedar Nath Pandey, who has been representing Saran teachers’ constituency for the last few terms, is facing Chandra Singh from BJP. One Lalu Prasad Yadav is contesting from this seat as an independent candidate. A 41-year-old man has only intermediate qualification. Besides, nine more people are contesting from this seat. Narendra Prasad Singh (BJP) and Sanjay Kumar Singh (CPI-M) are some of the prominent candidates from Tirhut teachers’ constituency while Devesh Chandra Thakur (JDU), Manish Mohan (RJD) and 12 other candidates are trying their luck from the graduates’ constituency. NK Yadav (BJP) is in direct contest against Nitesh Kumar of RJD in Kosi graduates’ constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/115-candidates-in-fray-for-eight-council-seats/articleshow/78521687.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Six more private hospitals roped in to treat Covid-19 patients in district||Coimbatore: The directorate of health services has begun ramping up beds in private and government hospitals in the district, which recorded 434 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, as the district administration has stopped the option for the people, who test positive for the virus, to remain in home quarantine.While the Covid-19 tally in the district touched the 35,000-mark, the number of active cases came down to 4,837 from 4,890 on Monday, with 494 patients getting discharged from treatment centres on the day. The number of people recovered from Covid-19 has now shot up to 29,693. The toll rose by one to 470.Meanwhile, the number of beds available in private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients has gone up by 17% in the past two weeks. Dr P Krishna, joint director, health services, Coimbatore district, said, “We have 2,362 beds in private sector and 416 of them were added in the past two weeks. We have roped in six more private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients. With this, the number of private hospitals admitting patients has increased to 32.”Among the new hospitals added to the list are NM Hospital at Annur and Venkateshwara Hospital at Chinniampalayam. While the six hospitals have added 226 beds, all of which have oxygen supply facility, the other 26 hospitals have agreed to increase the bed strength.“The Kovai Medical Center and Hospital has agreed to allot 40 more beds and the PSG Hospitals more than 400. While we do not advise home isolation for anybody, we are ensuring that every Covid-19 patient has a bed,” Krishna said.In the government sector, work is on to add 180 beds to the ESI Hospital. While 80 beds would be allocated for Covid-19 patients, the remaining 100 would be set aside for recovered patients who return with complications and side effects. “There are patients who return with breathing issues, requiring further lung treatment, and heart issues. The beds will be used for them,” said a source with the hospital.On its part, the city corporation has launched a website for people to monitor availability of beds at Covid care centres, and private and government hospitals. People need to log onto www.kovaicare-ccmc.com. This would allow people to directly contact hospitals with beds.The state government’s stop corona website also has this list, but there are complaints that the list is not being updated regularly.In another instance, city police commissioner Sumit Sharan flagged off a publicity vehicle to spread awareness on Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-more-private-hospitals-roped-in-to-treat-covid-19-patients-in-district/articleshow/78523732.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Business||AT-1 bonds only on e-platform: Sebi||TNN Mumbai: After several retail investors lost a large chunk of their savings in Yes Bank’s additional tier-1 bonds, Sebi has directed that all quasi-equity and perpetual debt instruments like the AT-1 bonds should be sold on an electronic platform where only qualified institutional buyers are allowed to invest. The move is aimed at preventing banks from selling these bonds to individual investors in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-1-bonds-only-on-e-platform-sebi/articleshow/78523817.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Patna||Schools ready to reopen, but many parents still hesitant due to corona||PATNA: The city schools have geared up to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the ministry of education on Monday for reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII in a graded manner after October 15. The guidelines have been issued in consultation with the Department of School Education and Literacy (DoSEL). The guidelines stated that health, hygiene and safety preparations should be made before reopening of the school. Prem Prakash, principal of Radiant International School, said students would be allowed only with the written consent of their parents or guardians. “It would be appropriate for the students to attend the online classes regularly and visit the school only when it is necessary,” he said and added that no extracurricular activity would be held to avoid mass gathering of students. The principal of DAV Public School, Gola Road, US Prasad said all preparations have been made to welcome the students with written consent of their parents. “Young minds are prone to get distressed during pandemic. We have planned to give ten-minute breaks between every two classes,” he said. Talking about the extracurricular activities, Prasad said, “The teachers are conducting quiz, debate and other activities on digital platforms for students.” Several parents are not in favour of reopening of schools in view of the Covid pandemic while some are ready to send their wards to schools to clear doubts or their poor performance due to virtual classes. Charles Antony, whose son studies in Class X at St Michael’s High School, said, “I would send my ward to the school if he really needs. But the school must maintain proper hygiene and sanitation.” Dipti Kumari, herself a Sanskrit professor at Madhepura University, said she would not send her daughter to Notre Dame Academy in the current scenario. Ratna Ojha of Boring Road, whose son studies in Delhi Public School, said, “I would rather wait till the end of this month and analyse the situation before sending my son to school.” Sanjeev Kumar, whose daughter is in Class IX at DPS Patna, is also not in favour of sending his ward to the school for now. Diya Sharma, a Class XII student of Litera Valley School, is looking forward to visit the school as she has very few last days of school life left. Deepak Mehta, a Class X student of St Michael’s High School, said, “I’m keen to visit the school once or twice to clear doubts. I will take adequate precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-ready-to-reopen-but-many-parents-still-hesitant-due-to-corona/articleshow/78522551.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Patna||Ex-RJD neta murder case being probed from all angles, says SP||PATNA: The police are investigating the murder of former RJD leader Shakti Kumar Mallik from different angles, including financial or property dispute and political rivalry, Purnia SP Vishal Sharma said on Tuesday. RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav and Anil Kumar Sadhu, who is the son-in-law of LJP leader Ram Vilas Paswan, and three others are named accused in the murder case. Three unidentified criminals had shot Mallik dead at his residence near SSB camp in Purnia town on early October 4 morning. Mallik’s wife Khushbu Devi had lodged an FIR alleging that her husband had been killed as he was planning to contest the assembly election as an independent candidate from Raniganj (reserved) seat after RJD expelled him from the party for allegedly not paying Rs50 lakh for the party ticket. The SP told TOI over the phone that police have come to know that Mallik also dealt in real estate and used to lend money on interest to people in Purnia. “We are investigating the case from all angles that was he murdered due to any of these issues besides political rivalry as alleged by the family members,” he said. Sharma said police are yet to ascertain Mallik’s source of income as the family members could not share any information about how much and from where he used to earn. “The question arises as he had purchased brand new SUV hardly a month before his murder. In addition, he was also preparing to contest the assembly election,” SP said. Sharma said it also surfaced during the investigation that Mallik had been accused in criminal cases of kidnapping, extortion and molestation. “Details about all these cases are being gathered,” he said. The SP said no raids have been conducted so far to arrest Araria’s RJD leader Kalu Paswan, his wife Sunita Devi and Manoj Paswan, who are also accused in the case. Sharma said besides the murder case, another FIR has been registered under Arms Act with Khajanchi Haat police station as a loaded countrymade pistol was recovered from the room in which Mallik was shot dead. He said police were still verifying if the rifle seized from Mallik’s residence had a licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-rjd-neta-murder-case-being-probed-from-all-angles-says-sp/articleshow/78522495.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Patna||Change in campaigning mode: From personal visits to internet||PATNA: Ever since the first state assembly election held in 1952, there has been a sea change in the mode of electioneering. Most political parties and their candidates had started canvassing on bullock carts and horse-driven carts. Now they are switching over to the digital mode of campaigning. Old-timers recall how elections were fought in a peaceful and cordial atmosphere in the 1950s and 60s. Most candidates tried to personally contact each and every voter of their constituencies and seek their blessings. Election rallies were organized at public places where candidates and their supporters used to address the voters through battery-operated public address system, they say. Octogenarian Nageshwar Prasad Sharma, who has served as state’s higher education director and Bihar Intermediate Education Council chairman, vividly recalls how the contestants used to move from village to village and from home to home on foot and meet the heads of families, explaining their priorities for the all-round growth and development of their constituencies. In earlier elections, most candidates used to be well known, respected figures of the area and some of them had participated in the national freedom struggle also. Hence, they commanded great respect in the society, he says. “The first Bihar chief minister, Shri Krishna Sinha, never visited his constituency (Barbigha) to seek votes, but always won by big margins owing to his great popularity and the sacrifices he had made for the country during the freedom struggle,” Sharma adds. Environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh, who has seen politics in his own family (his father Mehta Ram Charan Singh had unsuccessfully contested the 1952 and 1957 elections against Shri Krishna Sinha), recalls how candidates used to move either on bicycles or bullock carts from one place to the other to seek votes. Candidates losing elections used to congratulate the winners by embracing them and there was hardly any animosity after the results. Elections were really fought in a sportsman spirit, he adds. L N Mithila University’s retired English teacher Parth Sarthi Sanyal recalls that campaigning in general elections used to be a sort of festive occasion for most electorates. Candidates used to visit every home along with his supporters in small groups. Sometimes, public meetings were organized at important public places where patriotic songs would rent the air. The younger ones used to carry party flags and chant attractive slogans coined by the political parties. In their addresses, candidates did not make any personal comment against their rivals, rather they used to criticize the programmes and policies of parties, Sanyal adds. “But, these days, candidates and parties use the mass media for campaigning through sponsored direct access spots, paid political advertising, televised debates, use of social media, and other mechanisms. Thanks to the increasing penetration of internet services even in rural areas, parties are deploying sophisticated communication technologies to get their messages to the electorates. The age of candidates making personal contact with their voters is over now,” asserts Arvind Mahila College retired history teacher Asha Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/change-in-campaigning-mode-from-personal-visits-to-internet/articleshow/78521759.cms||B K Mishra
October 7, 2020||Patna||115 candidates in fray for eight council seats||PATNA: Around 115 candidates have filed nomination papers for the biennial election to elect eight members to the Bihar State Legislative Council from Graduates’ and Teachers’ constituencies. The nomination process concluded on Monday. Of the total nomination papers filed, 71 were for graduates’ and 44 from teachers’ constituencies. The election is scheduled to be held on October 22. The graduates’ constituencies are Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Kosi while teachers’ constituencies are Patna, Darbhanga, Tirhut and Saran. The candidates can withdraw their nomination papers on October 8. The scrutiny of nomination papers took place on Tuesday. The NDA has fielded four-time MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav from Patna teachers’ constituency. He would contest against Nayab Ali of Congress and seven others in the fray. Of the total nine candidates, four are PhD scholars while the remaining five are graduates. JD(U)’s Neeraj Kumar is contesting from Patna graduates’ constituency against RJD’s Azad Gandhi and 20 others. Most of the independent candidates are teachers, businessmen and lawyers. Altogether 22 contestants are in the fray of which four are PhD scholars, two postgraduates, three have LLB degrees, 12 are graduates and one diploma holder. In Darbhanga, 13 candidates are in the fray from teachers’ constituency and 18 from graduates’ constituency. Suresh Prasad Roy (BJP) has a direct contest against outgoing MLC and state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha from Darbhanga teachers’ constituency while Dilip Kumar Choudhary of JD(U) is facing RJD leader Anil Kumar Jha. Six candidates are graduates, three postgraduates, two PhD degree holders and one has Med degree. CPM candidate Kedar Nath Pandey, who has been representing Saran teachers’ constituency for the last few terms, is facing Chandra Singh from BJP. One Lalu Prasad Yadav is contesting from this seat as an independent candidate. A 41-year-old man has only intermediate qualification. Besides, nine more people are contesting from this seat. Narendra Prasad Singh (BJP) and Sanjay Kumar Singh (CPI-M) are some of the prominent candidates from Tirhut teachers’ constituency while Devesh Chandra Thakur (JDU), Manish Mohan (RJD) and 12 other candidates are trying their luck from the graduates’ constituency. NK Yadav (BJP) is in direct contest against Nitesh Kumar of RJD in Kosi graduates’ constituency. Altogether 40,553 voters would cast votes for teachers’ constituencies at 341 polling booths while there are 4,05,683 voters for teachers’ constituencies at 606 booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/115-candidates-in-fray-for-eight-council-seats/articleshow/78521726.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 7, 2020||Trichy||Banned plastic products freely used in Trichy city||Trichy: Poor enforcement and focus on tackling Covid-19 pandemic have allowed banned single-use plastic products to make a strong comeback in the city. From being circulated clandestinely, traders are now extensively using banned plastic items as evident from the surge in quantity of plastic waste among the total solid waste collected. After the implementation of the plastic ban, roadside eateries and hotels had switched over to banana leaves instead of plastic sheets to parcel and serve food. But in the last few months since Covid-19 wreaked havoc plastic sheets have been common in eateries. “After the ban on plastic sheets, we saw a huge demand for banana leaves from eateries. In recent days, the eateries have again started using the plastic sheets to serve food,” N Mani, banana leaf trader said. The banana leaf sellers said that the number of eateries purchasing banana leaves has come down since the banned plastic sheets are available for a cheap price. “We suspect that plastic godowns have now moved to suburbs to supply the demand for banned plastic as Covid-19 focus has diluted our enforcement on plastic ban,” a sanitary official said. Micro compost centres are witnessing a 25% surge in plastic waste as the civic body said traders and vendors were let loose as the pandemic had affected their business and livelihood. “We will soon relaunch and intensify the penalisation drive to eliminate the circulation of banned plastic products,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. Since January 2019, the state government banned 16 types of single-use plastic products. Trichy Corporation, since January 2018,had banned the use of plastic carry bags less than 50 microns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/banned-plastic-products-freely-used-in-trichy-city/articleshow/78523718.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 7, 2020||Business||Plan ahead for next crisis, get an edge over rival cos||By Aquil BusraiOne dreary, wintry morning in December 1991, a private jet landed at the Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk airport in north Russia. Braving the minus-17-degree Celsius, a team of hydrocarbon, legal and commercial experts went straight from the plane to the mayor’s office. This team from Shell had with them a win-win contract for oil drilling in the arid, but oil-rich land. In the meantime, in a well-heated, comfortable boardroom of its competitor, leaders were meeting to discuss their next step after the Russian disintegration. By the time this discussion was over, the ink on the agreement signed on the island of Sakhalin was just about drying up. What has this got to do with HR and Covid? Actually nothing. Except that Shell had leveraged its world famous ‘scenario planning’ to its full potential. Many years prior to the Russian disintegration, Shell had prepared a comprehensive response to such events. During my career with Shell, I witnessed several times how planning for an anticipated crisis — proactively — could provide a competitive edge. Here lies a lesson for HR, a function that is often accused of being reactive. Now is the time to change that perception and do some proactive scenario planning. In my opinion, The post-Covid workplace will witness changes in many facets. I would like to share some scenarios that may transpire. Admittedly, due to space constraints, there are no responses articulated, but the HR community could ponder this over… * Empathy level: Much has been talked about how empathy was demonstrated during Covid. Employee-engagement plans included regular phone calls, even supply of ‘dry ration’. Some even claimed a change in organisational culture. After Covid, I anticipate a sharp decline in empathy level, especially among the senior leaders. This layer will be under tremendous pressure to revive the business and, with hard-nosed targets staring at them, they will justify with “enough has been done in time of need…now let us get down to business”. However, among middle and lower levels, the empathy level will remain high. Having lived through an identical experience, people will find it easier to empathise. This is likely to cause an atmosphere of friction among organisational layers. * Fluid work positions: Globally, organisations will strive to do more with less and the biggest impact will be on utilisation of manpower. In my opinion, organisation structure and neat boxes in organisation charts will become obsolete. Job positions will no more be compartmentalised and sharply defined. Instead, We will witness jobs getting combined and employees performing multiple, also tangential, roles than what their job description had stipulated. * Reskill training: With fluid work positions, acquiring skills outside one’s area of specialisation will be a priority for employees. Consequently, they will be more receptive to getting trained to reskill themselves. There will be a pull-factor from the employees to upgrade their skills in stark contrast to the past practice where organisations were often ‘persuading’ employees to undertake multiskill training. * Gig workforce: So far, the gig workforce was referred to as a distant possibility. Organisations henceforth will be open to explore the flexibility that the gig workforce will offer — short-term engagement for specific tasks and projects, and without long-term cost commitment. This gig workforce will be highly mobile and willing to work for multiple employers. They will willingly forsake long-term employment and opt for employability. * Trade unions’ influence: Trade unions will need to substantially rejig their modus operandi. In my opinion, influence of unions will substantially diminish. Employees will be more focused on job protection through reskill rather than depend upon negotiating powers of the union. I anticipate high level of collaborative behaviour emerging between union and management, replacing confrontational and demanding approach, more by necessity than goodness of heart. * Leaders’ profile: I feel more younger professionals would rise quickly to leadership positions. Main reason would be that most experienced leaders were actually at a loss to deal with the Covid crisis and followed what was being seen as line of least resistance, being highly cautious and replicating practices often initiated by other organisations or as directed by the government. These made many such leaders lose their stamp of invincibility and acknowledge near helplessness, however reluctantly. In contrast, some younger leaders emerged as ones who were able to gain confidence of employees and customers much readily by their uninhibited accessibility and empathy. Transition to younger leaders will be a natural consequence. Rising the organisational ladder on account of grey hair or no hair will be passé. Techno-managerial skill will decide selection and not mere managerial experience. Younger leaders will, therefore, score better. * Business plan: One of the biggest changes that we may witness could be in the manner organisations will plan their future activities. My prediction is that Long-range planning will be substituted by short-term goals and often a risk-averse approach. Many organisations will take time to recover from business losses incurred during the Covid crisis and will shift to make small, but more certain, gains rather than hazard any big gains fraught with risk, however minimal. * Gender diversity: A positive fallout of the Covid crisis will be emergence of women in critical roles within the organisation. The crisis leading to work-from-home has ameliorated focus on gender diversity with both genders ‘now playing on level field’. The myth attached to the women workforce that they are not flexible to travel or work late hours and that the priorities they accorded to the home front conflicted with work are all fortunately and annihilated. I am confident that after the Covid crisis, more women will take charge and embrace leadership roles. * Moonlighting: With convincingly perceived threat of job loss and predictably low increments, there will be a tendency for many employees to try their hand at moonlighting other jobs. This will have significant impact on productivity and, in some cases, protecting IP and avoidance of conflict of interest. * Attrition: Attrition level will fall significantly. Employees will prefer job security to taking a risk for higher returns. This does not mean good news in all cases. Organisations that did not have a robust appraisal process will be burdened with a sub-optimal workforce. And with low attrition, redeeming the situation will be even more challenging. These points are not an attempt to make a prediction, but a nudge to prepare a response now — proactively rather than thinking later reactively. (The writer is CEO, Aquil Busrai Consulting)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/plan-ahead-for-next-crisis-get-an-edge-over-rival-cos/articleshow/78524262.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Patna||Patna reports max 312 Covid positive cases in a day this month||PATNA: Altogether 1,265 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the state tally to 1,90,123 on Tuesday. Altogether 10,000 new cases have been reported in state in the last eight days. Only one official death was reported, taking the toll to 925. The deceased was from East Champaran, which has registered 37 deaths so far. As per the health department’s bulletin, Patna reported 312 new positive cases in a day, the highest this month. The district has reported 29,367 cases so far, but it has only 2,156 active cases. Other districts with maximum number of cases on Monday included Araria (51), Purnia (50), West Champaran (45), Muzaffarpur and Rohtas (44 each) and Madhepura (43). With 1,255 recoveries, the actives cases in state stood at 11,269. According to the health department, 1,77,929 patients have so far recovered from the virus infection in the state, which has 93.59% recovery rate compared to the national 84.7%. Altogether 1,04,131 samples were tested in a single day through RT-PCR, TrueNat machine and rapid antigen kit. So far, 78,93,739 samples have been tested in Bihar since March. Meanwhile, two Covid deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday. According to AIIMS-Patna Covid nodal officer Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the deceased belonged t Fatuha and Vaishali. Thirteen more Covid patients were admitted and 12 discharged on Tuesday. No new death was reported from NMCH. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, Covid nodal officer at NMCH, said only 10 persons were undergoing treatment at the hospital. “No new patent was admitted on Tuesday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-reports-max-312-covid-positive-cases-in-a-day-this-month/articleshow/78522344.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 7, 2020||Patna||Sultanganj may witness keen contest between NDA & GA||BHAGALPUR: Sultanganj assembly segment in Bhagalpur district is likely to witness a tough electoral battle between the NDA and the Grand Alliance (Mahagathbandhan) in the ensuing assembly polls. Once a Congress bastion, the JD (U) had won the Sultanganj assembly seat for four consecutive times since 2005 (February). Taking into consideration the old age of the sitting MLA Subodh Rai, the JD (U) has opted to field Prof Lalit Narayan Mandal, head of the department (physics) at Murarka College in Sultanganj as the NDA candidate this time. The Grand Alliance (GA) is yet to announce the name of its nominee from this seat, which goes to polls in the first phase on October 28. It may be worth mentioning here that out of total 16 assembly elections held since 1952, the Congress had won the Sultanganj seat on seven occasions, while Praja Socialist Party (PSP) won it once, Janata Dal twice, Janata Party once, Samata Party also once and the JD (U) four times in row. The total number of electorates, who will exercise their franchise in Sultanganj assembly segment are 3,27,622, out of which, 1,73,763 are male and 1,53,839 are female voters. Even though the assembly segment is famous among Hindu devotees for the month-long ‘Shrawani Mela’, from where people start their trek to Deoghar for paying obeisance to Lord Shiva after carrying holy water from river Ganga at Sultanganj Sirhi Ghat, the place is like any other underdeveloped area of Bihar. The core issues this elections and are widely debated among the electorates include grant of sub-divisional status to Sultanganj, declaring ‘Shrawani Mela’ a national fair, inordinate delay in completion of the four-lane Sultanganj (Bhagalpur) – Aguwani Ghat (Khagaria), modernization of Murarka College, establishment of a central school, widening and repair of NH- 80 passing through Sultanganj. Anuj Kumar Singh, social activist and resident of Sultanganj block, said several issues plague the residents of this constituency, including narrow roads of Sultanganj Nagar Parishad and failure to get the place recognized as of tourist importance. Prof Amarkant Singh, principal of the Murarka College (a constituent of Tilkamanjhi Bhagalpur University) said, “The upgradation of Sultanganj block to sub-division is a longstanding demand of electorates and has been kept pending since long.” “ Providing status of national fair to the ‘Shrawani Mela’ is another issue and candidates will be voted on the basis of their commitment on issues plaguing Sultanganj,” he added. However, the final scenario of electoral battle will emerge after the Mahagathbandan announces its candidate. Whereas some other fringe parties are also likely to chip-in to make the electoral battle interesting. As of now, only time will tell as to who will become the ‘Sultan’ (winner) of the ‘Sultanat’ (assembly constituency) of ‘Sultanganj’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sultanganj-may-witness-keen-contest-between-nda-ga/articleshow/78521845.cms||Kumar Rajesh
October 7, 2020||Business||Software co Chargebee raises $55m in Series F||Chennai and Silicon Valley-based subscription management software Chargebee has raised $55 million in a SeriesF led by Insight Partners along with participation of existing investors Steadview Capital and Tiger Global. With this, the company has raised around $105 million of funding in total. The SaaS enterprise is believed to have doubled its valuation with the current fund infusion and is currently estimated to be valued at over $500 million. The company plans to use the funds to enhance its product so as to help businesses experiment and launch sophisticated revenue models.The fundraising comes at a time when businesses both small and large prefer a subscription-based business model. Chargebee’s product helps SaaS, e-commerce and other subscription-based businesses to manage and grow their revenue by automating subscriptions, billing, invoicing, payments and revenue recognition processes.“The primary area of the investment is to expand product capabilities and invest in sales and marketing globally and in partnerships with our over 75 global partners,” Krish Subramanian, co-founder and CEO of Chargebee, said. Raising this round from our existing investors is a huge vote of confidence, he added. Subramanian believes that a steady “SaaS-i-fication” of the market is already underway, with traditional businesses replicating the best practices of SaaS pricing and business models even outside the realm of software products. Chargebee is a team of 450 people with significant presence globally in North America, Europe, India and Australia. Its founding team includes techies and friends Krish Subramanian, Rajaraman Santhanam, KP Saravanan, and Thiyagarajan, with product development based out of Chennai. It is used by over 2,500 companies globally, and claims the highest global customer footprint compared to any other revenue management software provider in the category. It services end-consumers in over 160 countries, processing over $3 billion in revenue. “Even beyond SaaS and software, we’re seeing a global movement where businesses from cars to coffee pods are launching and scaling with a subscription-first model. The need for an underlying revenue platform that allows businesses this degree of adaptability is paramount today,” AJ Malhotra, Vice President at Insight Partners, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/software-co-chargebee-raises-55m-in-series-f/articleshow/78522090.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 7, 2020||Patna||Mukesh Sahani joins NDA as an associate partner||PATNA: A set designer for the flicks from Bollywood for the past some years, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahani’s romancing with the rough and tumble terrain of Bihar politics came full circle on Tuesday, when BJP finally decided to rope him in as its “associate” partner in the NDA for the state assembly polls. On Tuesday, CM Nitish Kumar made special mention of Sahani’s party, saying BJP has brought in the VIP as its associated partner in the NDA and have been in talks with it over seat-sharing. During the announcement of the seat shares between JD(U) and BJP, the latter’s top leaders also appeared over-enthused at the prospects of having brought Sahani to the NDA fold, as it would bring the support of the Nishad (mallah or boatmen caste) people to the candidates of all the four NDA partners — JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. The BJP has decided to give six seats to the VIP. The details were being worked out. Earlier, when at the margins of the state’s politics, Sahani used to present himself as the ‘Son of Mallah,’ (a sub-caste group of fishermen found preponderantly in the state’s riverine areas in north and south Bihar). While he flirted with the BJP during the 2014 parliamentary elections, Sahani extended support to the BJP during the 2015 election, thinking that the BJP-led NDA would form the government, which, however, was dashed as Nitish became the state’s CM from the conglomerate called the grand alliance comprising JD(U), RJD and Congress. BJP could win only 53 of the 157 assembly seats it had contested. Sahni formed his party on November 4, 2018. Then on, he started actively flirting with RJD whose CM face is Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Before that, Nitish had switched sides and joined hands with BJP to form the NDA government. To build his stock, Sahani took to hyperbolic utterances, like his supporters would eat fish and rice — staple food of fishermen and boatmen — and work to defeat the NDA during the coming assembly polls. On September 4, Sahani quit the grand alliance, alleging that he had been “backstabbed” by Tejashwi, and a day later announced to fight all the 243 assembly seats. The BJP apprehended scattering of its votes and roped him into the NDA by night. For Sahani, indeed, his romancing with the state’s politics has now come full circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sahani-joins-nda-as-an-associate-partner/articleshow/78526565.cms||Abhay Singh
October 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: RJD parliamentary board OKs 41 candidates for first phase||PATNA: The main opposition RJD’s parliamentary board on Tuesday cleared the names of 41 contestants who are being fielded in the first phase of the three-phase assembly polls scheduled to be held for 71 seats on October 28. The meeting held at the residence of former CM Rabri Devi discussed the seats and the candidates to be fielded as nominees in the first phase, mostly infested with Left wing extremist activities. The meeting was chaired jointly by Rabri Devi and Awadh Bihari Singh. A senior RJD leader Chitranjan Gagan said, “The names of the candidates are decided by the parliamentary board of the party. The contestants are being allotted symbols of the party accordingly. This has been the practice in the democratic set up.” He clarified that out of the 71 constituencies going to the polls in the first phase, the RJD would field its candidates on 41 seats. The rest seats have gone to the kitty of the Congress (21) and the Left parties (9), respectively, he added. Earlier, sitting MLA from Maner Bhai Birendra said that the state’s parliamentary board approved the names of the 41 candidates keeping ‘winability’ prospects in mind. “There may be some leaders, who have not been selected for tickets,” he told reporters. Bhai Birendra, however, evaded questions on close relatives of politicians having been booked on the charges of rape and molestation being given tickets. On being insisted, he said, “It’s not any individual but the party, which decides who to give tickets to.” Meanwhile, top sources in the RJD said that the JMM has decided to contest seven seats in Bihar alone. “The JMM took the decision after the RJD, which had announced earlier to accommodate from its quota of seats, offered only two seats in the upcoming election,” sources said. The JMM, which wants to contest the seats, are Jhajha, Chakai, Katoria (ST), Dhamdaha, Manihari (ST), Pirpaithi (SC) and Nathnagar. JMM state unit president Pranav Kumar said that the JMM earlier used to contest 30-32 seats in Bihar but staked its claim on 12 seats keeping in mind the alliance with the RJD. However, the party felt politically betrayed. On Monday, sources said, Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren had called on Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in fodder scam cases, in Ranchi and discussed about the seat-sharing deal. “We will continue to honour Lalu ji despite being given a raw deal,” a senior JMM functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-parliamentary-board-oks-41-candidates-for-first-phase/articleshow/78526654.cms||Ramashankar
October 7, 2020||Business||CEOs push purpose-driven leadership||MUMBAI: CEOs in India are undertaking compensation cuts and have realized the importance of purpose-driven leadership after their earnings outlook was challenged by the current crisis. More than a third have had to re-evaluate their purpose as a result of Covid-19, according to KPMG’s latest ‘CEO Outlook’. It interviewed 100 CEOs from leading business houses in India to gauge how their strategic priorities have changed over the last six months. It’s no longer about just delivering results, but also ensuring the values are adhered to. The survey said 62% CEOs altered their own compensation as part of the broader objective of cost-optimization to sail through the pandemic. According to the findings of the report, shared exclusively with TOI, only 42% of CEOs have faith in their company’s growth. At the beginning of the year, 84% CEOs were optimistic in their growth prospects. About 19% CEOs in India expect the earnings of their companies to either remain flat or decline. What’s also changed is the risk landscape. Over the years, CEOs in India have consistently cited climate change, digital disruption, operational risk, volatile geopolitical scenarios and cybersecurity as the primary threats impeding organizational growth. While digital disruption continues to be a major threat for companies, supply chain risk, which was not a predominant concern prior to the pandemic, has emerged as a critical threat. On the other hand, reputational risk, which was growing in terms of priority before the pandemic, now figures at the bottom of the graph. KPMG in India chairman & CEO Arun Kumar said, “CEOs in India believe that the pandemic challenges them with a formidable test of their leadership abilities and personal resilience. Confidence in their companies’ future earnings is impacted. They are concerned about their people’s health and of the effects on society in general. Their responses include holistic road maps that factor in the evolving dynamics of increased digitization, diversified and flexible supply chains and remote working paradigms. Alongside, there is an increasing focus on the environmental, social & governance (ESG) dimensions of their businesses. Seeing that digital technologies are imperative to maintain customer trust and keep remote workforces connected, they are priortising investments in new technologies.” Dabur India CEO Mohit Malhotra said the company has transformed itself as an organization by becoming more “aggressive and fearless”. “We have also enhanced our risk-taking ability, encouraging our employees to become more entrepreneurial. To support this attitude, trusting people and accepting failures is also important, which is what we are doing,” said Malhotra. In addition to bringing agility in supply chains (64% CEOs are reassessing their global supply chain approach, with 44% focusing on developing customer-centric supply chains), a majority of them are enhancing ESG programmes. These trends, said Kumar, could actually reshape a better and more sustainable future for several companies as they work through the recovery phase. The view that the pandemic has accelerated digital transformation was endorsed significantly (95%) by CEOs from FMCG, retail and BFSI sectors. Similarly, 80% CEOs in India stated that they have fast-tracked the progress in creating next-generation digitized operating models during the pandemic. With remote working becoming the norm, 77% CEOs believe they have access to wider talent pools and 48% said they will consider downsizing their office spaces. Such thinking is dominant among FMCG and retail sector CEOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ceos-push-purpose-driven-leadership/articleshow/78523622.cms||Namrata Singh
October 7, 2020||Business||Abu Dhabi fund to infuse Rs 5,513 crore in Reliance Retail||MUMBAI: Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) has followed sister firm Mubadala in backing Reliance Retail Ventures run by billionaire Mukesh Ambani. On Tuesday, Reliance announced that ADIA will put in Rs 5,513 crore in the retail company for a 1.2% stake. ADIA’s deal comes exactly five days after Mubadala agreed to invest Rs 6,248 crore in Reliance Retail for a 1.4% share. The two funds from Abu Dhabi, the richest of the seven emirates that form the UAE, have a diversified portfolio of investments spanning from infrastructure to technology. Both have earlier ploughed money into Ambani’s digital and telecom services unit Jio Platforms. Counting ADIA’s investment, Reliance Retail has raised Rs 37,710 crore from seven external investors by selling 8.5% stake. The investments have valued India’s largest and most profitable retailer at Rs 4.3 lakh crore. The share sales in Reliance Retail also pave the way for its initial public offering, expected to take place in a few years from now. The listing could give the Indian retailer a higher valuation and investors an opportunity to exit. Abu Dhabi, which has been scouring for deals in a pandemic-disrupted world, is betting on Ambani’s ability to tap growth in India’s market of billion-plus consumers where Covid has accelerated a shift in consumer behaviour from brick-and-mortar retail to e-commerce. Significantly, UAE has a strong political and economic relationship with the Narendra Modi-led government. ADIA is a sponsor of India’s sovereign wealth fund National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF). “This (Reliance Retail) investment is consistent with our strategy of investing in market-leading businesses in Asia linked to the region’s consumption-driven growth and rapid technological advancement,” said ADIA executive director (private equities) Hamad Shahwan Aldhaheri. Besides NIIF, Jio Platforms and Reliance Retail, ADIA — the world’s third-largest sovereign wealth fund after China Investment Corporation and Norway Government Pension Fund Global — has investments in HDFC, Infosys, Bandhan Bank and Kotak Realty Fund, among other Indian companies. With Ambani making retail and digital the centre of his business empire, away from the staple refining and petrochemical ventures, he has so far raised Rs 1.9 lakh crore by selling 8.5% and 33% stakes in Reliance Retail and Jio Platforms respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/abu-dhabi-fund-to-infuse-rs-5513cr-in-rel-retail/articleshow/78523730.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Covid warrior’ cops to be billed for badge||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Recognition in Kerala comes at a price, or so it seems! Nearly 90% of its policemen have been on the front lines in the fight against Covid-19. In return, the force’s brass had promised to recognize each one as a ‘Covid Warrior’. Now they are being asked to shell out Rs 100 for the honour. A communiqué, issued by state police chief Loknath Behera to all district police chiefs and other unit heads on Tuesday, said those who wish to be conferred the title of ‘Covid Warror’ can purchase a badge costing Rs 100 from the police cafeteria, Samtripthi, run by the police welfare bureau. The order says that the badges have been procured from a private company, BKV Enterprises of Ludhiana, Punjab. All those who wish to be recognised as a ‘Covid Warrior’ have been asked to place the order over email or phone with a designated official in the police headquarters. The decision to confer the title on officers who have done at least 30 days’ Covid-related duty was taken earlier. “In order to recognize and complement the efforts of police officers of all ranks over time and motivate all officials, it is decided to award a ‘Covid Warrior’ pin to each of such officers of the department who worked directly on Covid-19 containment related duties for a minimum of 30 days,” the communiqué announcing the decision said. It further asked all the district police chiefs and unit heads to verify the details and prepare the list of officials to receive the recognition. The communiqué is as good as insulting officers, a senior police official said. “This is nothing but encouraging people to ‘purchase’ titles. The police brass could have avoided such promises instead of asking them to purchase it.” Police headquarters insiders say the order was issued as government funds were not allotted for the badges, which are meant to be pinned on the left flap pocket of an officer’s uniform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-warrior-cops-to-be-billed-for-badge/articleshow/78522182.cms||KP Saikiran
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Steep hike proposed for meat shop licence fee||NEW DELHI: Getting a meat shop licence is likely to get costlier, while fines for illegal slaughtering may get steeper in areas under the jurisdiction of North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The matter will be taken up by the standing committee on Wednesday. Arguing that the fees and fines were revised over nine years ago, the veterinary department has proposed a sixfold hike for a meat shop licence and 4-5 times increase in fines for illegal slaughtering. The only legal place for slaughtering goats, sheep and buffaloes is the Ghazipur abattoir. A senior corporation official said the application fee for a meat shop could be increased from the existing Rs 1,260 to Rs 7,000, while renewal fee may go up from Rs 900 to Rs 3,000. “A three-month grace period will be provided for delay in renewal after which Rs 2,000 will be charged for each month of delay,” he added. The current fine of Rs 500 for illegal slaughtering of goat and sheep may be increased to Rs 2,000 per animal. The steepest increase is being proposed for slaughtering buffaloes where Rs 10,000 would be charged for each animal against the existing Rs 2,000. “The fine for illegal slaughtering of buffalo calf is proposed to be increased from Rs 750 to Rs 3,000. Killing chicken in front of licenced shops could invite a fine of Rs 100 for each bird. Currently, no fines are issued for chicken,” said the official. There are more than 1,400 licenced meat shops in north corporation areas. “We are working on making the licensing policy online. The last policy for meat trade came in 2011. The dairy policy was also cleared a decade ago. South and east corporations have already revised their rates. We need to do the same to improve revenue collection,” the official said. A proposal has also been made to hike the dairy licence fee, but the rate of increase is comparatively lower (from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000). The registration fee will continue to be Re 1 for each animal. Licence fee for a horse cart may be revised from Rs 1,152 to Rs 1,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/steep-hike-proposed-for-meat-shop-licence-fee/articleshow/78523713.cms||Paras Singh
October 7, 2020||Patna||HC to govt: Submit details of sero-survey & antibody tests||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday directed the state government to file a reply on the status of sero-survey and antibody testing required for tackling Covid-19 pandemic. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar, while hearing a batch of PILs filed separately by Shivani Kaushik, Dinesh Kumar Singh, Aditi Hansaria, Ashish Sinha, Kishore Kunal and Abhinay Priyadarshi, fixed October 19 for hearing the matter again. Counsel Dinu Kumar, assisted by Ritika Rani, submitted that the government has not yet replied on conducting sero-survey and antibody tests in state. “ICMR, in its counter affidavit, has already mentioned that it has urged all states to conduct sero-survey to know the extent of infection, but nothing is mentioned on the topic in the health department’s reply filed on the court’s earlier direction. There was also no mention of on filling of large number of vacancies of doctors and other medical staff,” Dinu said. He said the health department has apprised of conducting hardly around seven lakh RT-PCR tests till now, which is inadequate when compared to the state population of around 12 crore. Meanwhile, the health department, through its principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, submitted that a total of 73.86 lakh tests were conducted till September 30, of which 7,60,879 were RT-PCR tests, 3,05,428 TrueNat and 63,20,214 were rapid antigen tests. It was also submitted that six to seven times more than the minimum prescribed tests, as per WHO, are being done daily in state, which include 15000-17000 RT-PCR and TrueNat tests besides rapid antigen tests. It was also submitted through the affidavit that state’s recovery rate was 92.72% as on September 30, compared to national average of 83.53%. The government also apprised the court about its road map to increase the number of RT-PCR tests from the existing 11,850 to at least 23,950 daily. The Centre has to supply RT-PCR machines for installation in 13 district hospitals to conduct 2600 tests daily. COBAS 8800 are also to be supplied by the Centre and the BMSICL is also procuring ten testing machines to conduct 9,000 more tests daily. The process is on for increasing the capacity to conduct 500 more tests at NMCH in Patna, the government submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-to-govt-submit-details-of-sero-survey-antibody-tests/articleshow/78522307.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 7, 2020||Patna||JD(U), RJD candidates file nomination papers in Gaya||GAYA: There is a rush for filing of nominations in Gaya district with just two days left for conclusion of the process for the first phase assembly elections scheduled on October 28. Altogether 23 candidates filed their nominations on Tuesday which include four Independent and 19 other candidates of different registered political parties. According to a press communique issued by the district administration, five candidates filed their nomination on Tuesday from Atri assembly segment, four from Belaganj, three each from Wazirganj and Tekari, two each from Imamganj and Gurua, while from Sherghati, Barachatti, Bodh Gaya and Gaya town, it was one each. JD(U) candidates Abhay Kushwaha, Manorama Devi and Vinod Prasad Yadav filed their nomination from Belaganj, Atri and Sherghati seats respectively, while RJD candidates, which inlcude former speaker of Bihar legislative assembly Uday Narayan Chaudhry and Surender Prasad Yadav Yadav filed their nominations from Imamganj and Belaganj seats respectively. Congress candidate Shashi Shekhar filed his nomination from Wazirganj .. “In the Grand Alliance (GA), RJD is contesting in the district from seven places, while three seats have gone to Congress that include Gaya town, Wazirganj and Tekari,” Congress’s Magadh zone spokesman Vijay Kumar Mithu said. He added that the names from Gaya town and Tekari are yet to be finalised. RJD has given tickets to Surendra Prasad Yadav, Kumar Sarvajeet, Ajay Yadav, Samta Devi and Uday Narayan Choudhary from Belaganj, Bodhgaya, Atri, Barachatti and Imamganj respectively. GA candidates from Gurua and Sherghati have also not been finalised. In the ruling NDA, BJP and JD (U) are contesting on four seats each, while two seats have gone to HAM (S). "BJP will be contesting Gaya town, Bodh Gaya, Gurua and the Wazirganj seats”, party Gaya media in-charge Yugesh Kumar said. HAM (S) national spokesman Rajesh Pandey said, "Party president Jitan Ram Manjhi and Jyoti Kumari will file nominations from Imamganj and Barachatti seats respectively on Wednesday. From Tekari segment, Anil Kumar filed his nomination on Tuesday,” he said. Following notification for the first phase of ensuing assembly polls on October 1, only three nominations were filed in Gaya district till Monday and all three were for the Wazirganj .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-rjd-candidates-file-nomination-papers-in-gaya/articleshow/78521831.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Women SHGs to implement nutrition programme||LUCKNOW: In a move to strengthen local communities and self-help groups in rural areas, the UP government has decided to allow local women communities to carry out procurement and distribution of complementary nutrition in their areas. The work was being done by private firms. The government has an annual budget of Rs 4,190 crore for procurement and distribution of food material, which will now be used directly by local communities and self-help groups. “Each month, food will be distributed over two days in the presence of local communities, pregnant women, lactating mothers and representatives of self-help groups. Women can earn Rs 4,000 each year and will participate directly in a programme that addresses the nutritional concerns of children and new mothers and therefore ensure better implementation,” he said. The decentralised programme will help women get jobs, in women empowerment and better food as local products will be used. “Local products and vegetables will be used for the food, prepared using local and familiar recipes. Even the ghee and skimmed milk will be procured from local manufacturers through PCDF, also helping local milk production. Wheat and rice will be procured from Food Corporation of India,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/women-shgs-to-implement-nutrition-prog/articleshow/78524392.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Industries to get NOCs online for groundwater in UP||LUCKNOW: Industrial units can soon apply for no-objection certificates for groundwater extraction online, if their units are located outside over-exploited and critical groundwater blocks. The UP Groundwater Board is expected to go live with its portal by October 10, through which it will give new NoCs and renew permissions. Once the portal is launched, state guidelines will replace the central guidelines issued on September 24. Additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development), Alok Kumar said that the portal will be linked to Nivesh Mitra and will significantly ease the process of getting clearance for setting up industrial units. “There are 82 over-exploited and 47 critical blocks in terms of groundwater. Other than these blocks, the portal will issue NoCs for industrial units in all other development blocks for use of groundwater,” he said. The government has clarified that even in over-exploited and critical blocks, no NoC will be required for drinking water and for use in residential buildings. The Board will provide a certificate for such water usage. For existing industrial units in over-exploited and critical blocks, which have already been issued NoCs by the groundwater board, the UP Groundwater Board will review and re-issue clearances through the portal itself. Meanwhile, the UP Pollution Control Board will issue consent to establish and operate to a new unit in blocks other than over-exploited and critical only, if it has been issued an NoC by the groundwater board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/industries-to-get-nocs-online-for-groundwater/articleshow/78524399.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 7, 2020||Rajkot||Paan shop runs into losses, father, son turn drug peddlers||Rajkot: Even as the mephedrone trafficking racket in Surat gets bigger with the arrest of more persons, a similar scam of peddling of this most sought-after party drug was busted in Jamnagar city on Tuesday.Acting on a tip-off, the special operations group (SOG) arrested a father-son duo and another man, all living in Tirupati Park on Bedi Ring Road. Police seized 26.85 gm mephedrone from the residence ofDinesh Hada (49) and his son Ritesh (21). Three mobile phones and an electronic weighing scale were also seized.Later, sleuths nabbed Mayursinh Vadher, 28, who allegedly financed the procurement of this drug from a person named Fahim in Mumbai."During preliminary interrogation, Dinesh maintained that he is himself addicted to this drug and used to get it for his own consumption. But investigation has revealed that he was involved in trafficking," said SS Ninama, police inspector, SOG.Dinesh and Ritesh used to have a paan shop till about 6-8 months ago, but they took to drug trafficking due to poor business, said Ninama. Police are now trying to trace the people to whom they sold mephedrone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/paan-shop-runs-into-losses-father-son-turn-drug-peddlers/articleshow/78520918.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Trichy||Residents seek bridge to decongest accident-prone Trichy-Thanjavur NH||Trichy: Residents of wards on the outskirts of Trichy Corporation have demanded the local body and PWD to install a single lane bridge across Kuvalai drainage canal, passing through the residential neighbourhoods in Thiruverumbur. Two-wheelers and autorickshaws can utilise the proposed bridge to commute between the newly added wards situated on Trichy-Thanjavur NH. It will help reduce the vehicular movement on the congested highway, which lacks a service road.Kuvalai drainage canal, which diverts the surplus water from Uyyakondan irrigation canal, bifurcates New town Muthu Nagar and Balaji Nagar in ward 63 of Trichy Corporation. The absence of a bridge between the two localities accommodating more than 1,000 houses forces the residents to take the Trichy-Thanjavur NH. But as the NH lacks service road, residents said that accidents involving two-wheelers have become frequent.To prevent the residents from using NH, a proposal to build a minor bridge across Kuvalai canal was suggested. The bridge is touted to interlink Vin Nagar, Balaji Nagar, New Town Muthu Nagar and Prakash Nagar, all heavily populated added wards situated along the NH. “A minor bridge to allow two-wheelers and autorickshaws will be helpful as school students and office goers can avoid using the Trichy-Thanjavur NH during peak hours,” A Sathik Basha, a resident of Muthu Nagar said.There is only a makeshift bridge in the locality, as of now, to allow pedestrians to cross Kuvalai canal that merges with Cauvery near Kallanai. PWD, that manages the Kuvalai canal said that it is willing to offer no-objection certificate (NOC) for constructing a bridge provided the structure does not hamper the water flow.Thiruverumbur MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has agreed to support the project financially. The initial study revealed that the bridge has to be at least 30 feet in length and 12 feet in width, and may cost close to Rs 20 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-seek-bridge-to-decongest-accident-prone-trichy-thanjavur-nh/articleshow/78523735.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||No girl candidate in top 10 EAMCET this year||HYDERABAD: No female candidate made it to the top 10 in engineering category of the state engineering, agriculture, medical common entrance test (EAMCET), results of which were declared by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH), on Tuesday. As per figures shared by the JNTUH, as many as 44,678 female candidates appeared for Eamcet (engineering) this year, of which 31,947 qualified for the examination, recording a pass percentage of 72%. While there has been no major change in the pass percentage of female candidates in the last few years, the number of female candidates securing top ranks has been diminishing. Last year, one female candidate secured seventh rank in the Telangana Eamcet (engineering category). In 2018, one female candidate figured in the top 10 list. Experts said that female candidates are also competitive as male candidates but tend to perform better in descriptive papers as against MCQ papers. “One cannot say that girls don’t secure top ranks. Peer pressure for female candidates to outperform is much higher than that for male candidates. Many a time, female candidates come under pressure and commit minute errors that reflects in the results,” said Ananda Ramana, director, FIITJEE. It may be noted that in order to encourage more number of female candidates, the total number of supernumerary seats for female candidates was increased from 17% in 2019-20 to 20% for academic session 2020-21 in Indian Institutes of Technology and Central government funded institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-girl-candidate-in-top-10-this-year/articleshow/78523736.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||State reiterates right to stop pvt hospitals overcharging patients||Nagpur: Defending Maharashtra government’s stand on fixing rates for non-Covid patients in private hospitals, advocate general (AG) Ashutosh Kumbhakoni on Tuesday claimed that the hospitals are exploiting Covid-19 pandemic situation by overcharging patients. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala then closed the case for judgement. The petitioner had challenged Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) notices to private hospitals over alleged over-charging from Covid and non-Covid patients in violation of May 21 notification. It was filed by Dr Pradeep Arora along with Vidarbha Hospitals Association. In the last hearing, HC had granted interim stay to clause 4 of the May 21 notification prescribing charges for non-Covid patients. Making an appearance after HC warning that it wouldn’t hear any excuse that he was busy, Kumbhakoni assisted by assistant government pleader Anand Deshpande clarified that the government wasn’t prescribing rates for non-Covid patients, but was capping them in view of the global crisis. He also informed that transferring the case to the principal seat in Mumbai is still under chief justice’s consideration. “Before the pandemic, every government medical facility was available for the patients. After the outbreak, a majority of them were converted into dedicated Covid centres. This left non-Covid patients nowhere to go, except private establishments,” he said. Stressing that the Disaster Management Act (DMA) and Epidemic Diseases Act (EDA) grant powers to the government to cap rates in such a crisis, the AG said the restrictions on hospitals will not be permanent. “The earlier notification that ended on August 31 for capping rates for non-Covid patients wasn’t challenged by the petitioners. Now, the new notification has a new deadline till November 31. Since provisions to cap rates were prescribed in laws under governor’s powers, the government didn’t promulgate any ordinance. Capping isn’t any encroachment on private hospitals freedom.” Citing various Supreme Court judgments, the AG asserted that health was always under the state government in jurisprudence point of view. “It’s unfortunate that hospitals are engaged in commercialization to earn money at the patients’ cost. The time has come to fix accountability to improve the rotten system, as per SC. The government spends and invests a big amount of public money in Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCH) on creating doctors. Therefore, it’s a moral obligation of such medicos to render services for economically weaker sections, who’re deprived of proper treatment and equal justice.” Adding that the government wasn’t asking the hospitals to treat non-Covid patients free, Kumbhakoni said the government's May 21 notification is very much applicable to them. “The coronavirus isn’t killing patients, but playing a role of co-conspirator and abettor in taking their lives. Most of the deaths occurred, not because of infection, but due to diseases like blood pressure, diabetes, cancer and other body ailments. There’s a direct connection between non-Covid treatment and pandemic.” Quoting an example of Dharavi, India’s biggest slums, the AG said the government was able to control the spread of pandemic there by checking all non-Covid citizens there and improving their health conditions. AG SPEAKS * Disaster management Act, and epidemic Act grant powers to the government to cap rates in crisis * Provisions to cap rates were prescribed in laws under guv’s powers * Capping isn’t any encroachment on private hospitals freedom * Govt spends and invests big public money in GMCH on doctors * It’s moral obligation of medicos to render services for poor * Covid-19 isn’t killing patients, but playing role of co-conspirator & abettor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-reiterates-right-to-stop-pvt-hospitals-overcharging-patients/articleshow/78523755.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||3 Hyderabad firms bag top startup awards||HYDERABAD: In a major boost for the state’s startup ecosystem, three startups from Telangana — Skyroot Aerospace Pvt Ltd and Dhruva Space Pvt Ltd and agri startup Cornext Agri Products Pvt Ltd — have emerged as winners in the first edition of the National Startup Awards 2020 that were declared today by Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal. The three were chosen out of 1,641 startups from 23 states four UTs that were in the race for the awards across 12 sectors — agriculture, education, enterprise technology, energy, finance, food, health, industry 4.0, space, security, tourism and urban services. The awards were conceived by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade to recognise outstanding startups that are building innovation products, solutions. Skyroot Aerospace, founded in 2018 by former ISRO scientists Naga Bharath Daka and Pawan Kumar Chandana, is working on launching the cheapest small satellite launch vehicles in the world and has already emerged as India’s first private company to successfully test-fire an upper stage rocket engine earlier this year. Dhruva Space, set up by Penakakuru Krishna Teja, Sanjay Srikanth Nekkanti, Abhay Egoor and Surapureddy Chaintanya Dora, provides end-to-end solutions from building small satellites, making ground sensors, launching them and monitoring the same via earth stations. Cornext Agri Products, set up by Feroz Ahmed and Amarnath Sarangula, was chosed for its innovation using baled silage technology to enhance the availability of high-quality cattle fodder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-hyd-firms-bag-top-startup-awards/articleshow/78523768.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Surat||Man dupes student of Rs95k on online mobile phone sale||Surat: Police booked a Mota Varachha resident on Monday for allegedly duping a 20-year-old college student for Rs 95,000. The accused bought a mobile phone put up by the victim for sale online but did not make the payment. Police booked Amit Hirpara, who allegedly duped Digant Vyas, a resident of Ghod Dod Road. After registering the offence, police started an investigation to locate the accused who has a past record of cheating. “The accused was not found at the address provided to the victim. We are checking at some other locations of the accused,” said police. The accused had provided his Aadhaar card copy to the victim from which the police found his details. According to the case details, Vyas, a third year student of microbiology had put up his iPhone 11 pro for sale online. He posted an advertisement on OLX on June 4 and two days later on June 6 received a call from Hirpara showing interest in buying the phone in cash and asked Vyas to meet him near the central bus stop. Vyas met the accused in the appointed place with his phone but Hirpara said he was not carrying cash. He offered to make an online payment and showed some messages in his mobile to Vyas claiming that the money had been transferred to the victim’s account. However, after Vyas failed to get any updates on money transfer he checked online but found no record of any payment made. When he confronted Hirpara, the accused convinced Vyas that the balance will be transferred in a couple of days and also gave his Aadhaar card copy for assurance. Finally, when Vyas did not receive payment even after many days, he approached the police along with his father who returned from abroad recently and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-dupes-student-of-rs95k-on-online-mobile-phone-sale/articleshow/78520942.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Soil testing begins for rural roads||Lucknow: Lending a developmental push to rural areas, the state government on Tuesday sought conducting soil testing of 12,847km of rural roads under phase 3 of PM Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). The decision was taken by agriculture production commissioner Alok Sinha after a meeting with senior officials of the rural development department. Sinha said that the department should seek detailed project reports from all 75 districts for rural roads which are proposed to be constructed under due guidelines laid down by the Centre. Sinha, who was chairing a state-level standing committee of PMGSY, said that the 849 roads spanning over a length of 6,844km in 42 districts would be constructed by the PWD while the remaining 749 roads with a consolidated length of 6,003km in 33 districts would be constructed by the rural engineering department. Sinha said that of the total 12,847km of roads proposed to be taken up under PMGSY, project reports for 1,215 roads with a total length of 9,000km should be sent to the Centre for approval. He said that the Union rural development ministry has given UP government a target of constructing 18,937km of rural roads between 2019 and 2024 under PMGSY.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soil-testing-begins-for-rural-roads/articleshow/78524403.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Trichy||‘Don’t dump animal waste in waterbodies’||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has warned traders who sell chicken, meat and fish in the city not to dump animal waste on vacant land parcels and near waterbodies. Meats shops were told to handover waste only to the civic body’s waste collection vehicles, which ferries it to the micro compost centres (MCC) in four zones to produce manure. The local body said that it received complaints from local people on dumping of waste by chicken, meat and fish stalls near waterbodies. The civic body said the traders dump waste mainly on the banks of Uyyakondan, Kudamurutti and Rettaivaikal. To overcome the menace, the civic body has instructed all the meat, chicken and fish outlets operating in the city to handover the daily waste only to the civic body. “Apart from polluting the waterbodies, animal waste dumped on vacant sites attracts stray dogs and the residents of Karumandapam, Vayalur Road and Kattur are at the receiving end,” an official with the civic body said. Suburbs near Pirattiyur, Thiruverumbur and Vayalur Road are also facing the trouble. Shops caught red-handed, while dumping animal waste in public places will be locked and sealed under solid waste management rules, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dont-dump-animal-waste-in-waterbodies/articleshow/78523806.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Family takes body away from crematorium||AHMEDABAD: Family of a patient who died of Covid-19 infection at a private hospital in Navrangpura fled with his body on Monday evening. An FIR in this connection has been filed with Ellisbridge police. Nodal officer of Sushrusha Hospital in Navrangpura, Purvan Patel said that a patient from Banswara, Ranchhod Chauhan, 65, was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital on September 26. On Monday at around 11am, his condition worsened, and he died. After this, Patel informed officers of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation to monitor the cremation of the man and told the deceased’s family members to reach a crematorium near VS Hospital in the Ellisbridge area. At around 6pm, his body was sent to the crematorium as his family members reached there. After a while, Patel called up staff of the crematorium to know if the cremation was performed. Then, he came to know that he was not cremated there. Patel enquired with the dead body van driver who told him that he had put the body in the parking of the crematorium. The family members of the deceased had already brought another ambulance there in which they took away the body. Patel tried up reaching the deceased’s son, Mahendra, but his phone was switched off. Later, the nodal officer approached Ellisbridge police and filed a complaint for alleged attempt to spread infection of the deadly disease. Sources in police said that the family might have taken the body to their native place but they put life of others in risk as they carried the body of a corona-infected person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/family-takes-body-away-from-crematorium/articleshow/78522211.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||UPPCL asks staff to recover Rs 50,000 crore to stall privatisation||LUCKNOW: While the power employees called off their strike on Tuesday evening, earlier in the day UPPCL management had proposed to its staff to help the corporation in recover at least Rs 50,000 crore from power consumers by March 31, 2021, and the privatisation proposal would be set aside, a top UPPCL official told TOI. “This (Rs 50,000 crore) is just the annual power purchase cost. The average billing cost is higher than this,” the official said. In the last six months, UPPCL recovered only Rs 18,000 crore in revenue. This means that the corporation will have to recover Rs 32,000 crore by March next year. “We wanted to initiate the privatisation process while giving adequate time to the employees to recover requisite revenue,” the official said. Sources said the privatisation bid, if initiated again, would have to be first ratified by the state cabinet. Sources said UPPCL has asked the power employees to be part of the documentation process and guide it in keeping the watch on companies which would distribute power to the consumers after privatisation. “UPPCL will ensure that the tendering process would be absolutely transparent,” the official said. The official said that privatisation “was not the objective”. “Our objective is self-sufficiency…if the employees help in scaling up the revenue recovery then there would not be any need to privatise the distribution companies,” the official said, maintaining that the process of privatisation itself would take at least 9-10 months. “Employees need to go around in the district considering it is a do or die situation. They will have to provide better services to consumers while recovering revenue,” he said. “If the situation improves and the requisite revenue is recovered by March next year then UPPCL would cancel the tendering process,” the official assured. UPPCL sources said the employees told the corporation brass that they could not function with the sword of privatisation dangling over their head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uppcl-asks-staff-to-recover-rs-50k-cr-to-stall-privatisation/articleshow/78524407.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 7, 2020||Surat||Hyderabad-based airline to operate Surat-Diu flights||Surat: There is some good news for the high flying Surtis. Hyderabad-based Turbo Megha Airways, an aviation company promoted by TruJet, has won the bid in the fourth phase of regional connectivity scheme or UDAN for operating regional flight between Surat and Diu. For the residents of Surat, Diu is the favourite tourist destination. Every year Surtis flock to Diu, mainly travelling by road. It takes about 15 hours from Surat to reach Diu by road. The Surat-Diu route was opened by the aviation department under the UDAN scheme. However, Surat based Ventura Airconnect has won Diu-Vadodara route under the fourth phase of UDAN. The state and central governments are providing incentives under the UDAN scheme to the airlines including viability gap funding. The airlines are provided incentives to fly flights for a period of three years. The airlines are required to commit around 50% of the seats as regional connectivity scheme (RSC) seats (limited to 40 seats) on the flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hyderabad-based-airline-to-operate-surat-diu-flights/articleshow/78520980.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Udumalpet hospital employee caught taking bribe, suspended||Tirupur: A staff member of the government hospital in Udumalpet was suspended on Tuesday after a video showing him seeking bribe for conducting postmortem of a couple who had killed themselves went viral. According to police, the couple identified as Ajithkumar, 25, and his wife Muthulakshmi from Poolankinaru village near Udumalpet had committed suicide on October 3. The couple, married for eight months, were working in a spinning mill in the locality. Even as police were probing the reason behind their suicide, their bodies were kept at government hospital in Udumalpet. The day after, their relatives visited the hospital to receive the bodies. Mathavan, a staff at the GH, demanded bribe for conducting the postmortem and handing over the body. The video footage showed that relatives agreed to his demand. After the video went viral, health department officials in Tirupur conducted an inquiry and suspended Mathavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/udumalpet-hospital-employee-caught-taking-bribe-suspended/articleshow/78523789.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Goa||Most South PHCs yet to get home isolation kits||Margao: Most of the primary health centres (PHCs) in South Goa were yet to receive their quota of Covid-19 medical kits for home isolation patients until Tuesday evening. The dean of the Goa Medical College (GMC) Dr S M Bandekar had stated on Monday that the distribution of the kits would begin from Tuesday. “Kits apart, we are yet to receive any guidelines or instructions on how to go about distributing the kits to the patients,” a health officer said. Sources said the kits would be given only to those applying for home isolation on testing positive. “Those who are already in home isolation may not be requiring the kits as they have purchased them,” the health officer added. The kits will contain disposable masks, a N-95 mask, pulse oximeter, digjtal thermometer, and medicines, including vitamins. The PHCs are required to monitor the health condition of Covid-19 patients in home isolation in their jurisdiction. If the oxygen saturation level drops, the patient is shifted to a hospital. Most patients testing positive are opting for home isolation over Covid care centres. However, patients who don’t have a separate room with attached bathroom are sent to Covid care centres. If all in the family test positive, then they are allowed to remain in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/most-south-phcs-yet-to-get-home-isolation-kits/articleshow/78523810.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Maize trader rescued by cops||HYDERABAD: After a hot pursuit, police have managed to rescue an abducted businessman from Saroornagar and nabbed four kidnappers in Jagtial late on Monday night. Rachakonda police arrested four abductors — Abdul Azeez, 32, from Korutla of Jagitial district, Sunil Patil, 43 of Uppuguda, Nikhil Singh, 23, of Kukatpally and Burri Rajesh, 28 from Errgadda. The main accused, Raj Bhushan is still at large. The victim, K Nagabushan, owed Rs 2.8 crore to Raj Bhushan after settling their business transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maize-trader-rescued-by-cops/articleshow/78523807.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU gets nearly 49K applications for UG courses||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has received 48,820 applications for its undergraduate courses for the current academic year. The university is expected to release the rank list after October 15. TNAU officials said the initial document verification of 41,354 applications was over and further verification process was on. While 18,701 applicants were male, 22,833 were female, the university said. “More than 100 staff members have been working to verify the documents,” said a TNAU spokesperson. This year, the entire admission process was made online because of the pandemic situation. “We have collected soft copies of certificates online. After verifying documents of all applicants, we will release the rank list after October 15. Following that, we would decide on the counselling date,” the spokesperson said. The officials said the number of applications received were almost the same as last year. “But candidates with good cutoff marks have applied, and there is good competition,” said an official. The university offers 10 undergraduate programmes through its 14 constituent colleges and 28 affiliated colleges. There are 4,800 seats. “There is a 1:10 competition for the seats.” The university has, meanwhile, received 3,319 applications for its diploma programmes so far. The last date for applying online for the same is October 16. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-gets-nearly-49k-applications-for-ug-courses/articleshow/78523809.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Pune||Some relief: Bed vacancy in PCMC 64%, PMC 47% in Pune||PUNE: Bed availability for Covid-19 patients has improved across the Pune Metropolitan Region thanks to a high discharge rate, increased preference for home isolation and the setting up of new care facilities. On Tuesday evening, the overall bed vacancy within the Pimpri Chinchwad limits was 64%. In the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, nearly half of the total allocated beds for Covid (47%) were recorded as vacant and available. But the availability of ICU beds in the PMC areas remains a concern. On Tuesday, only 12% of these specialised beds were available. In PCMC, the ICU bed availability was 59%. The jumbo Covid facility at Pimpri, which registered a heavy patient load in the first week of September, had 581 vacant beds (73%) on Tuesday. The PMC has increased the number of beds at its CoEP facility from 400 to 600. Civic officials said they are also seeing a drop in the number of distress calls by families searching for beds. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said besides the increase in available beds, the case positivity rate in the region has also dropped because measures such as the “My Family, My Responsibility” initiative have played an important role in surveillance and containment. He said Pune district has so far registered over 2.53 lakh recoveries. And in Pune division overall, nearly 3.8 lakh patients have been declared Covid-free. Rao, however, said officials would continue to enforce rules to prevent violation of guidelines, which according to him happened during the Ganesh festival. He said squads would be formed to check compliance levels at restaurants and other venues which have been allowed to open. PCMC’s additional commissioner Santosh Patil said distress calls have been relatively low compared to the days during and after the Ganesh festival. He attributed the increase in the number of vacant beds to the popularity of the home isolation option among those with mild symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/some-relief-bed-vacancy-in-pcmc-64-pmc-47/articleshow/78523815.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Cops thrash Tharus in Shravasti||Lucknow: Police allegedly targeted members of Tharu community, assaulted men and misbehaved with women and children in Shravasti on the pretext of raiding their premises in search of illicit liquor. The police denied the charge but later when the community members met SP, Shravasti, Arvind Kumar Maurya and narrated their ordeal a probe was ordered. A complaint was lodged with the SP by members of the Tharu community, who reside in Katkuiyan Kalan village and usually work in fields to earn livelihood. “Around 1am on Monday, cops entered our houses, broke doors, looted our mobile phones, misbehaved with women and abused us,” Tharus alleged in their complaint. They alleged that cops had raided their houses in search of illicit liquor, a charge which was denied by SHO Sirsiya. DIG, Devipatan range, Rakesh Singh told TOI that the issue has been taken up by the SP and a probe under an officer of the rank of CO has been ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-thrash-tharus-in-shravasti/articleshow/78524412.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s recovery rate surpasses nation’s, active cases dip||Nagpur: With a recovery rate of 85.2%, Nagpur district went passed the national rate of 84.7% with yet another day of higher number of discharged patients than those testing Covid positive on Tuesday. The overall recovery rate of Vidarbha is still nearly three notches less than the nation’s at 82%. With 51 Covid deaths and 1,817 new cases on Tuesday, most of the region’s districts continued to witness higher recoveries, adding up to 2,553 in the day. The overall tallies now stand at 1,60,015 cases, 4,323 deaths, 1,31,206 recoveries and 24,586 active cases. Leading the chart on all fronts, Nagpur reported 1,425 recoveries, 898 new cases and 23 deaths. The number of patients under treatment at 97 hospitals and Covid care centres too drastically dipped in the district, with 3,514 out of 5,997 beds remaining vacant. As on Tuesday evening, just 2,783 patients were in hospitals and Covid centres, though the district has 9,656 active cases. Gadchiroli, Amravati and Washim didn’t witness any Covid death. Nagpur (23) recorded most deaths among the 11 districts, followed by Yavatmal (9), Bhandara (7), Wardha (4), Chandrapur and Buldhana (3 each) and Akola (2). Amravati (101), Bhandara (163), Chandrapur (188) and Gadchiroli (120) reported three-digit cases, while Gondia (60), Wardha (84), Akola (33), Yavatmal (56), Buldhana (81), Yavatmal (56) and Akola (33) saw under 100 cases. As far as recovery is concerned, Nagpur (1,425), Gondia (263), Amravati (139), Buldhana (159), Washim (46), Akola (40), Wardha (88) and Chandrapur (212) had more recoveries than new cases. Gadchiroli and Bhandara were the districts where the number of new cases was higher than discharges. YAVATMAL: The district recorded 9 deaths again on Tuesday, of which 6 are from the city while 2 are from Kalamb and one is from Wani. There were 56 new positive patients, of whom 33 are men and 23 women. There were 39 new positive patients in the city. Sources said there are a total of 204 active cases, while 232 are in the isolation wards. In total, 8,818 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the district so far. Other details couldn't be gathered as the civil surgeon does not seem to be cooperating. There is no data from her office since last Friday. AMRAVATI: The district has been recording a constant fall in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, while there has been an increase in the number of recoveries. On Tuesday, the district recorded 101 new cases as against 139 recoveries. While the new cases took the caseload to 14,225, the recoveries reached 11,904 — a recovery rate of 83.68%. There was no death in the district on Tuesday. The toll stayed at 316, with a case fatality rate of 2.1%. This left 2,005 active cases, including 904 at the Covid hospital here, nine in Nagpur and 1,092 in home isolation. WARDHA: The district recorded four deaths due to coronavirus, 84 new positive patients and 88 recoveries on Tuesday. The deceased comprise a 35-year-old woman, two men (aged 27 and 66) from Wardha and a 55-year-old man from Selu, taking the toll to 147. 84 (50 men and 34 women) tested positive out of the 428 test reports. The patients are from Wardha (46), Hinganghat (12), Deoli (10), Selu (8), Arvi (3), Karanja and Samudrapur (2 each), and Ashti (1). The caseload of district reached 5,094 and patients undergoing treatment are 2,044. The total patients who have been discharged after recovery are 2,903. CHANDRAPUR: With detection of 188 new cases, the Covid tally in Chandrapur reached 11,306 on Tuesday. The day also witnessed three deaths, taking the toll to 177. In all, 212 patients were discharged during the day, raising the number of recoveries to 7,883, and leaving 3,246 active patients. WASHIM: This was the only district in Amravati division which didn’t witness any Covid death on Tuesday. Yet, 33 new cases and 46 recoveries were reported. This took the count to 4,738 cases, while fatalities remained at 96. There are 644 active cases here now, while the recoveries reached 3,997. The administration also identified 48 patients from outside the district but admitted in the district hospitals. BULDHANA: Indicating an increase in the number of people tested, the administration received 574 reports — including those from labs and rapid antigen test (RAT) kits — and 81 tested Covid positive, while 159 recovered on Tuesday. Overshadowing this development, three positive patients passed away. A day before, 385 reports were received and 120 were found positive. According to official data, 65 reports were confirmed through labs while 16 tested positive through RATs. The district now has 7,849 cases, 6,813 recoveries, 102 deaths and 934 active cases. Positive cases are primarily from Chikhli, Bharosa, Shehgaon Deshmukh, Mehkar, Malli, Janfad, Sindhkhed Raja, Khamgaon. GADCHIROLI: Though again no fatality was reported, the district saw 120 new cases on Tuesday. Like the day before, the number of patients discharged (91) was lower than new cases. This increased the active case tally to 886, while total cases are 3,386. So far, 21 have succumbed to the disease, while 2,479 defeated Covid and went home. Those testing positive include 41 from Gadchiroli, 25 from Aheri, Armori (4), Bhamragad (5), Chamorshi (11), Dhanora (8), Korchi (2), Kurkheda (2), Mulchera (4), Sironcha (3), and Wadsa (15). GONDIA: The decline in new Covid cases seems to be the result of state public health department’s ‘My family, My responsibility’ campaign launched across the state last month. Just 60 new cases were detected, while no death was reported in the district. At the same time, 263 patients recovered and were discharged. The district now has 7,607 cases, 6,440 discharged, 105 deaths and 1,066 active cases. The new positive patients include 34 from Gondia, four from Tiroda, Gorgaon (4), Salekasa (1), Deori (1), Sadak Arjuni (9) and Arjuni Morgaon (1). BHANDARA: Seven Covid deaths and 163 new cases were reported in the district on Tuesday. The trend reversed within a day and the number of recoveries, 90, could not cross the new cases tally. The recovery rate slipped to 70%, with total cases at 6,250, recoveries at 4,399 and active cases at 1,705. The latest fatalities took the toll to 146. AKOLA: The district reported two Covid deaths, 33 new cases and 40 recoveries on Tuesday. The cases tally climbed to 7,678. So far, 246 people have died here of Covid. The tally of recoveries touched 6,609. 823 persons are under treatment — the number fell by around 10 from a day before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurs-recovery-rate-surpasses-nations-active-cases-dip/articleshow/78523814.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds 1,335 positive Covid cases, 10 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday added 1,335 new positive cases, taking the total to 1.45 lakh. It’s sixth day of below 1,400 daily positive cases for the state. The positive cases include 281 from Surat, 187 from Ahmedabad, 147 from Rajkot, 126 from Vadodara, and 94 from Jamnagar. The cumulative cases in Ahmedabad reached 38,083, which accounts for 26.3% of the total Covid-19 positive cases in Gujarat. Rajkot’s total tally had crossed 10,000 on Monday as Surat and Vadodara now have 30,767 and 12,860 cases respectively. The state also recorded deaths of 10 positive patients in 24 hours, taking the death toll to 3,522. The deaths include four from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, and one each from Vadodara, Gandhinagar and Rajkot. Vadodara nears 200 deaths with 194 and Rajkot near 150 with 147. Ahmedabad and Surat had cumulative toll of 1,831 and 787 respectively. A total of 1,473 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.25 lakh. The discharges include 307 from Surat, 266 from Ahmedabad, 174 from Rajkot, and 114 from Jamnagar. With the update, the share of active cases was 11.4% at 16,597. The share of discharged and deceased cases was 86.2% and 2.6% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 51,879 tests, taking the total to 47.54 lakh. It was the lowest daily testing for the state in 50 days. According to the state health department officials, in 24 hours the testing was 798 tests per million population. As on Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 5.79 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 418 were under facility quarantine. The rest were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-adds-1335-positive-cases-10-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/78522210.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||1,900 Covid cases, 10 deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday reported 1,983 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the cumulative caseload to 2,02,594, even as 10 more people succumbed to the virus. The recoveries continued to be encouraging with 2,381 people declared fit, raising the total number to 1,74,769, while the death toll reached 1,181. The city had the highest number of cases at 305, while neighbouring Rangareddy and Medchal Malakajgiri followed closely with 187 and 145 cases respectively. 50,598 people were tested on Monday and reports of 858 people are awaited. A total of 32,92,195 tests were conducted in the state so far. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-9k-covid-cases-10-deaths-in-t/articleshow/78523819.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pocso has overriding effect on Atrocity Act: HC||Ahmedabad : In an important order, the Gujarat high court has held that the legislature has conferred precedence on the Pocso Act above the SC/ST Atrocity Act. This analysis from the high court on overriding effect of two special laws came when a question arose on which type of application should be filed in the high court after a sessions court rejected the bail application of an accused person. In 2018, the high court had ruled that in cases involving Atrocity Act, only appeal under Section 14A of the Atrocity Act lies, and application under Section 439 of the CrPC is not maintainable. One Vikram Malivad filed an application for bail in the HC after he was denied bail by the sessions court in connection with rape on a minor girl, which belonged to SC/ST category. The state government objected to filing of the application under Section 439 of CrPC. Malivad’s advocate Rahil Jain asserted that the common law, CrPC, is the only recourse for him to get bail because charges of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were also invoked. This contentious issue required the high court to deliberate on whether the social status of the child will eclipse his or her well-being or safety. “The answer is apparent. The caste of a child cannot override or prejudice the security and wellbeing of a child. Thus, a bare glance on the laudable objects of the Pocso Act will illuminate its supremacy on the Atrocity Act, though both the Acts can be termed as special Acts.” The court further said, “The law which has the dominant feature of having supremacy in object and purpose of the laws for which it was enacted, the same will prevail over the other Act irrespective of the date of its promulgation.” This is because certain provisions of the Atrocity Act came into force after the Pocso Act, which was promulgated in 2012. The HC finally concluded, “The comparative analysis of provisions of both the Acts, leads to sole conclusion, that the legislature in its wisdom has conferred precedence on the Pocso Act above the Atrocity Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pocso-has-overriding-effect-on-atrocity-act-hc/articleshow/78522238.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Torrent Gas to invest Rs 8,000 crore in CGD over 5 years||AHMEDABAD: Torrent Gas Ltd plans to invest Rs 8,000 crore over the next five years for creating city gas distribution (CGD) infrastructure. The company also aims to set up 500 compressed natural gas (CNG) stations by March 2023. “Torrent Gas intends to invest Rs 8,000 crore towards the creation of CGD infrastructure over the next five years. Of this, an amount of Rs 1,050 has already been invested so far,” said Jinal Mehta, director, Torrent Gas. The CGD arm of the Ahmedabad-based Torrent Group on Tuesday announced the commissioning of 42 compressed natural gas (CNG) stations and 3 city gate stations (CGS) across several states. These CNG and CGS stations were dedicated to the service of the community by the Union minister of petroleum, natural gas and steel Dharmendra Pradhan through a video conference. Of the newly commissioned CNG stations, 14 are located in Uttar Pradesh, 8 in Maharashtra, 6 in Gujarat, 4 in Punjab and 5 each in Telangana and Rajasthan. One CGS each has been operationalized in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab. Torrent Gas, one of the fastest growing CGD companies in the country, has bagged the licences for selling CNG and piped natural gas (PNG) in 32 districts across seven states and one Union territory. With the addition of new CNG stations, the company now has commissioned 100 CNG stations within a short span of time.  “We are now working towards our near-term goal of setting up 200 CNG stations by March 2021 and medium-term goal of setting up 500 CNG stations by March 2023,” Mehta added. Talking about the company’s plans to foray into retailing of compressed bio-gas (CBG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG), he said, “we are already looking at options to enter this space in order to emerge as a futuristic energy retailing company.” “In line with the government’s plan to promote futuristic mobility, Torrent Gas is giving final touches with respect to retailing CBG and LNG,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/torrent-gas-to-invest-rs-8k-cr-in-cgd-over-5-yrs/articleshow/78522236.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Covid shadow on Puja lighting plans||Kolkata: This Durga Puja, Kolkata will be a lot less lit-up. Big-budget pujas in the city, which usually spend lakhs on decorative lighting, have decided to do away with brilliant illumination this year, both on account of monetary constraints in the current economic scenario and concerns over drawing crowds in the pandemic situation. Theme and decorative lighting is a major attraction during Durga Puja and is primarily responsible for the crowd build-up after dusk when illumination comes into play. Ekdalia Evergreen and Singhi Park Sarbojanin, two south Kolkata pujas located on either side of Gariahat Road, are among the top draws every year despite not going for elaborate ‘themes’ largely due to the massive light archways and array of spectacular lights on pavements leading to the pandals. But neither will go in for the brilliant lights this year. “We usually spend Rs 10 lakh to Rs 12 lakh on lighting alone. This year, we will light up only the pandal, and that will mean a spend of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 3 lakh,” said Gautam Mukherjee of Ekdalia Evergreen. “Where’s the money to spend on lights? We are cutting corners everywhere and illumination has taken the deepest cut,” said Singhi Park Sarbojanin puja committee member Prashanta Sarkar. Maddox Square, that has for decades been an adda and meeting point for pandal-hoppers, lights up the park and drapes the entire neighbourhood in fairy lights. But, this year, there won’t be any light at all; the club isn’t organising a community Durga Puja in its 85th year. Illumination has always been the USP of north Kolkata’s College Square, where lakhs from the districts descend after dusk to watch the magnificent lights and their reflections shimmering in the tank’s water. This year, the lights will be muted. “We usually spend Rs 20 lakh on lights. But if local trains don’t run, there will be no visitors. What sense does it make to spend so much on lighting, when there will be none to see it,” said College Square general secretary Bikash Mazumdar. The 102-year-old Baghbazar Sarbojanin usually lights up the roads all the way to the Shyambazar five-point crossing, Kumartuli and Girish Ghosh’s House on Central Avenue. This year, it has decided to cut down on illumination, although it will hold the fair that had been started in 1930 by Subhas Chandra Bose. “We will light up the ground but won’t go in for decorative lighting. The budget for lights will be halved from Rs 10 lakh,” said club general secretary Goutam Neogy. At Md Ali Park, organisers have decided to tone down lighting, not only due to a tighter budget but because it won’t be in sync with the current situation. “We usually light up a stretch of Central Avenue but this year the lights will be fewer and the pandal smaller,” said puja committee joint secretary Ashok Ojha. The impact of these decisions is being felt 50km away in Chandernagore, where light artists are spending their days in gloom as multiple puja organisers in Kolkata have cancelled contracts that usually sustain them for the rest of the year. There has been an almost 80% dip in their Puja earnings, which collectively amount to about Rs 14 crore every year. Orders haven’t come in from Assam, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Delhi or Bihar either, forcing many workers to seek out alternative means of livelihood. “A number of contracts haven’t materialised this year. We had pinned our hopes on Durga Puja but now, we are absolutely crestfallen. I am doing just two pujas this year, Sreebhumi Sporting Club and another Puja at Baranagar,” said light artist Babu Pal, who has in the past illuminated Amitabh Bacchan’s Mumbai residence and the Golden Temple in Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-shadow-on-puja-lighting-plans/articleshow/78503628.cms||Falguni Banerjee
October 7, 2020||Goa||Patient handling services begin at ESI hospital||Margao: The health department on Tuesday introduced patient handling services at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, to take care of Covid-infected patients who have none from their family to attend to them. Health minister Vishwajeet Rane claimed that Goa was the first state in the country to start this service for safe patient handling. “In addition to the treatment of patients, providing drug therapy, nutrition, etc, patients also require assistance in the ward with numerous things. To cater to the same, we have started patient handling services at ESI Hospital for COVID patients,” Rane tweeted from his twitter handle. ESI-Covid hospital administrator Dr Uday Kakodkar said that the service will be free of charge. “This is a unique concept. In many cases, family members and relatives are reluctant to stay with the patients in the hospital, mainly out of fear of contracting the virus. The patient handlers who have been recruited in enough numbers, will serve as patient care givers, assisting them with all their needs,” he said. The patient handlers – male and female — will be deployed in shifts in each ward at the ESI hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patient-handling-services-begin-at-esi-hospital/articleshow/78523826.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Brutally killed woman was not raped: Police||Vadodara: The body of a woman which was fished out from Mahisagar river near Fajalpur on October 4 was that of a murder victim, police said on Tuesday. The body, wrapped in a blanket and with limbs tied, was found floating on the water by the locals who alerted police and the fire brigade. Post-mortem report on Monday revealed that an injury on the head caused the woman’s death, after which an FIR for murder was registered based on a complaint by inspector of Nandesari police station A K Wadia. Police said that the primary report of autopsy conducted by a panel of doctors stated that the probable cause of death is from head injury and complications. Wadia said the post-mortem also ruled out any sexual assault. “The body, aged around 35 to 40 years, was recovered with a mobile phone and we are focusing our investigation on it,” said assistant commissioner of police, Paresh Bhesania. The mobile phone, however, did not have a sim card. However, she has not been identified still. Police are now trying to find out which mobile network was active on the phone through international mobile equipment dentity (IMEI) number. “We are also compiling a list of women who recently went missing not only in the city but in the neighbouring districts,” Bhesania added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/brutally-killed-woman-was-not-raped-police/articleshow/78520957.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Woman set ablaze by live-in partner in Sitapur, critical||Lucknow: A woman (25) was set ablaze allegedly by her live-in partner and his associate in Sitapur late Monday night and is battling for life in Civil hospital, Lucknow, with over 50% burns. Police lodged a case and teams were conducting raids to arrest the accused. Superintendent of police, Sitapur, RP Singh said the woman had divorced her husband Jitendra Kumar and was living with Prakash Singh of Shahjahanpur. The woman, a native of Bareilly, had married Jitendra on pressure of her family. While living in Bareilly she came in contact with Prakash and fell in love with him. “When she started insisting on solemnizing marriage, Prakash brought a pair of new clothes and took her to a temple on the outskirts of the village in Pisawan police station area along with his associate for the wedding rituals. But as soon as she wore the new dress and got ready, the accused set her ablaze and fled,” said Singh. Gram pradhan Kaushal Pandey spotted the woman engulfed by flames and called villagers for help and informed police. She was rushed to local CHC from where she was referred to the district hospital. The doctors at Sitapur district hospital gave her initial treatment and referred her to Lucknow for advanced treatment. She was admitted to Civil hospital where her condition is stated to be critical. “She thought of settling down with the accused by marrying him, but her desire turned deadly for her,” said police officials. We lodged a case and efforts to trace and arrest Prakash and his associate are on, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-set-ablaze-by-live-in-partner-in-sitapur-critical/articleshow/78524414.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Surat||Women lawyers to celebrate Navratri with ‘betha garba’||Surat: At a time when the din of dandiya and dhol of Navratri will be missing due to Covid-19, the women lawyers will thrill to an unusual beat to worship Goddess Amba with ‘betha’ or ‘sitting garba’.This is unique to the Nagar community during the nine days of the festival. Members of the Woman Advocates Active Committee, practising at the Surat district and sessions court will gather at a residential complex at Palanpore Jakat Naka for the traditional ‘betha garba’.All will followthe Covid-19 guidelines of the state government on October 17, they said.“Betha garbas is unique to the Nagar community. The women will gather at the venue in Palanpore Jakat Naka to sing the garba songs dedicated to Goddess Amba with just dholaks, harmonium and khanjaris,” said Priti Joshi, president of the Woman Advocates Active Committee.The betha garba will be followed by the recital of the devi Bhagwat Katha for the nine nights. The bhagwat Katha will be performed by the lady women advocates on rotation. “It is time for the young generation to turn towards traditional garba. One can’t appease the Goddess with dancing and loud music at the commercial venues. The real devotion for the Goddess is to sing melodious songs in chorus and seek her blessings,” said Joshi. According to Joshi, the women lawyers have been participating in the betha garba from the last many years at the pre-decided venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/women-lawyers-to-celebrate-navratri-with-betha-garba/articleshow/78521018.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Reforms whet restaurants’ appetite||NEW DELHI: Restaurateur Deepak Tandon of Wok in the Clouds says he always dreams of the day when getting licences and permissions will be as hassle-free an experience for him as it is for his restaurant-owning friends abroad. There was some cheer for him, therefore, on Wednesday when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the process to abolish unwanted licences, round-the-clock business, amendments in the existing excise policy and quarterly interest-free payments instead of half yearly payments. With such concerns of eatery owners addressed, Tandon expressed confidence of being able to brave the tough Covid era. Former National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) president Rahul Singh of The Beer Café, who was present at the meeting with Kejriwal, defined it as the ‘mother of all meetings’. He joked that as a restaurateur he was used to running from one department to another to have a problem taken care of. But to be in a meeting with the CM and his entire cabinet, principal secretaries, department commissioners and heads, called to make operations easier for the restaurant industry and to be called the ‘Pride of Delhi’ and acknowledged as an employment generator was nothing short of ‘unbelievable’ for the NRAI president. Singh, along with restaurateur and former NRAI president Riyaaz Amlani, had met the Delhi CM last week. They were assured of a meeting with all the heads of various pertinent department heads to ease the troubles faced by the industry. But that the promise was actually followed so quickly with a meeting of the authorities concerned and positive announcements were made has boosted the morale of the city restaurateurs. The issues addressed by the CM on Wednesday were precisely the pain points for restaurant owners over the years. Priyank Sukhija of First Fiddle Restaurants said the intent to usher in these changes was the light at the end of the tunnel. While he still said he would wait and watch to see how the changes were implemented, he confided that if open spaces such as terraces and balconies were allowed to be used, operating time extended, alcohol procurement process eased and VAT and drinking age lowered, Delhi would become the safest nightlife hub in the country. Amlani, who helms Impresario Entertainment and Hospitality, said the restaurant owners have regularly pointed out how the industry employed lakhs of people and yet remained one of the over-regulated sectors requiring multiple permits for operations. He hoped the meeting would offer a breakthrough on the problem of duplication of licences. “By deregulating the industry, more restaurants will open, and this will only generate more employment and help the tourism industry,” Amlani said, while insisting that the world’s most-visited cities were known for their nightlife and quality restaurants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reforms-whet-restaurants-appetite/articleshow/78543589.cms||Amin Ali
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court junks Microsoft’s rejection, to hear suit||Ahmedabad: A local court has rejected software major Microsoft Corporation’s objection to a local information technology firm Azure Knowledge Corporation Pvt Ltd’s plea suing it for infringement of trademark infringement. The court has decided to hear the case filed by Azure. After objecting to each other’s applications for registration for proposed use of trademark in different categories before Trade Mark Registry for last three years, Azure finally sued MS in February in a local civil court for using the trademark AZURE, which it has got registered and been using it since 1996. It submitted that the trademark was registered by its predecessor company Trilochan Technologies Pvt Ltd. Azure complained that MS has illegally adopted similar trademark AZURE under its house marks Windows and Microsoft and allegedly used it in various other trademarks containing the mark AZURE as the essential and dominant feature. As the court issued notice to the US software giant in March, it filed an application and urged the court to reject Azure’s suit as it is “frivolous, vexatious and based on falsities” and the plaint does not disclose the cause of action required to be taken and hence liable to be rejected under Order 7 Rule 11 of the Civil Procedure Code. MS argued that Azure’s complaint is with regard to proceedings before the Trade Mark Registry, therefore this grievance should also be presented before the Registry and not before a civil court. Against MS’s contention that Azure’s suit should be dismissed, the local firm contended that MS has already admitted to the similarity in trademarks, which justifies the filing of the suit. Moreover, when there is a mixed question of fact and law and is a triable issue which requires leading of evidence, the plaint cannot be rejected summarily without the trial being conducted. Upon hearing the arguments, judge C S Adhyaru observed that MS has got Windows Azure registered for proposed to be used. If it starts using it, it will be prejudice Azure’s case. The court further said, “On meaningful reading of the plaint, this court does not find that the plaint is manifestly vexatious, without any merit and does not disclose the right to sue, therefore, this court is of the prima facie opinion that it would not to be justified to exercise power under Order 7 Rule 11.” Further hearing on the suit is posted on October 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-junks-microsofts-rejection-to-hear-suit/articleshow/78522233.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Covid cases dip, but deaths remain a cause of concern||LUCKNOW: Deaths continue to remain a cause of worry for the state government even as the number of fresh and active cases has recorded a decline in Uttar Pradesh. The death toll reached 6,153 on Tuesday with addition of 61 entries. In fact, as on date, UP accounts for 5.9% of the total deaths in the country. While August and September account for over 60% of total deaths so far, 307 deaths have been reported in the first week of October. Officials said delay in reaching hospital was one of the main reasons for loss of lives. Experts pointed out that late response shortens the window period for management of the patient, while maximising possibility of the virus damaging vital organs. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said: “Many incidents of Covid-19 patients reaching hospital late are being reported. This may be due to the fact that patients in home isolation could not monitor their situations well.” Citing feedback from state medical institutions, ACS, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said, “Monitoring gap in home isolation is adding to the burden of critical cases and deaths.” “Our experts attribute the problem to failure to judge seriousness of symptoms or poor adherence to prevention curbs. A number of them also included those hiding their comorbid conditions from health teams,” he added. The officials urged people not to hide any pre-existing disease. Stating that breathlessness calls for urgent attention and delay can cost life, Dr Dube added “breathlessness is preceded by mild symptoms like cough and mild fever. One should get admitted to avoid complications. Oxygen saturation level below 94 means danger.” Experts also advised that those under home isolation should maintain temperature and oxygen level charts and report deviations. Those with co-morbidities, elderly should not opt for home isolation. UP’s Covid-19 tally increased to 4.20 lakh on Tuesday with the addition of 3,663 cases. ACS, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said the number of cured patients has crossed 3.70 lakh, while the recovery rate had increased to 88%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-cases-dip-but-deaths-remain-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/78524419.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Murder case witness, wife murdered in Kushinagar||GORAKHPUR: A couple was killed with a sharp-edged weapon in Parsouni Buzurg village under Tarya Sujan police station limit of Kushinagar district on Monday. Acoording to reports, Budhan Rajbhar (55) and his wife Sankeshia (47) were sleeping in their house after having dinner when the accused entered the house and attacked Budhan with a sickle. When his wife came to protect him, the accused attacked her as well and both husband and wife died on the spot. After hearing their cries, the couple's daughter Savitri came out of her room and the accused attacked her with a sickle and escaped. Police were able to take the body for postmortem after pacifying the villagers as they surrounded the house of the deceased and started demonstrating and demanding arrest of the accused. Police were not able to nab the accused so far and a heavy police force was deployed in the village. As per villagers, Budhan was a witness in a murder case against the accused. “A couple was murdered with a sharp-edged weapon under the limits of Tarya Sujan police station and a case of murder and attempt to murder against one Ramashankar has been registered . The deceased Budhan was a witness in a murder case against Ramashankar and will be under custody soon,” SP Kushinagar, Vinod Kumar Singh said. As per villagers, Ramashankar is accused for the murder of his neighbour ten years ago and also attempt to murder in a case two years ago. Budhan was a witness in the murder case and gave a written application fearing threat to his life 10 days ago. On Sunday evening Ramashankar had a clash with Budhan and on Monday police booked him under section 151 of IPC (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) but he came out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/murder-case-witness-wife-murdered-in-kushinagar/articleshow/78523823.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra farmers smitten by passion fruit||Rajkot: After tasting the success of dragon fruit, the Saurashtra farmers are moving towards the cultivation of passion fruit, which is native to South American country Brazil. The fruit available in purple or yellow varieties is rich in vitamin C & A, potassium, iron, fibre and has a number of medicinal properties.Jayanti Gajera, a farmer who has mastered the art of cultivating dragon fruit is now eyeing commercial success with passion fruit at his orchid near Bharudi in Gondal taluka of Rajkot district. He had bought passion fruit seeds last year from a nursery and started cultivation in his farm “The passion fruit plant is a creeper that goes upto eight feet high and needs to be supported with a pole. At least 400 poles will be required to cultivation in one acre land,” Gajera told TOI. He said that he had to make one-time investment in erecting canopy across one acre land and that cost him around Rs 3 lakh. Gajera currently has 50 passion fruit plants under the canopy, where he also grows fenugreek and coriander, which also needs protection from direct sunlight. Currently one creeper has around 500 fruits. Since Gajera is know in and around Rajkot for his success with dragon fruit, he has started getting inquiries farmers on his new venture. Vrajlal Suroliya, who cultivates different fruits in his orchard in JamKhambhaliya taluka of Devbhumi Dwarka district is one such farmer. “Earlier I used to cultivate passion fruit in my orchard for own consumption. But now I am planning to start commercial cultivation and have contacted Gajera for planning. I have also learnt about taking care of the creepers for better yield,” added Suroliya. In India the passion fruit is cultivated in Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur and Kerala. J V Rokad, retired deputy conservator of forest and horticulture consultant said, “Three varieties of passion fruit are available. The fruit is used for juices, ice cream, dessert, cakes and other items like syrup, jam and pickle. Many consume it directly because of it’s nutritional and medical values.” D K Varu head of college of horticulture affiliated with Junagadh Agriculture University said, “Passion fruit is being cultivated by a few farmers as commercial market it has not yet developed. The farmers as a part of innovation cultivate new fruits but for them marketing becomes difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtra-farmers-smitten-by-passion-fruit/articleshow/78521056.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Remove Pallars from SC list, TN outfit tells state, Centre||Coimbatore: Puthiya Tamilagam (PT) founder K Krishnaswamy slammed the state and central governments for allegedly going back on their promise of clubbing together Pallars and six other communities as Devendra Kula Vellalars and removing them from the list of scheduled castes. Talking to reporters after a hunger strike in the city on Tuesday, Krishnaswamy also hit out at the state government for refusing permission to hold hunger strikes across the state, citing Covid. Stating that Puthiya Tamilagam will not be cowed down by such silencing tactics, he said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami should understand that Devendra Kula Vellalars have long history of struggle. “We were not scared even when late leaders M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa were there,’’ Krishnaswamy said alleging that the protest pandal in Udumalpet where he was scheduled to lead was removed by police. Rather than adopting scare tactics and diluting legitimate protests, EPS should act with conscience, Krishnaswamy said. Krishnaswamy has for the past few years been demanding that Pallars be removed from the list of scheduled saste. Pallar community can be clubbed with Kudumbar, Pannadi, Kaalaadi, Kadayar, Devendrakulathar and Vanathirayar and they can be together called Devendra Kula Vellalar, he said. The rationale of Krishnaswamy was that Devendra Kula Vellars were traditionally a land holding and farming community and that they were added to scheduled caste only because they lost their lands. When he aligned with AIADMK during the last Lok Sabha elections Krishnaswamy said that he accepted to join the alliance after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy assured to consider the demand for removing Pallars from SC list. However, the state government has not taken any initiative in this regard, he said a few days ago and said that PT would stage hunger strikes at 10000 places across the state on October 6. The police however had refused permission and had even arrested scores of PT cadres who attempted to gather at the protest sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/remove-pallars-from-sc-list-tn-outfit-tells-state-centre/articleshow/78523827.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM may kick off campaign with Keshavapuram stone laying||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao may kick off the poll campaign for the GHMC polls by laying the foundation stone for a mega drinking water reservoir at Keshavapuram in Rangareddy district by next week. A review meeting was held at Pragathi Bhavan on Tuesday by MAUD minister KT Rama Rao with officials of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board to know the status of the reservoir. KTR discussed land acquisition and permissions sought from ministry of environment, forest and climate change. He instructed officials to intensify efforts to obtain the second phase permissions from the forest department. He said there will be no water problem in the city until 2050 once Keshavapuram reservoir is commissioned. He said land acquisition of 1,490 acres for construction of reservoir is almost complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-may-kick-off-campaign-with-keshavapuram-stone-laying/articleshow/78523833.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Barbs fly in House over mining ops||Bhubaneswar: The opposition and treasury bench members locked horns in the assembly on Monday over irregularities in mining operations in the state leading to huge loss to the state exchequer.  Raising the issue in the house as soon as it reassembled, leader of opposition Pradipta Kumar Naik alleged that undue favour to some mining firms by some of the erring officers have caused a loss of Rs 1 lakh crore to the state exchequer. The three mining companies are Serajuddin and Co., Rungta Mines and Aryan Mining and Trading Co. Senior BJD MLA Pratap Keshari Deb countered the opposition charges by accusing them of trying to create a hype without any substance in their allegations.  This was followed by heated exchange of words between the treasury and opposition benches over the issue. The leader of opposition said when the lease deed extension of some mines was granted by the state government in 2015 with a plea of MMRD (Amendment) Act, 2015, due diligence and reasonable care were not taken. “Through wrong interpretation of the MMDR (Amendment) Act, 2015, the state government had given defaulting mining firms the benefit of raising minerals for five more years from 2015 till March 31, 2020,” Naik said. He added that he had written at least 10 letters to the chief minister requesting him to take action against the officials responsible for the loss to the state exchequer. “I have not even received an acknowledgement of my letters, let alone action against anyone,” Naik, who has also served a breach of privilege notice on the issue, said. He demanded action against the three mining firms, against whom a chargesheet was filed in a vigilance court. He also criticized the government for allowing the three mining firms to participate in the recent auction process in March, despite knowing that cases are pending against them for irregularities. Naik demanded a detailed discussion in the house over the issue. Based on a Supreme Court observation in 2015, Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra, said the state has lost around Rs 3,600 crore in nine mines.  “The state government is responsible for the loss. Such a huge blunder can never be committed without the knowledge of the state government,” the senior Congress leader added. The Congress veteran also criticized the NDA government for not recommending a CBI inquiry into the mining irregularities in Odisha as suggested by the Justice MB Shah Commission. Defending the state government, Deb said the mining auction process in the state is being done based on the guidelines of the Supreme Court and the Union government. The Supreme Court-appointed central empowered committee had appreciated the state’s mining auction process. “There is nothing to hide as everything related to the mining auction is in the public domain. Since 2014, the BJP has been trying to create a hype by making misleading claims without any substance. If the BJP leaders have any evidence, let them place it. The state government is ready to discuss all the issues,” Deb said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/barbs-fly-in-house-over-mining-ops/articleshow/78500022.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
October 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Pavoor set to become a model village of religious harmony||Mangaluru: Members of the Hindu, Muslim and Christian communities living in Pavoor in Mangaluru taluk have initiated a campaign to promote religious harmony in their village. Residents cutting across religions and political parties have united to make Pavoor a harmonious village through several initiatives. As part of the initiative, a single entrance arch for temple, mosque and church of the village will be constructed. It will bear the names of Sri Vaidyanatha Temple, Al-Mubarak Juma Masjid and Infant Jesus Church. A foundation stone laying ceremony of the entrance arch to be built in memory of former MLA Late UT Fareed was held recently and it witnessed participation from the representatives of the communities. Mangaluru MLA UT Khader told TOI that various other development projects too are in pipeline for the village. “Elected representatives, religious leaders and residents of Pavoor village have decided to construct an entrance arch of religious harmony to commemorate my father U T Fareed, who was the MLA of erstwhile Ullal constituency. Religious harmony is essential for common man to live peacefully in a nation. It is the same harmony which is the foundation of India’s unity in diversity. Pavoor village is a peaceful land where people live harmoniously without allowing conflicts in the name of religion and politics. To continue their efforts to make the village more harmonious, they have taken a decision to construct a single entrance arch for temple, mosque and church. Villagers of Pavoor don’t pay heed to the propaganda of communal forces,” Khader said. “The village has witnessed a sea of changes when it comes to development. I have already sanctioned funds for many development works including Rs 30 lakh for the construction of a main road. More funds will be sanctioned to make Pavoor a model village with the participation of people from all sections of the society,” Khader added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pavoor-set-to-become-a-model-village-of-religious-harmony/articleshow/78519904.cms||---
October 7, 2020||India||Jagan meets PM, sets off speculation||NEW DELHI/VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Reddy on Tuesday called on PM Narendra Modi and discussed issues related to the state with BJP sources discounting speculation over YSRCP joining the NDA. Reddy is understood to have discussed release of pending funds for the Polavaram irrigation project. The PM meeting comes after eight months, amid reports of Reddy joining the NDA. However, sources told TOI that there were no such plans for now. Reports from Andhra Pradesh, however, said Reddy has kept his options open on joining the NDA government. But one of the conditions mentioned — special category status for his state — is not likely to be considered by the BJP leadership, which has been averse to such categorisation, seeing it as a political prop of limited value. Some sources, however, said Reddy indicated the need for clarity on the special category status, a commitment by the Centre to the state given on the floor of Parliament at the time of the bifurcation of the state in 2014. In the 40-minute meeting, Reddy discussed the pending dues and approvals for various projects like Kadapa Steel Plant, sources said. YSR Congress’ parliamentary party chief V Vijaya Sai Reddy accompanied his party leader in the meeting. The CM requested Modi for early release of pending revenue grant of Rs 10,000 crore, Rs 3,250 crore funds for the Polavaram project, besides setting up of a high court in Kurnool district, sources said. He also requested the PM to fulfil all promises made under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act. After his meeting with Modi, Reddy attended the apex council meeting with Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao over the Krishna-Godavari river water-sharing issue via video-conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jagan-meets-pm-sets-off-speculation/articleshow/78524832.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Forum seeks justice for UP gang-rape victim||Members of the Campus Front of India (CFI) on Tuesday staged a protest near the district collectorate in the city, seeking justice for the 19-year-old dalit girl, who was gang-raped and murder at Hathras in Uttar Pradesh, and her family. At least 18 CFI members participated in the protest. They also demanded the release of CFI members who were arrested when they went to meet the victim’s family. J Abuthahir, district president of CFI, said their national treasurer Athikur Rahman and eight others were arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police when they visited the victim’s house to console her family. “They have to be released immediately.” The protesters said people involved in the crime should be arrested and brought to justice without delay. “The victim’s family must be protected and given justice,” Abuthahir said. CFI staged protests across the state, including in Chennai, Thanjavur and Tirunelveli, on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forum-seeks-justice-for-up-gang-rape-victim/articleshow/78523905.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda sees 3 corona deaths, 188 new cases||CHANDRAPUR: With detection of 188 new cases, the Covid tally in Chandrapur reached 11,306 on Tuesday. The day also witnessed three deaths, taking the toll to 177. In all, 212 patients were discharged during the day, raising the number of recoveries to 7,883, and leaving 3,246 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-sees-3-corona-deaths-188-new-cases/articleshow/78523866.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 7, 2020||Varanasi||Rape accused held within 24 hours||GORAKHPUR: Gorakhpur police, on Tuesday, arrested a youth accused of raping a speech and hearing impaired girl within 24 hours of registering the case and sent him to jail. As per reports, on Monday at around 3pm, Pintu Prasad (25), son of Radheyshyam Sahini of a village under Chauri Chaura police station entered the girl’s house when she was sleeping alone and her sister-in-law was taking bath. He covered her mouth with his hands and raped her. On hearing some noise, the girl’s sister-in-law heard came out and tried to catch him but Pintu pushed her and escaped. At around 6pm, when other family members returned home from work, the girl’s sister-in-law narrated them the whole incident following which the family members informed the police on ‘112’. Inspector Promod Kumar Tripathi of Chauri Chaura police station reached the spot and sent the girl for medical test. A case was lodged against Pintu under section 376 on the written complaint of the girl’s mother. Pintu’s father was detained for questioning and on Tuesday morning the police arrested the accused and sent him to jail. His father was released. “The accused has been arrested and sent to jail,” said inspector Pramod Kumar Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rape-accused-held-within-24-hours/articleshow/78523836.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Headmasters to grow ‘gobhi’, teachers ‘tamatar’||LUCKNOW: Government teachers also doing census duties, or roped in for election work is a passe. Now, if an order of the Rae Bareli's Basic Shiksha Adhikari is to be believed, they are also supposed to grow vegetables, for mid-day meals, in kitchen gardens on school campuses. The order clearly specifies who is supposed to grow what -- from headmasters to shiksha mitras. Headmasters, for examples, are supposed to grow cauliflower and one set of teachers tomatoes and raddish. As per the order (a copy is in possession of TOI) issued by BSA Anand Prakash Sharma, October 30 has been fixed as the deadline for planting saplings. After the deadline, senior government functionaries will visit the kitchen garden, and the top two gardens at each block level would be awarded. After the block level, the best three gardens in the district will be awarded by the district magistrate. General Secretary, UP Primary Teachers’ Association, Sanjay Singh said, “Government teachers are engaged in all sorts of non-academic works.” “This time, they have to grow vegetables. And then teachers are questioned about the quality of education. The order is unacceptable,” Singh added. State head of Primary teacher Trained Graduate Association, Vinay Singh, said, “This is an absurd order where teachers who have been assigned the name of veggies to be planted by them. Teaching is not like other professions where terms can be dictated. The government should appoint persons to develop and maintain the kitchen garden.” The Union ministry of education, formerly the ministry of human resource development in August last year issued instructions to all government schools up to class VIII to create kitchen gardens, also known as school nutrition gardens. The gardens were primarily to be raised by students with an idea of choosing the fruits and vegetables they wish to grow and eat. Kitchen gardens are also aimed at addressing issues such as malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies among school children. Director general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand told TOI that though he is not aware of the Rae Bareli order order, but, as per government directives, the labour force of MNREGS has to be deployed for creating kitchen gardens. "Students can also develop gardens so that they can learn while studying. Teachers’ role is to supervise these gardens.” TOI tried to contact Rae Bareli BSA Anand Prakash Sharma on the phone, but he didn't answer the calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/headmasters-to-grow-gobhi-teachers-tamatar/articleshow/78524428.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sales improve but much less than expected: Report||Ahmedabad: Sales in the market have shown a marginal improvement according to the latest monthly Business Inflation Expectations Survey (BIES) carried out by Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A).  The survey was released on Tuesday. According to the survey conducted in August, 59% of the firms in August 2020 report that sales are ‘much less than normal’. This is against 66% firms clocking lesser than normal sales in July, according to the survey conducted then. While there seems to be steady improvement of sales, around 82% of the firms in the sample still report that sales are ‘somewhat or much less than normal’. The same stood at more than 93% in July. With sales taking a hit, the profit margins of companies have also been impacted. At least 57% firms surveyed in August reported much less than normal profit against 62% of them in July this year. The survey mentions that firms are moving from ‘much less than normal’ profit to ‘somewhat less than normal’ profit category but the shift appears to be gradual. Post pandemic, companies are also facing tremendous cost pressures. In the August survey, 28% of the firms still expect significant (over 6%) cost increase as compared to the same time last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sales-improve-but-much-less-than-expected-report/articleshow/78522278.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Surat||Key evidence missing, but police don’t seek custody of accused cops||Surat: Three policemen accused of driving billionnaire businessman Durlabh Patel to suicide were sent to judicial custody on Tuesday after their nine-day remand ended. Even as some crucial evidence like documents are yet to be recvoered, the investigators did not seek their further remand in the Bardoli court.The suspended cops - LP Bodana, former police inspector, Kiransinh Parmar, assistant sub inspector and constable Ajay Bhopala, in Lajpore Central Jail.Among the key evidence missing are the agreement of sale of the disputed land, consent letter of Patel about the land’s ownership and possession receipt of the land. The deceased’s elder son Dharmesh had alleged in his statement that the policemen and other accused persons had made his father sign three important documents which were were in Bodana’s possession. During investigation, another arrested accused Raju Bharwad, who wanted the land’s ownership, also claimed that the papers were with Bodana. “The accused cops have denied that the documents are in their possession. Our team also searched their residences after Dharmesh’s statement, but the papers were not found,” said a police officer. Besides these three cops and Bharwad, police have Bhavesh Savani, a property dealer, Vijay Shinde, a police constable and Mukesh Kulkarni, a journalist. All accused are currently lodged in LCJ. Police are yet to arrest Kishore Koshiya, Kanaiyalal Narola and Hetal Desai, who, cops say have fled the country. Interim relief for key accused Surat: One of the key accused, Kishore Koshiya, approached Gujarat High Court seeking quashing of the complaint on Monday. “In an interim order, the court ordered that no coercive action be taken. Police cannot arrest him till the next hearing on October 22,” said Kalpesh Desai, Koshiya’s advocate. Koshiya had first struck the deal for disputed land in Pisaad village near the city in 2014 but as he couldn’t get the possession, he allegedly involved other persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/key-evidence-missing-but-police-dont-seek-custody-of-accused-cops/articleshow/78521080.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 7, 2020||Goa||With no policy in place, state’s eco-tourism plan yet to realise||Keri: From time to time, in recent years, the state’s chief ministers have spoken about taking tourism to Goa’s hinterland. But this has remained mere talk with the state not having a well-defined eco-tourism policy drawn to date. Barring a few spots like Dudhsagar waterfalls, which have attracted visitors purely based on the attraction of its natural beauty, the state government has been unable to develop interest for other sites. Goa’s forest department has constituted wildlife and eco-tourism divisions separately for North and South districts, but the efforts end there. Many wildlifers have taken up initiatives at an individual level to develop projects that help promote responsible eco-tourism and generate income for locals. “Since the last seven years, Verle Eco-tourism Co-operative Society has been successfully running a village stay in the Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary. At Taide in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, jungle trail, home stay under Brahmanimaya self-help group has been initiated. If these efforts are properly patronised by the forest department, villagers will benefit and will in turn help in protection of forest and wildlife of the areas,” wildlifer Parag Ranganekar. In the absence of a clear-cut eco-tourism policy, any hinterland tourism efforts are hampered. For instance, though Goa government has declared its wildlife sanctuaries and the state’s lone national park as plastic-free zones, waste is seen strewn around. Wildlife and eco-tourism divisions have range headquarters at Campal, Mollem, Mhadei, Bondla, Netravali and Cotigao. At Bondla zoo, a deer safari park and a botanical garden already exist. At Cotigao, there is a butterfly park. And at Chorao one can enjoy bird life amid mangrove vegetation through a boat ride. Netravali is known for the beauty of its various waterfalls. But there is a need to holistically plan eco-tourism activities maintaining the ecological balance of the area. Additional principal chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar, however, told TOI that efforts in this direction are on. “We have already launched several eco-tourism initiatives. We have also deployed local youths as nature guides, who will help visitors discover the enchanting facets of Goa’s biodiversity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-policy-in-place-states-eco-tourism-plan-yet-to-realise/articleshow/78523915.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Power staff call off strike; privatisation plan deferred||LUCKNOW: UP power employees called off their stir against the proposed privatisation of Poorvanchal Distribution Company on Tuesday after the state government assured them that it would not go ahead with the move if the financial situation of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) improves. In a written agreement reached between the power employees and a cabinet sub-committee comprising finance minister Suresh Khanna, energy minister Shrikant Sharma, chief secretary RK Tewari and additional chief secretary, energy, Arvind Kumar, the government said it would assess the revenue position of UPPCL every month till January 15 before taking any further decision on privatisation. The breakthrough came after a two-hour meeting between UP Rajya Vidyut Karamchari Sangharsh Smiti and the government committee. As per the agreement, the Sangharsh Samiti, an association of power employees and engineers, agreed to support the UPPCL management in reforms to improve the financial situation of the corporation. Samiti president Shailendra Dubey said the reforms will be brought under the present organisational structure. “The state government agreed not to go ahead with the privatization if employees and UPPCL management would join hands to bring the necessary reforms and elevate the financial situation of the corporation,” Dubey told TOI. He said the government has agreed not to go ahead with the privatization without taking power employees into confidence. “Also, the cases lodged against the power employees in various police stations across the state following the work boycott will be taken back without any pre-condition,” he added. Earlier in the day, UP chief secretary RK Tewari held a video conference with divisional commissioners and police chiefs of various districts to tackle the crisis arising out of the strike. There were reports of power disruptions going unattended in parts of east UP as employees refused to work citing the statewide agitation. Prolonged power disruptions were also reported from some of the localities in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-staff-call-off-strike-privatisation-plan-deferred/articleshow/78524456.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi becomes first in country to add BS VI-compliant buses in public transport||NEW DELHI: Delhi has become the first city in India to have BS VI-compliant buses in the public transport network. Nine of the 116 BS VI-compliant, air-conditioned, low-floor, CNG-run buses additions to the Cluster scheme fleet have been put out by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS), which operates the scheme. “At present, nine of such buses have been deployed after thorough inspection. These are the first BS VI-compliant public transport buses in the country,” a DIMTS official said on Wednesday. Bharat Stage (BS) are emission standards for motor vehicles. Most public transport buses in Delhi currently are at BS IV standard, but from April 1 this year, only vehicles with BS VI norms are being allowed to be registered. The 116 Citylife buses are being supplied by JBM Auto. Delivery of the first batch of these buses started in September, and the vehicles that have arrived are deployed after inspection. Earlier this year, the bus manufacturer had supplied 100 BS IV, low-floor, air-conditioned buses for the Cluster scheme. Apart from being compliant with the latest emission norms that are more stringent standard than the outgoing BS IV levels, these buses also boast state-of-the-art technologies like smartcard ticketing system, real-time passenger information system (PIS), intelligent transport management system (ITMS) and automatic bus vehicle location system, apart from CCTV cameras, public address system and stop request buttons and facilities like a wheelchair ramp. The buses also incorporate other utility features such as vehicle health monitoring system, fire detection and suppression system, independent front suspension, electronic braking system and a kneeling mechanism that allows the bus to ‘kneel’ 60mm towards the passengers’ door to facilitate boarding and de-boarding of senior citizens, children and the differently abled. For drivers, the buses have an ergonomically designed dashboard that provides an intuitive and user-friendly system that allows them to concentrate on driving without distractions. The number of buses in the Cluster scheme is around 3,000, of which 1,000 are standard floor vehicles added in batches over the past one year, with the last lot being inducted just before the Covid lockdown. Delhi government is adding 1,000 air-conditioned, low-floor buses to the fleet. More than 150 new buses are already operating and around 250 are in the process of being inducted. These include 93 BS IV buses that were supposed to be registered by April 30, but weren’t because of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/green-wheels-nine-bs-vi-buses-on-roads/articleshow/78543705.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Recoveries again outnumber fresh Covid cases in Amravati||AMRAVATI: The district has been recording a constant fall in the number of fresh Covid-19 cases, while there has been an increase in the number of recoveries. On Tuesday, the district recorded 101 new cases as against 139 recoveries. While the new cases took the caseload to 14,225, the recoveries reached 11,904 — a recovery rate of 83.68%. There was no death in the district on Tuesday. The toll stayed at 316, with a case fatality rate of 2.1%. This left 2,005 active cases, including 904 at the Covid hospital here, nine in Nagpur and 1,092 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recoveries-again-outnumber-fresh-covid-cases-in-amravati/articleshow/78523899.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||zee wish list 06/10/20||Kolkata: Colleges grappling with the issue of vacant seats in the undergraduate courses even afster several rounds of admission and reopening portals for fresh applications have decided to adopt a new strategy to fill up the vacancies before the October 30 deadline set by higher education department. Many colleges will henceforth invite only those candidates for admission who have expressed their willingness in getting admitted in a certain subject in a college. When seats remained vacant even after publishing several merit lists, many colleges invited candidates to register for a “wish list” expressing their desire to study in the college. The only condition for registering for the “wish list” was that the candidate’s name must feature on original merit list of that college and he or she must not have secured admission anywhere. Maulana Azad College has already decided to shift from merit list to “wish list” to “expedite the admission process”. “We have already published 13 merit lists, but there are still seats vacant in many subjects. So we have decided that henceforth admission list will be published from names drawn from wish list only,” said Subhasis Dutta, principal of the college. Principals of various colleges pointed out to TOI that how markings by different boards in plus-two school leaving examinations resulted in high grades for many students. These high scorers applied in subjects they were not genuinely interested in studying but took advantage of the waiver of application fees by the government. Now when colleges are publishing call-up lists inviting them to take admission, they are not responding causing delay in filling up the seats. On Tuesday TOI highlighted how seats in Presidency University and top Calcutta University colleges were vacant due to this mismatch. Scottish Church College, too, will be publishing a list of only those candidates who have registered in “wish list”. “Candidates are invited to take admission depending on their position on the full merit list. But despite several call-ups many candidates did not take admission. Many genuine candidates who actually want to take admission are waiting for their turn or taking admission in other colleges to be on the safe side. So, we have decided that henceforth the call lists will be prepared from the new merit list on the basis of candidates registered under the wish list,” said an official of the college. The list will be uploaded on the college’s website at 2 pm on Wednesday. Lady Brabourne College will also publish a merit list on the basis of candidates registered under the “wish list” at 4 pm on Wednesday. “A lot of students have shown interest in taking admission in subjects where seats are vacant,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zee-wish-list-06/10/20/articleshow/78522334.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Colleges in dist start online classes for first-year students||Coimbatore: Arts and science colleges in the district have started online classes for the first-year students, as admissions are almost over.College principals and teachers said online classes were progressing, despite hassles such as unavailability of devices and network.On the flip side, students, who have freshly transitioned from schools to colleges, have to wait a bit longer to experience the campus life.Government arts colleges in the district have been conducting online classes for the first-year students for a month now. K Chitra, principal, Government Arts College in the city, said, “We started classes on September 3, when we had filled 50% seats.”The college faculty said there was a good response from students. “On an average, 80% students attend the classes. We were apprehensive about how they would respond to online teaching, as they were fresh from schools. But we find them attentive and interested,” said a teacher.But as the students don’t know each other, the teacher said, they had to nudge them to interact with others and share notes or other information, if someone missed a class.The scene is different in the government arts colleges in smaller towns. A teacher said only 30% students of the Government Arts and Science College at Kangeyam was attending online classes. “The attendance may vary from subject to subject. As many students are from underprivileged and rural backgrounds, they are not able to log onto online classes. Those attending the classes are used to the online pedagogy by now.”Principal of another government college in the district said at 40%-60%, they were seeing less attendance than expected. “On the very first day, we had briefed the first-year students about the online classes. We would definitely make up for the shortfalls through additional sessions and orientation programmes.”The faculty of the Government Arts College in the city said they were planning to conduct an orientation session on online classes for students. Teachers in other government arts colleges, however, said conducting orientation sessions without the presence of all students would not be useful.Some students are not able to attend online classes as they don’t have network or devices. While teachers are noting down attendance, they said they were not clear how to process the same.Self-financing colleges in the city have, meanwhile, conducted online orientation sessions for the first-year students. B L Shivakumar, principal, Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science in the city, said, “We held orientation from August 24 to September 4, before we started classes on September 7. We had spoken to students about the difficulties they might face when transitioning from school to college, and how to overcome them.” He said almost all students were attending online classes and they were engaging only theory classes now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/colleges-in-dist-start-online-classes-for-first-year-students/articleshow/78523921.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||New location identified for Vasco fish market||Vasco: The Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) on Tuesday held an inspection along with fisherfolk from Vasco of a new site to serve as a temporary fish market. The old one will be demolished and a new market complex will come up at the existing site. “The work order for construction is expected to come in a couple of days. The construction will take about a year to complete,” councillor Fredrick Henriques said. On Tuesday, the MMC, along with its engineers, inspected the open space in front of old KTC shuttle ticket counter, opposite the fish market itself. The fisherfolk agreed to the site. However, the final decision is yet to be taken. The fish market complex is a decade old project which has been pending due to political rivalry in Vasco. Henriques said that, as assured on Monday, MMC staff along with Vasco police held inspections at internal places like New Vaddem, Baina, Mangor, Sada etc. He warned against selling of fish by the roadside. The council has assured the fisherfolk that nobody will be allowed to sell fish anywhere outside the fish market. The council will start seizing the material of those found sitting along the roads. Even the vans selling fish have been asked to stop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-location-identified-for-vasco-fish-market/articleshow/78523935.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Rising Covid graph: Kolkata logs 10,000 cases in 16 days||KOLKATA: In the past 16 days, Kolkata has recorded more than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases, triggering the alarm in medical circles over the sharp rise in infection ahead of Durga Puja. While cases have been on the rise since Mahalaya, experts tracking the Covid curve fear October could be the worst month yet with shopping and pandal hopping giving a fresh impetus to the virus. In Bidhannagar area, including Salt Lake, too, more than 1,000 fresh cases were recorded in the past 16 days. On Tuesday, the state recorded the highest number of deaths at 63 and cases at 3,370. In Kolkata, there were 16 deaths and 742 fresh cases, taking the total Covid-19 count in the city to 60,608. Barely 16 days ago, on September 20, the count in Kolkata was 50,127 and the number of deaths stood at 1,581. In the first six days of October, the Covid count is 4,196 cases, up from 3,017 recorded in the corresponding period in September. The city has fared worse only in August when the first six days of the month registered 4,243 new cases. Health workers had flashed the red light right after Ganesh Puja and Mahalaya, advising caution in October when Durga Puja festival is celebrated. The initial grit to fight against the pandemic by distancing oneself from others has given way to a sense of resignation and recklessness. Though cases are on the rise, many have dumped basic precautions and hit the streets in numbers to shop for Puja and return to the normal way of life. Alarmed by the evolving situation, Joint Platform of Doctors on Tuesday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee with an appeal for administrative action to stop crowds during the festival and make wearing masks mandatory when people step out of their homes. In the beginning of September, the number of fresh cases had gone below 400. But by the fourth week of the month, it had shot past 600. At present, Kolkata has 6,043 active cases, up from 4,262 active cases on September 20. Bidhannagar recorded 990 active cases on Tuesday, up from 650 active cases on September 20. The number of fresh cases also shot up to 99 on Tuesday from 52 on September 20. Like Kolkata, the number of fresh cases being reported daily is overshooting the discharge count, leading to a gradual decline in the number of unoccupied Covid beds in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rising-covid-graph-kol-logs-10k-cases-in-16-days-bidhannagar-1k/articleshow/78522326.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 7, 2020||Rajkot||Crude oil pilfering racket busted near Mundra, 6 held||Rajkot: A racket of pilfering crude oil from the state-run Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd’s (HPCL) Mundra-Bhatinda pipeline was busted near port town Mundra on Tuesday with the arrest of a gang who had plotted this theft inside Bhuj jail a few months ago. Mundra police arrested Sahil Hussain Kakkal, Ramzan Goel, Ibrahim alias Abu Pathan, Rajendrasinh Rathod, Laxman Gadhvi and Ramesh Singh, who had pilfered nearly 12,000 litres of crude in the last two months.In February this year, Sahil was arrested for cashewnut theft from Mundra port, was the mastermind of the racket, while Pathan was caught along with his aides for pilfering diesel at Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) at Kandla. Sahil and Pathan met in Bhuj jail where they were lodged in the same barrack after their arrests."While in jail, they decided to find a safer location to pilfer crude and diesel as they found security in and around Kandla port tighter. Sahil offered to search for a safer location and after coming out on bail, he came in contact with Rathod from Baroi village near Mundra," said JA Padhiyar, police inspector, Mundra.Rathod offered to help him but demanded his share. Sahil agreed and Rathod introduced him to Ramzan from whose field in Baroi village the underground pipeline passed. After agreeing to give Ramzan a share too, they got in touch with HPCL's pipeline security guard Laxman who was lured by the prospects of earning more money. Meanwhile, Pathan was also released on bail and the plan was finalized and executed in August.Police said the gang has confessed to more people being involved in the pilferage racket and they have stolen a much large quantity in two months. Ramesh Singh is one of their customers and investigation is on to trace other buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/crude-oil-pilfering-racket-busted-near-mundra-6-held/articleshow/78521121.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Teja keen on Stanford or MIT||HYDERABAD: Eamcet topper Sai Teja Varanasi is looking to do his under graduation from either Stanford University or Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Speaking to TOI, the 17-year-old said that he will be joining the computer science stream at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, for the first year of engineering but would like to take a transfer to either of the institutes in the United States next year. “I noticed that they have transfer programmes and want to make use of them and join in one of the institutes,” said Teja and added that he aims to be a developer and wants to launch his own startup one day. Teja, whose parents are government teachers, said he wrote the Eamcet exam for practice and added that he relied on the previous year question papers to crack the test. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teja-keen-on-stanford-or-mit/articleshow/78524020.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 7, 2020||Rajkot||Sheep lifters shoot two shepherds in Gujarat's Dhrangadhra||RAJKOT: Two shepherds were injured after they were fired upon by alleged sheep lifters near Dhrumath village, a few kilometres away from Dhrangadhra town of Surendranagar district on Tuesday afternoon. The injured identified as Deva Gamara (42) and Mafabhai Bharwad (29) were taken to Surendranagar civil hospital where their condition is said to be stable. Police said that following the incident members of the Bharwad community blocked the Dhrangadhra-Ahmedabad highway demanding arrest of the accused. Additional security forces were rushed to the spot and the crowd was dispersed to resume traffic on the state highway. According to the police, the incident took place when three Bharwad community goatherds were grazing their livestock including cattle, sheep and goats near the highway. Four persons belonging to the Jat-Malek community reached their in a car and tried to steal a sheep. Gamara and Mafabhai who saw the act, tried to stop them and soon a heated argument ensued. Soon, both sides started attacking each other, but while Bharwads hit the accused with sticks, the accused allegedly opened fire at them from country-made guns they were carrying before escaping in the car. The accused were identified as Kalu Malek, Ajmat Malek, Kismat Khan Malek and Ismail Malek. All four were booked for attempt to murder and charged under Arms Act, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sheep-lifters-shoot-two-shepherds-in-dhrangadhra/articleshow/78521167.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC holds Yatin Oza guilty of contempt||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday held advocate Yatin Oza, president of the high court’s Bar Association, guilty of contempt of court for terming the high court a ‘gambling den’ and levelling allegations of forum shopping during a press conference. After holding the lawyer guilty of contempt, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria posted the hearing on quantum of punishment for Wednesday. Oza had addressed a press conference on June 5 as a president of the Gujarat High Court Advocates Association and accused the court registry of favouritism and corruption. He claimed the HC registry gives preferential treatment to the rich, smugglers and traitors, and would kick the poor away. He likened the HC administration to a gambling den. He was insisting on the reopening of courtrooms on the grounds that junior advocates were without work. The HC took suo motu cognizance of Oza’s “scandalous expressions and indiscriminate as well as baseless utterances”, and said that he had attempted to cause serious damage to the prestige and majesty of the high court and to demoralize HC administrative wing. The judges opined that the “scurrilous remarks” were made without making any inquiry with the chief justice about the reality. Moreover, after the hearing, the bench also took into consideration an inquiry report by three judges on Oza’s accusations about the registry’s functioning. The report had given a clean chit to the registry and concluded that Oza’s claims were baseless. While initiating contempt proceedings, the HC had suggested the full court re-consider Oza’s status of a designated senior advocate. The full court withdrew the senior counsel designation from him, which led him to approach the Supreme Court. Oza had earlier found himself in similar situation but he had tendered an apology and the courts had pardoned him. However, the HC was not ready to accept his apology. Oza took up the issue of listing of cases by the HC registry when pressure was mounting, according to him, from junior members of the Bar because judicial proceedings, except in urgent cases, were stalled. He was insisting that courtrooms should be reopened because most lawyers were facing financial problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-holds-oza-guilty-of-contempt/articleshow/78522373.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||PU to house supercomputer facility||Vadodara: Parul University (PU) will be the fourth university in central Gujarat to house a supercomputer facility. The Gujarat Council on Science and Technology (GUJCOST) selected PU for establishing a state government-sponsored facility to push forward digitalization of education in the state. Last year, MS University in Vadodara and Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Sardar Patel University (SPU) and Changa-based Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT) were selected for setting up such facilities in Anand district. The facility is aimed at the need to build and enhance the capacity of higher educational institutions, by providing a comprehensive platform for advanced high-end computations in scientific, engineering and academic programs. This facility will be an addition to PU’s research facilities and laboratories, which have been serving the purpose of providing cutting-edge discoveries in the various fields of experimentation and innovation. “Having such a facility installed within our university will go a long way in providing our students with the much-needed exposure to advanced computing systems. The reason why this supercomputer is of great importance that the industries are ever-growing and ever advancing in terms of their technologies and systems,” said PU’s president Dr Devanshu Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pu-to-house-supercomputer-facility/articleshow/78520989.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||2 trucks carrying cattle to Kerala seized in Tirupur||Coimbatore: The Tirupur district police seized two trucks carrying cattle to a slaughterhouse in Kerala near Perumanallur in the district on Tuesday. Drivers of the trucks were also arrested.Based on the information from members of two Hindu outfits, the Perumanallur police stopped the trucks – one with Andhra Pradesh registration and the other with Uttar Pradesh registration – near Perumanallur–Uthukuli border in the district around 11.30am. Both the trucks carried cattle in cramped condition, according to police. Subsequently, the trucks were seized and taken to the police station. During inquiry, it was revealed that 67 cattle heads were being transported to a slaughterhouse in Kerala.Police arrested truck drivers Rekha Malaya from Andhra Pradesh and Mohammed Hasem from Haryana under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. They were later released on station bail. Meanwhile, the cattle will be send to a goshala in the city limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-trucks-carrying-cattle-to-kerala-seized-in-tirupur/articleshow/78523934.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar gang rape case: 4 sentenced to prison till death, 5th gets 5-yr jail||JAIPUR: A special court set up to hear cases under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in Alwar convicted on Tuesday four men for gang-raping, kidnapping and blackmailing a woman in Thanagazi area of Alwar and sentenced them to imprisonment for the remainder of their natural lives. A fifth convict was handed down a five-year jail term. The four men given life terms are Chotey Lal, Hansraj, Indraj and Ashok, while the fifth convict’s (Mukesh) five-year sentence was for making a video of the gang-rape which went viral. A sixth person, a minor, is also accused of gang-rape and is being tried separately by a Pocso court. The court also penalised each of the four convicts sentenced to life terms Rs 1 lakh each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thanagazi-rape-4-sentenced-to-prison-till-death-5th-gets-5-yr-jail/articleshow/78523937.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Webinar on role of women in agriculture||VISAKHAPATNAM: East-West Seed India and FICCI organised a webinar on the role of women in agriculture. Participants said that in India, agriculture continues to absorb and employ the female workforce but fails to recognise employed or hired labour. Participants also said they provide training to rural women in improvised techniques in commercial vegetable farming and train young women to help them set up agribusiness ventures and also to grow vegetables in their kitchen garden to meet their family’s requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/webinar-on-role-of-women-in-agriculture/articleshow/78521148.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||7 from Bengal in CLAT top 100; three in top 30||KOLKATA: Seven students from the state have bagged ranks in the top 100 of CLAT. The results were declared on Monday evening and the Consortium of Law Universities, which conducts this entrance exam to 22 law schools of the country, officially matched ranks to names on Tuesday. The West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences is one of the 22 national law schools of the country that admits its students through CLAT. Ranks 6, 20, 28, 31, 33, 37 and 43 were bagged by students from the state in the undergraduate law programmes, said Balraj Chauhan, CLAT convenor at Jabalpur. Shailja Beria, a student from the Sushila Birla Girls High School, ranked sixth and indicated that she wanted to take admission in NUJS. Ranks 20 and 28 were bagged by Debditya Saha and Vedant Bisht. Bisht, a boy from Krishnagar Academy, said that he would like to study at the national law school in Bangalore, much like the rest of the rank holders. Son of a BSF commandant Bisht said he always dreamt of studying law. The law school in Bangalore has traditionally been the first choice of many of the top 100 rank holders because it was the first law school in the country and the ranking agencies have always put it above the rest considering important government projects it has clinched and the placements it has been able to get for its students. “This year, Bihar has impressed with its rankings. The top three ranks and the fifth rank have gone to students from Bihar,” Chauhan said. There are nine students in top 30 from Bihar. “I am extremely happy to know that seven students from our state have ranked in the top 100 of the merit list. Traditionally, rank holders from 100 to 300 choose NUJS, not below that,” said Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty, vice chancellor of NUJS. The admission process has started and will be completed by October 15 at NUJS along with all other law schools of the country. Candidates have indicated five choices and they will be given three chances to upgrade themselves. NUJS will start its online classes from November 2 and classes on legal applications, law of tort, English, sociology, history have all been planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7-from-bengal-in-clat-top-100-three-in-top-30/articleshow/78522349.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Gang-rape of guest worker in Madurai: Sixth man held||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur police arrested one more accused in the gang-rape of 22-year-old guest worker from Assam in Madurai in the early hours of Tuesday. With this, all the six accused in the case have landed in police net. Police identified the arrested as Elantamizhan, 24, a resident of Palladam. While police had nabbed Raju, 21, Kavin Kumar, 23 and Anbu, 21, on September 30, the main accused Rajeshkumar, 23 and Damodaran, 22 were arrested on Saturday (October 3). A police officer said, “The victim, who is residing in Coimbatore, approached Rajeshkumar for a job. On September 28, she met him at his house at Palladam after he insisted on a personal meeting. When she requested him to drop her back at bus stand in the evening, he entrusted his brother Raju with the task.” Raju took her on his two-wheeler to a vacant plot near Kallimedu-Ugayanur road, where four of his friends were waiting. Five of them then took turns to rape her and fled with her mobile phone and Rs 2,000. The next day, she lodged a complaint with the Palladam all-woman police, who registered a case and started investigating the case. In her complaint, the woman said Rameshkumar was the mastermind behind the crime and he had sent her with his brother purposely. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-rape-of-guest-worker-6th-man-held/articleshow/78523939.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Varanasi||Power disruption leads to water crisis, locals protest||VARANASI: The indefinite stir of power employees against privatisation of Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited on Tuesday increased consumers’ woes in Varanasi as well as in adjoining districts of east UP region. Despite alternative arrangements made by the administration, the faults could not be rectified at many places. Even after 20 hours, the Maidagin feed could not be restored till Tuesday morning affecting the services at SPG divisional hospital. Electric crematorium at Harischandra Ghat also could not work following which bodies of Covid patients packed in PPE kit were cremated on wooden pyres. In most districts, DMs could be found making all efforts to ensure restoration of power supply in the areas facing power cuts for hours and warning contractual and outsourced staff to ensure power supply or face music. Power employees associated with different unions gathered at PVVNL headquarters under the banner of Vidyut Karmchari Sanyukta Sangharsh Morcha at Bhikharipur. At the meetings, speakers held the UPPCL management and bureaucrats responsible for failure of their talks with the state government. They claimed that only 70% of Varanasi district had started facing power crisis. They threatened to intensify the agitation if any legal action is initiated against contractual staff of chief engineer. Union leaders RK Wahi, Kedar Tiwari, Chandrashekhar Chaurasia, RB Singh, Sanjay Bharti claimed that it has been ensured that essential services like hospitals and others are not affected by their stir. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, SSP Amit Pathak and other officials kept visiting power sub-stations and feeders to mobilise the available contractual staff to ensure repair. The DM admitted that despite all efforts, Maidagin feeder could not be restarted till late night and repair work at Ledhupur sub-station was also incomplete. Due to erratic power supply, most parts of trans-Varuna and old city areas faced water crisis following which locals staged protest at sub-stations in Badagaon, Lohta, Sigra and other areas. On Tuesday morning, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and IG range VS Mina held meeting with PVVVNL manging director and finalized an action plan to restart the sub-stations and feeders lying closed since Monday on priority. They engaged generators at tubewells to ensure water supply. DM also asked his subordinates to identify the protesters issuing threats to people and contractual employees assisting the administration and book them under NSA, Disaster Management Act and Essential Services Management Act. DM Jaunpur DK Singh also issued similar warnings in his district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/power-disruption-leads-to-water-crisis-locals-protest/articleshow/78523930.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police crack down on parking mafia extortion as fee goes up by 6 times||KOLKATA: The parking mafia is back in action. As pre-Puja shopping gathers pace, parking attendants manning shopping districts have begun extorting five to six times the legal rate from motorists. While complaints had already been pouring in from citizens, Kolkata Police, too, has now sent a special report on parking-fee irregularities to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation that is in charge of parking lots in the city. On Park Street, the shopping-cum-dining hub, parking attendants are demanding Rs 50-60 for cars that park for even 30 minutes. The official parking fee is Rs 10 per hour. The owner of a luxury car said he had to negotiate the rate with the attendant before being allowed to park at Rs 100 for an hour and a half. Local shopkeepers and restaurant owners said the attendants space out the cars in such a way that it would appear that the parking lot was full. They then negotiate a premium before manually rolling back and forth cars already parked in neutral gear to make space for the latest car. On Rashbehari Avenue near Gariahat, attendants charged two-three times the amount while on Wood Street behind Vardaan Market, the rate was four-five times. The police on Tuesday conducted drives on Park Street, Wood Street and Rashbehari Avenue and found parking attendants were charging more than the permitted rate at each location. “Some were openly asking for additional money citing pressure of vehicles. We have requested the KMC to take necessary steps,” said an officer from the south traffic guard. “We are keeping a round-the-clock vigil on the extortion by a section of parking attendants,” said Santosh Pandey, joint CP (crime and traffic). A KMC official said they were keeping an eye on parking attendants in the shopping districts. “We have intensified our vigil following complaints from motorists. We have instructed the cooperative agencies in charge of parking lots to discipline some of the attendants,” a KMC official said. South East traffic guard has found that many parking attendants were not issuing slips. “We have posted plainclothesmen,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-crack-down-on-shopping-hub-parking-mafia-extortion-as-fee-goes-up-by-6-times/articleshow/78522367.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 7, 2020||Chennai||A translator who wanted to unlearn||By Aarvalan A Sachidanandan, Sachi to many, was a publisher, translator and writer, but most importantly a lover of the arts. Indifferent to pecuniary benefits in more ways than one, he breathed his last on October 3, leaving a vacuum in the Tamil literary world. He was 84. "I want to unlearn" was his refrain, recounts Sachi’s childhood friend Paaravi, who publishes ‘Dhalam’, an ad-free Little Magazine on arts. And that is what probably took him to a journey of knowledge across borders and languages. If Tamils today can read translations from German of ‘Letters from the Prison’ by Rosa Luxemburg, the Polish-born internationalist, it is thanks to Sachi, says Karuna Prasad of publishing house Bodhi Vanam which brought out Sachi’s works. The imposing personality of Rosa Luxemburg, who could make Lenin shudder in his shoes, made Sachi research more. The letters, however, portray Rosa differently, as a lover of nature with the gentlest of hearts. For Sachi, bard Walt Whitman’s ‘Leaves of Grass’ was a path-breaking piece. Influenced by its powerful simplicity, he attempted to incorporate the same in his own writing. Through his Peacock Publishers, Sachi tried to promote writings which were real, with no frills. No wonder he was so taken by the Little Magazines in Tamil. He chanced on a copy of ‘Ezhuthu’ in Tamil, a Little Magazine, in a petty shop. This contained Tamil poetry that was unconventional, turned the rigorous rules of Tamil grammar topsy-turvy. It was not rearranged prose written in a complex order, but had the stately silence of poesy in all its glory. Mastery of this art among arts meant a sound knowledge of Tamil with simultaneous reach of the happenings in the other worlds. ‘Ezhuthu’ was the trend-setter and pioneer of the Little Magazine in Tamil, with ‘Kasadathapara’, ‘Ekku’ and ‘Vanambadi’, the last of the genre being ‘Kanayazhi’ and ‘Kalachuvadu’. Sachi sought out the publisher of ‘Ezhuthu’ and thus developed a long-standing association with Si Su Chellappa, writer and editor of Dinamani. While Sachi wrote many pieces for the magazine, he also published the books of Chellapa. The man who always had the reader in focus, unfortunately had unintelligible handwriting. His room had the appearance of a book hoarder’s den. At gatherings, he exhibited a childlike simplicity. For several years he was the ‘incognito’ arts consultant for Na Muthusamy’s theatre group Koothu-p-Pattarai. Well-versed in mythology, the plays of the group inspired by epics would often need his expertise, which he would offer but only to Muthusamy, the rest of the cast had hardly ever seen him in their performances, he would walk in and out, tweaking things but would hardly wait to take the credit. Though not very popular outside the literary would, his almost nomadic nature, open mind and creative elan will be missed by those who have been touched by his work. (The writer is music and literary enthusiast)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-translator-who-wanted-to-unlearn/articleshow/78522386.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan MLA dies of post-Covid issues||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: Even as India reports a steady decline in Covid-19 cases, a Congress MLA from Bhilwara died in a private hospital in Gurgaon on Tuesday, becoming the fifth legislator in the country to die of post-Covid complications, underlying the risks that patients with comorbidities face during their recovery period. Kailash Trivedi, 72, had tested positive on September 7 and was shifted from RUHS, one of the designated Covid hospitals in Jaipur, to SMS Hospital on September 15 after his report came negative. However, the three-term MLA, who suffered from diabetes and had undergone a bypass surgery, was airlifted to the Gurgaon hospital on October 2 when his condition worsened. With Tiwari’s demise, the virus has claimed the lives of 17 serving legislators, including three MPs, 12 MLAs and two MLCs. Five of the 17 legislators had tested negative after days of treatment, but died later due to post-Covid complications. Among those who died of complications was Lok Sabha MP from Kanyakumari, Vasanthakumar, 70.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-mla-dies-of-post-covid-issues/articleshow/78523947.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||Civic body mulling ways to shift dumping ground from city’s Kargi Chowk||Dehradun: In order to shift the garbage dumping ground from the city’s Kargi Chowk area, Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has decided to write to the state government on the issue. The decision comes in the wake of several protests staged by the residents of the area and their representatives in the past one year. A group of residents and members of a social organisation also met MLA Vinod Chamoli requesting him to take action on the issue, which they say has become a “health hazard” for the locals. Locals say that the area near the Kargi Chowk fuel station was made the garbage transfer station between 2003 and 2008 when Late Narayan Datt Tiwari was the chief minister of the state. During that time, the place was less crowded but now the transfer station comes in the proximity of residential areas. The transfer station is also a traffic hazard as trucks and JCB machines carrying garbage move around the area and make the area prone to accidents. Santosh Singh, a local resident, said “Several accidents have taken place near the transfer station and before the lockdown, many school children had also met minor accidents while riding their bicycles.” According to local officials, the removal of the dumping ground is mandatory to facilitate the work under Smart City projects. The National Highway Authority of India has also written to the government seeking the removal of the transfer station from the highway. Vinod Chamoli, Dharampur MLA, told TOI, “I support the residents’ demand to shift the garbage transfer station to some other location. I also pursued the matter during the monthly meeting with the CM. I have once again asked the municipal commissioner to send the proposal to the government so that an alternative remedy can be thought over. It is very necessary to remove the transfer station from Kargi Chowk to facilitate the road widening work and other works under Smart City. The river front project also extends up to the area and requires a remedy at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/civic-body-mulling-ways-to-shift-dumping-ground-from-citys-kargi-chowk/articleshow/78521170.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC woman moves HC for DySP post citing her rank||Ahmedabad: A woman Scheduled Caste candidate for the post of deputy superintendent of police (DySP) has approached the Gujarat high court complaining that she was not recommended for the post in the police department, but a general category candidate much lower on the merit list than her was offered the post. Justice Biren Vaishnav on Tuesday issued notice to the state government and the Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) and sought a reply by November 3. The case involves Roshni Solanki from Gandhinagar, who stood 43rd on the merit list prepared by GPSC for Class II and Class II posts after a recruitment advertisement was published in 2018. In July 2019, GPSC offered Solanki the post of assistant commissioner in the state tax department instead of her first choice of the post of DySP. The revenue department was her third choice, the administrative department being her second. Solanki approached the HC through advocate Chetan Pandya with complaint that a woman candidate of the general category, Ami Patel, has been recommended for the DySP post, even though it was her second preference. The post was being offered to Patel though she ranked 110th against Solanki’s 43rd rank on the list of selected candidates. Pandya submitted that Solanki had not availed of any benefits as a quota candidate, age relaxation or lowering of cutoff marks but was not considered for the post of DySP. She cited the high court’s recent judgment quashing two clauses from the controversial August 1, 2018 Government Resolution, which wrongly interpreted the quota system for women and denied due benefits to female candidates. Solanki urged the HC to quash GPSC’s communication offering her a post in the revenue department and to direct the government to offer her the post of DySP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-woman-moves-hc-for-dysp-post-citing-her-rank/articleshow/78522391.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Can look at 20% flat fee waiver: Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court reserved its order on several PILs on the school fee issue till October 13. The HC observed during the hearing on Tuesday that schools can offer a flat 20% fee concession to parents during the pandemic when schools were shut. A division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Moushumi Bhattacharya also observed that there will be one general waiver across schools for all parents. Thereafter, it observed if a parent voluntarily declares that they will not avail of this offer they would be free to do so. The PILs filed by petitioners Vineet Ruia and Raja Satyajit Banerjee pleaded for fee waivers for parents in pandemic times as schools are closed and all services are not on offer during the months when schools are closed. There are 145 schools that have filed affidavits in court and are represented by leading lawyers. The court asked state advocate-general Kishore Datta whether there was any law in state governing school fees. The state had issued a circular on July 20 asking schools not to charge additional fees on heads like computers, laboratories, sports and heads other than tuition fees. It had also asked schools not to raise tuition fees this year. But, there is no fee regulatory body or legislation regarding fees of unaided private schools, the high court was told. The petitioners have submitted to the court details of the states where fee regulatory bodies are in place. The HC during the hearings also observed if the school profits can be capped at 5% during the pandemic when the schools remained closed. Lawyer B Tiwari, who along with advocate Shyam Diwan, represented the Church of North India (CNI) schools in the hearings, said, “We are waiting for the court order. We have pleaded that we do not want to deny a child neither do we want to deny schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/can-look-at-20-flat-fee-waiver-calcutta-hc/articleshow/78522377.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Man swindles pvt firm of Rs 51L, held||Coimbatore: The central crime branch (CCB) of the city police on Tuesday arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly misappropriating Rs 51 lakh from a private company at Nallampallayam in the city. The accused has been identified as A Ramadas, a resident of Nallampalayam. According to police, Ramadas was working as a manager at the private company – Ponmani industries – and was looking after the financial transactions of the company. In 2018, he had transferred about Rs 51 lakh to his personal bank account and the company management had found it out during the audit. Subsequently, an inquiry was initiated against him. Based on the inquiry findings, the company management filed a police complaint against the accused in March 2020. Police arrested him under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) of Indian Penal Code. He was produced before the judicial magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. In another incident, the Podanur police on Monday arrested a 33-year-old man for cheating a businessman from Trichy after purchasing about 21 tonnes of rice worth Rs 9.97 lakh from him. Police are on lookout for one more person. The accused has been identified as A Asraf, a resident of Kurichi. According to police, the accused had contacted the complainant M Mohammed Thamumeen Ansari who is into rice business in Trichy district in 2018 and asked him to deliver 21 tonnes of rice at his shop in Podhanur. As the accused had assured to make the payment immediately after the rice is delivered, he had sent the rice in 840 sacks in October 2018. Since then he had been giving excuses to pay the money. When the complainant contacted him again to make the payment immediately, he had threatened him. Following which, he had filed a complaint with Podhanur police station on Monday and police had arrested him under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 294 (b) (recites obscene words), 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. He was produced before judicial magistrate and remanded him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-swindles-pvt-firm-of-rs-51l-held/articleshow/78523949.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Goa||Soon, file air, water pollution plaints via app in Goa||PANAJI: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) is in the process of developing an app that will allow citizens to file air and water pollution complaints. GSPCB chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar told TOI that the app is being developed based on Central Pollution Control Board guidelines. He said that earlier all complaints related to air and water used to be received on a common email which made scrutiny difficult. “With this app it will make it easier for the board to receive complaints and take necessary action,” Shetgaonkar said. The board has floated a tender inviting bidders to develop the app, he said. Recently, GSPCB, which presently monitors ambient air quality at 17 locations in the state, had for the first time decided to monitor it based on the complaints it receives. The board had categorised the state’s air quality in 2019-20 as “satisfactory” after monitoring it at 17 locations between March 2019 and March 2020. A report was subsequently submitted to the environment department. “Comparison of PM10 data of 2019-2020 with 2018-209 indicates considerable reduction,” the GSPCB had said in its report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-file-air-water-pollution-plaints-via-app/articleshow/78523950.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Rajkot||Two from Haryana held for Rs 2L fraud ATM withdrawal||Rajkot: Two persons from Mewat district of Haryana were arrested for stealing cash from an automated teller machine (ATM) in Rajkot’s Bhaktinagar on Monday night. The accused — Mobin Khan Mev (31) and Talib Hussain Mev (25) — had come to Rajkot on October 3 with the sole intention to use a stolen credit card in an ATM, said police.The duo used the time-tested ATM theft modus operandi of inserting the card into the ATM, punch in the PIN and when the cash is about to be dispensed, switch off the ATM’s main switch. This results in the cash coming out of the machine, but the transaction getting registered as “failed” on the bank’s servers.The duo would then lodge a complaint on the bank’s helpline number saying that their transaction failed.Bhaktinagar police inspector J D Zala said that the accused had also stolen money from the ATMs in Ahmedabad before coming to Rajkot. “On Monday afternoon, we got a call from manager of Canara Bank at Bhaktinagar, claiming that two people were suspiciously withdrawing cash from its ATM,” Zala told TOI.He said that the bank security guard got suspicious after the duo did not come out of the ATM for nearly two hours. He caught them and informed the manager who called the police.“It was found that the accused made 23 transactions in two hours and withdrew Rs 1.99 lakh from the ATM using the same modus operandi,” said Zala. On questioning, the accused confessed that they had come from Haryana with the sole intention of stealing cash from ATMs in Gujarat, the cop added.The accused claimed that they had stolen money from ATMs in Ahmedabad using the same method in the previous week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-from-haryana-held-for-rs-2l-fraud-atm-withdrawal/articleshow/78521187.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pastor in Visakhapatnam attempts to rape minor||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag police on Tuesday arrested a pastor for allegedly attempting to rape a 15-year-old girl at his residence near Vambay Colony in Gajuwaka. According to reports, the pastor and three girls visited a village on Monday and returned to the pastor’s house Tuesday morning. Two of the girls returned to their homes on Tuesday morning, while the third girl was waiting for her father to pick her up. Taking advantage of the situation, the pastor allegedly molested the girl and attempted to rape her. The girl escaped and reached home, where she narrated the incident to her father. Image used for representational purpose onlyPolice registered a case and arrested the pastor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pastor-attempts-to-rape-minor/articleshow/78521174.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||Treatment within golden hours key to successful cure: Epidemiologist||PANAJI: State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar on Tuesday said that Goa will get patients in serious condition requiring hospitalisation and that the focus has to be on early treatment even though the cases have plateaued. “The covid scare still exists while the covid peak is underway. So, the focus has to be on early treatment and cure,” he said. On Tuesday, Goa’s mortality count shot up 469 with eight deaths. The state’s active cases rose to 4,719 as 519 new cases of infection were reported. Since last week the daily average of Covid cases has been 400 to 500. “People need to come forward and not wait at home once they test positive. Whatever treatment is being offered, either at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, or Covid hospitals, will not be effective if people do not come within the golden hours to the hospital,” Betodkar. He cautioned that once Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) sets in there is very little doctors, whether in government or private hospitals, can do. Whatever line of treatment is offered at the GMC — plasma therapy and Remdesivir — its effectiveness diminishes if the patient reaches late for treatment. It has been observed that several patients who died due to Covid in the state had developed ARDS, either shortly after their hospitalisation or had it at the time of admission to the hospital. Even if there are cases of reinfection, he said the focus should not change. The strategy has been about “control and cure”. On Sunday, two GMC doctors were reported to have contracted the virus three months after they first got it.  He said Goa is a small state and the concept of travel time is not applicable here as in other states where it takes several hours to reach a tertiary care facility. He said the patients dying due to comorbid conditions is entirely a different story. People with mild or no comorbid conditions have succumbed to the virus since they did not seek medical help in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/treatment-within-golden-hours-key-to-successful-cure-epidemiologist/articleshow/78524016.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||OF PRIVATE, BY PRIVATE, FOR PUBLIC||Ever since coronavirus intensified, the city’s private hospitals have been badgered by claims of overcharging. Panellists at this month’s TOI Debate — streamed live on Facebook — untangle the messy issue and discuss whether more than patients, it is the doctors who are not being treated wellTrust is at the heart of the practice of medicine. However ‘private’ they may be, hospitals get business only if the public believes they have its best interests in mind. In the aftermath of Covid-19, this trust stands partly shaken. Doctors on the panel argued that it had more to do with factors beyond their control. Kunal Hospital director Dr Shishir Shrivastava said the consumption of PPEs depended on the size of the hospital and the treatment involved. “Almost everyone on duty needs a kit — the costs of which are divided among all Covid patients. In my hospital, for instance, if we use 200 PPE kits in a day and 50 patients are being treated, each of them will be billed for four PPEs that day,” he explained. Shrivastava added that the costs of other consumables had also shot up. “Oxygen has gone from Rs140 per cylinder to Rs275 per cylinder. Its consumption has also increased from 40-50 cylinders to 120-130 cylinders per day, as we need high-flow nasal oxygen, in which we have to give 30-40 litres of oxygen per minute,” he said. Countering Shrivastava’s claims regarding PPE charges, NGO Together We Can’s secretary Anasuya Kale Chhabrani said there were cases where patients were billed for 120-150 PPE kits each. “Charging patients for all the infrastructural changes made during six months of the pandemic is not correct,” she added. While he admitted that some black sheep may be a part of the doctors’ tribe, Dr Anup Marar, convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) and director of Orange City Hospital & Research Institute, pointed out there were many other, larger factors at play. “The municipal corporation has tripled biomedical waste charges in these times. While the government capped the rates for Covid treatment, the capping of our equipment, infrastructure, overheads and salary expenses never happened,” he said. The practitioners unanimously asserted that if needed, they could offer their services for free, but it was the plethora of operational expenses that were proving to be the stumbling block. Chhabrani said the experiences of some patients suggested otherwise. “I have seen bills where doctors have charged Rs6,000 per visit, with three visits per day. Is that fair,” she asked. Kushal Hatewar, who lost his father to Covid-19, painstakingly deconstructed the charges levied in the bill for his father’s treatment. For the 10 days of hospitalization, Hatewar said, the bill ran up to over Rs9 lakh. Such cases were exceptions but highlighted disproportionately in media coverage, claimed Dr Vinky Rughwani, vice president of Maharashtra Medical Council. “All the other patients are satisfied with the work of hospitals, yet not given importance. The odd cases of overcharging should not be accorded undue weight, as it maligns the entire medical fraternity,” he added. Echoing his colleagues, Dande Hospital director Dr Pinak Dande pointed out that the virus’s nature exacerbated complexity in treatment. “The process puts the safety of doctors, nurses, pathologists and technicians at risk. Hospitals have struggled to minimize this risk, and as a result, prices of medicines and equipment have soared,” he added. Marar posited that private hospitals never wanted to undertake Covid care in the first place. “The government forced us to commence Covid-19 treatment, and we went to court against this imposition. It was not a business proposition for us,” he stated. Chhabrani rebutted Marar’s contention with the statement that if doctors said they were forced by the government, “Where would the patients go?” Concerns over the non-acceptance of insurance schemes were also raised. Shrivastava said the initial caseload made it hard to manage the concurrent paperwork. “We were suddenly bombarded with Covid patients, and in the confusion, did not know what to do. It was not possible for us to complete the formalities of insurance availment then,” he reasoned. Meditrina Hospital director Dr Sameer Paltewar wondered why the state government wasn’t bearing the cost of patients’ treatment in private hospitals. “The infrastructural expense incurred by government hospitals is much more than what private hospitals are charging, on an average. The government will save money by utilizing private hospitals for treatment of citizens,” he said. On top of that, chimed in Dr Ashok Arbat — VHA chairman and managing director, KRIMS Hospitals — junior doctors were only willing to work if they were paid considerably more than their usual fees. Then there were some unruly patients who were hell-bent on imputing all blame on doctors, if anything went wrong. Things have come to such a pass for Arbat that for the first time in his life, he has begun to contemplate quitting his 40-year-old practice. “The way we are being blamed by all and sundry, I wonder whether continuing is worth it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-private-by-private-for-public/articleshow/78543778.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Rajkot||Four bootleggers attack cop in police station, try to flee||Palanpur: Four bootleggers attempted to flee from the local crime branch (LCB) police station in Aravalli district on Monday after attacking a cop. Their escape plan was, however, foiled as other cops present in the police station caught them. Another complaint of attempt to murder was filed against one of the accused, Waseem Pathan, who assaulted LCB constable Ketan Bhatia.According to the police, apart from Pathan, three other accused identified as Alpesh Dubey, Deepak Ode, and Rakesh Thakore were arrested on Monday morning along with liquor worth Rs 1.67 lakh. The gang was ferrying liquor from Rajasthan to Gujarat when cops intercepted them near the Aravalli border. All of them were then brought to the police station and were to be taken for Covid-19 tests.At about 5.30 pm on Monday, Pathan suddenly picked up a wine bottle from the seized stock and hit Bhatia on his head and the accused quartet, who belong to the Fracture Gang from Ahmedabad, then tried to flee from the spot. Bhatia has been admitted to a private hospital for treatment of his head injury. The four accused are history-sheeters with criminal cases registered against them. Pathan, in fact, is an accused in a murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-bootleggers-attack-cop-in-police-station-try-to-flee/articleshow/78521217.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||RSU asserts it can grant admissions, says sorry to HC||Ahmedabad: In response to a contempt of court notice, Raksha Shakti University (RSU) informed the Gujarat high court that as it has acquired the status of an institute of national importance through legislation, it has been excluded from the centralized admission process. RSU, however, tendered an unconditional apology to the court while asserting that it has been strictly following HC directions and participating in the centralized admission process. The affidavit filed by its registrar-in-charge Pavankumar Soni reads, “However, without prejudice to the right of the Opponent No 1 (Soni) to meet with the allegations made in the memorandum of contempt petition, I, at the outset, tender my unconditional apology to the Honourable Court for action alleged as contempt of court.” In 2018, the HC had ordered RSU to participate in the centralized admissions process through the Admission Committee for Professional Courses. Last month, petitioner Sandip Munjyasara demanded action against the university for initiating the admission process and bypassing the ACPC. Requesting the HC to dismiss the contempt plea, the university accused the petitioner of suppressing information and asserted that RSU figures on the ACPC list and all 40 seats in BTech and MTech courses were made available for admissions. However, with Parliament passing new legislation, RSU has been made an institute of national importance. In March, when the bill was proposed, RSU’s board of governors had decided to create 20 supernumerary seats for BTech and MTech courses each and invited admission forms, but the condition was placed that it would be possible only once the RSU got the status of national importance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rsu-asserts-it-can-grant-admissions-says-sorry-to-hc/articleshow/78522441.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Three held for triple murder, motive was revenge: Krishna district police||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district police managed to crack the triple murder case at Vissannapet and arrested three persons, including a juvenile, on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Dasari Venkanna (35), a private businessman dealing in kitchen utensils, his wife Dasari Nagamani (30) and their 14-year-old son. It will be recalled that three bodies were found near NSP Canal on Monday and the scene arranged to appear as an autorickshaw accident. The deceased were identified as identified as Pelluri Chinna Swamy (36), Tirupatamma (25) and Meenakshi (11). Addressing the media at Vissannapet police station, Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu said the incident took place on Sunday afternoon when Dasari Venkanna invited Chinna Swamy to drink arrack at a farm field. Chinna Swamy’s wife and daughter also accompanied him. It was learnt that prior to this, Venkanna, with his family, had planned to murder Chinna Swamy and his family. “After consuming limited amounts himself (Venkanna), Chinna Swamy was made to drink heavily,” the SP said. Venkanna later attacked Chinna Swamy with a stick, killing him on the spot. Stunned by what had happened, Swamy’s wife and 11-year-old daughter tried to escape from the spot. However, Venkanna’s wife, Nagamani, managed to grab hold of Tirupatamma and beat her to death. Then, Meenakshi was strangulated with her dupatta. Explaining the role of the juvenile, police said he was made to shift the bodies into an autorickshaw piled with plastic containers so the accused could stage the murders as an accident. The motive behind the triple murders, police said, was revenge for Chinna Swamy’s extramarital relationshop with Venkanna’s wife, Nagamani. Chinna Swamy was Venkanna’s employee and would travel in the autorickshaw across villages, selling kitchenware. “He was hired at a salary of Rs 12,000 per month and even given accommodation. Venkanna felt betrayed by this act and even confronted Swamy. He then discussed the whole issue with his family and decided to commit the offence collectively,” Babu said. Police also collected the murder weapons and other forensic evidence with the help of an FSL team in Mangalagiri. A case has been registered under Section 302 of the IPC (murder) at Vissannapet police station. All the accused have been produced before the district sessions court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-held-for-triple-murder-motive-was-revenge-cops/articleshow/78521212.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 duped of Rs 4.5L with IAF job lure||Ahmedabad: A man from the Narol on Monday filed a complaint at Vatva GIDC police station alleging that a man from Jashodanagar cheated him and his cousin of Rs 4.50 lakh with false promise of providing them jobs in the Indian Air Force (IAF). Ravi Rajput, 23, stated that he had in November 2017 met Devendrasinh Jadeja, who runs a training centre to prepare youth who want to join the armed forces. Ravi and his cousin Kamlesh told Jadeja that they wanted to join the IAF for which he demanded Rs 3 lakh from each of them. Ravi and Kamlesh later paid Rs 1.50 lakh and Rs 3 lakh, respectively, to Jadeja to get IAF jobs. As they did not get any job almost three years, they demanded their money back. As Jadeja did not return the money, they filed a complaint of cheating and breach of trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-duped-of-rs-4-5l-with-iaf-job-lure/articleshow/78522448.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||UPASI gets new president, vice-president||Udhagamandalam: Members of the United Planters’ Association of South India (UPASI) have elected Prashanth Bhansali and M P Cherian as president and vice-president of the association respectively for the year 2020-21. Bhansali is the CEO of Kairbetta Tea Estates located in the district. He has been a member of the UPASI executive committee for the past 15 years. He also served as chairman of the Nilgiris Planters’ Association. Cherian is the managing director of Cottanad Plantations Limited and Nilambur Rubber Company Limited in Kozhikode. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/upasi-gets-new-president-vice-president/articleshow/78524013.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Rajkot||Traffic diversion for triangular flyover work||Rajkot: With work on the triangular Rs60 crore flyover to start soon at the busiest hospital chowk, there will be diversions made in the traffic on this crossroad, said a notification issued by Rajkot police commissioner on Tuesday. The notice said that the service road from Jubeli chowk to hospital chowk will be closed for traffic. Vehicles moving to Kuvadva road from Trikonbaug passing through hospital chowk will be diverted to Denabank chowk, while those moving towards Jamnagar road from Trikonbaug will be diverted to Dharam Cinema road and reach the road via Jam tower. The Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) had floated tender for triangular flyover on this busiest crossroad. According to a rough estimate nearly six lakh vehicles pass through this crossroad every day. The flyover was announced in 2018 budget of RMC and the cost is estimated Rs 60 crore. According to RMC’s original plan the flyover will have three ends — one near Railway Hospital gate on Jamnagar road, other near I P Mission School on Kuvadva Road and the third near Jubeli Baugh on Jawahar road. The flyover will be 299-metre long on Jawahar Road side, 400-metre long on Kuvavda Road and 367-metre long on Jamnagar road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/traffic-diversion-for-triangular-flyover-work/articleshow/78521242.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||HC to hear PIL on state’s health infrastructure on Thursday||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court has listed the public interest litigation (PIL), where it had said that proper medical facilities are a “fundamental right” of every citizen, for further hearing on Thursday. The development comes after the counsel appearing forthe petitioner informed the court that he has filed an affidavit with detailed a questionnaire for the government. “The counsel also said that the affidavit also has some facts and data on the status of the health infrastructure in the state. Thereafter, the matter was listed for Thursday,” said an advocate. As reported by TOI last week, the HC had said that “proper medical facility is one of the fundamental rights of every citizen” while adding that these “appropriate medical facilities have to be provided by the state. The court had widened the scope of the PIL filed in 2013 to cover the issue of the entire medical infrastructure of the state and asked the petitioner to file questionnaires which will be put before the government to seek answers about the availability of health infrastructure and medical facilities in the state. The court has also directed the government to furnish details on the availability of medical facilities like standard of hospitals, availability of doctors and medical aid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-to-hear-pil-on-states-health-infrastructure-on-thursday/articleshow/78521241.cms||Prashant Jha
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||CM approves language centre for Gairsain||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday approved Uttarakhand Bhasha Sansthan (State Language Centre) at Gairsain and sanctioned a budget of Rs 50 lakh for purchase of land. CM Rawat had earlier this year announced Gairsain as the summer capital of Uttarakhand. Following which, he had approved a lake for the area to meet the water requirements. Later, the CM had himself purchased land in Gairsain to encourage others to follow suit for the development of the area. On the day, CM Rawat also gave nod to the posting of 3,250 homeguards for Kumbh duty in view of the security arrangement for the religious event to be held in Haridwar next year. On the issue of Covid-19, CM said, “An analytical study shows that the majority of Covid-19 victims are above the age of 50 years, who were suffering from health issues like blood pressure or sugar. A majority of these victims ignored the initial symptoms and this delay in treatment cost their life. I would like to request people, especially those above the age of 50 and suffering from comorbid conditions, to go for a medical check and sample test if they develop any symptom. I would like to urge people to not drop guard and remain extremely cautious till the time a vaccine is available.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-approves-language-centre-for-gairsain/articleshow/78521238.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Green contest for NKDA complexes in Kolkata||KOLKATA: To celebrate its recent achievement of receiving Platinum-rated Green city certification from the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) on August this year, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has initiated a contest amongst housing societies and gated communities in New Town to rank them. The evaluation will be done on eight areas such as plastic-free environment, solid waste segregation, greening and plantation and others. Interested housing blocks and residents’ welfare associations can submit their applications mentioning what initiatives they have taken on these areas during the period from January 2019 till December this year. The results will be declared in March next year. NKDA will hold a briefing session on the issue with interested participants during the Puja meet to be held at Rabindra Tirtha this Thursday. Marks have been allotted for each of the eight areas and the evaluation will be done based on how much societies have done on the particular front. For example, a total of 20 marks have been given in overall cleanliness under which a number of initiatives have been listed with marks, each ranging from 1 to 6. The total marks is 100. Various housing blocks and residents’ welfare associations have taken up a number of green initiatives like planting trees and installing solar panels. A few have also sanitized their complex premises as Covid measure. The residents welfare associations are welcoming the NKDA initiative to organise such a friendly competition.  “We have been taking up various green initiatives in our housing complex. We have involved children in green initiatives and also encouraging residents to take up composting within the complex,” said Biswajit Majumder of Eastern High apartment complex. “We have done several plantation programmes since Amphan. We also plan to instal solar panels on top of the car parking area,” said Subho Dasgupta, treasurer of Moonbeam apartment owners association. New Town was given the Platinum rated Green City tag for taking up several green initiatives such as integrated land use with green and open spaces, developing water bodies, developing bicycle friendly infrastructure, rain water harvesting, making rules for green buildings, using solar energy, having e-mobility and waste water treatment among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-contest-for-new-town-complexes/articleshow/78524717.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 7, 2020||Amaravati||Tempers flare up at Apex Council meet on Telangana, Andhra Pradesh water row||AMARAVATI: The meeting of the Apex Council on inter-state water disputes on Tuesday reportedly witnessed a few heated moments between Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his AP counterpart YS Jaganmohan Reddy when the latter strongly objected to “unauthorized projects” by Telangana. Jagan is said to have also raised the issue of lifting of additional water from Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project constructed by Telangana on Godavari river in the second phase while the first phase itself had no requisite approvals. He had also pointed out Telangana's “failure” to submit the detailed project reports for Dindi and Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation projects. Sources said KCR reportedly became angry with Jagan for a while stating that AP is going ahead with Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project when there was no permission for the first phase of Pothireddypadu project. Noticing that situation may turn volatile, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who convened the meeting, reported to have intervened and asked both CMs to first submit the DPRs of all the ongoing projects to the Apex Council. “We can resolve all the issues in the Apex Council itself as it has the right to sanction permission to the new projects. However, you need to submit the DPRs to get the clearance,” Shekhawat said while pacifying KCR. Sources said Jagan did not take KCR’s anger with a serious note as he simply responded with a smile. AP irrigation authorities expressed satisfaction over the developments at the Apex Council meeting as it took two crucial decisions in favour of AP. The shifting of KRMB to AP, which has been pending for over six years and making KCR agree to file the DPRs of all the projects were important outcomes of the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/tempers-flare-up-at-apex-council-meet/articleshow/78521239.cms||Samdani MN
October 7, 2020||Goa||‘Women can do well in wildlife studies’||Panaji: The country is in desperate need of wildlife biologists, botanists and experts who can study plants and flowers. This gap needs to be filled by women students, said Manoj Borkar, associate professor and head of zoology department at Carmel College, Nuvem. He was speaking on the role of education to encourage young minds to choose a career in wildlife conservation. “It is a common myth that girls don’t have much scope to become wildlife biologists in India. I personally have seen many girl students do exceptionally well in the field of wildlife. Girls are better in terms of field endurance, focus and responsibility,” he said. He recounted how at a seminar in 2014, two of his students represented India in an international conference in Shanghai. “Right mentoring and the need to enthuse young girls is important. If they are passionate and serious about it, they can distinguish themselves. The crux is to excel and stand apart,” he said. As far as wildlife biology as a career is concerned, he said that there is a difference between a hobbyist and a wildlife biologist however a hobbyist can become a wildlife biologist with a keen eye for observation and a sharp interpretative mind. “Irrespective of the gadgets available to help you track wildlife, a keen eye can really help because seeing and listening is observing. Loads of patience and perseverance is required at the same time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/women-can-do-well-in-wildlife-studies/articleshow/78524022.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Chennai||Dear Chennai, celebrate unlock but don’t drop your guard||CHENNAI: In April, as people were locked inside their homes, a flower vendor who attended a prayer meeting at Asirvadapuram caused a cluster of cases in Koyambedu wholesale market, which took the novel coronavirus into several homes. By late June, the city was adding at least 2,000 new cases every day. Chennai, the worst affected district in the state, doesn’t report that many cases now but the Covid-19 pandemic isn’t over. Yet, all over the city, people are ignoring social distancing rules crowding market places, parks and railway stations, increasing risks of pushing the infection curve up again. For the past two weeks, the city has reported between 1,200 and 1,350 new cases every day. On Tuesday, there were 1,306 new cases – more than a quarter of the fresh cases reported from across the state. New surge in areas such as Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Tondiarpet after reopening has exposed the dangers of letting down the guard. While the corporation conducts door-to-door screening and conducts fever camps, public health officials sense ‘euphoria’ in the minds of the people. “As we go around the city, it seems like people are a lot more social these days, and there is less distancing,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “A majority of the infected people will not pass on the infection, but the problem is we don’t know the eight percent of super spreaders who can cause clusters,” he said quoting a recent study published in the journal ‘Science’. Evidence shows that in the absence of a drug or vaccine, masks play an effective role. The government recently amended laws to fine people violating pandemic rules, but the state’s aim was not to issue fines, director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam said. “We want a behaviour change that will help us improve overall health and hygiene,” he said. Public health analysts feel that the government should promote the change through better awareness programmes. “Prolonged lockdown and the unscientific unlock measures that followed have bored people. They now want to come out,” said public health expert R Sunderraman, former director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre. There is no scientific reason why entry to beaches should be banned as long as people maintain social distancing. During an informal survey, public health officials found clusters when people travel together for work or chat during lunch or coffee breaks. Pandemic rules were flouted in places of worship, weddings and funerals. “We have seen it happen even at family bondings,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. “While it may no longer be fair to tell people to stay indoors, we must tell them how they can meet friends and organise small parties or use public transport. State government should make visuals suggesting meetings at a park or balconies with masks and social distancing,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dear-city-celebrate-unlock-but-dont-drop-your-guard/articleshow/78522449.cms||Pushpa Narayan
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Healing the mind & body of ‘long Covid’ patients||NAGPUR: City medical colleges and several private hospitals have of late started post-Covid OPDs and rehabilitation centres, to help patients returning within a week of discharge with complaints of fever, severe fatigue, myalgia (muscle pain) and general weakness. Some doctors treating such patients have termed the condition as ‘long Covid’, since it is not possible to substantiate if the patients are reinfected, without a scientific study. At discharge itself, doctors are advising patients to ensure they return for post-Covid care involving physiotherapy, psychotherapy and clinical therapy. Doctors say the rehab centres are running separately but with full coordination with Covid teams, who treated the patients earlier. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said post-Covid symptoms are increasing and affecting normal life of patients. “Some patients test negative but still need oxygen. Post-Covid, they tend to suffer from fibrosis of lungs which has to be prevented,” he said. The government has instructed to start post-Covid OPDs, he said. While IGGMCH’s pulmonology department has started post-Covid OPD, AIIMS Nagpur has set up mental health OPD for both Covid and recovered patients. Those suffering from ‘long Covid’ are mostly patients who were symptomatic and had comorbidities. Doctors say around 20% of recovered patients are likely to face problems. Critical care physician Dr Santosh Dhole said recovered patients with morbidities need a month’s care after discharge. “There are residual complaints, hence I feel it is long Covid. In this, patient keeps feeling lethargic, myalgic and unfit to work,” he said. Dr Dhole, who also runs Axon Multispecialty Hospital, said the treatment involves ensuring proper hydration levels, focus on nutrition and multi-vitamin supplements to boost immunity and analgesics in case of severe pain. Diabetologist Dr Devayani Buche, who is in charge at OCHRI’s post-Covid rehab centre, said, “Covid infection has multi-system involvement hence takes a toll on health. Recovery is slow in symptomatic patients. To make them fully fit again, we need to observe them medically for a month. Controlling sugar, BP and exercise are much needed. Above all, they feel better when doctor speaks to them. Almost every patient is complaining they never had such type of fatigue.” Dr Anshul Chadda, director of Aureus Institute of Medical Sciences, said they don’t have dedicated rehabilitation centre for discharged patients but during their hospital stay doctors are placing great emphasis on physiotherapy and exercises apart from medicines and oxygen. “By the time our patients are discharged, they are very well versed with the importance and practice of exercises in post-Covid recovery,” he said. However, the hospital has been running OPD for recovered patients. “We are providing physician consultation and investigations, if required, not only for discharged Covid patients, but also for asymptomatic patients who have been advised home isolation, and family members of admitted patients. Till date, we have treated more than 1,000 patients in these OPDs,” Dr Chadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/healing-the-mind-body-of-long-covid-patients/articleshow/78530355.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kingpin behind codeine seizure arrested||Ahmedabad: The special operations group (SOG) of Ahmedabad rural police on Monday arrested a man from the Changodar GIDC who is believed to be the kingpin behind the codeine cough syrup seizure, where cough syrup and sedative tablets worth Rs 45 lakh were seized in different raids. The accused, identified as Bharat Chaudhary, 35, a resident of Vadaj and a native of Pali in Rajasthan, was about to flee to his native place when he was apprehended, said an SOG officer. Chaudhary has been accused in six different cases under the NDPS (Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances) Act which include three cases in Thane district of Maharashtra and one each with the NCB (Narcotics Control Bureau) Ahmedabad unit, Kagdapith police of Ahmedabad city and Bavla police of Ahmedabad district. Inspector K K Jadeja of SOG said that earlier six accused were caught in the same case and Chaudhary was caught when he came to his office, Divya Pharmaceuticals in the Changodar GIDC. The case came into light when police caught two persons with codeine syrup worth Rs 5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kingpin-behind-codeine-seizure-arrested/articleshow/78522463.cms||---
October 7, 2020||India||Ayurveda & yoga can help fight Covid: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday recommended use of common ayurvedic formulations, such as kadha (boiled water with herbs) and milk with turmeric in treating mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 patients as part of the national clinical management protocol based on ayurveda and yoga, released by health minister Harsh Vardhan and Ayush minister Shripad Naik. Use of medicines such as ashwagandha, guduchi ghana vati or chyawanaprasha were prescribed for preventing the disease in high-risk people and primary contacts of patients. "All these medicines have shown good results and are scientifically validated," said health minister Harsh Vardhan. "The task force and committees created to review these drugs have okayed them. They will be added as an exclusive chapter in our national Covid-19 management protocol," Harsh Vardhan said. The guidelines offer standard treatment protocol to be followed by all Ayush practitioners treating mild to moderate Covid-19 cases, in line with the Union health ministry's National Clinical Management Protocol for Covid-19. “We call this first version of the protocol, which will be modified as more evidence is generated through further studies in future. This part is a result of 4-5 months of research activity on some of the anti-pyretic, anti-fungal, antibacterial and other medicines in Ayurveda that have been reviewed and backed by experts from the modern system of medicine. The protocol is thoroughly backed by scientific evidence,” said Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, secretary, Ayush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayurveda-yoga-can-help-fight-covid-govt/articleshow/78524877.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||Over 8k arrived in Rishikesh for rafting in last 10 days||Dehradun: Within 10 days of Uttarakhand opening adventure tourism and sports activities following the new guidelines under Unlock 5, Rishikesh alone witnessed an influx of over 8,000 tourists who arrived here for river rafting. The local adventure tour operators said that they got almost 90% more bookings from places like Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana, which was way above their expectations for the first day itself. According to the recent data shared by Rishikesh Rafting Association president Dinesh Bhatt, Rishikesh alone recorded over 8,000 tourist inflows since September 26. Enquiries for advance bookings continue to pour in for the next two weeks with almost all the local rafting operators. Rajpal Yadav, owner of a rafting operator agency in Rishikesh, told TOI, “We are extremely elated with the opening up of adventure tourism in Rishikesh and are seeing a continuous increase in the number of river rafting lovers. We hope that the tourists visiting for rafting activities will adhere to all the safety norms with regard to Covid-19 and enjoy their visit.” There has been a steady increase in the number of tourists appearing for rafting in the last four years. As many as 68,604 tourists arrived for rafting in the state in 2017 between September and December, while the figure increased to 3,49,736 in 2018, and dropped to 3,34,753 in 2019. The state witnessed 29,932 tourists who visited Uttarakhand for adventure sports till March 2020. After the commencement of adventure sports in Uttarakhand, over 19,872 tourists have arrived in the state between October 2 and 5. “The recent announcement on the opening up of adventure tourism in the state has already pumped up the adrenaline among adventure seekers who have lined up to participate in various adventure sports activities like river rafting, bungee jumping, flying fox, etc. We are expecting more people to visit the state in the coming days,” said Dilip Jawalkar, secretary, Uttarakhand Tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-8k-arrived-in-rishikesh-for-rafting-in-last-10-days/articleshow/78521265.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hi-tech laparoscopic surgery unit opens at SSKM hospital||KOLKATA: A state-of-the-art laparoscopic surgery unit with the high-tech gadgets was thrown open at state-run Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research (IPGMER) SSKM Hospital on Tuesday with two procedures — a hernia surgery and liver cyst removal — on two patients. The unit for now will be functional thrice a week and would be conducting about five surgeries per day. Though the state’s premier hospital has been conducting laparoscopic surgeries for over two and half decades, those were basic surgeries. Now, with the installation of two advanced set laparoscopic instruments at the general surgery department, doctors will be able to conduct complex surgeries. The pace towards setting up of the advanced laparoscopic surgery unit got slowed due to the pandemic. But the health department officials, including director health services, Ajay Chakraborty and IPGMER director Manimoy Banerjee, kept pursuing the project amidst the pandemic. “This unit will also open up advanced training facilities for our young surgeons,” said Makhanlal Saha, head of general surgery department. The hospital has set up a team led by Saha, Diptendra Sarkar and Abhimanyu Basu, both professors of surgery to run the newly set up unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hi-tech-laparoscopic-surgery-unit-opens-at-sskm-hosp/articleshow/78524720.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Parents’ sacrifice drives Krishna||HYDERABAD: His parents’ sacrifice to give up farming and move to Vijayawada for their son’s education motivated Thammanaboina Mani Venkata Krishna to give his 100 percent and secure the state third rank in Telangana Eamcet. Krishna said that he and his parents moved from Virava village in Pithapuram when he was in class 8 so that he can access quality education. “Be it JEE or Eamcet, I could secure a good rank in these examinations because of my parents sacrifice and support,” said Krishna, a student of Sri Chaitanya, Vijayawada. He said he wants to pursue computer science engineering from an IIT and secure a well-paying job. “I got 457 rank in JEE Advanced and I am eligible to get a seat in top IITs,” he added. Srinivas Rao, Krishna’s father, said they sold their assets to ensure that Krishna continues his education. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-sacrifice-drives-krishna/articleshow/78524040.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 338 fresh Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths||Dehradun: With 338 fresh infections of Covid-19 reported from Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the case tally shot up to 52,329 in the state. Among those found infected on the day was a staffer of Dehradun Municipal Corporation. Subsequently, the office of the civic body was shut for the next 48 hours for sanitisation. According to the data provided by the state health department, more than 11,000 Covid-19 samples were tested in the state on Tuesday. The infection rate in the state hovered between 7% and 7.2%. “Dehradun reported a maximum of 123 fresh Covid-19 cases, followed by 55 from Haridwar, 39 from Udham Singh Nagar, 32 from Uttarkashi, 20 cases each from Nainital and Pithoragarh, 19 from Bageshwar, nine from Chamoli, eight from Rudraprayag, seven from Pauri, and three cases each from Champawat and Tehri,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer from Covid-19 control room. Also, seven deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported from the state on Tuesday. Among these, five deaths were reported from Dehradun district and two from Nainital. Meanwhile, with 600 people recovering from the Covid-19 infection, the total recoveries reached 42,968 and the recovery rate went up to 82.1% in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-338-fresh-covid-19-cases-7-deaths/articleshow/78521253.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Set out steps to act against those not wearing masks, HC tells BMMP||Bengaluru: The high court has directed Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to submit a statement by Thursday, setting out steps it proposes to take against people walking or standing in public places without wearing masks. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a PIL filed by Letzkit Foundation, a Bengaluru based NGO, which had sought strict enforcement of SOP norms. The bench said BBMP must take the issue more seriously since Bengaluru Urban district had recorded an average 4,000 Covid-19 positive cases over the past 10 days and Karnataka with a daily average of 10,000 cases has risen to second position among states vis-a-vis Covid cases. The Chief Justice pointed out that no thermal screening or checks are being conducted in Cubbon Park and added that it can be safely presumed that the same situation prevails in parks across the city. The court recalled that on the last occasion, it had recorded a finding that prompt action was not taken against persons who were not following the elementary rule of wearing masks at public places. This was after BBMP said that in August, 18,796 persons were penalised for not wearing masks. Meanwhile, the court has directed both state and central governments to submit compliance regarding directions issued on September 18. While the state was told to issue directions to authorised officers to make frequent surprise visits to popular places of religion to ascertain whether rules are being followed, the central government was told to clarify its position regarding standard operating procedures (SOP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/set-out-steps-to-act-against-those-not-wearing-masks-hc-tells-bmmp/articleshow/78521260.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kochi||Marooned Edamalakkudy needs a weather-resilient road||Idukki: The Edamalakkudy tribal grama panchayat has been cutoff from the outside world after a road connecting Pettimudy with Societykudy washed away in heavy rain-triggered landslides two months ago. The landslides have also snapped power connection and communication links, isolating the panchayat. The only option now is to cover the 18km distance from Societykudy to Pettimudy by foot. The residents of 24 tribal hamlets, scattered in the nearby forests, are dependent on Societykudy for their daily needs. With the roads washed away, movement of goods to Societykudy has come to a standstill. Snapped communication links has also affected the online classes of several students. Deputy chief engineer, KSEB, Manoj D said the power cable to Edamalakkudy was damaged in the landslides. “Cable work up to Keppakkad near Societykudy is already completed. Next phase of road work is not completed. We can resume supply by the end of this week," he said. “The forest department is working to resume the road connectivity. But the forest department’s claims that the road connectivity is resumed is not correct," said the official. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said, "The road-repairing works of Edamlakkudy need to be completed within one kilometre. The forest department said they will complete the works within one week. Presently the tribal hamlet remained cut off.” Munnar DFO MVG Kannan said proper road connectivity to Edamalakkudy would be impossible without constructing a concrete or asphalted road. “We can only repair the mud road, but it will be washed away in the next rain,” he added. Kannan further said the forest department could provide one acre each for every settlement to construct a concrete road. “But we need a letter from the people of Edamalakkudy settlement. They are not willing to provide the letter. If the government issues a special order we can assure proper road connectivity,” he said. Six expert drivers who ferried the Edamalakkudy village residents to outside died in the Pettymudy landslide on August 7. Annadurai, Raja, Mayilswami, and Murugan were the regular drivers who carried men and materials from Munnar to Edamalakkudy. ''Annadurai was the senior-most and the courageous driver to Edamalakkdudy,” said SSA district programme officer Dhanya P Vasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/marooned-edamalakkudy-needs-a-weather-resilient-road/articleshow/78517218.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Patients clinging on to life support continue to increase||Vadodara: There seems to be no let up in the number of Covid-19 patients from the city and district in a serious condition on BIPAP machines or ventilators. The number has increased further since Monday. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), there were 76 persons on BIPAP machines or ventilators both on Monday and Tuesday. This is higher than the number of such patients last week that ranged from 61 to 73.VMC officials believe that the high number may be because the patients were turning up at hospitals late when their condition became serious. Attempts are being made to ensure that VMC health officials reach out to patients in home quarantine and monitor their condition.A doctor with a prominent multispeciality hospital in the city handling Covid-19 patients said that he had been informed of cases that had to be rushed to the hospital after the patient became very serious. “In some cases, patients do not even bother to take regular telemedicine consultations, if they are under home isolation after testing positive. One such patient rushed to us, did not even monitor his oxygen saturation level,” said the doctor.A health department official said that the numbers were concerning, there was also a possibility that with BIPAP machines available in sufficient numbers these may be used in borderline cases where even large quantities of oxygen may have sufficed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/patients-clinging-on-to-life-support-continue-to-increase/articleshow/78521031.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Surat||Three held for defrauding coop bank of Rs 6 crore||Surat: CID (crime) sleuths on Tuesday nabbed three persons accused for defrauding Kalupur Commercial Cooperative Bank of Rs six crore by not repaying loan. Police booked Bhavesh Patel, 36, his father Bhagwan Patel, 58, and uncle Ashwin Patel, 56, for cheating, forgery and criminal breach of trust. They had allegedly forged mortgage papers while borrowing, investigation by the bank revealed.The complainant was lodged by the bank’s assistant manager Jayesh Sakaliya.Police also booked Hemang Parikh, former manager of the bank’s branch Mumbai and HT Shah, a property valuer. Investigation so far revealed that Bhavesh had taken a loan of Rs six crore in 2016 from the bank’s Mumbai branch for a unit he owned in Surat district. He had mortgaged the unit for Rs Rs 3.10 crore unit and bungalow worth Rs 45 lakh. He declared the value of these properties to around Rs six crore for which he took help of Parikh and Shah. The accused later declared their inability to repay the loan which was declared a non-performing asset (NPA) by the bank. When the bank tried to seize the mortgaged properties, they came to know the actual value. “Bhavesh borrowed the loan in the name of his father and uncle who are actually not doing business. Bhavesh himself became guarantor but he is mastermind of the fraud,” said a CID officer. Parikh was recently arrested by police in Mumbai in a couple of fraud cases, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-held-for-defrauding-coop-bank-of-rs-6-crore/articleshow/78521254.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Double promotions to doctors on Covid-19 duty opposed||Ahmedabad: The state government had recently decided that doctors at government medical colleges doing Covid duty were entitled to double promotions, and this is being implemented at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. The decision has met with stiff protest from medical and paramedical staff across the state who want similar benefits, said sources aware of the matter. The protesters are likely to gather more support in coming days with nursing and outsourcing staff also pressing for similar demands. Many are also demanding permanent jobs for medical service during this Covid-19 crisis, sources added.Promotions are usually given to doctors after five years of service. This year, due to Covid-19, doctors are likely to get not one but two promotions in a matter of three months, sources said. A list of doctors has already been prepared and it is now only a matter of time before their double promotions are announced, sources added.“There are doctors who feel left out as their colleagues or juniors may get out-of-turn promotions due to the Covid-19 crisis. Also the nursing staff is very upset as they have been working round-the-clock. The issue is likely to produce a backlash from members of medical and paramedical staff,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/double-promotions-to-doctors-on-covid-19-duty-opposed/articleshow/78522477.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mangaluru||VC sets up inquiry panel to probe Kannada PG exam issue||Mangaluru: Mangalore University has constituted an internal inquiry committee to probe the issue of the recent final year examination not being held at its SVP Kannada Study Centre. The committee headed by a syndicate member will go through a reply that K Abhaya Kumar, chairman of the centre has given to a show cause notice that the university issued to him for failure to conduct the PG examination for Kannada Matthu Computer Balake (KNH 553) on September 25. A senior faculty member will assist the syndicate member in this inquiry. In all, 16 final year PG students of the centre missed the exam that the university rescheduled for September 25. The university, on September 29, conducted a re-exam for all 67 students, including these 16, on the university’s Mangalagangothri campus. Incidentally, 51 students had already appeared for the above exam on September 25, in four centres in Dakshina Kannadaa and Udupi. Vice-chancellor P S Yadapadithaya told TOI that the inquiry committee will follow due process. As part of the inquiry, the committee will summon records from the office of registrar (evaluation) to verify that all steps for the examination rescheduled to September 25 were followed. “If the inquiry committee is not satisfied with actions taken by either of the stakeholders, it will recommend punitive measures,” the vice-chancellor said. There is past precedent when the university has recovered the entire cost of conducting a re-examination from an erring faculty member. With the syndicate serious about this lapse, the VC said the findings of the committee could be placed before the university’s highest decision making body on October 17, when it meets next. “The syndicate is scheduled to meet on Friday, but it is unlikely that the committee will finish its work by then,” he said. Exams for KNH 553 were held at university’s postgraduate centre at Chikka Aluvara, Kodagu district, Government First Grade Colleges at Belthangady and Uppinangady in Dakshina Kannada and Government First Grade College and postgraduate Centre at Thenkanidiyoor in Udupi on September 25. Abhaya Kumar had ostensibly called off the exam on the grounds that he had not received intimation that the examination had been rescheduled for the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/vc-sets-up-inquiry-panel-to-probe-kannada-pg-exam-issue/articleshow/78520075.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Patient dies in Covid care centre; protest breaks out||COIMBATORE: A 68-year-old patient died of heart attack in the Covid care centre at the Codissia trade fair complex here on Tuesday evening, sending shock waves among the other patients, who protested lack of medical attention. The patients said there were no doctors to monitor them and help them in emergencies or with first aid. They refused to have dinner and ventured out of their hall to protest in front of the trade fair complex. A source said the 68-year-old resident of Rathinapuri had gone to the restroom around 4.30pm. “When he did not return for a long time, a few patients went to check on him and found him dead.” This is the second patient to die at the Codissia Covid care centre. On September 15, a 60-year-old man from Vadavalli had died of heart attack in his sleep. Videos and pictures of Covid-19 patients protesting in front of the centre have already gone viral on social media. A patient said, “If there are no doctors to treat us and check our vitals regularly, what is the point of being here for 10 days? We just have a few nurses, who again do not interact (with) or check us.” Covid care centres were initially set up only for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients, the condition of who were unlikely to worsen. However, in a majority of cases, symptoms, including fever and sore throat, at their onset are very mild and intensify only in the second week. It is not clear why men in their 60s, who are considered high-risk group, are admitted to the Covid care centre at Codissia. A health department official said the deceased was a diabetic. It is not clear whether the clot that caused the heart attack was due to Covid-19, the official said. “We don’t know if the patient had undergone the necessary blood check-up to see if he was prone to complications. It was the city corporation’s triage centre that referred him to the centre. We are checking with them to know what investigations were done before referring him to the centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/patient-dies-in-covid-care-centre-protest-breaks-out/articleshow/78524039.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Mom, faculty were more confident’||HYDERABAD: Kapelli Yashwanth Sai, who secured state second rank in the Telangana Eamcet, said that he wants to do his engineering and get into research and development at a multinational firm. Raised single-handedly by his mother, Yashwanth said that more than him, his mother and faculty were confident that he would secure a good score in the competitive exams. “After seeing my response sheets, my faculty said that I might secure top rank,” said Yashwanth, who secured an all India 32 rank in JEE Advanced. A student of Sri Chaitanya, Vijayawada, Yashwanth said he intends to join the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. Ecstatic at the success of her son, Yashwanth’s mother, Sarojini Devi, said that she managed to send him to a corporate school and college, despite financial constraints, as he managed to secure a scholarship. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mom-faculty-were-more-confident/articleshow/78524050.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 7, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu PG doctors must work in govt hospitals for 2 years: Madras HC||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday upheld mandatory state service for all postgraduate medical students in Tamil Nadu admitted under the All India Quota (AIQ). As per admission prospectus, all PG students must compulsorily serve two years in government hospitals. “The monetary investment by the state in this sector may be tremendous, but it is for a laudable purpose and the investment is just not pure business. The idea of compelling passouts to serve the state hospitals is neither unjust nor against the students,” said a bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. “It subserves a benevolent public purpose, namely that the people of the state are able to receive the best of medical attention,” the bench said. There is no material difference between the status of students occupying the state seats (who are also bound by compulsory service condition) and AIQ seats, in as much as they enjoy the educational facilities at par with each other, with the same subsidies and the same expenses being borne by the state government, the judges added. The bench also made it clear that candidates who have not been offered appointment within two years from the date of completion of the course would be entitled to release their certificates accordingly and are not bound by the condition. The court passed the order while setting aside an order passed by a single judge dated October 1, 2018 quashing the condition for compulsory government service in the prospectus for PG medical admission. Allowing the appeal moved by the Tamil Nadu government, the court added that the state spends money, not on gambling with unqualified people, but on those who are best suited for the job. “The directive principles of state policy oblige the state to take care of health and nutrition of its citizens and public health is a state subject. Provincial governments are, therefore, constitutionally obligated to render its citizens the best of health care-takers and subsidising medical education for the best amongst the lot is a major step in organising the best of health services,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-state-pg-docs-must-work-in-govt-hosps-for-2-years/articleshow/78521306.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Chandni Chowk: To-be pedestrianised zone lies in a mess||NEW DELHI: Chandni Chowk was to have turned into a pleasant pedestrian zone. But when TOI visited the so-called newly developed stretch on Tuesday, nothing appeared new or novel. The cement barricades and the small bollards placed both as aesthetic items and to seat walkers were damaged and some uprooted, while the space for greenery had been taken over by the homeless or had become ugly construction dumps, even on the section that was formally opened in August. “The construction material stored carelessly around and the huge sacks dumped on the stretch makes it difficult to ride our rickshaws here sometimes,” said rickshaw puller Hiten Kumar. “We thought things would improve for all of us, but I guess Chandni Chowk can never change.” The change expected is nowhere in sight. Cars no longer drive between the Red Fort intersection and Fatehpuri Masjid, but the crush of rickshaws on the pathway created for pedestrians has left the historical esplanade as congested as ever. PWD officials had earlier declared that a restricted number of rickshaws would be allowed to ply, but that intention is not on show. “We wanted to make this stretch exemplary for other congested areas in Delhi,” said a PWD official. “During the Covid lockdown, we did not have enough labourers at the site. Now, when we almost do, there is very little room for us to take things forward because of the congestion.” Even around two years after the work began to pedestrianise Chandni Chowk, barely 30% has been achieved. After missing the deadline by a year, PWD opened a 300-metre section on August 15 this year. So, contrary to expectation that the turn from Red Fort would put a visitor in a completely new, and more peaceful milieu, things aren’t pleasing to the senses, beginning with the huge segment that is yet to be pedestrianised and other problems. While the rickshaw pullers complain of lack of plying space, shopkeepers blame them for the current shambles. “If so many changes are being made here, why allow the rickshaws on the stretch? Even if they can, why not permit only a certain number of them?” questioned Jatin, a shopkeeper. The project was first hit by the ban on construction as part of anti-pollution measures, and then the Covid lockdown lengthened the waiting period. PWD had claimed that the opening of the first phase would help people collecting at the popular shopping hub. “Tiles and street furniture were selected to resemble Mughal motifs, to reflect the locality’s halcyon days during the reign of Emperor Shahjahan and his immediate successors,” said a PWD official. PWD has plans for parking arrangements in the vicinity of Chandni Chowk. Visitors can park their vehicles and amble to the market. Amenities planned include upgraded streetlights, public toilets, mid-street benches, loading/unloading bays for vans ferrying stocks to shops, CCTV monitoring and Delhi Police and traffic booths for security. Watch Chandni Chowk's to-be pedestrianised zone lies in a mess||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-a-boulevard-of-broken-dreams/articleshow/78522523.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||10k fail to confirm diploma admissions||Ahmedabad: The first round of admissions for diploma courses for students who have cleared the Class X board exams saw some 24,000 students confirm their admission by paying their fees. Some 10,000 candidates of the 32,832 who had registered failed to pay their fees to confirm their admission. “Only those who paid the fees by the deadline have been granted admission. There are about 24,000 candidates who have paid their fees,” said a source in the admission committee. In all there are 55,950 diploma seats available this year. The second round of choice filling recently started. The merit list released by the admission committee included 38,983 students, who were instructed to make their preferences known in the first round. Colleges will be allocated by October 14 on the basis of choices made in the second round, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10k-fail-to-confirm-diploma-admissions/articleshow/78522496.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife accuses film director of violence||Ahmedabad: A 23-year-old woman from the Maninagar area of the city on Tuesday filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband, a Gujarati film director, and her father-in-law, a retired army officer, alleging that they assaulted her whenever she objected to their habitual excessive drinking. In her FIR at Maninagar police station, the woman states that she met the accused in 2017 at a drama workshop. They fell in love and got married on February 22, 2019. She alleged that her in-laws often taunted her saying she did not belong to their community and that she did not even bring a dowry. She said that even though she knew about her husband’s drinking habit, she had under estimated how much he drank. On December 31, 2019, her husband came home drunk and could not even walk or talk properly. When she protested against this behaviour, he assaulted her badly, she states in the FIR. She also said that her father-in-law used to drink liquor that he got from the army canteen at home. She opposed this as well and was also beaten by her father-in-law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-accuses-film-director-of-violence/articleshow/78522540.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Keralite journalist held on way to Hathras||KOZHIKODE: Uttar Pradesh police have detained a Keralite journalist who was on his way to Hathras to report the incident related to rape of a Dalit girl there. Siddique Kappan, who is working with an online portal in New Delhi, was picked up by police along with three others at a toll plaza. In a statement the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) said that the attempts to contact Siddique were not fruitful. Siddique is the secretary of KUWJ unit and had worked with Thejas and Thalsamayam dailies. “The Hathras police station and the state police have not provided any information so far on him,” the statement said. KUWJ has written letters to the chief ministers of UP and Kerala and state police chiefs of the two states to intervene to release Siddique. In a statement issued here, KUWJ state president K P Reji and general secretary E S Subhash condemned the move to implicate media persons in false cases. However, UP police are learnt to have maintained that Siddique was into custody along with three other Popular Front of India/Campus Front of India workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/scribe-held-on-way-to-hathras/articleshow/78522548.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Set up separate helpline for Ayushman Bharat Scheme: Khader||Mangaluru: Citing lacunae in the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Yojana (ABY), Mangaluru MLA U T Khader demanded that a separate helpline should be started in the district, exclusively for the scheme. “District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari has promised that Covid-19 patients will get free treatment in private hospitals under the ABY. He also announced that free treatment for Covid-19 will be made available in 73 private hospitals in the district, in addition to medical colleges. However, confusion regarding bill payment in private hospitals continues. Meanwhile, a district level nodal officer working for the implementation of government health scheme was removed, and the government has plans to appoint a medical officer for the post. This will increase the burden on the doctor who is appointed to the post, who also must attend to patients. Hence, the government should appoint a non-medical officer as nodal officer,” Khader said. Former minister and senior Congress leader K Abhayachandra Jain blamed the government for the strike carried out by doctors and other staff, who are on contract in the health department. “Though doctors and other health department staff on contract are protesting, the government is not responding to them. Poor patients fail to get treatment under government schemes in private hospitals. The health minister, other ministers and MLAs should focus their work for the betterment of health facilities in the district. They should seriously consider the issue of poor patients struggling to pay hospital bills despite government schemes offering free treatment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/set-up-separate-helpline-for-ayushman-bharat-scheme-khader/articleshow/78520131.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||JEE Advance results: Doon boys secure top spots in U’khand||Dehradun: City boys Aryaman Mihir Seth and Bashar Ahmad brought laurels for Uttarakhand by securing All India Ranks of 309 and 320 respectively, in the Joint Entrance Examination Advance examination, the results of which were declared on Monday. Talking to TOI, Aryaman Mihir Seth said that he wants to take up research in the field of Physics . Aryaman’s father Deepam Seth is posted as Inspector General in ITBP while his mother Gauri Seth is an Economics professor. Meanwhile, Bashar, who scored 249 marks out of 396, wants to take up a course in Computer Science from IIT Bombay or Kanpur. Bashar’s father works for Oil and Natural Gas Corporation. Bashar attributed his success to the strict study schedule of eight hours. He said he kept himself away from social media too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jee-advance-results-doon-boys-secure-top-spots-in-ukhand/articleshow/78521310.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana tops state in cybercrime cases||LUDHIANA: Ludhiana commissionerate tops the state in the number of cybercrime cases reported in 2019, as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report released recently. The number of cases in Ludhiana comprises 15% of the total cases in the state. As per the NCRB report, cybercrime cases reported in Punjab were 243 in 2019, 239 in 2018, 176 in 2017 and 102 in 2016. Of the 243 cases, maximum (37) were reported in Ludhiana commissionerate, followed by Sangrur district with 20 cases and SAS Nagar with 18. Jalandhar commissionerate saw 17 cases, Patiala 15, Amritsar commissionerate 11, Amritsar rural seven, Barnala eight, Batala three, Bathinda four, Faridkot three, Fazilka five, Gurdaspur nine, Hoshiarpur eight, Jalandhar rural eight, Khanna three, Moga 11, Muktsar seven, Mansa 11, Ropar 10 and Tarn Taran seven. Fourteen cases were reported by Bureau of Investigation. The 37 cybercrime cases of Ludhiana commissionerate included 18 of cheating, six of cyber stalking and bullying of women and children under Section 354-D of the IPC, and four of cyber blackmailing and threatening, among others. In Ludhiana commissionerate in 2018, as many as 24 cybercrime cases were reported, 33 in 2017 and 16 in 2016. Therefore, 2019 saw an increase of 54% as compared with 2018. Cybercrime cases in Ludhiana are registered after a long investigation, which, in some cases, takes two to three years to complete. So, the number of complaints received every year is way more than the cases registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-tops-state-in-cybercrime-cases/articleshow/78521334.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras case: Call records ‘link’ victim’s brother to main accused||LUCKNOW: Investigators probing the Hathras case have claimed that there is evidence to show that the main accused was in regular touch with the victim’s brother till very recently. Citing a call detail record (CDR), police sources asserted on Tuesday that there were at least 100 exchanges in five months between the mobile number of the main accused and another number registered in the name of the victim’s brother. The CDR in possession of TOI has over five hours of exchange between the two numbers between October 2019 and March 2020. Some of the calls lasted for over a few minutes. Police are now planning to seek the response of the victim’s brother to confirm it’s his voice. Senior police officers, requesting not to be named, said an investigation by the SIT was still under way and it would not be feasible for them to comment on the issue now. They, however, said that the police would soon conduct a probe on the basis of the CDR. Another cop told TOI on the condition of anonymity that during the probe, some of the villagers had also said that those arrested used to keep in touch with the victim’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/call-records-link-victims-brother-to-main-accused/articleshow/78524498.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||Mollem: Govt will give adequate compensation, says Pauskar||PANAJI: PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on Tuesday said that the state government has decided to go ahead with the three infrastructure projects at Mollem “without creating hardships to people” while ensuring that the environment will be protected. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday evening held a meeting with Pauskar and BJP functionaries over the three proposed projects - national highway expansion, new high tension line and railway double tracking. When asked to explain what he meant by “no hardships”, Pauskar told reporters that those affected due the projects would be provided with adequate compensation. He also said that various issues raised by the people are being addressed by the departments concerned i.e. PWD, power and railway. The minister said that the high tension line is necessary as Goa’s power requirements will increase in the next five years. He added that the government is going ahead with the projects by providing necessary information to dispel apprehensions. “We are not undertaking these projects surreptitiously. These projects will benefit the state,” he said. He also said that people from Collem and Mollem are “happy with the projects” and are supporting them. Earlier in the day, Pauskar had told reporters that the government would have to do a rethink over the projects due to the opposition. “We will discuss the issue with the people and go ahead with the projects. However, if people don’t want it then we have to reconsider the projects,” Pauskar had said. On Sunday, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said that he would “study” the objections to the proposed projects at Mollem if he receives a memorandum from the people of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-govt-will-give-adequate-compensation-says-pauskar/articleshow/78522592.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 4 lives, dist toll increases to 782||Times News Network Ludhiana: Four residents of Ludhiana succumbed to Covid-19 and 85 tested positive on Tuesday.Of the new positive cases, 12 were contacts of positive patients, 23 from OPD, 33 from flu corner, four are health-care workers, one severe acute respiratory infection case and four through tracing process. Eleven Covid-19 patients died here on the day, including one each from Gurdaspur, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir, besides the four from Ludhiana. The district casualties included a 43-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan; a 67-year-old diabetic man of Khanna; a 53-year-old woman of AC Market, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension; and a 90-year-old woman of Madhopuri with chronic artery disease.Besides, 17 outsiders tested positive here on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district case count has mounted to 18,739 and that of outsiders to 2,388.The Ludhiana toll tally now stands at 782 and that of outsiders at 274.On the day, 1,334 samples were collected for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-4-lives-dist-toll-increases-to-782/articleshow/78521321.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Employer rapes tribal woman in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old woman from a scheduled tribe, on Tuesday filed a complaint at Sabarmati police station alleging that she was raped by her employer, for whom she and her husband had been doing farm labour at Ratnal village of Anjar taluka in Kutch, on the evening of September 16. In her FIR, the woman, a native of Dahod who has studied till Class XI, states that she and her husband had gone to work as casual labourers in Kutch in December 2019. In March, when transportation and movement was restricted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, she was forced to stay on the farm of the accused, Ranchhod Ahir, where they used to do labour and she did some household chores for Ahir. On the evening of September 16, Ahir, knowing she was alone in a small room in the farm went there and told her to make him tea. She told him she would do so once her husband returned but as he insisted, she began making tea. As she was making tea, Ahir grabbed her, disrobed her and raped her twice. She alleged Ahir threatened to kill her husband if she were to file a complaint. Scared, the couple went to Godhra. As her husband did not have money to travel, he had to sell his mobile phone to flee from there. She went into depression after the incident and later told an activist about the rape. She was brought to the office of Ahmedabad-based activists Meena Jadhav and Priti Oza in Sabarmati, who along with an activist lawyer Ashok Samrat approached police and filed a complaint for rape and offences under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/employer-rapes-tribal-woman/articleshow/78522602.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Surat||6,669 Covid-19 beds vacant in Surat city||SURAT: As many as 6,669 beds out of the total 7,772 in the government and private hospitals of Surat, were vacant as on Tuesday even as 174 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported. Out of 1,162 active cases, 716 have been hospitalised. “About 143 ICU with ventilator beds and 80 ICU beds have been occupied in various Covid-19 hospitals,” said an SMC official. As migrants and other people started returning to work in various industries, the number of those under home quarantine reached 29,805 as of Tuesday. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked all industrial unit owners to ensure that their workers’ are home quarantined for seven days when they return. SMC has formed various teams to carry out random checks in the industrial units to find out if Covid guidelines are being implemented. “We have observed that the majority of the cases are coming from the textile industry as workers are now returning,” said an SMC official. In Surat district, 107 new Covid-19 cases were reported and three patients succumbed to the virus on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/6669-covid-19-beds-vacant-in-surat-city/articleshow/78521325.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||Car kiosks spur legality over need debate||Panaji: The pandemic has been tough on the income of many citizens, some of who have adopted alternative solutions by selling fresh fruits, vegetables or fish from their private vehicles. This, however, has raised several questions about licensing and other requisites that are necessary for trading. “We have allowed some of them to carry out these businesses because it is a question of their survival during the pandemic. The policy decisions are such that we cannot give licences for kiosks, but it would be unjust to penalise them for earning a living. Such businesses have opened doors for them to provide for their family,” Taleigao sarpanch Agnelo da Cunha said. The Taleigao panchayat on an average receives four to five requests every fortnight to set up such businesses — both orally and officially. The panchayat takes down their details, identity proof, the place of vehicle parking for the trade and permits them to sell their goods. “We are however ensuring that the passes to operate are given to Goans that have lost their employment due to the pandemic,” Merces sarpanch Rufina Quadros said. The panchayat has received at least 50 requests since the lockdown. However, at the very nucleus of the civic bodies — the department of panchayats — information about the total number of such mobile kiosks operating from cars or two-wheelers during the pandemic is unavailable. “Individual panchayats have the power to grant NOCs for any trade within their jurisdiction. We have not received any data on the vehicles moving from place to place selling goods,” a senior official from the department said. The transport department recently ordered a crackdown on such mobile kiosks based on a complaint made by the Goa Consumer Action Network (GOACAN), who deemed its operation illegal. This invited the ire of the locals who claimed to have with them the panchayat NOC to operate. “As per the MV Act, people cannot sell anything on roadsides without seeking permission from the transport department, but now that the panchayats are permitting them, it has become a mess. There should be uniformity and therefore this must be streamlined. When the panchayats decide to give such businesses permission, they must follow the rules of the MV Act as well,” a transport official told TOI. GOACAN, however, questioned the very nature of carrying out unregulated trade even if the intention behind it is a matter of survival. “People cannot use their private vehicles for selling vegetables. It’s not permitted by law and people will get heavily booked. A private vehicle is meant for travelling. People cannot keep boxes of vegetables and fish to sell them. Anyone interested in doing so must get an FDA licence,” GOACAN coordinator, Roland Martins said. In this entire circle of approvals, the mobile kiosk operators are the ones left in a lurch. “It’s a foolish thing to say that these businesses are illegal when it’s a question of survival. A lot of people have lost their livelihood due to the pandemic and this is their means of making a decent living. Never have so many Goans taken to the streets to sell food before. Why should such vulnerable marginal people that are struggling to survive be targeted?” Avertino Miranda, who sells organic rice and potatoes from his car, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/car-kiosks-spur-legality-over-need-debate/articleshow/78522553.cms||Nida Sayed
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||UP govt warms cockles of hosiery industry’s heart||Ludhiana: In a heart-warming news for the local hosiery industry, which had been under tremendous pressure for the past six months due to coronavirus pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government has floated tenders for purchase of 1.5 crore pieces of sweaters for schoolkids with an estimated value of about Rs 350 crore.The news has caused a flurry of activity in the city. According to industrialists, small and medium-scale sweater manufacturers of the city will benefit from this tender that is being executed online through the government of India’s GeM (government e-market place) portal. The 1.5 crore pieces have been split area and jurisdiction wise by the UP’s basic education department, which is the nodal agency for the purchase of sweaters. A few tenders of small quantities have already been executed, while some are due in coming days. However, it is yet to be seen how successful the online tender system, which has come into effect for the first time, will be for the Ludhiana industry. Until recently when the offline system of tenders was in place, more than 90% purchase of school sweaters for the governments was done from Ludhiana.Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, “This is great news for the hosiery industry as business had taken a huge hit due to the pandemic. This is a big opportunity for our industry. Tenders of small batches have already been published online and their result will be out soon. The only different aspect of the tender this year is that all work will be done online.”Charanjiv Singh, general secretary of Knitwear and Shawl Club, said sweater and hosiery manufacturers and traders from Ludhiana were excited to participate in these tenders. “So far more than 50 have registered themselves online and participated in the tender process. There have been a lot of inquiries from our members, asking us to guide them about the procedure of registration on the portal. The delivery period for sweaters has been fixed at 15 days after acceptance of the tender, thereafter payment will be released, subject to completion of all formalities.”Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “The UP government’s tender has certainly brought some cheer to the hosiery industry. Sweater manufacturers, traders and yarn suppliers have suddenly got busy as the news broke. With such a huge quantity of sweaters, we are hopeful that a major chunk of orders will be bagged by Ludhiana industry, changing the fortunes of businessmen, workers and other stakeholders.”Some of the already floated tendersQuantity Delivery place1,22,844 Hathras1,61,187 Kaushambi1,44,749 Muzaffarnagar4,88,531 Bahraich2,33,589 Agra3,43,542 Gonda1,71,493 Lalitpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/up-govt-warms-cockles-of-hosiery-industrys-heart/articleshow/78521348.cms||Mohit Behl
October 7, 2020||Goa||Congress didn’t compromise state’s interest on Mhadei, says ex-CM||PANAJI: Refuting allegations by chief minister Pramod Sawant against Congress government over Mhadei, then chief minister Pratapsing Rane said the state had not compromised its interest at all and took a firm stand on Mhadei. Sawant on Monday had accused Congress of compromising the state’s interest on water diversion. He had said the erstwhile Congress government removed two paras of a complaint made to the Centre. On the construction of a minor irrigation dam at Virdi in Maharashtra, Sawant said the minutes of the meeting held between the CMs of Goa and Maharashtra in 2006 shows that it was mutually agreed to take it up as a joint venture. Rane said following Goa’s application for appointment of the tribunal against Karnataka’s move for water diversions, Union ministry of water resources asked Goa to withdraw two clauses pertaining to basins other than Mhadei. He said since issues pertained to the clauses on Malaprabha and basins other than Mhadei, and since Krishna tribunal was also in process, there was no option but to delete those even though Goa government later requested to consider the demand in toto clarifying state’s stand. As per the tribunal award, the issues relating to both these clauses were taken up by the tribunal even with objections of Karnataka and due cognisance was given to the same, Rane said. On Virdi dam, Rane said that it was decided to take up the work with the condition of increasing its height and diverting extra water in Anjunem reservoir. It was further decided that the downstream riparian rights be protected by releases from the dam and no diversion of water, but only utilisation in Mhadei basin. However, as Maharashtra changed the alignment of the dam to Kattika Nallah still retaining the name Virdi dam, Goa objected to the same as no extra water could be diverted to Anjunem dam. Maharashtra was ready to release for downstream uses in Goa. This issue, he said, was discussed threadbare in the tribunal as per the award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-didnt-compromise-states-interest-on-mhadei-says-ex-cm/articleshow/78522627.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Kasaragod collector, cops bust sandalwood racket||KOZHIKODE: Huge quantity of sandalwood was recovered in an accidental raid conducted by Kasaragod collector D Sajith Babu at a home near his camp office on Tuesday morning. Forest department officials said that 855kg of sandalwood were seized from the house of one Abdul Khader which is close to the residences of the collector and district police chief D Shilpa. The collector’s gunman Dileesh Kumar and driver Sreejith Poduval woke up hearing a loud noise from the nearby house at around 4am. They alerted the collector who rushed to the house. On seeing the collector and his team, three men ran away from the scene. The collector informed the police and forest department officials. They seized one truck, three cars, weighing instruments and Rs 9,000 from the house. The sandalwood’s price is estimated at Rs 2 crore in the market. “We have registered a case in Kasaragod range office against Abdul Khader, his son and the driver, who hails from Tumkur in Karnataka,” said a forest department official. All the accused have gone into hiding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kasaragod-collector-cops-bust-sandalwood-racket/articleshow/78522652.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Mayor and company leave for Jodhpur to study rubble plant||LUDHIANA: While the delegation of councillors and municipal corporation officials that went to Indore to study its solid waste management system is yet to return, mayor Balkar Sandhu has left for Jodhpur along with councillors and officials to examine the construction and demolition (C&D) waste plant system there. SAD and BJP councillors were also invited for the trip, but they refused on account of personal reasons. The MC officials are working on the C&D plant here and are worried if it would bring the desired results. The only hurdle in the project is the issue of utilising recycled waste that comes out of C&D plant. The plant site has been finalized in Dhandhari and its detailed project report is being prepared. The project falls under the Smart City mission. The mayor said, “In Jodhpur, advanced technology for settling the C&D waste has been set up. We will see whether we can adopt anything here as well.” Sources said the mayor had asked SAD councillor Harbhajan Dang and BJP councillor OP Ratra to be a part of this delegation, but both of them refused due to personal reasons. So, the mayor had to add two more members. Along with the mayor, councillors Jaiparkash, Gurdeep Neetu, Rakesh Prashar, Kuldeep Janda and Sukhdev Singh Sheera have gone on the trip. The previous week, a delegation had gone to Indore to study solid waste management system there. They are expected to return to the city by Tuesday night and will submit their report to MC commissioner. There is much pressure from the National Green Tribunal committee for the management of construction and demolition waste. If MC fails to perform, it will have to face strict action of NGT. Earlier, the civic body was asked to pay bank guarantees for its failure in managing solid waste in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mayor-and-company-leave-for-jodhpur-to-study-rubble-plant/articleshow/78521341.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Chennai||L&T plans 6.5m sqft IT complex in city||Chennai: In a development that adds heft to Chennai’s reputation as an attractive destination for IT/ITeS companies, L&T Realty, the property development arm of engineering conglomerate L&T, has planned to develop 6.5 million sqft of mixed IT and residential complex on 40 acres of land at Manapakkam on Mount Poonnamallee Road in the city. The project, expected to be competed by 2025-26, will offer employment to 60,000 IT professionals. To be developed as L&T Innovation Campus, the project will include 5.5 million sqft of Grade A IT space and one million sqft of residential space, sources said. This will be one of the biggest projects in Chennai in recent times, with residential complex encompassing 1,000 to 1,200 units. While land is owned by L&T group company, the construction will be undertaken by L&T. Construction of Phase I will start next month (November) once all the statutory approvals are in. “L&T Innovation Campus is a mixed-use development, where people can live, work and play in one location. L&T Realty undertakes large developments and this is a very important project for us,” Shrikant Joshi, managing director and CEO, L&T Realty told TOI. While IT parks will account for 32 acres, the residential development will come up on eight acres. “It will be a world-class development and we have large MNCs as our clients. We will start marketing this project soon. While the location and masterplan are excellent, it will be a great destination for top class discerning clients,” Joshi said. While Aedas, Hong Kong has done the masterplan, the project will be a LEED gold rated green building. “Since L&T is a well known brand in the real estate space, we will do all necessary marketing investments including international road shows at an appropriate time,” Joshi pointed out. The first phase of the project is expected to be ready for fitouts by April, 2022. By which time, international property consultants hope that the markets will stabilize and open up in a big way for future growth. The project has been designed to have user-friendly floor plates, ranging from 50,000 to 60,000 sq.ft per floor. The whole project will have multiple towers and is expected to be a game changer in Grade A assets in Chennai, expected to attract global giants in BFSI sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lt-plans-6-5m-sqft-it-complex-in-city/articleshow/78521346.cms||D Govardan
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||Yamunotri yatra stopped following massive landslide, 100 pilgrims rescued||Uttarkashi: The Yamunotri pilgrimage is temporarily on hold as the Janki Chatti-Yamunotri trek route was blocked by fresh landslides at Bhindiyaligaad area early on Tuesday morning. Officials said that removal of debris would be possible only when the landslide stops. “Bhindiyaligaad had been hit by massive landslides a month ago, on September 11, damaging nearly 150-metre stretch of the Yamunotri route. Local administration had stopped the yatra and constructed an alternative route. After Tuesday’s landslides, the alternative route has been blocked as well,” said Ravindra Chauhan, site in-charge of Public Works Department (PWD). Nearly 100 pilgrims stranded at the place have been rescued by police and State Disaster Management Force (SDRF) teams. Barkot sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Chatar Singh Chauhan issued orders to halt the yatra and lodge pilgrims at safe places until the situation returns to normal. He asked the departments concerned to restore the route at the earliest. Yamunotri priests, meanwhile, are concerned for their livelihoods. One of the priests, Pyare Lal Uniyal said, “Char Dham yatra is the main source of earning for local people. This year, with the lockdown first and now the landslides, we are in a serious crisis. I appeal to the administration to fix the route at the earliest so the yatra continues for the remaining few weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yamunotri-yatra-stopped-following-massive-landslide-100-pilgrims-rescued/articleshow/78521353.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||74 iPhones worth Rs 49 lakh seized at Chandigarh airport||BIGGEST HAULLudhiana: In one of the biggest hauls of smuggled mobile phones this year, the customs commissionerate of Ludhiana has recovered 74 iPhones worth Rs 49.28 lakh from a passenger who arrived from Dubai at Chandigarh International Airport on Indigo flight 6E-56 on Saturday. The passenger, who is a Delhi resident, was arrested with the goods. According to the department, this is the biggest haul of smuggled mobile phones at the airport this year.Arvinder Singh Ranga, commissioner of customs, Ludhiana, under whose jurisdiction the Chandigarh airport falls, said, “On October 3, the passenger was intercepted while he was crossing the green channel and 74 phones valued at Rs 49 lakh were recovered from him. He was arrested under the Customs Act of 1962.”Sources said there was a huge price difference in the models of iPhones in the markets of UAE and India. “The price difference in some of the latest models is as high as Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 due to which there is an increase in smuggling. Moreover, the brand makes it easy for people to readily sell the phone in market. These phones are not locked, can be used without any problem in India and have an international warranty,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/74-iphones-worth-rs-49-lakh-seized-at-chandigarh-airport/articleshow/78521345.cms||Mohit Behl
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC carries out demolition drive in Ahmedabad’s western parts||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) carried out demolition work in various part of the city including the Jodhpur and Vejalpur areas. AMC officials removed encroachments along footpaths and even under bridges. Officials said that the area under bridges are being encroached on by tea vendors. According to officials, in Vejalpur ward several encroachment were removed on the 18m road near Smita Apartments and on the 12m town planning road near Titanium City Centre. In Jodhpur, teams removed encroachments under the Jivraj Park bridge. Officials were surprised when they found cots kept under the bridge. In Chandlodia a total of 1400 square metres was cleared of encroachment. The encroachments were on the 12-foot town planning road. Officials said in Gota they removed included two kuccha sheds, three permanent sheds and two hoardings. The AMC has begun an anti-encroachment drive in the city after a long time and the drive concentrated on the western parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-carries-out-demolition-drive-in-citys-western-parts/articleshow/78522643.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||‘If Congress faulted on Mhadei, sack Neri’||PANAJI: In a counter offensive, the Congres said that as chief miniser Pramod Sawant on Monday derided the Congress government for its stand on Mhadei in 2006, he should immediately sack Philip Neri Rodrigues from his cabinet as he was the water resources minister (in the Rane government) then. “Let the chief minister show guts and release a White Paper on Mhadei with facts and figures. Let the truth prevail,” said Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar. Reacting sharply to the statement made by Sawant on Monday wherein he tried to blame then Congress government on the Mhadei issue, Chodankar claimed that the action of the government to file a contempt petition is a reaction to the Congress agitation He said that Sawant must first come clean on the blanket approvals given by the BJP government to Karnataka in the past two years. The reply of Union minister Prakash Javadekar to the media on questions posed to him on Mhadei has completely exposed Sawant who is now attempting for “a face saving exercise”, said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-cong-faulted-on-mhadei-sack-neri/articleshow/78522639.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mangaluru||Kukke temple devotees demand more security, CCTV surveillance||Mangaluru: Devotees visiting the Kukke Subrahmanya Temple in Sullia have sought increased surveillance and security as the place is seeing back-to-back theft cases. Miscreants had stolen belongings of devotees kept inside vehicles parked in the temple premises. Everyday, thousands of devotees visit the temple, situated 130km from here. According to them, the sprawling parking lot does not have enough CCTVs to keep a check on unscrupulous elements. On an average, over 1,500 vehicles arrive there on weekdays, and about 5,000 during weekends. The parking arrangement is near the Anjaneya Temple. On September 19 and 27, vehicles of Belthangady and Kundapur devotees were targeted. Another theft complaint was registered during the temple’s Shasthi celebrations. According to locals, theft cases were not prevalent at Kukke, but increased after the work on the master plan started in and around the temple. Taking advantage of the security limitations due to the ongoing development works, miscreants are striking it rich by unlocking vehicles using duplicate keys. Omana N K, police sub-inspector at Subrahmanya police station, said that besides adequate numbers of CCTVs, there is a shortage of police workforce deputed at the temple. “CCTVs covering the entire temple premises were removed when the development project took off. We have requested the temple authorities to install CCTVs at vantage points,” she said. M H Ravindra, executive officer of Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple, told TOI that they, following a series of complaints from devotees and thefts in the recent past, installed four CCTV cameras at the parking lot. “The existing surveillance system was dismantled across the premises, except inside the temple, when the Rs 180 crore master plan project started. As of now, there are limitations to increase surveillance,” he added. Ravindra also added that the footfall of devotees is increasing by the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kukke-temple-devotees-demand-more-security-cctv-surveillance/articleshow/78520166.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Prisoners beat up undertrial||Vadodara: An undertrial lodged in Vadodara Central Jail was beaten up by two other prisoners over defeat in a game in the jail premises on Monday. The inmate had to be taken to the SSG Hospital for treatment. The undertrial Sanjay alias Sajan Parmar and another undertrial Vikas Oganiya were playing a game. As Vikas was defeated in the game, he abused Parmar and shouted at him. Vikas’s brother Raj, who is also in jail, went and beat Parmar upon hearing the commotion. Police said that both brothers thrashed Parmar due to which he suffered injuries on his head and chest. He was taken to the prisoners’ ward at the SSG Hospital from where he was discharged after treatment. Based on Parmar’s complaint an offence was registered against Vikas and Raj. The duo was sent to jail for thrashing a policeman on September 23. Parmar, a resident of Rajkot, was arrested by the government railway police (GRP) in connection with a prohibition case too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/prisoners-beat-up-undertrial/articleshow/78521060.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Doctor, fiancee robbed at knifepoint||AHMEDABAD: A man from Naranpura on Monday filed a complaint with police stating that two men robbed him and his fiancée, a doctor with a private hospital, of their mobile phones, worth Rs 12,000, when they were sitting on the Sabarmati riverfront near Usmanpura in the wee hours of Sunday. In his FIR with Sabarmati riverfront (West) police, Meet Soni, 26, who works for a private firm, stated that he and his fiancée, Poonam Soni, had gone for an outing to the riverfront late on Saturday night. They sat there and at around 1.45am on Sunday, two motorcycle-borne accosted them and started asking them what they were doing there. Meet told them he was sitting with his fiancée but they pulled out knives. They then snatched their mobile phone and wallets and fled from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-fiancee-robbed-at-knifepoint/articleshow/78522657.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||Calangute MLA to file defamation suit against ex-Lokayukta||CALANGUTE: Three weeks after Goa Lokayukta, Justice PK Misra, slammed state waste management minister Michael Lobo in an order, calling him ‘unfit to hold office’, Lobo said he is going to file a defamation suit against the retired high court judge. The Calangute MLA termed the September 16 order by Misra — who just completed his term in office as Goa Lokayukta — ‘unreasonable, malafide, violative of natural justice’. He alleged that Misra had passed such an order because the latter was not given an extension in office as Lokayukta. Lobo also claimed that the order was passed under political pressure. “Who is he to say I’m unfit to be a minister?” asked Lobo. Misra had passed the order in a petition filed by Arpora resident Rose de Souza. Goa Lokayukta said that Lobo had taken ‘vengeful action’ while serving as chairman of the North Goa Planning and Development Authority and construction licence issued by Souza was delayed. Lobo, however, said the matter was originally a petition filed by Anthony D’Souza in the high court which was disposed of in 2014, with the court not finding any merit in the petition. He said that subsequently the petitioner’s sister-in-law approached the Lokayukta. “The matter is about a road. The high court had observed that the road was shown in the survey plan. Because the HC dismissed the petition, they went to the Lokayukta who passed this order for reasons best known to him. I am not a party to the matter,” Lobo said, adding, “I feel he has done this intentionally. I respect the judiciary, but what the former Lokayukta has done is not right.” Lobo said the Lokayukta’s comments that he was unfit to be a minister were at variance with the record. “Goa is the only state in India to have a waste management ministry, and this is solely because of my efforts to set up a modern garbage treatment plant (GTP). Even the chairman of the National Green Tribunal praised the Saligao GTP when he visited it earlier this year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-mla-to-file-defamation-suit-against-ex-lokayukta/articleshow/78522649.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||Over 30K migrated from Rudraprayag in last 10 years||Dehradun: To strengthen the socio-economic development and reduce migration in rural areas of Rudraprayag, the Rural Development and Migration Commission on Tuesday handed over a report on the district to state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. After going through the details, the CM said that there is a need to draw the attention of people towards the prominent tourist locations and religious places. He also advocated to promote women self-help groups by imparting training related to skill development. According to the Rural Development and Migration Commission, in the last 10 years, a total of 22,735 people have temporarily migrated from 316 villages of Rudraprayag. In the same duration, as many as 7,835 people permanently migrated from the district. Around 40% of the migrated people are in the age bracket of 26 to 35 years. According to the 2011 census, the total population of Rudraparayg is 2.42 lakh, out of which 80% live in rural areas. The report further states that the population of Ukhimath block has increased by 11% and the population of Augustmuni block has decreased by 2%. The per capita income of district Rudraprayag in the year 2016-17 on basis of provisional estimates of state domestic product is at Rs 83,521. The per capita income of Rudraprayag and Tehri districts is lower than other hilly districts, adds the report. Also, Rudraprayag's Human Development Index is lower than other hilly districts. Out of a total of 688 villages of the district, 653 are inhabited and 35 are uninhabited. The commission suggested that a framework should be prepared for economic development at the block level. Besides the ongoing homestay project, the commission also recommended a tourism development plan for the district. It has suggested the promotion of the agri sector, horticulture, medium and small industries in the district. “Rudraprayag holds great potential. Through our Swarozgar Yojana, we are encouraging youth to start their own work. Instructions have been given to district authorities to encourage and help people who show interest in the project,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-30k-migrated-from-rudraprayag-in-last-10-years/articleshow/78521356.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 7, 2020||Goa||Goans to bombard Javadekar with objections||PANAJI: After Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar’s assertion that he has not received any memorandum objecting to the three projects through Mollem forests, citizen groups have decided to bombard the minister’s social media accounts with their objections. The move to bombard Javadekar and even MLAs was also seen being recommended by Chicalim parish priest Fr Bolmax Pereira at a service, a video of which is being widely shared by citizens. “You all know that you have emailed memorandums about the three projects to the MoEF&CC. Either they have really not received it or they have received but not even opened it. Whatever may be the case, you all need to send this email again. This time please add a line ‘kindly acknowledge this email’. And till the time you do not get an acknowledgement, keep sending the email,” Pereira says in the video. “In the past four months, thousands of citizens, experts and even politicians have written repeatedly to both, their local MLAs and to the Union minister, who claims not to have received any of the official letters addressed to him. Letters that were made available publicly and that are easily accessible to anyone who wants to read them,” reads one message being circulated by citizens’ groups, along with email addresses of Goa’s 40 MLAs. The appeal asks citizens to send their objections to the MLAs in large numbers. “Even better, meet your MLA. Take a print out of this letter and meet your MLA and explain the matter to him. Share a photo. Tweet away to the Union Minister, our CM, state forest minister, your MLA and other official handles. Don’t forget to tag us on Twitter @savemollemgoa. Hold a Placard that says: Raise My Mollem Questions. Stop Passing the Buck,” the appeal reads. The appeal under ‘Save Mollem’ states that Goa environment minister Nilesh Cabral had assured citizens in early September that he would write to Javadekar regarding the Mollem projects. “This leaves citizens asking whether Cabral followed through on his word,” the appeal reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-to-bombard-javadekar-with-objections/articleshow/78522658.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana police stations get tents for public dealing||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police have started installing tents at police stations for public dealing. The police department has purchased tents for all 30 police stations. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal says the step aims at checking the spread of coronavirus.  “Tents have been purchased for all the police stations and are being installed. But it does not mean that no one will be allowed to enter a police station complex. The tent facility is an option provided to the cops for routine public dealing,” Agarwal says. “Generally, it is observed that a group of people accompany one complainant and create a rush inside a room. We want to minimize the number of people coming in contact with cops. Those accompanying a complaint will be asked to remain outside the complex. One of two cops can go and talk to the complaint. The facility of tables and chairs has also been provided in the tents. It is up to the cops. They can deal with people in the tent or inside the complex as per their convenience,” he adds. Earlier, the CP had stated that specific infrastructure will be provided in police stations, like glass walls so that cops can sit on one side of the wall and the complainants on the other. However, the plan could not be executed as it was too costly. “Infrared thermometers and sanitizers, including foot-operated sanitizer stands, have already been provided to all the police stations and posts,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-police-stations-get-tents-for-public-dealing/articleshow/78521355.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh format to be decided in Dec, Rs 35 crore allotted for disposal of legacy waste at Haridwar, Rishikesh||Dehradun: Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the preparation works for the Kumbh 2021 are underway in full swing and after consultation with akhadas and the seers, the state government will take a call on the format of the religious congregation in December this year. The state government on Tuesday announced that it will allocate a whopping Rs 35 crore for the immediate disposal of legacy waste in Haridwar and Rishikesh. The tender would be floated soon and the work is expected to get over by December. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that a budget of Rs 35 crore has been allocated for the immediate disposal of “legacy” garbage lying at Haridwar and Rishikesh for the past many years. “Similarly, we have directed the authorities to ensure that garbage was not left open or littered during (or after) the Kumbh fair,” the CM said. Meanwhile, the chief secretary has been directed to hold weekly review meetings to check progress of the ongoing projects at Haridwar and Rishikesh. The entire Kumbh area is being divided into 23 sectors and special thrust is being given on cleanliness and health sector. While a Covid-19 Care Centre of 1,000 beds will be built at Haridwar, a total of 493 doctors would be deployed for Kumbh duty. CM Rawat also called for a special training for all the dharamshala, ashram, and hotel owners, and management staff to train them on the DOs and DON'Ts in view of Covid-19. “With the required inputs and assistance from the trader organisations, the encroachments should be removed in Haridwar,” the CM said. In the next few days, the CM will preside over another meeting to discuss finer points related to the preparations. Urban development minister Madan Kaushik said that though the format of the Kumbh would be decided in December in consultation with the Akhara members and saints, the state government is going ahead with our preparations. “We are not waiting for the last minute and the preparations are being done on a grand scale so that there is no problem in handling a big crowd if the Covid-19 situation improved by February next year,” said Kaushik. The minister pointed out that there are 107 ghats in Haridwar and on a given day, around 35 lakh-to-50 lakh people are expected to take bath in Ganga river in the holy city during Kumbh. “Be it any project related to cleanliness or any temporary/permanent work, we have set the deadline of December to complete all these projects,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-format-to-be-decided-in-dec-rs-35-crore-allotted-for-disposal-of-legacy-waste-at-haridwar-rishikesh/articleshow/78521368.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 7, 2020||Trichy||BDU extends last date for UG and PG admissions||Trichy: Bharathidasan University has extended the admission process to fill up vacant seats in affiliated colleges and university departments. Candidates can apply for undergraduate courses till October 15 and postgraduate courses till October 31. While seats have been filled with the received applications, some of the departments in the university as well as in affiliated colleges have seats vacant. Though July 31 was fixed as the last date to submit online applications initially, it was extended to August 20, which has now been further extended. Registrar G Gopinath said the decision was taken following requests from college principals and university department heads on filling vacant seats. “We also received request from students, especially in the rural areas, who could not send their online applications on time over technical issues,” he said. The extension will also help candidates wanting to join postgraduate courses. Candidates are provisionally admitted to PG courses since end semester results for the undergraduate courses are yet to announced. Since the results are expected in a week, institutions will be able to make proper admissions, said the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-extends-last-date-for-ug-and-pg-admissions/articleshow/78524091.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||NABARD ties up with SBI for credit support||Ahmedabad: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) on Monday inked three MOUs with public sector lender, State Bank of India (SBI), to extend credit support for various NABARD projects. The signing of MoUs took place between D K Mishra, chief general manager, NABARD, and Dukhbandhu Rath, chief general manager, SBI Ahmedabad Circle, on Monday in the presence of NABARD chairman, G R Chintala. The MoUs were signed for financing joint liability groups and self-help groups; support credit inflows to Farmer Producers’ Organisation (FPOs); and economic support for watershed development projects. “With these three MOUs, we aim to make credit support available to the ones those who need it to the most,” said the SBI in a statement. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nabard-ties-up-with-sbi-for-credit-support/articleshow/78522666.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||Guleli body denies NOC for IIT wall||VALPOI: In a meeting held on Tuesday, Guleli panchayat decided not to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) for constructing a compound wall for the proposed IIT project. The villagers, mostly women, came out in large numbers to squat outside the panchayat office in anticipation of the meeting’s outcome. The crowd dispersed only after being informed that the panchayat had rejected the NOC request. Panch member Arjun Melekar said that the panchayat had received a letter seeking NOC. “The panchayat has rejected the request and will reply that it cannot grant the NOC due to strong objection from the villagers,” he said. Melekar said that six of the seven panch members were present at the meeting. Convenor of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shashikant Savordekar said that panch members have informed the villagers that the panchayat had rejected the IIT file. Co-convenor Shubham Shivolkar said that villagers expressed happiness with the panchayat’s stand. “This is just one step towards victory. We will continue our fight till we get our land rights and hope that the project doesn’t come up in the village,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guleli-body-denies-noc-for-iit-wall/articleshow/78522664.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Agitation for a cause or bid to derail reforms in energy sector?||Lucknow: Was the strike by power department employees, which was later joined by UPPCL officers to protest against the proposed privatization of Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL), an attempt to derail the reforms initiated to change the work culture of the loss-making power sector?The agitation was called off on Tuesday evening following an agreement between the energy minister and employees but a section of officials in UPPCL and the government are baffled over the strike call on an issue which is only at the stage of discussion. The state government has not yet taken any stand on the issue and energy minister Shrikant Sharma is also not in a mood to rush for privatization.He himself has ordered inquiry against private companies in Noida and Agra for “fleecing consumers”.Sharma is known for his consumer-friendly approach and has been averse to frequent hikes in power tariff. He has not been in favour of hasty privatization of power discoms.Besides, the sudden U-turn by UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar, who is also the additional chief secretary (power), on Monday evening when he reportedly declined to approve the agreement signed between the energy minister and agitating employees, created an uncomfortable situation.Talking to TOI, a director-level officer in UPPCL said: “If the chairman was not ready to sign the draft agreement to put off the proposed privatisation by another six months, he should have informed the minister in advance to save him from embarrassment before employees.”“In fact, the two-day strike is a bid to derail the reforms being introduced by the minister,” he added.Due to the pressure mounted by Sharma on the department to step up revenue recovery, the monthly collection has gone up to Rs 5,000 crore after lockdown which was Rs 1,500 more than pre-lockdown times.Also, pending dues of over Rs 15,000 crore on government departments, boards and corporations have been adjusted through a government guarantee. With this, the dues that the government owed to the UPPCL stand nil.Sharma has been on the target of various lobbies within the corporation. Tainted and incompetent officers, engineers and lower rung staff who have been given deadlines to bring down transmission and distribution losses have allegedly been targeting the minister.Stern measures initiated by Sharma to plug loopholes in the sector have also annoyed the owners of power plants, generator suppliers, billing companies and smart meter vendors.To minimise interface between consumers and UPPCL staff at power sub-stations to check harassment of public, Sharma introduced applications for meter connections and payment of bills through online mode.Soon after taking over, Sharma had cancelled nearly half-a-dozen power purchase agreements (PPAs) signed during the Samajwadi Party government as inflated tariff was being charged.Due to the cancellation of PPAs with private power plants, UPPCL has been paying Rs 5,500 crore every year as cancellation charge to save Rs 15,000 crore – the cost of inflated PPAs.In another setback to private players, Sharma had recently halted installation of smart meters after thousands of houses plunged into darkness on Janmashtami due to mass tripping of metres.Despite repeated reminders, neither the SIT nor STF has handed over inquiry report to the minister. Lakhs of smart meters have been found faulty. Sharma has ordered an inquiry to find out why the UPPCL officials did not check the viability of smart meters.Officials said that at a time when the state is generating sufficient power, the demand-supply gap is narrowing and rural areas are getting 14-hour supply for agriculture works, the unprovoked strike by UPPCL staff might have dampened the minister’s reform campaign but he would remain undeterred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agitation-for-a-cause-or-bid-to-derail-reforms-in-energy-sector/articleshow/78524550.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Four Covid deaths, 84 cases in Wardha||WARDHA: The district recorded four deaths due to coronavirus, 84 new positive patients and 88 recoveries on Tuesday. The deceased comprise a 35-year-old woman, two men (aged 27 and 66) from Wardha and a 55-year-old man from Selu, taking the toll to 147. 84 (50 men and 34 women) tested positive out of the 428 test reports. The patients are from Wardha (46), Hinganghat (12), Deoli (10), Selu (8), Arvi (3), Karanja and Samudrapur (2 each), and Ashti (1). The caseload of district reached 5,094 and patients undergoing treatment are 2,044. The total patients who have been discharged after recovery are 2,903.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-covid-deaths-84-cases-in-wardha/articleshow/78524099.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 7, 2020||Mangaluru||6 DK residents held for using fake cheques in Andhra scam||Mangaluru: The Anti-Corruption Bureau of Andhra Pradesh police arrested six persons from Dakshina Kannada in connection with the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) scam, wherein miscreants made attempts to withdraw Rs 117 crore using three fake cheques. The arrested are Moodbidri resident Yogish Acharya, 40; Udaya Shetty Kantavara, 35; Brijesh Rai, a resident of Mangaluru; Belthangady resident Gangadhara and two others. A case had been registered at the Thulluru police station in Andhra Pradesh, based on the complaint filed by P Murali Kirshna Rao, assistant secretary, revenue department. The case was registered in September. The arrested persons created fake cheques that looked like real ones, and tried to deposit it in the bank. The massive fraud transactions were stopped when bank officials suspected something fishy, when the cheques were produced at the bank. The bank immediately contacted officials in Andhra Pradesh, and learnt it was a scam. Meanwhile, all transactions of the AP CMRF account have been suspended. It is alleged that the scamsters forged cheques sanctioned to three people to withdraw Rs 117 crore. Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy directed ACB officials to get to the root of the scam and unearth details. The fraudsters tried to withdraw money in Mangaluru, West Bengal and Delhi. According to Mangaluru police sources, arrested accused Yogish Acharya had allegedly tried to deposit a Rs 52 crore cheque at State Bank of India in Moodbidri. However, the fraudulent transaction was stopped and he was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/6-dk-residents-held-for-using-fake-cheques-in-andhra-scam/articleshow/78520240.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Nine deaths for 2nd straight day in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: The district recorded 9 deaths again on Tuesday, of which 6 are from the city while 2 are from Kalamb and one is from Wani. There were 56 new positive patients, of whom 33 are men and 23 women. There were 39 new positive patients in the city. Sources said there are a total of 204 active cases, while 232 are in the isolation wards. In total, 8,818 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the district so far. Other details couldn't be gathered as the civil surgeon does not seem to be cooperating. There is no data from her office since last Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nine-deaths-for-2nd-straight-day-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78524101.cms||---
October 7, 2020||India||Cinemas to reopen from Oct 15 with 50% capacity||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday gave the green light to cinemas to reopen from October 15 and issued directives such as running at 50% capacity, physical distancing in common areas, use of masks, and easy availability of sanitisers in touch-free mode at entry and exit points. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar released the SOPs on Tuesday and said , would ensure that even as the business of film exhibition resumes, it is done keeping in mind all safety protocols. While cinemas in containment zones will remain shut, the government has allowed states and UTs to add extra measures in their respective regions. The guidelines mandate adequate physical distancing of at least 6ft outside auditoriums, common areas and waiting areas at all times, the use of face masks, and mandatory availability of hand sanitisers, preferably in the touch-free mode, at entry and exit points and common areas inside the premises. While the use of Aarogya Setu app has not been made mandatory, the SOPs advise its installation and use. Javadekar also said online booking of tickets will be encouraged, but box office would be open for single-screen theatres. "Proper ventilation has to be ensured and temperature setting of ACs should be above 23 degrees Celsius," he said. The new SOPs also bar overlap between start, finish or intermission time of films in multiplexes. They also mandate the collection of contact numbers of all those who book tickets to facilitate contact tracing. Box offices will remain open for ticketing throughout the day and advance booking will be allowed to avoid crowds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cinemas-to-reopen-from-oct-15-with-50-capacity/articleshow/78524904.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CAG lens on Infocity-II project||Bhubaneswar: The comptroller and auditor general (CAG) has hauled up the state government for its implementation of the Infocity-II project, a special economic zone (SEZ) near the capital to promote trade and business in information technology (IT) and electronics.  In its report on general and social sector for the year ended March 2018 that was tabled by finance minister Niranjan Pujari in the assembly on Tuesday, the auditor said delay in land acquisition, ineffective master plan and delay in framing an SEZ policy resulted in poor performance of the IT SEZ. The objective behind establishing the IT SEZ was to attract investment in the sector, to create 28,000 direct and indirect employment opportunities and to achieve export turnover of Rs 6,600 crore by 2019. The state government has invested Rs 150 crore for the development of the IT SEZ. “As of March 2018, only 50.92 acres of the 262.57 acres of land could be leased out only to one business house – which is 19.39% of the total area. Against the target of registering export figure of Rs 6,600 crore, the same stood at Rs 508.18 crore, which is about 7.70%,” the CAG observed. It said only 1,520 employment avenues could be created (both direct and indirect) against the aim of 28,000 that is just about 5.43% of the target. Sources in the state electronics and IT department said Odisha’s total IT export is estimated to be around Rs 4,500 crore in the 2019-20 financial year. The CAG blamed the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Idco) that was responsible for the development of the IT SEZ. Though land measuring 262.57 acres for SEZ was alienated by October 2011, private land measuring 27.282 acres for external road linkage was acquired only by July 2015, it observed. Blaming the Idco for defective master plan, the auditor said in December 2013, Idco had engaged an international company at a cost of Rs 3.24 crore to prepare a master plan by July 2014. “The firm submitted the master plan in March 2016, with a delay of almost two years. The master plan was not accepted in view of the observation that it was not in sync with the comprehensive development plan of Bhubaneswar city. The state electronics and IT department had also observed that the master plan lacked in e-waste management plan,” the report stated. The CAG also slammed the Idco for delaying preparation of the SEZ policy outlining the nature and extent of tax exemption and other incentives to be granted by the state government to prospective IT companies. It said the government had brought out the SEZ policy in June 2015. The inordinate delay in framing the policy was one of the major hindrances in luring investors to the state, the report said, adding nine other states in India had already framed their SEZ policy by 2011. In its report, the auditor also observed a loss of Rs 2.23 crore due to non-realisation of dues from tenants, who were provided space at the OCAC building. It also noticed undue favour of Rs 2.32 crore to Cybertech Software Multimedia Limited (CSM) towards licence fee, which the CAG observed as ‘irregular’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cag-lens-on-infocity-ii-project/articleshow/78521416.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
October 7, 2020||Trichy||Farm bills fulfill aspirations of farmers: H Raja||Trichy: Former national secretary of BJP, H Raja, said that agriculture acts fulfill the long pending demands of farmer organisations and that the DMK-led opposition parties were feeding lies to the people. Speaking after a meeting with party cadres in Pudukottai on Tuesday, he said that people would see through the lies being spread by opposition parties. Raja said the acts gave the farmer the option of taking his produce to any part of the country and sell it. On being dropped from the post of party’s national secretary, he said that he had held the post for the past 6 years and the party would entrust him with some other responsibility. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farm-bills-fulfill-aspirations-of-farmers-h-raja/articleshow/78524106.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||NDDB to promote dairying in Ladakh, inks MoU with UT||Vadodara/ Anand: The Anand-headquartered National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) has signed an MoU with the administration of Ladakh to promote dairying and rural livelihoods in the newly formed union territory (UT). As per the understanding, NDDB will carry out a benchmark survey through which a road map to boost income of the rural population in the mountainous border areas through dairying will be prepared. “We (NDDB) are happy to support the efforts of the UT administration who have taken initiative for dairy development in the interest of milk producers in particular and the cooperative movement in general in Ladakh region,” said chairman of the dairy board, Dilip Rath. He further said that it has also offered managerial and technical support to promote producer-owned institutions that remain true to cooperative values. NDDB proposes to enumerate all households in the identified villages irrespective of their dairy animal holding status. Board officials will train nominated coordinators in Leh and Kargil districts, who, in turn, will identify village investigators to be involved in survey, monitoring and supervision of fieldwork. After completion of the field work over next two months, NDDB will prepare a roadmap for dairy development in the UT region taking into consideration crucial aspects like climatic conditions, suitability of breeds, animal health and artificial insemination support, feed and fodder availability, impediments in logistics and supply chain, marketing arrangements among others. “The preliminary findings and roadmap will be discussed with the stakeholders and post discussions a plan would be finalised and shared with the UT administration,” a release issued by NDDB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nddb-to-promote-dairying-in-ladakh-inks-mou-with-ut/articleshow/78521176.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Trichy||No safety for women under BJP rule, says Jothimani||Trichy: Karur MP S Jothimani staged satyagraha protest along with party workers in Karur on Tuesday seeking justice for the reported rape and murder of the teenage girl in Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. They gathered in front of the Gandhi statue in light house corner and condemned the manhandling of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi. Close to 50 party workers were wearing black mask holding placards while taking part in the protest till noon. Speaking after the protest, Jothimani said, there is no safety for women under the BJP rule where only male domination is prevalent. Rahul Gandhi has said that Congress will stand for the safety of every woman of the country. Meanwhile, neither PM Modi nor Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adithyanath has expressed regret over Hathras incident yet. We will carry such protest until victims get justice, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-safety-for-women-under-bjp-rule-says-jothimani/articleshow/78524114.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Trichy||‘Govt should procure paddy with up to 20% moisture from farmers’||Thanjavur: CPI state secretary R Mutharasan has appealed to the government to direct the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to procure paddy up to 20% moisture. Speaking to reporters in Thanjavur here on Tuesday, he said that after 10 years delta farmers have been getting good yield in the current kuruvai season. However, they suffer without adequate number of paddy procuring centres. “It is necessary to open additional centres wherever is required,” he said. “The moisture content of paddy is naturally high as it rains during the season. Therefore, paddy with a moisture content of up to 20% should be procured without delay,” he said.While stating about the farm bills passed in Parliament, he said it is not good for democracy to act arbitrarily, assuming that any law can be passed just because they have the majority. “Laws passed especially against farmers and labourers would severely affect them. That is why they are protesting against it fierce fully. However, the Prime Minister and his party members are justifying the laws. It is not fair,” he said.“The protests against the laws are continuing across the country and it will continue until it is withdrawn. CPI will hold a protest on October 12 in front of the Central and state government offices,” he added.“The incident in which a Dalit woman was raped and murdered by four persons from the dominant community has created widespread protest across the country. However, the Prime Minister's silence on this issue is condemnable. Similarly, the chief minister of Tamil Nadu also did not even express any condolence over the incident,” Mutharasan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-should-procure-paddy-with-up-to-20-moisture-from-farmers/articleshow/78524121.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: KMC may start lung tests to assess Covid impact on COPD patients||KOLKATA: Worried over the impact of Covid-19 patients having other lung-related ailments, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) is planning to introduce lung function tests at its chest clinics across the city. Currently, the KMC health department offers chest X-ray for COPD patients at its ward-wise clinics and supplies inhalers to those who need it. According to a KMC health department official, the demand for inhalers has increased to a great extent in the past six months amid a pandemic scare. “Going by the health conditions of some patients coming to our clinics in 144 wards and suffering from lung ailments, we have realized that we need to bring such patients under a mandatory lung function test and the facility should be available at select chest clinics across the city,” said a senior civic official. Some KMC medical officials conceded that they have witnessed a sudden spurt in the demand of inhalers and nebulizers at the ward-wise health clinics in the past four months. “We are taking extra care for those who have lung-related issues along with Covid-19 symptoms. We are doing mandatory chest X-rays for the patients with lung ailment. If we find an abnormal patch, we refer the patient for a mandatory Covid-19 test,” said a KMC health department official. Similarly, a demand for inhalers has also increased to manifold at the KMC clinics. Even the demand for vitamin capsules are also rising at the KMC health clinics, according to a KMC physician. However, in several clinics, particularly in north Kolkata, vitamin-C was not available in recent times, said a KMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-may-start-lung-tests-to-assess-covid-impact-on-copd-patients/articleshow/78522735.cms||Saikat Ray
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Thrown into the streets by Covid, they hawk goods to make ends meet||Nagpur: Every day Vishal Tiwari drives to a spot at Seminary Hills in his car, and sells pillows and steam inhalation machines by the roadside. Manager of a branded garment store at Empress Mall, he lost the job during lockdown. Around a fortnight ago, he set up a street shop as his savings were exhausted. “My first priority is to continue paying EMIs for the car. I will not let the car go at any cost, I had bought it on my mother’s birthday,” he says, admitting earnings from street vending were just enough to meet basic needs. “When my wife had fever, I was scared as there was no surplus money at home. She recovered,” he says. Kamlesh Sahu also parks his rickshaw near the LIT campus along the busy Amravati Road and sells masks. “People are avoiding rickshaw rides these days, so I decided to sell face masks,” he says. Sahu has been on Amravati Road since a month, and earns Rs200 to 300 a day, as against Rs700 driving an autorickshaw. Unable to pay the school fees for his daughter, her online classes have been discontinued for the current session. Recovery agents from the finance company are hounding him to pay EMIs for the rickshaw, he says. Sachin Topre has a diploma in mechanical engineering and was working in a company at Ahmedabad, drawing Rs40,000 a month. He had returned home to Nagpur on leave when the lockdown started, and was laid off. He now sells shoes and slippers at the Pachpaoli Bridge. “Had I known about the lockdown, I would not have invested my savings in building a house. Now, I have no option but to sell shoes here,” he says. From executives in finance companies to school van drivers, airlines employees, sports coaches to even shop assistants, all sorts of people have taken to the streets to earn a livelihood after they lost jobs during the lockdown. Despite a series of unlock measures, little has changed for many like them, who, as a last resort, have taken to street vending. With petty incomes, they struggle with financial distress each day, and also the fear of NMC’s anti-encroachment squads that hound them often. TOI drove down Amravati Road, Sadar, Divisional Commissioner’s office, and Pachpaoli bridge, coming across more than a dozen such street sellers. Each one had his story of financial struggles, but inability to pay rent, EMI or children’s fees were the common elements. Street vending just keeps them going, they said. At the divisional commissioner office campus, which is already full of hawkers, the older lot quickly guided this scribe toward the newcomers. Barely a week ago, Rajesh Dhule, who used to work in a pantry car on the Duronto Express, started a fruit shop in a corner along with this wife. The couple wants to buy a mobile phone so their daughter can also take up online classes. Amravati Road also has a number of new vendors selling garments, where Ankit Varti sells shoes with two cousins, one of them a sports coach and the other an airlines bus driver. Varti, a recovery executive at a NBFC, said, “There is always the threat of NMC teams; we flee when the squads come and set up shop again later.” The merchandize is purchased from local markets and sold at a margin of Rs50 to 100, they say. “There is huge demand from new vendors like us so even wholesalers have increased the rates,” said Topre, an engineer. Vijay, a handicapped vendor at Pachpaoli, was perhaps the exception, who said he was earning more selling masks than the earlier job at a lottery shop. Jammu Anand, president of Nagpur Path Vikreta Sangh, a footpath vendors association, said NMC should not be harsh on such persons and be sensitive towards their condition. “On one hand government has passed laws and other orders to help vendors, but the civic body continues to trouble them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thrown-into-the-streets-by-covid-they-hawk-goods-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/78522814.cms||Shishir Arya
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Covid safety drive for cabbies in Bidhannagar||KOLKATA: Around 120 app cab operators and pre-paid taxi drivers participated in a sensitisation programme organized by the Bidhannagar police commissionerate on Tuesday. At the programme, cops stressed on sanitization and safety measures during Durga Puja with a special emphasis on the safety of women. Uber announced a partnership with Bidhannagar police on Tuesday to make urban mobility safer during the pandemic as they are taking a slew of safety and hygiene measures for drivers and passengers in various modes of transport. “We highlighted the need to wear masks not only for drivers but also for passengers. We also made them aware that under no circumstances, they should take more than two passengers. If drivers fail to enforce social distancing inside their cars, they can be penalised,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner (traffic) of Bidhannagar City police. Under the partnership, Uber will conduct socially-distanced in-person educational sessions on Covid-19 safety protocols for cabbies. After the session, Bidhannagar police will issue them certificates that will be displayed in their cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-safety-drive-for-cabbies-in-bidhannagar/articleshow/78522792.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Trichy||Farmers block IOC pipeline work over crop||Trichy: Farmers blocked the laying of pipeline along the paddy field near Thiruverumbur on Tuesday alleging that Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) authorities carried out the work ignoring that they had raised samba paddy crop. Farmers from Theneerpatti have raised samba paddy on around 800 acres. IOC has a pumping terminal at Vazhavanthankottai near Theneerpatti. At present, they are laying pipeline to bring fuel from Ennore. The new line would be connected with the already completed portion of Trichy-Madurai line, sources said. The corporation had already completed the required legal procedure to dig pit along the agriculture land in Theneerpatti and the compensation had also been disbursed to the land owners. But, farmers commenced samba paddy cultivation well in advance. On knowing that earthmovers are being used to dig the pits on the paddy field, farmers rushed to the spot and stopped the work. IOC authorities arrived at the spot and accepted the farmers’ appeal and agreed to wait till the harvest is over, sources said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-block-ioc-pipeline-work-over-crop/articleshow/78524129.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||SC notice to Centre on PIL seeking rescue of workers||HYDERABAD: The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought response from the Centre, CBI and 12 states, including Telangana, on a PIL seeking directions to set up a mechanism to bring back Indian workers who have lost their passports in Gulf countries and implement policies framed for their welfare. A three-judge bench comprising Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose issued notices to the Ministry of Home Affairs, the CBI as also Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other states.Advocate Sravan Kumar, appearing for the petitioner P Basanth Reddy, told the court that Indian Embassies in many cases are not working proactively and not adopting any effective measure to bring back the workers as it is being done by other countries. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by Basanth Reddy Patkuri, president of Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association, who has also sought guidelines to help Indian citizens visiting other countries for employment who are cheated by agents and employer. The plea has also sought directions to bring bodies of Indian citizens from Gulf countries and bring Indian workers who are doing forced labour or have lost their passports in Gulf countries.It has also sought legal aid for the 44 Indians facing a death sentence and 8,189 Indian workers lodged in jails of Gulf countries."A large number of Indians from the respondent states are going/gone to the Gulf and other countries for doing jobs as labour, drivers, helpers, salespersons, domestic workers etc. Most of the workers are uneducated or under-educated. “That the illegal agents send the workers on tourist visa promising job in Gulf countries but after reaching foreign countries, they were either sent back or sold to the local agents. Due to that, all the details of Indian workers are not available with the government,” the plea said. Agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-seeking-rescue-of-workers/articleshow/78522791.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Varanasi||Faults rectified, Anpara units start functioning||VARANASI: All five units of UP Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited’s Anpara Thermal Power Plant, which had tripped on Monday morning, finally became operational at 4am on Tuesday. The tripped units started operating one by one after the plant employees, who had gone on work boycott in support of PVVNL employees’ agitation, resumed their duties in late evening. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, the UPRVUNL-ATPPs chief general manager HP Singh said, “All three units of 210 MW each and two of 500 MW each of the plant, which had tripped at 9.30am on Monday due to damage in Pipari line, have become operational by 4am.” Despite the tall claims regarding keeping the work at power plants unaffected by the boycott of agitating employees, no serious efforts could be made to repair the damage till late evening. After the plant employees resumed their work in the evening the repair work were started and the tripped units were made operational one by one, said the officials. Tripping of five power generation units of Anpara- A and B projects had stopped production of 1630 MW. Due to it only one unit of 500 MW remained operational at Anparad D. The seventh unit of Anpara project is lying defunct for a year, said Singh addinh that due to the defunct unit, against the total capacity of 2,630 MW, the project was producing only 2,130 MW power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/faults-rectified-anpara-units-start-functioning/articleshow/78524125.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Raidurgam: Servants sedate family, make away with Rs 15 lakh and valuables||HYDERABAD: A gang of thieves decamped with Rs 15 lakh and other valuables from a businessman’s house in Raidurgam by posing as domestic helpers and serving the family members food laced with sedatives for dinner. The incident took place at G Madhu Sudhan Reddy’s house in BNR Hills, Raidurgam. Around 10 months ago, Rajender alias Ravi from Nepal began working as domestic help at Reddy’s house. According to the police, Ravi got his sister Seetha, their associate Manoj and his wife Janaki employed in the house as domestic helpers about a fortnight ago. “The servants were staying in the servant’s quarters in the cellar of the house. On Monday night, Ravi and his associates laced the food with sedatives. As Sailaja ate chapatis that were not laced with the sedatives, she woke up earlier than the others and realised that the four servants and the valuables were missing,” police said. Police said that the family’s driver Srinivas had also fallen unconscious. The family members and the driver have been admitted to a hospital and are said to be out of danger. Madhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu said that the accused took away cell phones of the family members and dumped them in another place. The accused also took away digital video recorders of the CCTV cameras. “We are verifying the nearby CCTV camera footage. Our teams were sent to railway stations in the city and one team has gone to Nepal border,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/servants-sedate-family-make-away-with-rs-15l-valuables/articleshow/78522829.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Trichy||13 more procurement centres for paddy to open in Pudukottai||Trichy: Total 13 additional paddy procurement centres will be opened in Pudukottai district following the demand from farmers waiting for their Kuruvai produce to be procured.There are total 16 government paddy procurement centres in the state, which are opened after October 10 every year, for procurement of paddy grains. This year, farmers could harvest ahead of season and are waiting for the government for procurement.As farmers expressed concern on damage to their produce if not procured on time, Tamil Nadu civil supplies corporation (TNCSC) decided to open procurement centres in 13 more places. Most of the new procurement centres will be opened in Karambakudi and Gandharvakottai block and it will help over 12,000 farmers in the region. According to senior staffs from TNCSC, every procurement center will procure an average of 1,000 bags per day weighing 40 kg each bag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/13-more-procurement-centres-for-paddy-to-open-in-pudukottai/articleshow/78524130.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Trichy||Last date extended to fill RTE seats||Trichy: School education department has extended the last date to fill vacant seats set apart in private, unaided non-minority schools under the right to education Act. This year, 86,318 applications were received against 1,15,673 RTE seats across the state. While the admission process got over a few days ago leaving significant number of seats vacant, the government has extended the admission process to fill them. The portal for the submission of online applications will open on October 12 and filled-in applications can be uploaded till November 7. The respective schools will display names of eligible applicants on November 11. Schools which receive more applications than the remaining seats will go for random selection on November 12 and name of the selected candidate will be displayed at the school and school education department on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/last-date-extended-to-fill-rte-seats/articleshow/78524139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Varanasi||Dhananjay to contest Malhani bypoll as independent after BJP denies ticket||VARANASI: The bypoll on Malhani assembly seat is poised for an interesting and intense contest with all eyes focused on Bharatiya Janata Party and muscleman politician Dhananjay Singh now. Samajwadi Party has fielded Lucky Yadav, son of late Parasnath Yadav, while Bahujan Samaj Party decided to play Brahmin card by putting J P Dubey in fray for the November 3 byelection. Sitting MLA Parasnath had died in June following prolonged illness. There were reports of BJP giving ticket to Dhananjay, but a candidate list went viral on social media showing turncoat Panini Singh as candidate. BJP denied the reports and said it will finalize its candidate in three-four days. Dhananjay, meanwhile, has started preparations to contest as an independent. BSP was the first to announce party candidate when state chief Munkad Ali declared Dubey’s name at a function in Jaunpur on October 2. SP on Monday declared late Parasnath’s son Lucky Yadav as its candidate from the seat. On Sunday, a list of BJP candidates for state bypolls went viral on social media, showing Panini Singh, who contested 2012 elections on BSP ticket, as candidate from Malhani, but BJP Kashi region president Mahesh Chand Srivastava termed it fake. Srivastava told TOI, “Our candidate list will be out in three-four days. Panini Singh is among the ticket claimants but his name has not been finalized.” On reports of BJP fielding Dhananjay, Srivastava said Nishad Party had been pressing to field him but the party leadership rejected the proposal. When TOI contacted Dhananjay on Tuesday, he said, “I am going to contest as an independent candidate. The preparations are in full swing.” He refused that he sought a BJP ticket and said the Nishad Party had been trying to get him fielded as ruling party candidate. Dhananjay’s entry as independent makes the Malhani bypoll a high voltage election. The muscleman politician had won 2002 assembly elections from Rari seat in Jaunpur as independent candidate and retained it in 2007 on JD(U) ticket. In 2009, he ensured victory of his father from the seat while he joined BSP and won parliamentary election from Jaunpur. When he was expelled from BSP in 2012 and the Rari seat was dissolved, Dhananjay fielded his wife Jagriti from Malhani against Parasnath, but she lost to him, while Panini secured third position as BSP candidate after BJP candidate Pramod Yadav’s nomination was cancelled. In 2017, Dhananjay, who has 37 criminal cases pending against him besides being booked under Gangsters Act four times between 1996 and 2013, contested as Nishad Party candidate but Parasnath proved mightier. BSP’s Vivek Yadav came third with over 46,000 votes while BJP’s Satish Singh was fourth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dhananjay-to-contest-malhani-bypoll-as-independent-after-bjp-denies-ticket/articleshow/78524156.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court speeds up hearing in defamation plaint against RG||Ahmedabad: After the Gujarat high court’s instructions to lower courts to speed up cases against MPs and MLAs, the metropolitan court has fixed October 8 for hearing on the defamation case against former president of the Indian National Congress, Rahul Gandhi.The court had held proceedings on Tuesday, but adjourned it for two more days at the request of the complainant. This case was filed against Gandhi last year by a BJP councillor, Krishnavadan Brahmbhatt, for the Wayanad MP’s comment on union home minister Amit Shah during a rally in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh ahead of the 2019 general elections. Gandhi had reportedly called Shah “murder accused” referring to the 2015 Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. The defamation plaint was filed saying Shah had been discharged much earlier and he could not be called a murder accused.Gandhi had pleaded not guilty in this case and obtained bail from the court.Sources said that the court on Monday issued notice to both parties – Gandhi and Brahmbhatt – and posted a hearing for Tuesday. The one-day notice for hearing caught the complainant unawares. He sought time from the court saying the senior advocate he had hired, S V Raju, has been appointed additional solicitor general by the central government. He said that he would need time to engage another lawyer. Gandhi is also facing another defamation case filed by the Ahmedabad District Cooperative Bank and its chairman, Ajay Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-speeds-up-hearing-in-defamation-plaint-against-rg/articleshow/78522890.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Missing girl reunited with family in Medak after seven years||HYDERABAD: Seven years after she was ‘lost’ in Hyderabad, a 17-year-old girl had an emotional reunion with her family in Medak on Tuesday, days after she shared details of her home and family with authorities. The girl was handed over to the members of her family, who hail from Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh, after they recognised her and she too identified them. The girl’s father Israel, who hails from Vemulapadu village in Hanmanthulapadu mandal in Prakasam district, has four daughters and the ‘lost and found’ girl was the youngest. The family had come to attend a function in the city on August 4, 2014 and that was when she went missing somewhere around Qutbullapur. The family told officials that they had lodged a complaint with the police too, but she could not be traced. Officials of the women and child welfare department, who found the girl, had shifted her to Bethany Samrakshana Ashram. “The girl did not open up about her family all these years. No child is forced or pressurised to do that until the child feels comfortable to talk,” Medak district welfare officer, women and child welfare department, Rasul Bee said. The girl took almost seven years to remember and give details about her family. A fortnight ago, she said she was keen to see her family and gave details. Since the girl had opened up, officials of the women and child welfare department in AP were contacted and asked to verify if the names and address that the girl gave were that of her family. With this confirmed, the family came to Medak to take her along with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-girl-reunited-with-family-after-seven-years/articleshow/78522896.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Tax at source leaves jewellers in woe||AHMEDABAD: The imposition of 0.075% tax collection at source (TCS) from October 1, has left jewellers and gold traders staring at severe working capital crunch, amid an already slowed business. According to analysts and industry experts, the implementation will prove detrimental for small bullion traders and jewellers. Explaining the impact, Surendra Mehta, national secretary, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association, said, “The implementation of TCS will clearly mean that small bullion traders and jewellers who operate on wafer-thin margins will have to shell out more money towards tax payments than their profit and that too at the time of making transactions. At the current price of gold, the margin would be roughly Rs 1,500 per kg whereas the tax liability would be nearly double the amount. Moreover, it will take at least an average of 18 months to get refunded.” “This will cause our working capital to get blocked, making it difficult to do business. If the government wants to charge, they might as well impose an additional tax on the import of gold itself,” Mehta said. Industry players said that such a move will encourage procurement of gold through unofficial channels which will ultimately hit the exchequer. Jewellers still operate with a certain profit-margin so they will have some cushion against the tax collection at source. However, the smaller players and those into jobwork will be greatly affected according to industry stakeholders. “Jewellery demand has already taken a big hit in 2020 in the wake of the constant rise in prices followed by the lockdown. Ever since unlock has begun, the demand has failed to pick up in the wake of high prices and income shortfall faced by people. During such times, this decision will not just hurt revenues of jewellers but also increase the compliance burden,” said Jigar Soni, vice-president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “Lakhs of artisans are dependent on the gems and jewellery sector for their livelihood and this will be impacted because of working capital shortage faced by small jewellers and jewellery making units, in addition to slack demand,” Soni further went on to say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tax-at-source-leaves-jewellers-in-woe/articleshow/78522862.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Better home treatment easing pressure on hosps||Nagpur: While sharp fall in daily detection of new cases has been observed, the bed occupancy rate (BOR) too has drastically dipped across government medical colleges and private hospitals in the city and outskirts. As of Tuesday, both GMCs, which even a few days ago were hard-pressed to accommodate a single patient, had over 400 vacant beds collectively in their Covid hospitals. Similar is the case with private hospitals where suddenly the bed occupancy rate has dipped. Government as well as private doctors observed that acceptance of the disease, overcoming panic reaction, confident family physicians and general practitioners were keeping mild symptomatic patients at home and treating Covid-19 in a normal way. They said Covid patients are no more stigmatized while the affected persons themselves are not panicking. Doctors said they were coming across even symptomatic patients following Covid treatment regimen without getting tested. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said the fall in number of severe patients is major factor. “Besides, the community is developing immunity,” he said. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey said the number of patients preferring home isolation had increased. “Another reason is increased bed availability. Earlier, only government medical colleges were treating Covid patients. Number of cases, critical patients and death too are down,” Dr Pandey said. ENT specialist Dr Samir Choudhary said people have overcome the fear and hence did not insist on hospitalization. “General practitioners are treating them. We are seeing many examples where people with strong immunity are getting cured with pain killers and antibiotics prescribed by family physician. General practitioners are also now well aware of the treatment protocol,” he said. Dr Choudhary added that society had stopped stigmatizing the disease. Pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat too said the fear among people was over and also infection had reduced. “People prefer to stay at home as many are getting cured. It is giving good results and is pocket friendly too. We have about 150 patients who got cured through home care packages at minimal cost,” he said. Dr Arbat said there were other reasons too like more Covid hospitals. “Covid is not a very dangerous disease. We can say the administration was not prepared,” he said. Kamptee’s Lifeline Hospital director Dr Tameem Fazil said awareness among people had increased. “All our 70 beds were occupied in entire September. Now, we have just 34 Covid patients,” he said. Chest physician Dr Vikrant Deshmukh said with experience, people realized not everyone needed admission. “People who are aware have understood this. Herd immunity could be one reason. With more unlocking, cases will continue to surface. But if anyone has Covid symptoms, they need early treatment to prevent complications. Critical care physician Dr Rajan Barokar said with more than one member testing positive, families prefer online consultation. “Medicines are prescribed over video consultation and if any indication is seen, the doctor advises admission. Our Covid ICU is full but beds in ward for mild to moderate patient are freeing up,” said Dr Barokar, who is head, department of Critical Care Medicine at Kingsway Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/better-home-treatment-easing-pressure-on-hosps/articleshow/78522898.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 7, 2020||India||Daily tally 72K, lowest since Aug 25 barring Mondays||Fresh Covid-19 cases in the country climbed back to over 70,000 after falling below 60,000 on Monday but the numbers remained lower than those reported through most of last week. However, the death toll on Tuesday, at 980, was the highest reported in the last four days. India reported 72,552 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall Covid-19 caseload to over 67.5 lakh, as per numbers collated from state governments. Barring Mondays, this was the lowest daily case count since August 25. The daily tally falls to anomalously low levels on Mondays, due to lower testing and manpower shortages over the weekend. The number of active cases continued to fall because of the low count of fresh cases and high recoveries. Active cases fell by nearly 9,000 on Tuesday to less than 9.2 lakh. Recoveries rose to over 57.3 lakh, accounting for 84.9% of all cases. The country's total death toll stood at 1,04,515. Maharashtra reported 12,258 new cases on Tuesday and 370 deaths, taking the total caseload to 14,65,911 and deaths to 38,717. The fatalities reported on Tuesday were significantly higher than the 263 deaths reported on Monday. For the fourth consecutive day, the daily tally of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai dropped. On Tuesday, the city registered 1,625 cases - lowest in 28 days and a drop of over 10% from the previous day tally of 1,813. However, Mumbai municipal corporation (BMC) officials were being guarded in their optimism. A BMC official said the pandemic situation would be seen to be stabilising only if the falling trend holds for another week or so. Karnataka reported 9,993 new cases, up sharply from Monday's 7,051. The day also saw the number of recoveries overtaking new positive cases, with 10,228 patients getting discharged. Bengaluru reported a record 5,012 cases on Tuesday. The city also recorded as many as 34 out of total 91 deaths in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-tally-72k-lowest-since-aug-25-barring-mondays/articleshow/78524913.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vijayawada||SC: No one answer to debate over medium of instruction||VIJAYAWADA: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said there is no one answer to the debate whether the medium of instruction should be English or vernacular languages. The apex court was hearing a petition filed by the Andhra Pradesh government challenging the high court verdict that set aside the decision to introduce English as the instruction medium right from the primary level. The court said the foundation of children’s learning will be strong if the medium of instruction is in their mother tongue. Arguing for the state government, senior counsel KV Viswanathan told the bench comprising Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, Justice AS Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian that 96% parents in the state when their children to study in English medium. The state counsel said that students from poor backgrounds and backward communities who cannot afford to study in private schools and are aspiring to get good education in government schools with English as the medium of instruction. Presently, the state counsel said, they are finding it difficult to compete with students who have studied English medium schools. Citing his own example, Viswanathan said that his classmates who studied in vernacular language had to face problems in the latter stages of their career. However, the bench disagreed with the argument and said it was not correct to say those who study in vernacular languages cannot speak English properly. “A student can learn any language after school and develop the art of speaking. There are studies that (show) a student will learn to his maximum potential when the medium of instruction is the mother tongue,” the bench said. The bench cited examples of countries like China, Germany and France where the medium of instruction is in the mother tongue. “It is the case in most developed countries unlike in India where the medium of instruction is through a foreign language,” the apex court bench said. Posting the matter for further hearing next week, the Supreme Court bench said they are not going to decide the case based on statistics and that the government’s view need not be the only view on the subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sc-no-one-answer-to-debate-over-medium-of-instruction/articleshow/78523452.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Promised a chopper ride, Amarnath yatri taken horseback; wins Rs 10,000 relief||BENGALURU: A senior citizen who paid for a helicopter trip to Amarnath temple but was forced to ride horseback and sustained a leg injury after a fall has sued his tour operator. A Bengaluru consumer court has ordered the firm’s proprietor to pay him a compensation of Rs 10,000 for the agony caused. Ramamurthynagar resident S Ramakrishna, 69, was planning to embark on the Amarnath Yatra and came across a pamphlet bearing the name of Shankar Tours and Travels, run by M Shankar of Jinkethimmanahalli in east Bengaluru. The firm offered an attractive package. Ramakrishna contacted Shankar in mid-2019 and booked a trip from July 8 to July 23, 2019 after paying Rs 21,000, including Rs 5,000 for a helicopter ride from Baltal to the shrine. Being a senior citizen, Ramakrishna was relying on the chopper ride promised by the Bengaluru tour operator. But much to his shock, he was forced to mount a horse on reaching Baltal. With no means to get to his destination, Ramakrishna got on the horse with immense difficulty but fell off en route. He was admitted to a military hospital in Kashmir following a leg injury. The Bengalurean claimed the tour organisers didn’t bother about his condition and he had to foot the medical bill and return to the city. Even after getting back, Ramakrishna’s leg continued to trouble him. He contacted tour operator Shankar to express displeasure about the promised chopper ride, but the latter didn’t give a convincing reply. Unhappy with the service, Ramakrishna approached the Bangalore IV additional district consumer disputes redressal commission on December 23, 2019 with a complaint against Shankar. Ramakrishna’s lawyer produced documents, including payment receipts for the trip, but the opposite party failed to turn up in court despite notices being issued. At the end of the proceedings, which lasted a little over nine months, the judges ruled in favour of the senior citizen, citing the hardship he was subjected to during the journey by being forced to ride horseback. In the verdict pronounced on September 29, 2020, the judges ruled that Shankar must pay a compensation of Rs 5,000 to Ramakrishna for the trouble caused, along with Rs 5,000 towards his court expenses, within 45 days of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/promised-a-chopper-ride-amarnath-yatri-taken-horseback-wins-10k-relief/articleshow/78521742.cms||Petlee Peter
October 7, 2020||Allahabad||Approach DM for Durga Puja: HC to petitioners||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed some petitioners seeking permission to organise Purga Puja in Prayagraj during Covid-19 pandemic to approach the district magistrate (DM) for the same. Disposing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by one Pronob Kumar Roy and another, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma observed, “We are of the considered opinion that to permit Durga Puja or any other social and religious event is subject to guidelines prescribed by the government of Uttar Pradesh to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.” Hence, in view of it, the court directed the petitioners to present their cause before the district magistrate, Prayagraj, who will consider the case in accordance with law and by taking into consideration the necessary guidelines issued by the Uttar Pradesh government. The petitioners had sought permission to organise Durga Puja under the guidelines laid by the central/ state/ district administration on the eve of Covid-19. They had requested the court to direct the district and police administration of Prayagraj to call a meeting of the office-bearers of the Bengali Welfare Association and the Durga Puja Committee, at least 21 days prior to taking any decision in this regard, for appraisal of their difficulties. The court passed this order on September 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/approach-dm-for-durga-puja-hc-to-petitioners/articleshow/78524165.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Bizman supplying sound systems forced to sell ‘sev-usal’ on road||Vadodara: Ghashyam Patel, a resident of Godhra, would rather want to erase 2020 from the calendar and his memory. He once had a successful sound system business, but Covid-19 has forced him to put up a handcart on the roadside and sells ‘sev-usal’.Patel never had to look back for years as he was well connected. From spiritual functions and weddings to Ganpati festivals and Navratri — his systems were in demand. Even political parties and leaders gave him orders.But March seems to have changed everything. “No events are being held. Relaxations are being announced, but so far there is nothing that would help me in any way. Even the ‘sev-usal’ business hardly breaks even. I make losses as people are still reluctant to come to a handcart and eat. I learnt making the dish from someone in Vadodara, but it has not been of much help,” said Patel.Patel lives in a joint family of eight persons with his parents. He said that his brother has a job that barely ensures that the family managed its day-to-day expenses.According to Patel, he has invested over Rs 55 lakh in sound systems of different kinds. For buying the equipment, he also took a loan from two different banks. “The advances total to Rs 37 lakh. I do not know how will I repay the amount in this situation,” he said.Patel had learnt the technicalities of sound systems from his father who was in the business since 1988. “We had basic systems at that time. After the year 2000, I also got involved and we purchased many different equipment. These include those for live garba performances at large venues,” said Patel.According to Patel, he used to get orders for four venues during Navratri. These included one live performance and three venues where recorded music was played. This year, he does not see any business coming his way as all venues are such that large crowds would gather there. “After Ganpati, this will be the second festival that will be a washout,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bizman-supplying-sound-systems-forced-to-sell-sev-usal-on-road/articleshow/78521157.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Gitam university lodges cybercrime complaint over fake messages||VISAKHAPATNAM: Gitam University on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Vizag cybercrime police over fake messages being circulated on social media regarding its recognition status. The message which had been making rounds social media groups claimed that the University Grants Commission (UGC) had cancelled its Deemed to be University status to several institutions, including Gitam. Gitam registrar Dr D Gunasekharan has requested officials to conduct a detailed inquiry into the matter under IT Act. “Whoever is responsible for such spread of misinformation must be held accountable for the disorder resulting from a failure to behave responsibly,’ Dr Gunasekharan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gitam-lodges-cybercrime-complaint-over-fake-messages-on-social-media/articleshow/78523564.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh tops India in energy efficiency: BEE||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh stands first in the country in energy efficiency, said Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) senior director Dr Ashok Kumar. Participating in a webinar on energy efficiency conducted by AP State Energy Conservation Mission in coordination with BEE on Tuesday, Ashok Kumar said AP designated consumers had submitted mandatory energy audit report on time. He said the BEE has targeted to save energy up to 13.28 million tonnes of oil equivalent in the country. “This is almost equivalent to the energy supply in a country like Sri Lanka,” he said. AP energy secretary Nagulapalli Srikant said energy efficient industry sector may not be a distant dream. He emphasised the need to strike a balance between making energy affordable and accessible to people and bringing down energy costs through implementation of energy efficiency and enhancing efficiency in operations. The webinar focussed on the implementation of PAT scheme in energy intensive industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-tops-india-in-energy-efficiency-bee/articleshow/78523531.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC’s judgment on RTC bifurcation stayed by SC||VIJAYAWADA: The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the high court judgment on Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) employees’ bifurcation issue. The apex court issued notices to the respondents to file counters. The division of APSRTC employees in the combined state of AP was done according to provisions in State Reorganisation Act. At the time, some employees, who hailed from AP but settled in Telangana, chose Andhra Pradesh and even joined the services. Later, the APSRTC relieved some of the employees, whose parents are still living in Telangana and asked them join in Telangana State Road Transport Corporation citing that their local status is in Telangana not AP. Aggrieved with the decision of APSRTC, the workers moved the AP high court. Considering the arguments of both sides, the high court ruled in favour of workers and set aside the orders of APSRTC. However, challenging the high court orders, the APSRTC moved Supreme Court for relief and sought for interim stay on the orders. The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted interim stay on high court verdict and asked the respondents to file replies to the petition moved by APSRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hcs-judgment-on-rtc-bifurcation-stayed-by-sc/articleshow/78523503.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Drug cases under trial up 11%; most drag on for yrs||BENGALURU: By the end of 2019, Indian courts were hearing over 2.1 lakh cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), nearly 11% more than the drug-related cases under trial at the end of 2018. Compared to 2017, the jump is 24%. The latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data reveal of all drug cases in trial stage by 2019-end, only in 38% trials had begun the same year. In fact, 2,767 cases have been pending for more than 10 years, while about a quarter of all such cases (over 2.1 lakh) have been pending for over three years. In Karnataka, for instance, the ongoing crackdown on drugs — which has sent two actresses among others to jail — has its roots in a 2018 case. Police, who are yet to see any conviction in the 2018 case, have now reopened it with the arrest of BK Ravi Shankar, a second division RTO clerk, based on whose statement the new case against the actresses and others has been registered. From lack of sufficient material evidence to failed investigations and very few special courts, there are multiple reasons for drug cases dragging on for years. “In many cases, initial probe leads make teams believe they can go after the supply chain and the source. While investigation progresses in that direction, gathering enough evidence sometimes takes too long,” an officer said. Compared to 2019, the number of under-trial drug cases in 2018 stood at 1.9 lakh, of which 39% were from the same year. Statistics for 2017 show how cases pending trial are increasing year-on-year. Conviction rate is 90% Despite the time taken for prosecution, the conviction rate in NDPS cases is around 90%, according to the data. While a separate break-up of time taken for trial completion in drug cases is not immediately available, special courts dealing with NDPS, CBI, anti-corruption, terrorism, etc., across states and UTs had completed trials in 66,433 cases. Of these, more than 40,809 (61%) took over a year. In 2018, 59,903 cases saw completion of trial at such special courts, of which 36,262 took over a year. Basheer Ahmed, a public prosecutor (NDPS) at a Bengaluru special court, said: “In Bengaluru for example, there is one court for the rural district and the city. With so many cases coming in each month, they tend to drag on.” ------- NDPS cases under trial (As on Dec 31, 2019) Year Pending for 3-6 months 6-12 months 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5-10 yrs >10yrs Total# 2019 36,526 45,480 84,516 34,666 13,395 2,767 2.1 lakh 2018 31,198 45,406 67,886 37,806 12,064 1,955 1.9 lakh 2017 30,199 37,181 64,026 28,821 11,505 3,090 1.7 lakh Source: NCRB | #Rounded off||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drug-cases-under-trial-up-11-most-drag-on-for-yrs/articleshow/78521807.cms||Chethan Kumar
October 7, 2020||Allahabad||City reels under power cuts, locals block traffic in protest||PRAYAGRAJ: The citizens of Sangam city took to streets on Tuesday to protest against power cuts for long hours and held chakka jam in different localities. Agitated locals blocked traffic in Alopi Bagh, Ford Road crossing, Kamla Nehru road, Naini, and near Teliyarganj on Prayagraj-Lucknow highway for around two hours. The blockade resulted in long queues of vehicles being stranded on both sides and senior police officials had to intervene to clear the route. The protesting residents from Teliyarganj, Beniganj, Leader road, Jhunsi, Beniganj, Bhawapur, Rajapur, Juhi Colony, Civil Lines and adjoining areas claimed the power cuts also led to a water crisis and water tankers had to be brought for the daily needs. Vinay Mehrotra, a resident of Civil Lines said, “Long power cuts are causing great discomfort and we are finding it difficult to carry out our daily routine work. There was no one at the power sub-station to answer our queries.” “There is no power in our colony since Monday afternoon, and the inverters have drained out. We have been making rounds to Myor hall and Beli power substations but there was no one to even hear our grievances,” said a resident of Juhi colony. Meanwhile, Congress workers joined the residents on Tuesday and staged a protest at the office of chief engineer, power department and shouted slogans against the government. Congress leaders Mukund Tiwari and Haseeb Ahmad alleged that majority of the city was in dark for over 24 hours and sought resignation of energy minister Shrikant Sharma. PCC member Mukund Tiwari said, “Power department employees are protesting due to wrong policies of the state government.” Residents of old city areas also protested and said power cuts resulted in a water crisis and compounded their woes. “We have been running to arrange potable water,” they said. Power employees proceeded on an indefinite strike from Monday in response to a call given by UP Vidyut Karmachari Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti to protest against the proposed privatisation of Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited, leaving consumers in distress. Most of the city’s posh localities like Ashok Nagar, Juhi Colony, Beli road have no power supply since Monday afternoon. Crowds gathered at many power substations demanding uninterrupted power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-reels-under-power-cuts-locals-block-traffic-in-protest/articleshow/78524180.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Road rage: College students in Kolkata held for abusing school head||KOLKATA: Two college students were arrested from behind Asutosh College after they allegedly abused the principal of a reputable south Kolkata school and assaulted her son and driver on Monday afternoon.  The incident took place on the one-way Rajeshwar Das Gupta Road off the Hazra crossing, when the school principal was returning home after consulting a doctor and the accused drove in from the opposite direction, violating rules, leading to a road rage, police said. The accused have been identified as Subhas Mahato (23) and Monu Mahato (24), who live in the Judges Court Road area. “A case of hurt, wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation has been initiated,” said an investigating officer, adding a third accused has managed to flee. Residents of the area rallied around the victims, alleging some youngsters regularly hung around in the area, creating nuisance. Cops said they were willing to speak to locals to sort out the issues but called the incident a road rage. “I was returning after seeing a doctor and undergoing a few tests. As we entered our lane, a car came in from the opposite direction, blocking our way — though it’s a one-way stretch. As I was not well and had a meeting to join afterwards, I asked my driver to back the car and let the other one pass. My 30-year-old son, too, did not respond. My driver only told the man behind the wheel that he was on the wrong side of a one-way street. My driver was immediately pulled out of the car, abused and hit. When my son protested, sitting inside the car, he, too, was pulled out and abused. All this happened in my own neighbourhood. The accused then called up some of his friends. They began assaulting both my son and the driver,” said the principal. “This started because one of the young men, who kept mentioning he was a student of a south Kolkata college and a resident of Judges Court Road, had apparently borrowed a red car and was showing it off to his friends.” The woman then approached the police. “By the time police arrived, two of the main accused had fled,” said the principal. “This has been going on for far too long. We have seen youngsters drinking here openly. I nurture young people, I live among youngsters, I cannot accept this deep degeneration I witnessed.” Debajyoti Halder, who lives nearby, said youngsters from different parts of south Kolkata gather in the evening and continue to hang around till late. “Not many look like students,” he said. Cops pointed out that it was not known to all that the road behind Asutosh College was one-way. “We will speak to KMC and arrange proper road furniture to indicate it. We arrested the accused shortly,” said an officer from the south division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/road-rage-college-students-held-for-abusing-school-head/articleshow/78522988.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Police charge 9 with promoting enmity between different groups||NEW DELHI: The Crime Branch of Delhi Police has filed a supplementary chargesheet charging nine men for allegedly “promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion and acting in a way that are prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony” in the murder case of Hashim Ali, who was killed and thrown into a drain during the Northeast Delhi riots. It was filed under IPC 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on various grounds, including religion, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 505 (statements conducing public mischief) against Lokesh Kumar Solanki, Pankaj Sharma, Sumit Chaudhary, Ankit Chaudhary, Prince, Rishabh Chaudhary, Jatin Sharma, Vivek Panchal and Himanshu Thakur. Police have claimed that a WhatsApp group, Kattar Hindu Ekta, was created in February for allegedly “taking revenge” on the Muslim community and the accused, along with other rioters, became active in Ganga Vihar/Bhagirathi Vihar. “It is prima facie revealed that there was a well-hatched conspiracy among the accused,” the supplementary chargesheet stated. To take revenge on Muslims for attacking Hindus, “some youths of that area who failed to perceive the bottomless stupidity of the propaganda” created a WhatsApp group as “saviours of their community” and “killed nine innocent Muslims”, including Ali. “They planned the manner of committing the offence of rioting”, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-charge-9-with-promoting-enmity-between-different-groups/articleshow/78522985.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Surat||First arrest by city police under PIT-NDPS Act||SURAT: The special operations group (SOG) of the city police sent a drug trafficker to Sabarmat Central Jail in Ahmedabad on Monday, the first arrest in Surat under the The Prevention of Illicit Traffic in Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (PIT NDPS) Act. On Monday, SOG arrested Sumant Kailash Prasad Sinha, a resident of Sachin GIDC, who was caught with two kg ganja in June 2019 and again with 2.6 kg in February 2020. He was out on bail in both cases. He was sent to Sabarmati Central Jail in Ahmedabad after approval from DGP, CID (crime). An accused who is caught under NDPS Act more than once can be sent to jail custody by DGP (CID crime’s) order. Under this law, preventive detention is possible for a period of one year without bail. “This is the first arrest under the PIT-NDPS Act in Surat city. Police in other districts are arresting NDPS Act accused who are caught two or more times,” said an SOG officer. “We will invoke all available legal options against those involved in narcotics trade. Narcotics is a bane for our society and all those involved in trafficking will be dealt strictly,” city police commissioner, Ajay Tomar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/first-arrest-by-city-police-under-pit-ndps-act/articleshow/78500549.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat CM to launch ‘Digital Seva Setu’ in villages on October 8||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government will on Thursday launch Phase I of the ‘Digital Seva Setu’ programme, under which 3,500 village panchayats have been connected by a 100Mbps optical fibre network to facilitate online availability of public services. Announcing this at a press conference here on Tuesday, chief minister Vijay Rupani said the programme, an initiative under the Centre’s BharatNet project, is meant to ensure optimum utilization of technology for public welfare and will bring in a “historic administrative revolution”. As part of the programme, public welfare services will be available at e-gram offices in each panchayat and villagers will not have to go all the way to taluka or district-level offices. “The work connecting 3,500 village panchayats (through optical fibre network) has been completed. “On October 8, the programme will be launched in 2,700 villages as the model code of conduct is in force in villages that fall under the eight assembly constituencies where byelections are scheduled on November 3,” Rupani said. By December this year, 8,000 village panchayats will be provided this service, he said. The ‘Digital Seva Setu’ aims to provide fast and faceless services to people by removing corruption or the need for middlemen, Rupani said. “We are starting with 20 services, and will slowly offer 50 services to villages. All the 14,000 gram panchayats in the state will be covered under the programme,” he said. “The system makes use of digital service and removes corruption in administration...we will complete the work of connecting the remaining villages by 2021,” he said. The programme has been initiated under the Centre’s BharatNet Project that aims to connect village panchayats through optical fibre network, with Gujarat being the project leader, having laid around 83 per cent of the optical fibre network, government officials claimed. Under the ‘Digital Seva Setu’ programme, gram panchayats will be connected to the state data centre at Gandhinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-to-launch-digital-seva-setu-in-villages-on-oct-8/articleshow/78522917.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||Goa files contempt plea in SC against Karnataka, seeks restoration of Mhadei’s natural flow||PANAJI: The Goa government on Tuesday filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for illegal diversion of the Mhadei’s waters to the Malaprabha river basin and sought a direction to restore the natural flow towards the state. “We will continue to fight for our right,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said after the state filed the petition. TOI was the first to report a fortnight ago that Goa would file a contempt petition against Karnataka within 15 days for diverting the Mhadei waters into the Malaprabha basin. The plea has also stated that due to Karnataka’s contumacious acts, there is a sharp reduction of water flow to the Surla nullah that passes through the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary and is a violation of the Wildlife Protection Act. The plea has sought an “order directing the contemnors/respondents to take remedial and curative actions to make good the loss of water to the state of Goa pursuant to their acts of diversion and to further restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards the state of Goa”. Goa said grave and irreparable loss would be caused to the state if Karnataka did not stop water diversion and sought for joint inspection of the Kalasa site under an independent assessor. The state government has also asked for initiation of contempt proceedings by the Supreme Court against Karnataka for the wilful and deliberate violation of the award passed by the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal (MWDT). The plea has pointed out that by an interim order dated April 17, 2014, the MWDT directed that Karnataka, “….shall not actually utilise the water or divert the waters under Kalasa-Bhandura project till the disputes arising between the three states are finally adjudicated by this tribunal.” The award dated August 14, 2018, also incorporated the said interim order. The state government stated that diversion will adversely impact the precious habitat within the rich, biodiverse sanctuary area which, in turn, will threaten the rare and endangered species of flora and fauna in the Western Ghats. “It is submitted that the ensuing damage on account of the diversion of the Mhadei river to the Malaprabha basin is of an irreversible nature and threatens the very concept of inter-generational equity or sustainable development thereby, resulting in large scale destruction. The region in the Western Ghats has been held by the Unesco to be the ‘hottest hotspot’ of biodiversity and is required to be conserved and protected,” Goa has said. During the lockdown, Karnataka had tampered with the Kalasa river bed gradient to reverse the flow in the direction of interconnecting canals that join the Malaprabha basin. The diversion came to light when a team from Goa visited Kankumbi on September 1, after border restrictions were removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-files-contempt-plea-in-sc-against-ktaka-seeks-restoration-of-mhadeis-natural-flow/articleshow/78524183.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||AIG Hospitals-Hyderabad inks pact with Canadian firm||HYDERABAD: City-based AIG Hospitals has entered into a data licencing and partnership agreement with Canada’s Satisfai Health to boost the use of artificial intelligence (AI) in gastroenterology and gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy. Satisfai Health, which provides AI solutions in the field of gastroenterology, is a founding member of the ai4gi joint venture that is working on solutions combining AI and deep learning techniques to help physicians diagnose colon polyps during colorectal cancer screening. AIG Hospitals chairman Dr Nageshwar Reddy said the hospital group, where nearly 500 endoscopic procedures are conducted daily, has been keen on collaborating with an AI solutions developer to harness the huge volume of high quality data it generates. “This partnership will increase our data pipeline and access to high quality endoscopic and clinical data for our work in AI applications,” said Dr Michael Byrne, CEO & founder, Satisfai Health. Canadian High Commissioner to India, Nadir Patel, said “Canada continues to invest heavily in the field of AI&ML and recognizes the importance of supporting Canadian companies abroad as they develop new medical technologies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aig-hospitals-inks-pact-with-canadian-firm/articleshow/78522982.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Suicide bid by woman at Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old woman advocate tried to commit suicide on Tuesday by jumping off the first floor of the high court, but was prevented from doing so by the police. Charminar police took the woman into custody. The woman told the police that she had filed a rape and cheating case in Godavarikhani against a former colleague who had failed to keep his promise of marrying her. The accused was arrested, however, his bail application was to come up for hearing on Tuesday. In a petition, the woman sought the court’s intervention in ensuring the accused does not get bail and demanded arrest of four others allegedly involved. No case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suicide-bid-by-woman-at-hc/articleshow/78522947.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pharma sales bounce back, post growth of 4% in Sept||AHMEDABAD: After having struggled since the Covid-19 outbreak began in March, the sales of medicine in the country have posted a growth of over 4% in September as compared to the negative growth of 2% in August. The monthly sales of Indian pharma market stood at Rs 13,170 crore in September 2020 against Rs 12,604 crore in the same month last year, shows data compiled by AIOCD AWACS, a market research wing of All India Organization of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD). While the pharmaceutical industry has remained strong on the export front, it continued to struggle in the domestic market with growth remaining elusive. “The Indian pharma market for the first time has come back very strongly after five months of Covid-19 crisis,” said AIOCD AWACS. The growth in September was mainly supported by the increase in sales of cardiac, anti-diabetic drugs and vitamins as well as improvement in sales of anti-infective medicines. While the cardiac segment clocked a growth of 17% in September as compared to 12 in the preceding month of August, the anti-diabetic drug sales growth improved to close to 7% from 2% in the same period. Vitamins posted a fantastic growth of 16% in September vis-à-vis 6% in August 2020. Till August, the Indian pharma market had struggled to regain growth. The domestic market had seen a negative growth of 2% in August. The growth was flat in July and 2% in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pharma-sales-bounce-back-post-growth-of-4-in-sept/articleshow/78522941.cms||Kalpesh Damor
October 7, 2020||Allahabad||Meet the man who made Ramlila more entertaining||PRAYAGRAJ: Imagine a Ramlila jhanki (tableau) without the colourful lights shining on the actors’ faces or the invigorating music that typically jazzes up these processions. Things certainly wouldn’t be the same without all this but thankfully the Sangam city has Ram Chander Patel (80) who is considered as the first person to introduce light and sound effects to these tableaux back in 1975. Patel who worked as a sound engineer in the education department’s shiksha prasar unit before retiring in 1999 has made Ramlila a major crowd puller in the city. “I also worked as a sound technician during a Ramlila show in 1982 in Malviyanagar and learned a lot of work. While working as a sound engineer, I used to volunteer as an organiser for these jhankis during Dussehra. In 1975, I got the idea of making these jhankis more entertaining and animated through the use of sound and light. So, I started using music and lighting to add more drama to the scenes enacted by the artists,” Patel said. The idea turned out to be a huge hit among the audience who often used to ask for an encore as people still remember how the ‘Lanka Dahan’ scene from Ramayana left them mesmerized as Hanuman set the massive kingdom on fire while trying to teach demon king Ravana a lesson. “We had a schedule to follow and limited time to stage these scenes. Often people in the audience used to ask for a repeat. As a result, we ran late while performing these scenes again,” said the octogenarian. He said the Ramlila shows underwent a makeover in the 1990s with the advancements in technology. Modern sound and light effects have made these performances not only more interesting and majestic, but also a major crowd puller. “As Ramlila committees started organising grander shows 2000 onwards, the light and sound technicians also became an important part of the shows. We work with several artists and departments to pull off a lively show for the masses. A successful show is the result of good coordination among actors, directors, choreographers, makeup artists, light and sound technicians and several other departments,” he added. Comparing Ramlila shows today and the ones staged earlier, Patel said, “In the past, actors had to memorise their dialogues and the audience’s focus used to be solely on the artists’ expressions. However, now they have the help of technology to enhance their performances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/meet-the-man-who-made-ramlila-more-entertaining/articleshow/78524198.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kanpur||Rapid response teams examine patients put in home isolation||Kanpur: Besides regular 40 teams, as many as 11 rapid response teams came on field on Tuesday to examine corona infected persons living in home isolation who have completed the fourth and seventh day of their isolation period. The eleven teams, besides gathering information about corona symptoms, would check the pulse and temperature of patients. The decision to send special 11 teams was taken late Monday evening after the district magistrate reviewed the daily report at the Covid control room at Kanpur Municipal Corporation headquarters. District magistrate Alok Kumar Tiwari, in a specific direction asked the rapid reponse teams that after conducting the antigen test if any person suffering from cough, coryza, fever test is found negative, then their samples should be sent for the RTPCR test. The health officials informed the DM that 100 percent contact tracing was being done if a single person was found positive. “ During contact tracing, at least ten persons coming in contact with the infected person are being examined”, said a team member.  ADM (finance and revenue), ADM (land acquisition), SDM (Sadar), city magistrate and nodal officer of the health department were present at the meeting. Under a random visit Covid facility campaign, the DM on Tuesday visited the SPM hospital and asked the hospital authorities to ensure 24-hour availability of oxygen cylinders in the hospital. “The district administration officials should be informed in case they face shortage of oxygen cylinders”, the DM said. The district administration is keeping a vigil on availability of oxygen and its price in the market, he added. When the DM asked the hospital administration to ensure 24-hour power back up in the hospital, they said there were two big generator sets for power back up. When asked whether they had been linked with virtual ICU of level-2 Covid hospital of KGMU Lucknow which started functioning from Monday last, the hospital authorities told him that the hospital had been linked with the virtual Covid hospital and were treating patients as per Covid protocol. The DM directed them to follow the Covid protocol and provide quality treatment to the infected persons. The static magistrate informed him that specialist doctors come according to the roster and they are available round the clock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rapid-response-teams-examine-patients-put-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78524200.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||B Ramalinga Raju wants to see episode, Telangana HC tells Netflix to respond||HYDERABAD: Satyam Computers founder B Ramalinga Raju earlier this week filed an interim application urging Telangana high court to direct Netflix to show the episode of ‘Bad Boy Billionaires’ featuring him before airing it. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A Abhishek Reddy, which was hearing the plea of Netflix to allow it to release the film by removing the injunction order passed against them by a trial court, directed senior counsel Neeraj Kishan Kaul, representing Netflix, to respond to Raju’s plea by October 9. Raju contended that the producers and their representatives collected information about the ancestry of his family through trickery. Appearing for Raju, senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy said the material filed by Netflix shows Raju’s grandfather was a landlord. “He set up a sugar factory in his native place in West Godavari in AP. He incurred losses in it and lost both the factory and also his land. It was said that since childhood Raju nurtured ideas and dreams to regain their lost land and glory,” Niranjan said, citing the version of journalist Raghu Karnad, who spoke about the story of Raju. “We have doubts whether this epsiode on Raju dealt with all those things effectively invading into the privacy of not just Raju but his entire family and ancestry as well,” the senior counsel said. The bench said this is what is meant by psychoanalysis of a character.  The bench also told Raju’s counsel about the story of Tipu Sultan who was known as the first Indian king who waged a war on British. “There are some who describe him as a killer of Kurgi people. The filmmaker has to project all facets and leave the opinion to viewers,” the bench said. Niranjan said whatever is available in public domain will not provide a complete picture. “Take for instance the case of former cricket captain Mohammed Azharuddin. He lost his captaincy on match-fixing allegations. But, a trial court declared him not guilty. We have doubts whether the filmmakers used their discretion in distinguishing data from public domain and record,” Niranjan said. Netflix counsel said Netflix had released the film without Raju episode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raju-wants-to-see-episode-hc-tells-netflix-to-respond/articleshow/78522997.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Chopping of tree irks residents||HYDERABAD: Residents are livid after a massive tree on Road No. 12, Banjara Hills, was chopped a few days ago and burnt. Forest officials registered a case against the building supervisor. Residents say the road is losing its greenery to commercial projects. The tree was located in front of a new project and was probably removed because it was covering the view to the property, said residents. When contacted, deputy range officer of forest department Mahesh Goud said the felling of the big tree was illegal. “We booked a case against the supervisor of the building. A fine of Rs 95,000 was collected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chopping-of-tree-irks-residents/articleshow/78523043.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Only 5% Covid +ve in CCCs, no end in sight to chains of patients||Nagpur: Less than 5% asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid patients are in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) despite over 80% people reportedly not having proper facilities for home isolation. An office bearer and officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) though insist that institutional isolation of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients is a must to end chains of novel coronavirus. Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) too has a policy that effective containment zones, tracing and testing of high-risk contacts of positive patients, and strict isolation of patients are key to end chains of Covid-19. TOI had reported on Monday that 2,800 containment zones were only on paper in the city, and tracing and testing of high-risk contacts of positive patients was not happening properly. TOI had also reported many cases where patients violated guidelines of home isolation. As per the District Civil Surgeon, there were 10,206 active cases in the district as on Monday. Of these, 746 new patients were in the process of admission. Of the remaining 9,460 patients, 437 (4.62%) were in CCCs. Despite having capacity of 1,400 beds, there were only 194 patients in CCCs at MLA Hostel (76), VNIT Hostel (16) and Pachpaoli Police Quarters (102) in city. There were 243 patients in CCCs of zilla parishad in rural areas. Another 2,475 (26.16%) patients were taking treatment in government, trust and private Covid hospitals. Remaining 6,548 (69.22%) patients were in home isolation. Chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja told TOI, “It is very difficult to end chains of Covid-19 without isolating asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients in CCCs. Transmission of the disease will continue as not all follow the guidelines strictly. Over 80% people do not have proper facilities for home isolation. In fact, patients get better care in CCCs and everything is free of cost,” he said. Assistant commissioner of NMC Gandhibagh Zone Ashok Patil, who has been working on Covid-19 since April in the zone with majority of cases, said, “Around 90 patients do not have home isolation facilities. Even people residing in slums are opting for home isolation. They will continue to infect family members as well as others in the area, which will keep the chains going.” “We are guiding people to get admitted in CCCs at testing centres itself. But people are not ready to get admitted in CCCs. Monitoring of each and every patient in home isolation is not possible. Therefore, institutional isolation should be made compulsory, excluding a few who have individual bungalows and all facilities,” he said. NMC and zilla parishad are reportedly not checking whether patients have isolation facilities at home or not. NMC’s rapid response team (RRT) visits houses of patients and talks to them from outside and leaves. Later, NMC control room and NGOs pursue them only by calling on given mobile numbers. Guardian minister Nitin Raut, who gave permission for home isolation of positive patients and home quarantine of high-risk contacts at the end of July, said compulsory institutional isolation was not possible now. “Directives have been given time and again to officials to monitor patients. Besides, it is the responsibility of each and every patient to take care of himself, their family members and others in society. Self-discipline and cooperation from people is must to end Covid-19 completely in the district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-5-covid-ve-in-cccs-no-end-in-sight-to-chains-of-patients/articleshow/78523034.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat tribal girls in love risk getting auctioned!||Ahmedabad: Travails of those falling in love never cease to shock. For girls in some tribal areas of Gujarat, the penalty for falling in love for girls is going through the shocking humiliation of getting auctioned in the village! In May 2019, one such auction was halted in its tracks when a contingent of women, aided with local cops, swooped on a spot where scores of men had gathered to put up the highest bid for a tribal girl from Devgadh Baria. The girl had eloped with her boyfriend. Both were caught, thrashed and the girl locked up in a room even as the community elders initiated the bidding process as a punishment. “The girl, a minor, was forcibly brought back and was consumed with fear, her hands and feet tied with rope, when we rescued her,” said Guliben Nayak of Pachayasar village, Devgadh Baria in Dahod district. Nayak, also a member of the village gram panchayat, said such incidents often go unnoticed in the tribal region as village leaders are involved in this illegal practice. The rescue operation was led by women from Devgadh Mahila Sangathan and Area Networking and Development Initiatives (ANANDI). "We have foiled at least two such attempts where the villagers and family members were trying to auction the girls during the lockdown-1 period. In one case the girl had attained the marriageable age of 18 and the villagers had pressurized that family that they will be thrown out of the community if their daughter pursued her plans of entering wedlock with her loved one,” said Kailash Baria, project coordinator of ANANDI in Ruparel village in Ghogamba taluka. Even as tribal areas were known for broad outlook in allowing men and women to choose their partners, social taboo surrounding love marriage seems to be fast catching up with community elders creating massive hullabaloo over love marriages, forcing couples and parents to cough up hefty penalties ranging from Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh or face social ostracization. The practise is bruising many relationships beyond repair, scarring many young lives. “There are increasing reports of haraji (auction) of women and girls for marriage. These auctions are done under the cover of night and victims often remain silent as her family is threatened with heavy backlash from the community in case she rebels. The girl has to suffer for wanting to marry a person of her choice,” said Neeta Hardikar, one of the founding members and directors of ANANDI. A matter is going on in the Godhra sessions court from last one year where cross complaints were filed by a tribal girl against her parents and few other villagers alleging that they forcibly sold her off to a person in marriage. It reveals the vicious cycle of money extortion which is unleashed in the name of violating community norms, say activists. Advocate M A Kharadi who is representing the girl said the girl had gone to live with a man of her choice in 2017. “The girl was minor and parents asked the boy to pay a fine of Rs 50,000 or face dire legal consequences. A month after the boy paid the fine, the girl was sold for Rs 1.25 lakh to another person,” said Kharadi. Against this alliance, the girl came back to her parent's home prompting villagers to ask the parents to pay Rs 1.62 lakh for breaking the agreement. The complainant went to her partner and began living with her. The parents of the girl asked the boy to pay the fine amount. “All the three financial agreements have been signed by the Panch,” according to Kharadi who says the girl's parents too have filed a complaint of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Last month, a girl from Ghoghamba taluka filed a complaint on her parents and local village leaders including a politician for trying to trade her off in a wed-lock. A research study had been conducted by ANANDI titled ‘The Early Marriages in Conflict with Law & Society’ in which 731 First Information Reports (FIR) relating to cases of Kidnapping and Abduction involving young girls during 2014-16 filed in police stations of tribal districts of Dahod, Panchmahal, and Morbi of Gujarat were studied. The research also takes into account 29 in-depth personal interviews with young girls – survivors of abduction or those who left their homes to be with their chosen partners without parental consent. “Of the 29 case studies taken up, a majority of girls, as many as 25, left home by choice, while 4 girls were forcefully abducted,” said Sejal Dand, founder director of ANANDI. Over two-thirds of the survivors cited in the FIRs aged below 18. While the survivor’s parents were the complainants in 77% cases, only 20% FIRs were registered by the survivor herself. In 86.59% of the FIRs, the accused was charged under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), i.e. Kidnapping and Abduction of a Girl to Compel Marriage, their research showed. “The possibility is that the FIRs could be used by the parents to ascertain the effect of the daughter marrying the person of her choice. The evidence corroborated from the 29 case studies supports this hypothesis,” according to Dand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-tribal-girls-in-love-risk-getting-auctioned/articleshow/78516474.cms||Maulik Pathak
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to buy entire paddy, cotton from farmers||HYDERABAD: In a significant decision aimed at helping farmers not having favourable market conditions, Telangana government has decided to purchase entire paddy and cotton cultivated in the ‘vaanakalam’ (rainy season). The government had procured paddy, cotton and other ‘yasangi’ (rabi) crops last year and earlier this year due to the lockdown and farmers not having marketing facilities. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao instructed the officials to purchase the entire paddy by setting up 6,000 purchase centres and ensure that every grain of paddy is procured. The CM reiterated the government’s plans to stand by the farmers at every stage from extending financial assistance for crop investment to purchasing the produce. He held a high-level review meeting at Pragati Bhavan on Tuesday on issues pertaining to purchase of various crops. Stating that crops are being cultivated in a record 1.34 crore acres in Telangana, the CM said paddy alone was cultivated in 52.77 lakh acres, cotton in 60.36 lakh acres and red gram in 10.78 lakh acres. The government will procure paddy through IKP centres, cooperative societies and marketing department. The CM urged farmers not to go in for any distress sale. If the quality of paddy is below 17% moisture, the government would give Rs 1,888 per quintal for A-grade variety and Rs 1,868 per quintal for the B-grade variety towards MSP. He also said efforts were on to procure cotton through the Cotton Corporation of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-buy-entire-paddy-cotton-from-farmers/articleshow/78522994.cms||Roushan Ali
October 7, 2020||Goa||8-month-old with rare disorder is Goa’s youngest Covid death||PANAJI: An eight-month-old girl from Sirvoi, Quepem, with a rare genetic disorder on Tuesday became the state’s youngest Covid-19 victim. The girl suffered from glycogen storage disease type-III, which involves a build-up of a complex sugar called glycogen in the body’s cells. Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said that glycogen storage disease is fatal, and that the life expectancy of a child with this disorder is normally reduced. “She tested positive and died less than 24 hours after hospitalisation,” he said. With the girl’s death, the state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 469, with eight deaths reported on Tuesday. Three people who succumbed to the virus on Tuesday were under 50. Two men — a 49-year-old from St Estevam and a 50-year-old from Morjim — and a 46-year-old woman from Corjuem, all having comorbid conditions, died within two days of admission to hospital. The 49-year-old man had liver cirrhosis and died within six hours of his admission. All three had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) when rushed to hospital. Other virus-linked deaths were that of three men — a 62-year-old from Curti-Ponda, a 58-year-old from Mormugao, a 61-year-old from Vasco — and a 75-year-old woman from Nagoa, all of whom had comorbid conditions. All but one was detected with ARDS at the time of admission, a state where it is difficult to push the virus into remission. Such cases continue to be seen despite appeals by the state government that patients should go to hospital if symptoms of the disease are seen. When patients are taken to hospital late, doctors said the average admission of such patients is less than a week before they succumb to the virus. In a few cases, patients have died within a few hours of admission. Meanwhile, the State reported 519 new cases and 594 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the tally of active cases to 4,719.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/8-mnth-old-with-rare-disorder-is-goas-youngest-covid-death/articleshow/78524199.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 7, 2020||Goa||Soon, complaint-based air quality monitoring in state||Panaji: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB), which presently monitors ambient air quality at 17 locations in the state, has for the first time decided to monitor it based on complaints it receives. Chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar told TOI that although a number of complaints come to the board from across the state with regard to air pollution, it is not always possible to dispatch its mobile vehicle to the location concerned to take readings. Thus, it has decided to float a tender to invite a bidder to monitor ambient air quality as and when it receives complaints. “We have decided to empanel the successful bidder so that whenever it is required, the agency concerned can set up a monitoring station and submit a report to the board,” Shetgaonkar said, adding that the bidder has to monitor air quality for two years based on complaints. The bidder will also have to use dedicated respirable dust samplers/fine particulate samplers for each station that should be capable of measuring parameters as specified in the scope of work as per the Revised Ambient Air Quality Standards notified in November 2009. The tender document has stated that sampling locations will be identified by the GSPCB and the necessary NOCs will also be obtained by it. Ambient air quality monitoring is to be carried out in compliance with guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board and the revised ambient air quality standards that were notified in November 2009. Shetgaonkar said that under the national air quality monitoring programme, the GSPCB will continue to monitor ambient air quality at various stations across the state. Recently, the board had categorised the state’s air quality in 2019-20 as “satisfactory” after monitoring it at 17 locations from March 2019 to March 2020. A report was subsequently submitted to the environment department. “Comparison of PM10 data of 2019-2020 with 2018-209 indicates considerable reduction,” the GSPCB had said in its report. “While 15 out of 17 stations exceeded the annual standard in 2018-19, only five did so in 2019-2020.” The directorate of transport has also submitted an action plan to reduce air pollution from vehicles. It has recommended an extensive drive against polluting vehicles and strict compliance. It has also suggested the launch of an awareness campaign for air pollution control, vehicle maintenance, minimum use of personal vehicles, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-complaint-based-air-quality-monitoring-in-state/articleshow/78524201.cms||Murari Shetye
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Tempers flare at Apex Council meet||Amaravati: The meeting of the Apex Council on inter-state water disputes on Tuesday reportedly witnessed a few heated moments between Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his AP counterpart YS Jaganmohan Reddy when the latter strongly objected to the “unauthorized projects” taken up by Telangana. Jagan is said to have also raised the issue of lifting of additional water from Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project constructed by Telangana on Godavari river in the second phase while the first phase itself had no requisite approvals. He had also pointed out Telangana's “failure” to submit the detailed project reports (DPRs) for Dindi and Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation projects. Sources said that KCR reportedly became angry with Jagan for a while stating that AP is going ahead with Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) when there was no permission for the first phase of Pothireddypadu project. Noticing that situation may turn volatile, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who convened the meeting, reported to have intervened and asked both CMs to first submit the DPRs of all the ongoing projects to the Apex Council. “We can resolve all the issues in the Apex Council itself as it has the right to sanction permission to the new projects. However, you need to submit the DPRs to get the clearance,” Shekhawat said while pacifying KCR. AP irrigation authorities expressed satisfaction over the developments at the Apex Council meeting as it took two crucial decisions in favour of AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tempers-flare-at-apex-council-meet/articleshow/78523053.cms||Samdani MN
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Children’s nutrition park at Kevadia to be reopened from Oct 10||Vadodara: The theme-based children’s nutrition park located at Kevadia in Narmada district will be re-opened for tourists from October 10. The Statue of Unity (SoU) authorities said that apart from the park, a mall and food court, too, will become operational. The Sardar Patel Zoological Park has already been thrown open to the tourists from October 1. “We will follow all the Covid-19 guidelines and ensure the safety of the visitors,” said Nilesh Dubey, deputy CEO, SoU. The officials have decided to allow only 60 visitors per hour in the nutrition park and their temperature will be checked before giving them entry. Those wanting to visit this park would have to book their tickets online. The authorities, however, are yet to decide about reopening the SoU, that witnesses maximum footfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/childrens-nutrition-park-at-kevadia-to-be-reopened-from-oct-10/articleshow/78521207.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Pause on uranium exploration in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Wildlife Board on Monday rejected a fresh proposal of Atomic Minerals Directorate (AMD) for research and exploration of uranium in Amrabad Tiger Reserve (ATR). Principal chief conservator of forest R Sobha told TOI that the clearance had not been given. The board met over a web conference on Monday.  The state forest department had also rejected clearance for the exploration project, forcing the AMD to approach the National Wildlife Board and the Centre. An IFS official told TOI that the proposal came in 2017 from the directorate which had asked for clearance under the Forest Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pause-on-uranium-exploration/articleshow/78523056.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 7, 2020||Kanpur||Dolphin Day shifts focus to endangered species||KANPUR: Dolphin Day was observed on Monday at 13 sites across the Yamuna river in Etawah, Jalaun, Auraiya, Agra, Hamirpur, Banda, Fatehpur and Prayagraj districts to raise awareness about conservation of the Ganga river dolphin, which has been declared as India’s national aquatic animal. Organised by the Etawah district administration and Society for Conservation of Nature and Social Forestry division of Etawah, as part of the Union ministry of environment and forest’s ongoing Gangetic River Dolphin Conservation Education Programme, the Dolphin Day witnessed huge participation of students, teachers, district and Forest department officials and employees. “Dolphin Day is a step towards conserving the Ganga river dolphin and we are hopeful that the occasion will change people’s mindset making them proactive towards conservation of the rare species,” said district magistrate Etawah Shruti Singh. On the conservation efforts initiated by the government, the DM said, “The state government is working hard to bring eco-tourism in the region, where dolphins are still sighted. It would not only improve the local economy, but also raise awareness among the masses about Ganga river dolphins.” Several programmes, including screening of films on dolphins, were organised for participants on the occasion. Dr Rajiv Chauhan, secretary general SCON said, “Gangetic river dolphins fall under Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, and have been declared an endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The Gangetic river dolphins are one of the four freshwater dolphins in the world. The three others are found in Yangtze river in China, Indus in Pakistan and Amazon in South America.” He further informed TOI that research studies under the Ganga Action Plan in the 1980s estimated presence of around 6,000 dolphins in its distribution range across the Ganga-Brahmaputra-Meghna and Karnaphuli river systems. Sadly, now there are only 2,000 Gangetic river dolphins left in India. The dolphins, known as Platenista gangetica, aka ‘susu’, are rare. Earlier, these were found in the Ganga river basin and all linked rivers. But now, its habitat is limited to a few rivers. Brahmaputra, Ganga and Chambal rivers are their natural habitat. The Gangetic dolphins have been declared as the National Aquatic Animal of India in the first meeting of the National Ganga River Basin Authority (NGRBA) chaired by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in October 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dolphin-day-shifts-focus-to-endangered-species/articleshow/78524206.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kanpur||NSA invoked against 2 jailed for anti-CAA protests in Dec||KANPUR: The district administration has invoked the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against two persons lodged in the district jail in a case of violence that broke out in separate pockets including Bagahi, Begumpurwa and Eidgah in Babupurwa police area of the city during anti-CAA protests in December last year. Inspector Babupurwa Janardan Pratap Singh said, “The district administration has invoked NSA against two persons, identified as Akram and Sabir Siddiqui, of Babupurwa on the basis of a report submitted by the concerned police.” “The order by the district authorities invoking NSA against the two was served to them in jail on Monday,” Singh added. According to the police, a massive protest took place in the Babupurwa area on December 20 against the CAA. It all started with anti-CAA stir after Friday prayers on December 20 afternoon. Things worsened soon when locals of the area took to streets to take part in anti-CAA protests and clashed with the police, resulting in three deaths and injuries to 13 people. Police had to resort to force and open fire in the air to disperse the crowd. Hundreds of identified and unidentified people were booked and separate FIRs were lodged subsequently in this connection at the Babupurwa police station. So far, police have arrested 20 persons, besides five others surrendered in court. “Chargesheet against 23 persons has already been filed in court. Police are now on the lookout for 16 others who are absconding since the incident had occurred,” the Inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nsa-invoked-against-2-jailed-for-anti-caa-protests-in-dec/articleshow/78524203.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Goa||Crimes by foreigners in Goa five times those against them: NCRB||PANAJI: Statistics issued by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) for 2019 have revealed that crimes committed by foreigners in Goa are more than five times the crimes committed against them. Goa recorded 21 cases of crimes against foreigners last year, as opposed to 110 cases of offences committed by them. “Goa is a popular tourist destination, and lakhs of tourists visit Goa every year,” said SP (crime branch) Shobhit Saxena. “Goa police are committed to ensuring the safety and security of all persons in Goa. The law applies equally to all, and the police take lawful action against all persons involved in crimes.” A senior police officer said that since Goa is a prominent tourism destination, the number of crimes pertaining to foreigners is higher than in other states. Nationally, a total of 409 crimes against foreigners were recorded in 2019, with Delhi topping the list with 123 cases, followed by Maharashtra (48), Karnataka (46), and Tamil Nadu (23). The data also shows 2,251 crimes by foreigners. West Bengal led this list with 744 cases, followed by Delhi (264) and Maharashtra (237). No crimes by foreigners were registered in Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Puducherry and Odisha. Cases in which foreigners have been booked or arrested across the country include attempt to murder, rape, rioting, assault on public servant, cheating, offences under the Foreigners Act, immoral trafficking, possession and peddling of narcotics, and theft. In Goa, while Russians and Nigerians are mostly involved in narcotics cases, Bulgarians are usually involved in ATM frauds, while Tanzanians are often booked for overstaying and not having valid travel documents, police said. In light of an increasing involvement by foreigners in crime, the state government inaugurated a detention centre for them in Mapusa this May. The statistics are part of ‘Crime in India’, an annual NCRB release, in which the bureau collects, collates and published statistics of crimes committed by and against foreigners in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crimes-by-foreigners-five-times-those-against-them-ncrb/articleshow/78524204.cms||Murari Shetye
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||SNIST to hold meet on NEP||HYDERABAD: The Robotics Club-SNIST, a student-run organisation from Sreenidhi Institute of Science & Technology is hosting first-ever UG-level national conference on NEP, 2020— Robotics For NEP- 2020 to collect views from youth on inclusion of robotics in curriculum. Participants need to submit their essays on ‘Future of Robotics in India’. Registrations for the qualifying round will close on October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/snist-to-hold-meet-on-nep/articleshow/78523068.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP: KCR’s warning Andhra Pradesh's claim is a lie||HYDERABAD: State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was timid at the Apex Council meeting with the Union ministry of water resources and AP, but gave an impression to the people that he was plucky. At a press conference here, Sanjay said: “Both the CMs were hand in glove at the meeting. KCR’s claim that he warned AP for taking up projects is a blatant lie.” Sanjay sought to know as to why the TRS regime sought tribunal even after knowing that a tribunal is not possible when a case in the Supreme Court is pending. “Why did the government delay resolving the issues and instead seeking appointment of a tribunal,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-kcrs-warning-ap-claim-is-a-lie/articleshow/78523064.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 7, 2020||Agra||Athawale offers Rs 5 lakh to Hathras victim’s family||Agra: Union minister of state for social justice Ramdas Athawale met the Hathras victim’s family on Tuesday and announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh on behalf of his party.“This was a heart-wrenching incident. The culprits should be hanged … The crime is a blot on humanity,” the Republic Party of India chief told the media after meeting the family. “Whatever the CM has promised — job, financial assistance — should be fulfilled.” When asked about the opposition’s demand for greater scrutiny of the investigation, he said the government has already sought a CBI probe. “The opposition will always have demands,” he said. Later in the evening, he tweeted, “I met and conveyed my condolences to the family of the Hathras victim. RPI and I will do everything possible to get justice for the family.”Earlier in the day, a joint delegation of CPM and CPI — led by CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D Raja and CPM politburo member Brinda Karat — visited the family. After meeting the family, Karat said, “There has been criminal negligence on part of the administration … The victim’s family lives in fear. Rules were broken but the chief minister did not say a word.”In the morning, the three-member SIT had visited the village again and the place where the girl’s body had been cremated at 2.40am on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The panel is likely to submit its report on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/athawale-offers-rs-5-lakh-to-hathras-victims-family/articleshow/78520509.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Firm fined Rs 3 lakh for illegal ad||HYDERABAD: The GHMC on Tuesday imposed a fine of Rs 3 lakh on Icon Media Pvt Ltd for unauthorised erection of an advertisement above 15 feet in height from ground level. The GHMC found that without any written permission from the competent authority, the company erected the advertisement, which is an offence committed under sections of GHMC Act and as per GO 68 dated April 20, 2020. The advertisement was erected on the board opposite the CM’s camp office in Begumpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firm-fined-rs-3l-for-illegal-ad/articleshow/78523065.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kanpur||Coaching class teacher held for raping student||KANPUR: A coaching class teacher was on Monday arrested and sent to jail after an 18-year-old girl accused him of raping her on several occasions and making her pregnant, besides filming her when she was a minor. As per the report, the accused had for the first time raped the survivor in 2016. Police said that the teacher Suraj Gupta (28) of Ajitganj area of Babupurwa, had then promised her that when she will attain adulthood, he will marry her, but he backtracked and instead threatened her of killing her father and siblings. The survivor, who had attained adulthood about a week ago, filed a complaint against Suraj at the Babupurwa police station. As per the report, she was sent to the coaching centre being run by Suraj Gupta when she was 16 by her parents. According to the survivor, Suraj over the pretext of giving extra classes, raped her on several occasions, following the first instance of sexual assault in 2016. As per the complainant, she became pregnant twice. “When he learnt that the girl was pregnant, he forcibly made her undergo abortion,” said the police. “Suraj, who was booked under relevant sections of the IPC including 376, 313 and 506 besides SC/ST Act, was arrested on Monday and sent to jail,” said Inspector Babupurwa Janardan Pratap Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/coaching-class-teacher-held-for-raping-student/articleshow/78524218.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Testing goof up: Negative at NMC centre, +ve at pvt lab||Nagpur: Two persons who were having symptoms of Covid-19 tested negative at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) testing centre but came positive in retest at a private laboratory within a day. TOI on Monday had reported case of a man and a woman from Khamla who had tested positive in NMC special camp and later negative within a day. The man had retested at NMC’s RPTS Centre and woman at a private laboratory. Both were RT-PCR tests considered the best. The latest cases are totally opposite. Two members from a family from Laxmi Nagar Zone tested positive from private laboratory. Three more members in the family were showing Covid symptoms. A member of the family said he along with his mother and wife were having symptoms. The mother was having acute symptoms. Twelve persons from the house gave swab samples at NMC RPTS Testing Centre around 2pm on October 2. They received reports on October 3 morning. The man and his child tested positive. Strangely, reports of remaining including the mother and wife were negative. “I could not believe the reports as my mother was having acute symptoms. Three of us again got tested at a private laboratory around 1pm on October 3. We received reports in the evening saying all three were positive,” he said. All tests were done using RT-PCR method. The man is part of NGO Together We Can that had worked on field during lockdown distributing food to migrants and was coordinating between administration and relatives of Covid-19 patients for the last few months. The man added, “My CT value in RT-PCR test at RPTS Centre was 37.5 which was unbelievable for me as I had severe cough, fever and breathlessness. The value was 24 in result of private laboratory.” Earlier, TOI had reported about cases in which RT-PCR result came negative 4 or more days after a positive result. In latest case, the samples were given for retest within a day. Deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH Dr Sagar Pandey said, “Variations in results of RT-PCR test were quite possible even within 24 hours. It is observed viral load is varying a lot in patients. There are always chances of a negative result if samples are not taken properly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/testing-goof-up-negative-at-nmc-centre-ve-at-pvt-lab/articleshow/78523126.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress to field Cheruku’s son in Dubbak bypoll||HYDERABAD: Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, a local TRS leader, on Tuesday joined Congress setting the stage for an electoral battle of sympathy between the ruling party and the Congress in Dubbak constituency, which is going to bypolls on November 3. The Congress finalised the name of Srinivas from Dubbak and a formal announcement would be made on Wednesday after approval from AICC leadership. While Srinivas is the son of former minister Cheruku Muthyam Reddy, TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha is the wife of late Ramalinga Reddy. Both Muthyam Reddy and Ramalinga Reddy were prominent leaders and were elected four times each from Dubbak and Dommat Assembly constituencies since 1989. Muthyam’s son Srinivas and Ramalinga’s son Sathish have been actively participating in various programmes in the constituency in the last few years. While Muthyam died in September 2019, Dubbak sitting MLA Ramalinga died last month. Muthyam is a four time MLA from Dommat by Dubbak. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy along with senior leaders welcomed Srinivas into the party. “Muthyam and his family served the people of Dommat/Dubbak for several decades. Congress will create history by commencing its victory from Dubbak before going on to win 2023 Assembly polls,” Uttam said. “From a constituency which did not have even RTC buses and no water supply to many of its villages, my father (Muthyam) developed it to this stage. He always dreamed of reverse migration from city to villages by developing rural areas. But what the ruling TRS gifted my father is an insult,” he said. Srinivas was expecting a TRS ticket for bypoll to Dubbak and had also sent feelers to K Chandrasekhar Rao that he would leave TRS if he is denied the ticket. After the CM announced Sujatha’s name, Srinivas joined Congress.  Senior Congress leaders including TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy will start campaigning in Dubbak from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-field-cherukus-son-in-bypoll/articleshow/78523150.cms||Roushan Ali
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Perv video-calls researcher, tracked down in half an hour||KOLKATA: A young researcher from Calcutta University was allegedly bombarded with obscene video calls and messages from an unknown number late on Monday. Associated with an NGO, the researcher has been active in arranging for blood during the Covid crisis. When she received the call from an unknown number late at night, she ostensibly believed that it might be someone seeking her help in an emergency. But when she realized it was a caller with perverse intentions, she emailed the cyber police station and the cops traced the accused, using surveillance tools, in half an hour. “The accused, a youngster from north Kolkata in his late 20s, apologized to the woman and sought forgiveness. We are drawing up legal proceedings against him,” said an officer.  Lauding police for their quick response and action, the woman wrote a detailed post on Facebook, recounting how she was targeted even after she had blocked the accused across different social media platforms. “There was a call from an unknown number. I picked it up thinking there was a need for blood at this odd hour. But from the beginning the accused bombarded me asking for sexual favours. There were multiple lewd messages too. Once I blocked the Whatsapp number, multiple messages—explicitly sexual in nature—filled up my message box. I finally lodged a complaint through an email to cyber police station after midnight,” she posted. “The two cops who attended to my mail —sub-inspector Raja Saha and Suman Khan—asked how the accused got my number. I assured them I never share numbers randomly and the only source of them accessing my number could be my profiles on social media. They shared their numbers and assured all help. It was well past midnight,” she said. Police traced the accused in the next half-an-hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/perv-video-calls-researcher-tracked-down-in-half-an-hour/articleshow/78523247.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 7, 2020||Pune||Zensar hires over 100 for permanent remote roles||PUNE: In a push to its work from anywhere model, Zensar Technologies has hired over 112 employees for permanent work-from-home roles. The mid-sized IT firm made these hirings from Jabalpur, Indore, Bhopal, Chandigarh, Vijaywada, Guntur, Nashik and Panvel. “The work from anywhere model has allowed us to hire people to work from tier II and III cities. It also has expanded the talent pool available to us,” Vivek Ranjan, chief human resources officer, Zensar, said. To make sure that the employees feel a part of the company, Zensar has involved seniors as culture champions to acclimatise workforce who are yet to see the company physically. This marks a paradigm shift in the way the 9,000 employee strong company will operate going forward.To be sure, the company will get back to some degree of office working but that is still some distance away and will depend on the shape and size at which the pandemic unfolds in the future. For Ranjan and his colleagues in the HR department, this has been a “defining moment in their careers as they had to meet the moment of truth”. “Post-Covid all of us are living the same life and the clients are seeing it too and are finding value in it. Trust is getting built that employees working from home can also be productive,” Ranjan said, adding, “The company is looking at enhancing its work from policy for a hybrid workplace model”. However, the shift comes with on-the-ground and real world infrastructure challenges too like power cuts and poor internet connectivity. “A basic level of infrastructure support has to be provided. We have also been discussing that managers need to tackle these situations on an emergent basis and empathize with colleagues who face these challenge,” Ranjan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zensar-hires-over-100-for-permanent-remote-roles/articleshow/78523155.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP’s Raghunandan to test his luck again in Dubbak||HYDERABAD: BJP on Tuesday night declared N Raghunandan Rao as the party candidate for Dubbak. His candidature was expected as the state party leadership had sent only his name from the constituency. Raghunandan had contested for the Dubbak seat twice in 2014 and 2018 and lost both times. In 2018 polls, he received 22,595 votes and polled 15,131 votes in 2014. In both the elections, he came third. This will be the third time that Raghunandan would fancy his chances at the hustings. Raghunandan was official spokesperson of BJP when Dr Laxman was party president. He alleged that Dubbak got nothing when compared to constituencies like Sircilla (represented by KTR), Gajwel (represented by KCR) and Siddipet (represented by Harish Rao). “Dubbak got only Rs 10 crore as a special development fund when compared to Sircilla and Gajwel which received Rs 184 crore and Rs 434 crore respectively. Discrimination towards Dubbak by the TRS regime is evident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjps-raghunandan-to-test-his-luck-again/articleshow/78523167.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 7, 2020||Pune||ZF to speed up auto-tech offerings||Pune: Auto component maker ZF said it was poised to be a leading technology partner to the commercial vehicle industry with the addition of WABCO capabilities, which it acquired recently. “With a clear focus on reducing carbon dioxide emissions and enhancing safety standards, ZF is also at the forefront of delivering the next level of vehicle automation and digital connectivity,” ZF said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zf-to-speed-up-auto-tech-offerings/articleshow/78523197.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Health-tech venture by Bajaj Finserv||PUNE: City-based Bajaj Finserv said thast it has launched a fully-owned subsidiary, Bajaj Finserv Health Ltd (BFHL) aimed at providing smarter, connected and holistic healthcare plans. The company said that the solution is like a personalized healthcare manager.“It enables the customer to receive and maintain health records digitally, which would be integrated with National Health ID,” the company added. The company said it has already empanelled 112 hospital partners, operating 200 hospitals in India, three diagnostic centres having 671 consumer touch points and more than 9,000 doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-tech-venture-by-bajaj-finserv/articleshow/78523173.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Tempo with 17 falls into canal, 2 drown||VADODARA/ ANAND: At least two persons were killed when a mini tempo carrying 17 labourers plunged into a canal on the outskirts of Sojitra town of Anand district late on Tuesday night. According to officials, two persons drowned in flowing water of the canal while rescuers from Anand’s fire brigade rescued 12 others. Efforts were on to locate three other labourers who are still missing. The fire brigade team had a difficult time as they had to carry out rescue operations in the pitch dark as the canal is located on the outskirts of Sojitra. The labourers hailed mostly from Danteli and Kania villages of Petlad taluka, adjoining Sojitra. The deceased have been identified as Savita Talpada, 40, a resident of Danteli village and Madhu Talpada, 25, from Kania village of Petlad. The three missing include Arjun Talpada of Kania village, Bharti Talpada, 17 and Parul Talpada, 15, both from Danteli. Those who have been rescued are in the age group of 15 to 55 years. The driver, Lalit Talpada, lost control after which the vehicle rolled down into the muddy area of the canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tempo-with-17-falls-into-canal-2-drown/articleshow/78521248.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kanpur||Oppn trying to spark caste, communal violence: Yogi Adityanath||KANPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath accused the opposition parties of trying to trigger caste and communal violence over the Hathras case to deflect attention from development and government’s achievements, reports Faiz.Siddiqui. Addressing booth and sector-level BJP workers in Ghatampur assembly seat ahead of November 3 bypolls in virtual interaction, the CM said, “The opposition parties are trying to trigger caste and communal violence over the alleged rape-murder of 19-year-old Dalit girl in Hathras.” “These same parties could not provide basic things like electricity, water, house, jobs and ration to people during their regime, and are now trying to vitiate the atmosphere by whipping up caste and communal riots,” the chief minister said. The chief minister asked workers to expose” the opposition and publicize the achievements of the Centre and state governments. Yogi appealed to party workers to focus on a door-to-door campaign amid the ongoing pandemic and reach out to maximum voters ahead of Ghatampur byelection. “Teams comprising 20 to 25 workers should visit electors while following all necessary precautions against Covid during a door-to-door campaign across 481 booths and have a direct dialogue with them,” he said. State BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh asked the workers to follow social distancing during campaigning and follow all Covid protocols. The Ghatampur seat fell vacant after the death of state minister Kamal Rani Varun (62). She had been undergoing treatment at SGPGI, Lucknow. Varun had tested positive for Covid-19 on 18 July. She died on August 2 due to complications triggered by the disease. In the 2017 assembly elections, Varun had defeated BSP’s Saroj Kureel and secured 48.52% votes. Congress party’s Nandram Sonker stood third while SP had not fielded its candidate owing to the pact with Congress. Bypolls to the Ghatampur assembly seat will be held on November 3. The counting of votes will be held on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/oppn-trying-to-spark-caste-communal-violence-yogi/articleshow/78524239.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC earns only 30% of revenue target in 6 months||Nagpur: Empty coffers, mounting expenses and cash inflow drought… the Nagpur Municipal Corporation has every reason to be concerned about its fiscal health. Also, the revenue earned in the first half of the financial year paints a grim picture. Against a projection of Rs2,523.82 crore revenue target set by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the civic body has earned a mere Rs876 crore which roughly translates to about 30% of the target. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke is all set to present the civic budget for the financial year 2020-21 at a special general body meeting to be held between October 15 and 20, said a source. The standing committee’s budget presentation got delayed by almost six months due to prevailing coronavirus pandemic. Former standing committee chairman Pradip Pohane had proposed a Rs3,197 crore budget for the last fiscal and the civic body generated Rs2,257.45 crore. Zalke should present a realistic budget, sources in the NMC said. NMC’s dependency on government grant has increased manifold as the civic body generates less than 18% of its revenue through own sources, while it gets almost 82.17% in the form of government grants including GST, revealed the data procured from NMC’s accounts and finance department. Of the revenue generated in the first half of the financial year, the NMC received Rs720 crore as grants from the state government (including Rs603 crore GST grant). Concerned over the poor financial health, Zalke has recently sought Rs500 crore financial aid from the state government. The dip in the revenue has driven the civic body to tighten its purse strings. The ex-civic chief had already curtailed the civic works and had announced that the NMC’s earnings would be less than Rs1,500 crore due to Covid pandemic. In first six months of last fiscal (April 2019 to September 2019), the NMC had generated Rs1,525 crore, revealed the data. Of the amount generated, Rs1,100 crore will be spent on establishment and administrative expenses. Rest of the money will be used to repay the civic body’s liabilities, Mundhe had stated. With no cash at disposal, the new civic chief Radhakrishnan B is also finding it difficult to undertake development works meeting committed monthly expenses of Rs115 crore. Sources said he has taken several measures to curtail the NMC’s expenses. Citing an example, sources said the civic administration is also delaying the resumption of Aapli Bus service due to cash crunch. Sources stressed that the NMC should initiate steps to strengthen revenue sources like arrears from property, water and market tax etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-earns-only-30-of-revenue-target-in-6-months/articleshow/78523205.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 7, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Pregnant teen dalit girl killed by dad for bringing ‘shame on family’||BAREILLY: ‘Raped’ by an acquaintance, a pregnant Dalit girl, 16, was allegedly killed by her father and elder brother in a village in UP’s Shahjahanpur district for “bringing shame” on the family. According to local police, the news of the unmarried girl’s pregnancy had spread in the village and the family was feeling “ashamed of it”. The girl met a brutal end. She was beaten and strangled to death. Her body was then decapitated and buried in a riverbed. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Shahjahanpur S Anand told TOI, “The father has confessed to have killed his daughter because she was pregnant. People had started insulting him publicly. The girl’s elder brother is also involved in the murder and we have booked both of them under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence). We have also questioned the mother and other relatives but we didn’t find their involvement in the murder.” The girl, who was never sent to school, grew up learning the virtues of silence. She stayed quite after the alleged rape, till the baby bump betrayed her ordeal. According to police, she didn’t reveal the name of the rapist to the family also and remained quiet till her last breath. Police are now trying to find the accused. The girl’s mutilated body was recovered on Tuesday and police cracked the case within hours. The girl was missing since September 23 but no complaint was lodged by the family. During preliminary inquiry, the family told police that the girl is living with a relative. However, her father later confessed to have strangled her to death. Her brother is on the run. SSP Anand said, “We are also trying to identify the person responsible for the girl’s pregnancy as making sexual relationship with a minor girl is also a crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unmarried-pregnant-dalit-girl-16-killed-by-father-for-bringing-shame-on-family/articleshow/78520585.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 40 lakh cash seized, Cyberabad cops claim it belongs to BJP leader’s aides||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police said on Tuesday that Rs 40 lakh cash was seized from a businessman at Shamirpet during vehicle checking and hinted that the amount was meant to be distributed among Dubbak voters in favour of the BJP candidate. Police intercepted Creta and Swift cars near Shamirpet toll gate. “Upon observing police, the driver of Creta turned the vehicle back and started driving towards Medchal at a high speed. Our team started chasing the car on ORR. Suddenly, the car stopped and one person got out with a bag and started running towards the service road. Our team chased him and caught him,” an official release issued by Balanagar DCP PV Padmaja said. Police found Rs 40 lakh in the bag and identified the carrier as Srinivasa Babu. Cops also apprehended B Anjaneyulu, P Suresh and Majid Hussain, all residents of Patancheru. “The four men revealed that they are followers of Raghunandan Rao, BJP candidate from Dubbak,” the DCP said. A case was booked against the four men under sections 41 and 102 of CrPC. The cash and the two cars were seized. “I do not want to say anything without looking into the documents. I have lodged a complaint with the Union home ministry to look into phone tapping by the TRS government. How can officials say they got to know about it through phone conversations,” Raghunandan Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-40-lakh-cash-seized-cops-claim-it-belongs-to-bjp-leaders-aides/articleshow/78523228.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bareilly||ATS picks up Punjab youth, 24, from Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A team of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) from Lucknow raided a farmhouse in Pilibhit on Tuesday morning and took a 24-year-old youth into custody. The youth, identified as Nishan Singh, is a resident of Taran district of Punjab. He was living with his uncle in Bhikhampur village of Pilibhit for the last one week. Superintendent of police of Pilibhit, Jai Prakash Yadav, said that the ATS personnel did not share any information about their action with the district police officials. On being asked about it, additional director general (ADG) of ATS at Lucknow, DK Thakur, said that the youth had been taken into custody for interrogation. His close colleague is wanted by Punjab Police in connection with illegal firearms possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ats-picks-up-punjab-youth-24-from-pilibhit/articleshow/78520612.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||See, talk & cheer your patient. Police Covid hosp kiosk working wonders||Nagpur: An interactive kiosk opened at the 16-bed Covid facility at police hospital in Takli is enabling patients in isolation ward and their family members to communicate through audio-visual medium without the risk of virus spread. The innovative use of technology has eliminated the loneliness a Covid patient has to go through as he has to remain in isolation as well as reduced the family worries as the kin are able to see and talk to their loves ones. CCTV cameras, installed inside the isolation ward, have been fitted with two-way public communication systems. The family members can see their kin inside the Covid ward through a multiple screen monitor installed at a makeshift tent outside the ward. The idea, conceptualized by city police chief Amitesh Kumar in consultation with the hospital chief medical officer Dr Sandeep Shinde, acts as a morale booster for the isolated patients. The facility was started at the hospital last month shortly after Kumar had taken up the reigns of the city police. Dr Shinde said such facility could be first of it’s kind in the state where Covid patients and their families are virtually meeting everyday. “There is remarkable improvement in patients’ mental state and eagerness to fight it out and step out unscathed,” he said. City police have so far lost 16 cops to Covid. It’s learnt that most of the victims had also suffered mental stress and psychological disturbances to the extent that one of the sub-inspectors had even sent a message to his wife asking her to end life along with their daughter fearing he won’t come out of the infection. The Covid facility, having eight ICU beds, also uses the communication system to play motivational speeches and soothing music for the patients. Kumar said the concept of allowing patients to speak to their near and dear ones is reducing anxiety and stress. “The kin can see their patients being treated with due care in clean and hygienic ambience,” he said. Dr Shinde said cheerful atmosphere is being maintained in the facility with banters and jokes to keep the patients in good stead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/see-talk-cheer-your-patient-police-covid-hosp-kiosk-working-wonders/articleshow/78523273.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded professor’s body found in dam a day after he went swimming||AURANGABAD: The body of Bhagwan Jadhav, the dean of Nanded’s Swami Ramanand Teerth University and the head of the foreign students’ centre, was fished out from the Vishnupuri dam waters on Tuesday around 8am. Citing preliminary investigation, Nanded superintendent of police Pramod Kumar Shewale told TOI: “The professor regularly went to the waterbody for a swim.” On Monday morning too, he went to Kaleshwar, the backwaters of the dam, for a swim. When he did not return home by 9am, his wife tried reaching him on the cellphone, but the calls went unanswered. She then alerted other family members. Later, along with the relatives, Jadhav’s wife went to Kaleshwar and found his vehicle, cellphone and clothes lying on the bank. After the police were alerted, scuba divers were roped in from the fire department for the search operations. The search went on till late on Monday and was resumed on Tuesday. After fishing out Jadhav’s body, it was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Nanded and an autopsy was performed. Nanded rural police have registered a case of accidental death and are probing if it was a case of accidental drowning, suicide or homicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-professors-body-found-in-dam-a-day-after-he-went-swimming/articleshow/78520636.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Ensure huge win for Kavitha: KTR||HYDERABAD: TRS working president and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday exuded confidence of TRS winning the Nizamabad local bodies constituency byelection.  K Kavitha, former MP and sister of KTR, is TRS candidate from this MLC seat. KTR asked the party cadre to fight against the opposition parties trying to sabotage development works taken up by the TRS government and urged them to ensure a huge majority for Kavitha. In a video conference with the voters of Nizamabad constituency, KTR criticised the BJP government at the Centre for bringing in the new farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ensure-huge-win-for-kavitha-ktr/articleshow/78523265.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: Parties put up show of strength||HYDERABAD: In a show of strength, the three main political players TRS, Congress and BJP in Dubbak have started showcasing how their cadre numbers have gone up thanks to migration of political workers.  Getting Cheruku Srinivas Reddy to join Congress from the TRS is a ‘trophy’ that the party is showing off, while several BJP workers were welcomed into the TRS by finance minister T Harish Rao. With the byelections nearing, all the parties are going all out to woo supporters of rival parties. Harish Rao visited the house of Solipeta Sujatha and conveyed to her the decision of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to field her as a TRS candidate for the forthcoming poll. Sujatha’s husband Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, who was the sitting legislator, died in August. “When I had contested the 2004 election, Sujatha worked for my victory carrying out a door-to-door campaign,” Harish Rao recalled. Sujatha said she would continue to work for the people like her late husband. M Raghunandan Rao, BJP candidate, who welcomed a group of TRS supporters into the saffron party in Rajakkapeta village, charged the CM with neglecting Dubbak. He said all that was spent on Dubbak was Rs 10 crore, whereas the CM spent Rs 400 crore for his Gajwel constituency. When I had contested the 2004 election, Sujatha worked for my victory carrying out a door-to-door campaign. Sujatha said she would continue to work for people like her late husband||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parties-put-up-show-of-strength/articleshow/78523299.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 7, 2020||Bareilly||AIR first among girls, Moradabad’s Kanishka says lockdown gave her extra prep time||BAREILLY: Celebrations broke out in the Mittal household of Moradabad as soon as results of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced were declared on Monday, when it emerged that their daughter, Kanishka (18), had bagged the all-India 1st rank among girls (17th overall). The exam, scheduled to be held in May 2020, was postponed after the Covid-19 lockdown came into effect in March 2020, and eventually held on September 27. The ecstatic topper said the lockdown gave her extra time to prepare better and revise for the exam, which is reflected in her performance. “I studied for eight hours a day and made sure I utilise the lockdown period to prepare better for the exam. I managed to make the most of it, and my family supported me throughout. I was in constant touch with the faculty at Kota — where I had studied to prepare for the exam — who guided and helped me. The pandemic has been a blessing in disguise,” said Kanishka Mittal. Mittal said she is yet to decide what she wants to pursue as a career, because, inspired by her elder brother who is pursuing BTech from an engineering college in Chandigarh, she always wanted to become an IITian. “I have always been a bright student and scored a good percentile in all subjects, especially mathematics. I selected PCM in Class X, even though I did not have much interest in Physics and Chemistry. But over time, my interest in the two subjects increased as well. After passing high school from Moradabad, I did my Class XII from Kota in Rajasthan and scored well,” Mittal said. “The JEE Advanced 2020 was scheduled for May 17, but due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown, the exam was postponed. I utilised this period to the maximum and had been studying day and night, practicing more and more, considering JEEpapers are different each time and difficult. During the period, I was in constant touch with my instructors at Kota, which helped me with my problems. The extra preparation time proved to be very helpful,” she further added. Kanishka’s father Anuj Kumar Mittal, a resident of Kanth Road, owns a photostat shop at the collectorate, while mother Suchitra Mittal is a homemaker. “Like every other middle class family, we too faced some financial challenges. But my family did not let me feel any of it, and ensured that nothing distracted me from my studies. They have been very encouraging and have always pushed me to do better,” she said. Mittal scored 315 out of 396, with all-India rank 17, in JEE Advanced 2020. Earlier, she had done her schooling from St Mary’s Senior Secondary School in Moradabad, where she had scored 99% in Class X, before moving to Kota, Rajasthan, from where she passed Class XII with 98.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/air-1st-among-girls-mbds-kanishka-says-lockdown-gave-her-extra-prep-time/articleshow/78520650.cms||Maria Khan
October 7, 2020||Kolhapur||No hotspots in Kolhapur city, two Covid care centres shut||KOLHAPUR: The declining number of Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur city has led to two positive developments — one, after roughly three months, there are no Covid hotspots in the city; and two, the civic administration has been able to shut down two Covid care centres (CCCs). When the Covid-19 pandemic broke out in the country, for the first few months, there were very few cases in the city. However, in the past three months, the city had reported more than 13,000 cases. The city had the highest number of Covid cases in the district. Currently, however, about 80 cases are being reported every day. The decline in the number of positive cases has brought relief to the civic authorities. Earlier, there were nine hotspots in the city. Now, the earlier hotspots are reporting very few cases and the remaining areas of the city too have been almost free of new cases in the past week. Nikhil More, the deputy commissioner and KMC’s nodal officer for Covid, said, “We now have around 1,100 active Covid-19 cases. There are no hotspots left in the city. However, there still are 170 micro-containment zones since there are active cases there. We have now focussed on contact tracing and screening through a door-to-door survey.” Around 80% of beds are vacant in the 12 Covid care centres. Most of the active patients are quarantined at home. Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar announced the closure of two Covid care centres — both on the Shivaji University campus. More said the centres are being shut on a temporary basis as the further easing of restrictions may lead to another wave of Covid cases. The facilities should be prepared to take in patients in a day or two if the urgency arises. “We are preparing the forecast of the likely rise in the number of cases in the coming weeks and months based on our experience over the past several months. Based on the forecast, we may close some centres permanently or temporarily. We will not remove all the machinery from the centres, only the functioning of these centres will be stopped,” said More.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-hotspots-in-kolhapur-city-two-covid-care-centres-shut/articleshow/78520647.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nashik||Bytco hosp gets three specialised physicians||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Bytco hospital has got three additional specialised doctors, including two private and one government one, for treating Covid-19 patients. Until now, both Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospitals operated by the civic body had only two physicians (MD medicine) each on a part-time basis. Both the hospitals were facing shortage of specialised physicians. One physician from government hospital has already joined the Bytco hospital while another two private doctors have agreed to treat Covid patients at the facility and they are expected to join in a day or two, said NMC officials. “We wanted 10 physicians with MD medicine specialisation, but we did not receive a single candidate during an interview conducted in July and August. Finally, we got four private doctors with the help of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Nashik for our two Covid hospitals — Bytco and Zakir Hussain,” said NMC officials. “But, as we are expanding the capacity of oxygen beds at the Bytco facility up to 400, we need more physicians to treat critical patients,” said NMC officials, adding that the joining of three more doctors is a major relief. The NMC had recently conducted walk-in interviews to fill over 840 posts for medical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bytco-hosp-gets-three-specialised-physicians/articleshow/78523324.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 7, 2020||Pune||Pune study delinks ‘CT value’ from nCoV infection severity||PUNE: When 30-year-old Vinay got his sample tested via RT-PCR, besides the result, he was also keen to know his ‘cycle threshold’ (CT) value. “The CT value was low, indicating high viral load. But I had mild Covid-19,” Vinay said. The CT value, which has evoked tremendous interest lately, is the number of cycles it has taken an RT-PCR device to detect SARS-CoV-2 in a sample. Higher the viral load, lower the CT value — if person A’s CT value is 20 and B’s is 10, it means B has a higher viral load. But a study carried out in Pune has now shown that despite high viral loads (low CT value), 71% of Covid patients surveyed had only mild to moderate disease. The rest (29%) with high viral loads went on to develop severe to critical illness. And quite a few patients (11%) had severe to critical illness despite low viral loads (high CT value). Experts who carried out the study — of 142 patients in total — said using CT value to decide course of treatment should be discouraged. “People have been giving too much importance to CT values. Clinically, it is difficult to use it for decision making,” said infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag. “It tells us the viral load of the specimen sent. If a patient has lung involvement from Covid, the CT value will provide only the viral load of the throat specimen, not the load in the lungs,” he said. Prayag, along with microbiologist Sampada Patwardhan, studied outcomes in patients at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. Nearly half of them had low CT values. "Our findings clearly show it is difficult to correlate CT values and outcomes. Many with low CT values (high viral load) had mild Covid-19,” Prayag said The Indian Council of Medical Research has also discouraged clinical management based on CT value. “A patient’s clinical picture is more important than just the CT value. This value can also increase or decrease over the next few days,” said virologist Deepak Gadkari, a former director of the National Institute of Virology. Also, there are different makes of RT-PCR kits. The machines’ analytical performance depends on factors such as detection limits, the chemistry of the assay and the sample volume. “Different kits can have different CT values. It needs to be interpreted using information provided with that particular assay,” Patwardhan said. But can a patient’s ability to transmit Covid be determined by CT values? “A CT value can give us an idea about viral viability or infectiousness. In general, a viable virus usually has a concentration of genome copies of 10 to the power 8 or more. So viral viability can be roughly estimated from the CT value,” said Patwardhan, who is also head of the department of microbiology at DMH. Studies from Europe have shown that when the CT value for the E gene is higher than 34, it is likely that it’s a non-viable virus. “A CT value can give us an idea of the viability and infectivity of the virus. But there are different factors that can affect this CT value. So we need to interpret it very carefully. This should only be done by experts, to avoid confusion,” Prayag said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-study-delinks-ct-value-from-ncov-infection-severity/articleshow/78523322.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Solipeta Sujatha vows to develop Dubbak||HYDERABAD: TRS candidate for Dubbak bypoll Solipeta Sujatha on Tuesday said she will continue to develop the constituency with the help of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and finance minister T Harish Rao. She became emotional while recalling the services of her late husband Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy for development of Dubbak segment. “I will always be with the people of the constituency,” Sujatha said and vowed to work for the development of the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sujatha-vows-to-develop-dubbak/articleshow/78523327.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Nepal army builds bridle path near Kalapani area||PITHORAGARH: The Nepal army has constructed a 550-metre patch on Dharchula-Chhangru bridle path. Two remote villages of Nepal – Tinkar (near Tibet border) and Chhangru (near Indian border) – are now connected to each other and with Dharchula headquarters. Two years ago, the road connecting these villages had been washed away and the villagers were using a path that passes through Dharchula and Sitapul (in Uttarakhand) to commute. The Nepal army completed the road in just four months. People residing in Tinkar and Chhangru villages move to lower valleys from November to April and migrate to the upper reaches from May to October. Chhangru has 90 families living there and Tinkar 60, who are dependent on this path. A bridle path of 85 km connected it to nearby areas, but two years ago, the roads were washed away during a landslide at Ghantibagar, 60 km from Dharchula. All human and animal movement on this stretch was completely stopped and the villagers had to use an Indian route to reach their villages. The entry points between India and Nepal were closed on March 23 this year due to the Covid-induced lockdown, leaving the villagers virtually stranded. The tensions between the two countries related to boundary issues came to the fore in May after the Nepal government released a new map of Nepal, incorporating Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura. In May, the Nepal authorities requested the Pithoragarh district administration to allow these villagers to use Indian roads and they were granted the permission, sources said. But this was an awkward situation for Nepal. Four months ago, the Nepal government gave the task of constructing the road to its army due to tough topography of the region (construction along the Kali river was dangerous). Their army completed this 550-metre-long and 2-metre-wide path within four months. The cost of the project was Rs 1.08 crore, sources said. Sixty army personnel and 45 labourers were deployed to complete the task. One soldier even lost his life. Nepal army has opened border outposts at Chhangru and Tinkar, but due to lack of road and bridle path, army personnel, ration and equipment were transported by air. Now after construction of this 550-metre patch, the army and villagers are using this route. Nepal has been trying to strengthen its road network as well as air connectivity in the border areas following tensions with India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-army-constructs-550-metre-bridle-path-at-ghantibagar-in-dharchula-nepal/articleshow/78520673.cms||Prem Punetha
October 7, 2020||Kochi||Source unknown in over 3,ooo Covid cases in Ernakulam||KOCHI: A report published by district health officials on October 3 has stressed the need for further strengthening of symptom surveillance in Ernakulam as the number of Covid-19 cases with unknown source has been on the rise. The district reported 2,564 such cases till September 28, constituting 13.2% of the total cases. As many as 849 more such cases were added between September 29 and October 5, taking the total number of cases with unknown source to 3,413. “As there has been a steep surge in Covid-19 cases, chances are high that the district would witness a greater number of cases with unknown source. The solution is to strengthen the symptom surveillance irrespective of contacts and travel history,” a district official said. Rapid rise in admission of positive patients at private hospitals too has become a cause for concern for health officials.There were only 308 Covid-19 patients at private hospitals on September 22. In 10 days, the admission doubled and touched 700 cases by October 2. “Special charges have been fixed for providing treatment for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals. But many patients, after admission, find it difficult to afford the treatment and prefer to get shifted to government sector. In such cases, patients will have to wait longer and it builds pressure on private hospitals,” said Dr Junaid Rahman, past president of IMA, Kochi chapter. The report also warned that the average hospital stay per patient would drastically increase if more elderly get infected. Even a small change in age-wise distribution of cases may lead to surge in demand for hospital beds, ICU care and ventilators and further fall in death toll could be an indicator of missed cases and poor surveillance, it further stated. As most of the Covid-19 fatalities in Ernakulam were reported among people in the age group of 61 to 70 years, even a minor surge in cases among this vulnerable group should be taken seriously, the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/source-unknown-in-over-3k-covid-cases-in-district/articleshow/78521834.cms||T C Sreemol
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||ATM break-in bid near Shyambazar||KOLKATA: An ATM of a nationalized bank on APC Roy Road was broken into early on Monday but the accused failed to steal any cash. The teller machine has, however, been damaged beyond repair. The incident took place between 2am and 2.50am on Monday and a case of theft and mischief has been registered at the Shyampukur police station. “A complaint was lodged by Sanjay Biswas, who owns the agency that maintains and replenishes the ATM. Different parts of the machine have been damaged. We are checking footage from CCTV cameras in and around the area. With the Pujas around, we have stepped up security for night,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/atm-break-in-bid-near-shyambazar/articleshow/78523391.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Passing e-exam must for cybercrime, EOW posts||AURANGABAD: Police personnel looking for posting with the specialised branches of cybercrime and economic offences wing (EOW) will now have to complete an e-learning course and crack an online exam. The training and examination module has been designed by the E-learning Academy of the Maharashtra Police Academy, Nashik. The module would save time and resources spent on training personnel who are often not aware of even the basic functioning and requirements of these specialised branches. Unit commanders, using their discretionary powers, post policemen to these branches, irrespective of subject expertise or qualification. In some cases, the policeman’s ability and educational qualifications are taken into consideration. The latest move will not only create subject-expert investigation officers, but will also give the police department an edge over the accused. Moreover, the officers are hopeful that in a near future, even conviction in these cases would increase. The senior officers said that even the policemen who are already posted with these branches will have to undergo this training modules and clear the online tests. Those failing the test will be transferred to some other branch or police station. Those in the know said the pandemic had delayed the full implementation of the module. “It should take a minimum not two months to implement the initiative,” said an officer. An expert committee is being formed to design the syllabus for both the courses. Some of the key topics in the syllabus would be the types of cyber and economic offences; the difference between conventional crime and cyber/economic offences; collection and preservation of evidence; preparing chargesheet and presentation of the case before a court of law; and their admissibility before the court; courts and important rulings in cyber and economic offences; reported judgements; amended laws; case studies, common lacunae in the investigation etc. Positively responding to an internal communication received sometime ago, several unit commanders have issued internal communication asking the interested policemen to start preparing for the course. Additional director-general of police Sanjay Kumar, who recently took charge of training and special squads of the state police, has been undergoing the familiarisation process. “With the evolution of crime, we need to have policemen who are expert in detecting such offences,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/passing-e-exam-must-for-cybercrime-eow-posts/articleshow/78520668.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Cautious TRS eyes 2 seats in MLC polls||HYDERABAD: Though its focus is on winning the Dubbak bypoll, the ruling TRS is equally paying attention to bagging the two MLC seats this time. With TJS chief M Kodandaram’s entry, the party is all the more vigilant and sending the rank and file to households to canvass for the party. The MLC polls in two graduates seats has become matter of prestige for TRS, sources said. “A survey was done to find suitable candidates for the two seats,” sources said. The TRS faced defeat in the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency and barely managed to win the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency in the last election. The party believes it needs to field candidates to match up to those are wlling to contest from other parties. Till now, 34,514 applications reached the electoral registration officer in Hyderabad-RR-Mahbubanagar constituency. Electoral rolls’ preparation had begun on October 1 and will continue till November 6. BJP’s N Ramchander Rao won the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat, while the Warangal- Khammam-Nalgonda constituency was bagged by TRS’s Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who is presently Rythu Samanyava Samithi chairman. Though there was a strong possibility of Rajeshwar Reddy being repeated, the equations have changed with the entry of Kodandaram, who is testing his luck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cautious-trs-eyes-2-seats-in-mlc-polls/articleshow/78523367.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 7, 2020||Nashik||Covid doubling rate improves to 72 days in Nashik district||NASHIK: The Covid-19 case doubling rate — a critical indicator to assess the pace of the infection’s spread — has significantly improved from about 18 days in August and early September to 72 days now in Nashik district. The doubling rate, which is calculated by the health department on a weekly basis, is determined by the number of days it takes for the number of positive cases to double. Accordingly, a longer duration signifies a slower spread of the viral infection. Though new cases of Covid-19 are still emerging every day, the increase in the doubling rate indicates that the spread is reducing rapidly, said Ratna Raokhande, the civil surgeon of Nashik civil hospital. Raokhande said the situation is improving rapidly in October. “So far, this month, it has been found that the doubling rate of Nashik rural is 52 days, and it is 82 days in the city. In Malegaon city, it is 159 days.” The situation was serious in August and most of September. However, over the past week, things have started to show improvement. She added that even the need for medical oxygen has dropped. Last month, 20-24 kilolitre of medical oxygen was needed per day in the district. This demand has now come down to 15 kilolitres. Raokhande said as the number of serious Covid patients is fast decreasing, it will also bring down the number of fatalities further. With various activities being taken up across the district to bring the ailing patients under treatment immediately, Covid-positive are being treated in the first stage of the infection. That is why the number of serious patients in the district has fallen, reducing the daily requirement of medical oxygen in the process. The civil surgeon also said that earlier, people were afraid to get themselves tested. However, now, while more people are coming forward, the testing facilities too are available in many parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-doubling-rate-improves-to-72-days-in-nashik-district/articleshow/78523359.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 7, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra increases daily oxygen production to 1,100 tonnes for Covid treatment||PUNE: The government has increased its daily oxygen production level to 1,100 tonnes from last week’s 900 tonnes to meet the state’s demand for the gas essential for treating Covid-19 patients. Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) officials said Maharashtra required around 950 tonnes of oxygen every day, with hospitals in Pune, both the district and the division, registering the maximum demand in the state. State joint director FDA (headquarters) J Mantri on Tuesday said, “We have the capacity to produce 1,177 tonnes of oxygen and are producing 1,100 tonnes. Oxygen distribution for medical use is 80% of the total production. As of now, we have enough stock.” He said there was no shortage of oxygen, as the hospitals had to abide by the guidelines. Mantri said the upcoming plant at Chakan would help the administration meet the industrial demand for oxygen.  The state has over 2.5 lakh active Covid-19 patients, revealed health department data. Of them, 14,437 patients are on oxygen support. As many as 9,857 patients are in serious condition and undergoing treatment at intensive care units. The Maharashtra government recently issued new guidelines for the medical usage of oxygen. The regulations are based on the recommendations of a central government-appointed expert committee under Niti Aayog. Private and public hospitals have been told to restrict oxygen supply to 40 litre per minute for a patient admitted to ICU. On the other hand, a patient recovering at the hospital wards should get 15 litre of oxygen per minute. Medical practitioner and health activist Abhijit More said though there should be no rationing of oxygen, hospitals should strictly follow the protocols and avoid unnecessary admission of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-increases-daily-o2-production-to-1100-tonnes-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/78523348.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 7, 2020||Pune||Overcharging complaint against hospital staffers||PUNE: The Nigdi police on Monday registered an offence against the director and cashier of a private hospital in Akurdi following a complaint by a 19-year-old youth that the hospital had sought Rs9,000 as ventilator charges for the treatment of his mother on September 25 despite she succumbing to Covid-19 the previous day. The hospital authorities denied the allegation. The youth also lodged a complaint of blackmarketing of remdesivir injections at the hospital on the same day. He said his mother had died of Covid at the hospital’s ICU on September 24. “The next day, the hospital charged Rs9,000 for ventilator support for a period before which my mother was declared dead.” A medical director of the hospital said, “We have given discount of Rs55,000 on the bill for his mother’s treatment. We did not overcharge him or any other patients.” Assistant inspector P D Adarwad of the Nigdi police said an offence under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC had been registered against the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/overcharging-plaint-against-hosp-staffers/articleshow/78523366.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||PMR tally stays below 2k for second straight day||PUNE: The Covid-19 tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) stayed below 2,000 for the second straight day on Tuesday, with recoveries outpacing the new cases. As many as 1,739 people tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Tuesday, far below the single-day high of 4,935 cases recorded on September 10. On Monday, a total of 1,240 people had tested positive for the contagion in PMR. With this, the total caseload in PMR has risen above 2.96 lakh. The daily recoveries stood at 2,880 on Tuesday, taking the cured count in PMR above 2.56 lakh. With 58 more fatalities in the last 24 hours, the death count in the region stands at 6,925. Of the Tuesday casualties, 30 were recorded in the PMC limits, while 14 in the PCMC areas. The rural areas recorded eight casualties, while councils reported six deaths. As per the data provided by the district health office, all areas, except Cantonments, in PMR recorded more recoveries than new cases on Tuesday. The fresh recoveries stood at 1,270 in the PMC limits, 882 in the PCMC limits, 162 in council areas, 45 in cantonments and 521 in the rural parts. Among the new cases, the PMC limits recorded 643, followed by the rural areas with 465 cases. The PCMC limits reported 449 new cases, while councils and cantonments reported 133 and 49 new cases, respectively. As per PMC data, the corporation areas has 2,855 patients on oxygen beds. The daily report of PMC stated that critical patients admitted in hospitals across municipal areas stood at 925, including 528 on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-tally-stays-below-2k-for-second-straight-day/articleshow/78523409.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Waive power bills of religious places: Imtiaz Jaleel||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel on Tuesday demanded that the government should waive the electricity bills of all religious places across the state. He also warned of hitting the road if the decision is not taken within a month. “During lockdown, religious places belonging to all faiths remained closed, but they have still received power bills. We request the state government to waive the bills of all the religious places and if they don’t do it, we will start protest from November 9.” He demanded that the decision about the demand should be taken by November 6. “If no positive decision is taken, we’ll start a non-cooperation drive where the consumers will not pay their electricity bills,” Jaleel said, adding that the government is more inclined towards opening of bars, but has problem with opening of religious places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/waive-power-bills-of-religious-places-jaleel/articleshow/78520678.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Dedicated cure hub in Chakan||PUNE: Vehicle-maker Mahindra has set up a dedicated 75-bed Covid care centre at Mhalunge in Chakan, where it operates a major plant. The company said the facility was inaugurated on Monday to commemorate its 75th Founder’s Day. “This will be a first line care centre to avail free of cost treatment for Covid-19 patients in the industrial belt of Khed and Haveli talukas, considered a Covid hotspot,” the company said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dedicated-cure-hub-in-chakan/articleshow/78523377.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 34,000 applications for enrolment, 178 officers appointed in 9 districts||HYDERABAD: Total 34,514 forms have been received as on Monday as part of the denovo preparation of electoral rolls of Mahbubnagar-Ranga Reddy-Hyderabad graduates’ constituency. According to a press release issued by the electoral registration officer, The last date for receipt of applications in Form-18 is November 6, 2020. For facilitating the eligible graduates to enrol their names, 178 number of designated officers have been appointed covering all the nine districts. “All the eligible graduates are requested to submit their claim in the prescribed Form-18 either through online by visiting the website http://www.ceotelangana.nic.in or in the O/o of the any of the designated officers (Tahsildars of respective mandals or deputy commissioners of GHMC) on or before November 6, 2020,” read the press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/34k-applications-for-enrolment-178-officers-appointed-in-9-dists/articleshow/78523399.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand readies for a muted Durga Puja celebration, with social distancing and no prasad distribution||Dehradun: With just a couple of weeks to go for Durga Puja, the Bengali community’s annual extravaganza, most committees are aiming for muted, low-key celebrations this year. Due to the pandemic, there will be no prasad distribution or “Sindur Khela”, where women smear each other with vermillion on the last day of celebrations. Most puja committees have slashed their budgets by up to 40%. The cultural events that would usually mark the four days of puja have been cancelled. “We will have crowd-control measures in place. We will be deputing security personnel for thermal screening of visitors, who will be asked to maintain physical distancing,” said Himanshu Chakrabarty, secretary of Uttarayan Kali Bari & Cultural Organization, Dehradun. “This year, there will be no cultural events, no prasad distribution and we will also revise the time of opening the temple,” Chakrabarty added. The vice-president of Dehradun Durga Bari Santanu Mukherjee, “This year, our puja will be entering its 65th year. Due to the Covid situation, it will have the lowest number of attendees this year. However, we plan to live stream all the rituals, so people can watch the programmes on various social media platforms.” “Due to a reduced budget, we have cancelled several events this year. Also, the height of the idol has been reduced to 5 feet from the usual 11 feet, as immersion won’t be an option this year,” Mukherjee added. Meanwhile, it has been a difficult year for idol makers. The demand for Durga idols has plummeted this year, as has artisans’ income. Many artisans travel to the state from West Bengal every year to deck up the goddess. Bnkim Pal and his team from West Bengal’s Burdwan district said they had been visiting Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana for the last 40 years to make idols but hadn’t received a single order this year. “Also because of the lockdown, it is now very difficult for us to travel to other states,” Pal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-readies-for-a-muted-durga-puja-celebration-with-social-distancing-and-no-prasad-distribution/articleshow/78520693.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
October 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city crosses 50,000-mark of recoveries||Nashik: Nashik city on Tuesday crossed 50,000-mark of Covid-19 recoveries with 335 more people getting discharged from various facilities. In addition, 983 people were discharged from rural areas of the district. On the other hand, as many as 872 Covid-19 positive cases, including 589 from the city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of patients to 81,895. A total of 12 people succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the district, of which, seven were from the city. The death toll stands at 783 in the city and 1,463 in the district. At present, the district has 9,177 active cases, of which 4,285 active cases are in the city alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-crosses-50000-mark-of-recoveries/articleshow/78523369.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Vadodara||Bopal man found hanging in hotel||Vadodara: A 50-year-old man from Ahmedabad area was found hanging from the fan in a hotel in Sayajigunj area on Tuesday night. The man was identified as Alpesh Patel, a resident of Bopal. He was last ween when he ordered food in the room Patel had checked into the hotel on Monday night. On Tuesday morning, the hotel staff knocked his room to serve breakfast, but Patel did not respond. Assuming he must be asleep, the hotel staff did not bother him again. However, when he did not come out till evening, Patel the hotel’s manager contacted Sayajigunj police and his room was broken into by firemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bopal-man-found-hanging-in-hotel/articleshow/78521291.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Extortion case against son of former MLA in Kadapa||HYDERABAD: A pharmaceutical distributor lodged a complaint in Banjara Hills police accusing a son of a former MLA from Kadapa district of AP, of confining him besides extortion. Banjara Hills police said that Shiva Ganesh lodged a complaint claiming that the accused called him to Erramanzil to settle their previous property dispute. When the complainant went to Reddy’s residence, the former was allegedly confined and forced him to sign documents pertaining to their dispute. Based on the complaint given by Shiva, a case was registered by Banjara Hills police. The accused is the son of the former MLA from Kadapa district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extortion-case-against-son-of-former-mla/articleshow/78523420.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Cases drop, more patients get discharge in Solapur||KOLHAPUR: In a respite for Solapur district, the region is reporting fewer Covid-19 cases while more patients are recovering from the viral infection and getting discharged from hospitals. The district recorded 283 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday while as many as 324 patients were discharged. According to officials, Solapur city recorded 64 new cases while 45 were discharged. In contrast, the rural areas of the district reported 138 new cases while 258 patients were discharged. The district also recorded six deaths, including that of an 84-year-old woman in Solapur city. Of the five casualties reported from the rural areas of the district, four were senior citizens. While two deaths took place in Mohol tehsil, one each was reported from Barshi, Malshiras and Madha tehsils. Of the 8,750 cases recorded in Solapur city, 7,496 patients have recovered while 492 patients succumbed to the viral infection. Currently, there are 762 active patients in the city. From the rural areas, Mangalwedha tehsil did not add a single case on Tuesday. Sangola tehsil reported 30 cases, Pandharpur tehsil 42, Barshi added 38 cases while Malshiras, indentified 16 cases. So far, Pandharpur tehsil has now reported 5,201 cases and 128 deaths followed by Barshi tehsil with 4,932 patients with 157 deaths. Of the 26,674 positive cases identified in the rural areas of the district, 20,938 patients have recovered while 730 patients have died. Currently, there are 5,006 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cases-drop-more-patients-get-discharge-in-solapur/articleshow/78520694.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bareilly||Border tense after Nepal citizens clash with SSB jawans in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Tension prevailed along the Indo-Nepal border in Pilibhit on Tuesday after a confrontation took place between 49th Battalion of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel and Nepalese citizens near Sundar Nagar village. The situation is being viewed by the SSB officials here as a fallout of steps taken to prevent infiltration of smugglers from across the border, especially through unmanned kutcha roads. Matters escalated to a point that civilian police force had to be sent to the border. Ujjwal Singh, in-charge officer of SSB’s Naujalha border outpost, said that the SSB had seized a truck coming from Nepal full of cosmetics valued at Rs 24.55 lakh on Monday. One Vikram Chakrovarty of Naujalha was arrested for smuggling. On Tuesday morning, a large number of Nepalese citizens assembled on the border ostensibly to protest against waterlogging in no man’s land between border pillar number 17 and 18 due to a rupture in the irrigation pipeline at Bandarbojh village. Soon, the Armed Police Force (APF) of Nepal reached the border point. The SSB officers believe that the border checks along with waterlogging has annoyed some Nepalese residents as the route taken by bikers to smuggle goods into India has become slippery and unsafe for driving. Villagers claimed that some Nepalese residents snatched the mobile phones of two SSB jawans in the presence of the APF to prevent them from video-recording the uproarious scene on the border. However, the SSB did not confirm the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/border-tense-after-nepal-citizens-clash-with-ssb-jawans-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78520711.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Educational institutes now use virtual labs for practicals||KOCHI: Though online classes are actively proceeding in educational institutions, the difficulty to conduct practical sessions for various subjects, especially in the higher classes and professional courses, is a concern raised by teachers in the city schools and colleges. With the uncertainty in reopening of educational institutions continuing in the state, many schools and colleges have started using virtual labs and simulators to make students familiar with topics taught in practical sessions. Teachers and students are being trained to use such platforms to ensure that the portions are covered. Though most teachers are sceptical about the effectiveness of such labs, they said there was no other option to carry out the task due to the pandemic. The plan is to impart basics of practical sessions through virtual labs and later give them real-time experience once the institutions are reopened. While most of the central and state schools rely on OLabs, a virtual lab developed jointly by Amrita University & CDAC Mumbai with the support of the ministry of electronics & information, science and technical colleges are using free versions of various online labs designed for particular courses and specific topics. “Laboratory activities are essential in supporting scientific learning fields by enabling students to obtain practical skills through experiments. Due to Covid-19, all schools have started using OLabs of which the contents are aligned to NCERT and state board syllabus,”said principal of ToC H Public School, Vyttila, Juby Paul. The limitation of OLabs is that it offers service to only physics, chemistry and biology labs from Class 9 to 12 and maths lessons for Class 9 and 10. The practical lessons of optional subjects like biotechnology are not available. Principal of Global Public School, Thiruvaniyur, Sreekumar Kartha said that these online lessons despite limitations would give an idea about practical lessons to students . In Government Model Engineering College (MEC), Thrikkakara, each department is using different software and online labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/edu-institutes-now-use-virtual-labs-for-practicals/articleshow/78521905.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||After TOI report, 2 iconic Raj-era post offices in Mussoorie get fresh lease of life||Mussoorie: Two iconic British-era post offices in Mussoorie, which are more than 100 years old and were almost discontinued, will be spared the axe. According to officials of the postal department, after the matter was highlighted by TOI in its August 23 report ‘Two iconic Raj-era post offices in Mussoorie could soon be history’, the headquarters at New Delhi issued directions to continue operations at the post offices. The move came ahead of National Postal Day on October 10. Speaking to TOI, senior superintendent of posts Anusuya Prasad said that a firm decision had been taken for the historic post offices, Landour post office and the one in the premises of Hotel Savoy, to continue operations. “Both the post offices operate from rented premises. Hotel Savoy has welcomed the move to continue the post office on its premises. However, we will have to see if the owner of the premises of Landour Post office is willing to extend the lease. In case our talks with him aren’t successful, we will move the establishment to a nearby location but will not shut it down,” Prasad said. Local residents, including renowned writer Ruskin Bond, had expressed sadness at the possibility of the post offices being closed. The sub post office situated in Landour, the one that gave Mussoorie its address, is believed to have been set up in 1827. It served as the main post office before the head post office was set up on the Mall road in 1909. According to chronicler Gopal Bhardwaj, this post office was shifted to its present location in the 1890s. Writer and local historian Ganesh Saili records that the establishment of this post office had been facilitated by Captain Frederick Young, believed to be the founder of Mussoorie. It had also employed the father of hunter and conservationist Jim Corbett. Christopher William Corbett worked as the postmaster here from 1850 to 1863. Bond, who had told TOI that he had been using the post office since he permanently moved to Mussoorie in 1964, said, “I have even written about one or two postmen in my stories.” The other post office in Hotel Savoy, was established in the first decade of the 20th Century (the exact year is not known). The rent for the post office, which remained unchanged since it was fixed before independence, is just Rs 99. The post office has a unique seal. “Usually, the seals at post offices bear the name of the place and name of the head post office, but the century-old seal here just says ‘Savoy Hotel’. It is still being used,” Gaurav Joshi, postmaster at Mussoorie’s head post office, told TOI in August. “It is heartening to note that public departments are becoming more aware of the value of heritage. Heritage is the living evidence of history and we welcome this step by the postal department,” said noted author Hugh Gantzer, adding he first used the post office at Savoy around 1945. “If people are made aware of the historical importance of these sites, the post offices can turn into tourist attractions. It would have been unfortunate if they were shut down. I am glad the government has decided against it,” Bhardwaj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-toi-report-2-iconic-raj-era-post-offices-in-mussoorie-get-fresh-lease-of-life/articleshow/78520707.cms||Anmol Jain
October 7, 2020||Pune||Admin’s focus on superspreaders||Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday said their focus ahead of Navaratra and Diwali would be on identifying superspreaders through frequent antigen tests. Rao said the onus was on restaurants to ensure the workers underwent frequent testing. Rao said caution would have to be exercised during the upcoming festive season as there was a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases, especially in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, after Ganeshotsav. — Nisha Nambiar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admins-focus-on-superspreaders/articleshow/78523424.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 7, 2020||Chennai||Why block houses of Covid patients with tin sheets, HC asks civic body||Chennai: Questioning the rationale behind blocking the entry to houses of Covid-19 positive patients with tin sheets and depriving them access to basic needs, the Madras high court on Tuesday censured Greater Chennai Corporation for resorting to such actions without any scientific basis. “What is the purpose of putting tin sheets across the house? Which guideline prescribes such action? We need to know who has been given the contract for providing the tin sheets? Authorities are making fun of the situation,” a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha said. The court made the observation on a public interest writ petition filed by R Priyanka, an advocate who wanted the court to direct the corporation not to force Covid-19 patients with mild infection and who are asymptomatic to go for institutional quarantine. When the plea came up for hearing on Tuesday, Priyanka alleged that her husband, who was found to be Covid-19 positive but asymptomatic, was compelled to undergo institutional quarantine though he was eligible for home quarantine. “He was admitted to Guru Nanak School which was converted into a Covid-19 quarantine facility. The toilets and other facilities in the institution were very unhygienic. It would only aid the spread of the viral infection rather than control it,” she said. Despite repeated complaints made by her husband and other inmates, the authorities refused to rectify the grievances, she added. “This apart, the entrance to our house was completely blocked by the authorities who fixed tin sheets in front of the doors blocking our access to even basic needs,” she said. Recording the submissions, the bench directed the health secretary of the state, the Chennai collector and the corporation commissioner to file a detailed counter affidavit to the allegations made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-block-houses-of-covid-patients-with-tin-sheets-hc-asks-civic-body/articleshow/78523425.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Eco zone of Mukundra will be declared soon||Jaipur: The draft notification to declare a 1km eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) around Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) spread over 759.99 sqkm will soon be released. An official said the ESZ expert committee had requested the state government to complete the public consultation within two months and further advised to take concurrence of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on de-lineation of boundaries of MHTR so that ESZ notification could be finalised in line with NTCA’s guidelines. An official at the forest department said, “The state government had mentioned that they are in a process of holding public consultation as a number of representations were received from villagers for reducing the ESZ area.” The committee was of the view that the proposed ESZ was bare minimum and there was no scope of further reduction in extent. “The committee observed in the last ESZ committee meeting held on March 16, additional two months was granted to the state to complete public consultation apart from the prescribed time period (60 days) since the issue of draft notification i.e on 10.01.2020. However, public consultation is still reported to be incomplete by the state,” the official added. The committee further noted that in the first plan, the proposal with minimal extent and ESZ area was received from the state government and it would be inappropriate to further reduce it. The proposal has already been examined by the NTCA. Therefore, in view of these, no further justification is warranted to keep the proposal under abeyance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eco-zone-of-mukundra-will-be-declared-soon/articleshow/78523427.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Coordinators help deal with patients in home isolation||PUNE: The specially appointed Covid-19 coordinators are helping housing societies in the city take care of tasks like clearing garbage kept outside a patient’s home, providing tiffin, monitoring grocery supply or fumigating the building. The cooperation department has reached out to society members to streamline arrangements with maximum number of Covid-19 patients under home isolation. Local authorities said that coordinators for residential apartments will inform the municipal body and ensure the society does not shun the family. A recently recovered Covid-19 patient shared, “Since my husband and I were admitted to the hospital for a moderate lung infection, we were worried about our son, who was also positive for Covid-19. However, society members ensured that there was a proper supply of groceries and medical requirements as well as arranged the tiffin service for him,” she shared. Housing societies are steadily getting over the fear and helping out, stated president of Pune district housing society federation Suhas Patwardhan. “Initially, there was fear and confusion but we conducted several webinars and societies have appointed coordinators to help Covid-19 patients in home isolation or those admitted by reaching out to relatives. We even arranged groceries and other items for the family through the coordinators. They are in touch with local authorities to streamline the system,” he added. Representatives of the cooperation department said that local authorities are in contact with society coordinators to keep a track of the patient’s progress. Three jewels apartments in Tilekar nagar had about 76 patients till date of which 68 have recovered in home isolation. Core committee member Akash Doiphode along with Pratap Patil and Yogesh Trivedi chalked out a plan to ensure that members treat those tested positive well and also ensure that care and protection is taken for the remaining members. "We arranged house keeping staff to sanitize the premises using spray pump, door step delivery of vegetables, grocery and other medicines. Wet and dry garbage of the positive patients were collected in coordination with the PMC disposal van and the residents were kept constantly updated on the number of cases and care to be taken. The ambulance and bed availability too were shared with them,'' which has helped all residents said Doiphode. While another member from the society Ambika Jadhav said that society has been cooperative to all those who tested postive and there is absolutely no stigma As Vaishali Patkar from Aundh Baner Balewadi Pashan Vikas Manch told TOI that the panic among society members has ceased. "It was in the early days. Now, it is just to ensure that everything is streamlined and ensuring that enough food and grocery supply for the affected families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coordinators-help-deal-with-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78523417.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyclone on Met radar, rain likely before Puja||KOLKATA: The partially overcast sky on Tuesday was completely covered in dark clouds by evening, leading to sharp spells of shower across the city. Met office said there could be such spells of rain on Wednesday as well. Though the clouds might disappear from the Kolkata sky by Thursday, a more intensified weather system, which was brewing over the Andaman Sea and might deepen into a cyclone, was likely to bring in more rain from Monday, the Met office said. “A low-pressure belt may form over the Andaman Sea by Monday. This system is likely to intensify into a depression or a cyclone. In that case, we could receive more rain next week, starting from Monday,” said G K Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata. With Durja Puja organisers now working on pandals, they are keeping their fingers crossed. The cyclone was, however, not likely to hit the Bengal coast directly but could affect Odisha and Andhra coasts, said the official, adding that parts of south Bengal, including Kolkata, would feel its impact “in the form of rain”. “We are keeping a close watch on the development over the Andaman Sea. We will get a clearer picture of whether the low-pressure system will intensify into a cyclone or not by Friday. Even if the system grows into a cyclone, it will not cause any adverse impact or damage on Bengal, apart from beinging in rain,” added Das. At present, there is a cyclonic circulation over Odisha and Andhra Pradesh coast. A trough in the upper air due to this circulation, which is extending up to Bihar across parts of south Bengal, has been infusing moisture in abundance. Rains clouds pushed up by this moisture had caused the showers on Tuesday. “We expect more clouds on Wednesday that will bring a few more spells of rain. But chances of rainfall activities are less from Thursday, when the temperature will also rise slightly,” said Das. While the maximum temperature on Tuesday was 32.5 degrees Celsius—considered normal—the minimum temperature at 26.2 degrees was a notch above normal. Both the day and night temperature are likely to hover around 32 and 26 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Apart from Kolkata, parts of neighbouring Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas and Hooghly and other areas in north and south Bengal also witnessed frequent showers. According to Met office, the southwest monsoon is yet to withdraw from Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclone-on-met-radar-rain-likely-before-puja/articleshow/78523436.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 7, 2020||Nashik||Civic body plans several initiatives to boost revenue||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), reeling under severe financial crisis due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, has planned to roll out several initiatives for boosting the revenue. Appointment of private parties for collection of property tax, which is the main revenue generation source for this civic body, and introducing amnesty schemes are some of the initiatives planned by the NMC. The NMC earns revenue through various taxes like property tax, water tax, town planning taxes, GST compensation along with some other taxes. According to a civic official, the revenue has declined by around 37% during the first-half (April-September) of the current financial year 2020-21. The NMC has collected Rs 570 crore through various taxes and GST compensation till September-end during the current financial year, against Rs 819 crore during the corresponding period last year. “We had set a revenue collection target of Rs 1,850 crore for the current financial year, but we don’t know how much revenue will be collected due to the pandemic. We will revise the revenue collection target for the current financial year in January,” a senior official from accounts department of NMC. “There are government guidelines about not taking action against defaulters. Hence, we are unable to initiate any drive right now against the property and water tax defaulters,” he added. Another civic official said just like the first quarter, the second quarter of this financial year has also got a paltry sum of just Rs 27 crore as property tax. Ganesh Gite, chairman of the standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said that the plans are afoot to appoint a private company that will speed up the process of property tax collection. The NMC is also in the process of introducing a mobile application that will enable the property owners to pay the taxes using their cellphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-plans-several-initiatives-to-boost-revenue/articleshow/78523423.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 7, 2020||Mysuru||3-yr-old falls from 2nd floor, dies||Mandya: A 3-year-old baby fell to her death from the second floor of a building at Rajkumar Colony in Mandya city on Monday night. Dhanushree was the daughter of Satish and Shruti. The girl fell when her mother who was feeding her went inside to get water for her. The baby was rushed to the hospital but was declared brought dead, said police. The parents and relatives, however, allege that doctors at Mandya Medical College Hospital allegedly refused to treat the child claiming her injuries were severe. If the child had been treated soon after the tragic incident, she may have survived, a relative said. “Three private hospitals and even doctors at MIMS refused to treat her and we were forced to take the child to a hospital in Mysuru. Unfortunately, she died en route,” the relative added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-yr-old-falls-from-2nd-floor-dies/articleshow/78519603.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nashik||2 NMC hosps to get huge oxygen tanks||Nashik: The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) of the Centre has given approval to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) for installing large oxygen tanks at its two hospitals in the city. As per norms, PESO’s permission is mandatory before installing huge capacity oxygen tanks for medical or other commercial purposes. “We were waiting for the final permission of PESO to install oxygen tanks at Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospital for the past few days, but we have finally received the nod. This will boost our project of centralized oxygen bed system at both the hospitals which were pending due to lack of large oxygen tanks,” said NMC officials. Soon, a huge tank having 20,000 litres capacity of liquid oxygen will come up at Bytco hospital while 10,000 litres capacity one will be set up at the Zakir Hussain hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-nmc-hosps-to-get-huge-oxygen-tanks/articleshow/78523434.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 7, 2020||Kochi||Kottayam, Palakkad have shortest mortality doubling period||KOCHI: Kottayam and Palakkad top the list for the shortest doubling period for mortality from Covid-19 among 233 districts in 11 states and UTs — each with a population of more than 10 million. Incidentally, while Kerala’s case fatality rate (CFR) is one of the lowest in the country, at 0.37%, its death per million population rate has shot up from 9.47 in September to 22.8 in October. Kottayam’s 30-day moving growth rate (MGR) stood at 667, while Palakkad came in second with 443. Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur is third with a 30-day MGR of 400. None of the districts from neighbouring Karnataka or Tamil Nadu figure in the top ten. However, there are three districts from Maharashtra in the list: Wardha (238), Bhandara (234) and Chandrapur (194). “Kerala is the only state in India wherein 30-day and seven-day MGR for both positivity and mortality are moving up. In all other states and Union Territories it is dropping. This indicates that when compared with other states, Kerala is witnessing the fastest and widest spread of the virus and mortality is increasing rapidly,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convenor of Project Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of management consulting firm Proxima with backing from Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and IMA. In India, every incremental increase of 1,000 new Covid-19 cases now leads to 15 new deaths. Kerala has so far been able to control fatalities, mainly due to its strict reverse-quarantine norms for senior citizens and those with comorbidities. But with the surge in cases, demand for ICU beds and ventilators has also increased, putting pressure on the state’s healthcare infrastructure and resources. At present, 55% ICU beds are occupied, with many of the districts that have seen an increase in active cases having less than 20% beds vacant. Most of the vacant ICU beds are in the private sector; but the government has not regulated the cost of treatment in private hospitals, thereby making it unaffordable for many. Also, a request for six more liquid oxygen plants and 600 ICU beds with negative pressure facilities in the nine government medical college hospitals has not borne fruit. “We have reached a critical stage and the death rate in Kerala is set to go up in the coming days. It is important that now the government declares a health emergency and ensures that people strictly abide by social distancing, mask and sanitizing norms. Only this can help prevent more deaths,” said Dr Abraham Varghese, president of the Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ktm-pkd-have-shortest-mortality-doubling-period/articleshow/78521913.cms||Preetu Nair
October 7, 2020||Chandigarh||61 deaths, 2,344 fresh Covid cases in region||Chandigarh/Shimla: Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh recorded 61 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday with 2,344 new cases in this north region. Punjab recorded 38 Covid-19 deaths on Tuesday, while 888 people, including health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, tested positive. The number of patients on ventilator support dropped to 38, lowest in more than a month. So far, the virus has claimed 3,679 lives in the state. Punjab’s death rate climbed to 3.06%, highest in the country. The state’s hospitals discharged 1,707 patients in the last 24 hours. With 104,355 people getting well, so far, the state’s recovery rate improved to 86.95%, while the active rate dropped to 9.98% against the national average of 13.87%. Of the deaths in the last 24 hours, five each were reported in Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar, three each in Amritsar, Pathankot and Ropar, two each in Barnala, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Mansa, Moga, Patiala, and Tarn Taran, and one in Ferozepur. The highest positive cases (147) were in Bathinda, followed by 113 in Jalandhar, and 87 in Amritsar. Doctors found 80 infected people in Ludhiana, 72 in Hoshiarpur, 55 in Patiala, 48 in Mohali, 47 in Ropar, 31 in Gurdaspur, 29 in Nawanshahr, 25 in Ferozepur, 24 in Muktsar, 23 in Kapurthala, 20 in Sangrur, 15 in Mansa, 14 each in Faridkot and Fazilka, 13 each in Pathankot and Moga, eight in Tarn Taran, seven in Fatehgarh Sahib, and three in Barnala. The hospitals removed 46 duplicate entries of positive cases. Haryana recorded 1,206 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday along with 18 deaths. The overall count is 1,36,115 and total deaths are 1,509. The state hospitals have discharged 1,23,286 people, while 11,320 cases are active. The recovery rate is 90.57% and the doubling speed is 34 days. Of the 20,79,160 people tested till date, 243 are on oxygen support and 43 on ventilators. Himachal Pradesh reported five Covid-19 deaths and 250 positive cases on Tuesday, while 265 patients recovered. Two deaths each were reported from Kangra and Shimla districts, while another from Bilaspur. Including the chief minister's principal private secretary, the state has now 16,283 positive cases, of which 3,136 cases are active, 12,898 recovered, 224 dead, and 20 migrated. The positive cases include 54 from Kullu district, 49 from Shimla, 39 from Solan, 27 from Sirmaur, 20 from Kangra, 18 from Mandi, 17 from Una, 15 from Bilaspur, four each from Chamba and Kinnaur, two from Hamirpur, and one from Lahaul-Spiti. Those recovered include 63 from Kangra district, 56 from Solan, 45 from Shimla, 27 from Hamirpur, 21 from Sirmaur, 20 from Bilaspur, 14 from Lahaul-Spiti, seven from Una, eight from Kullu, and two each from Chamba and Kinnaur. Bilaspur's 920 cases include 207 active, 709 recovered, and 4 dead. Chamba's 919 cases cover 118 active, 787 recovered, 12 dead, and one migrated. Hamirpur's count of 979 includes 172 active, 800 recovered, and seven dead. Kangra's 2465 cases cover 486 active, 1,926 recovered, and 53 dead. Kinnaur's 201 cases include 16 active, 183 recovered, and two dead. Kullu's 774 cases cover 323 active, 438 recovered, and 11 dead. Lahaul-Spiti's 176 cases include 53 active and 123 recovered. Mandi's 1,880 cases cover 552 active, 1,301 recovered, and 27 dead. Shimla's 1,485 cases include 355 active, 1077 recovered, 45 dead, and six migrated. Sirmaur's 1,919 cases cover 178 active, 1,726 recovered, and 15 dead. Solan's 3,189 cases include 457 active, 2,685 recovered, 34 dead, and 13 migrated. Una's 1,376 cases cover 219 active, 1,143 recovered, and 14 dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/61-deaths-2344-fresh-covid-cases-in-region/articleshow/78523462.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||26 night flights to operate in daytime slots from Oct 26||PUNE: A total of 26 flights flying in and out of the city between 8pm and 8am would be shifted to the daytime slots from October 26 because of the runway re-carpeting work. Confirming the development, Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh on Tuesday said the facility would be operational for 12 hours from October 26 and the runway restrictions would be in place for a year. He also said the change in the schedule would not lead to flight cancellations. “We can handle 48 flight movements in 12 hours. Currently, we are operating 45 flights. So, we do not think there will be any flight disruptions because of the change in the schedule. Keeping the social distancing norms in mind, we have decided that we can handle eight flights, including four departures, at any given hour. It means around 500 passengers boarding planes in an hour,” Singh said after the Pune airport advisory committee’s meeting. “The sorties of the Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft will not happen now. All the aircraft of the IAF at the Pune airport have been shifted,” he said. Singh said no new flights were expected to start from the Pune airport till the runway work was under way. “According to regulations laid down by the ministry of civil aviation, social distance has to be followed for flight operations. An increase in the number of flights when the runway would be available for just 12 hours would mean handling of more than eight flights on an hourly basis. It will make things extremely difficult to follow the social distancing norms,” he said. Singh said the Airports Authority of India and the IAF were coordinating to complete the runway re-carpeting work as soon as possible. As per the plan, the whole runway would be shut down for a fortnight in April or May next year. There would no flight operation during that period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/26-night-flights-to-operate-in-daytime-slots-from-oct-26/articleshow/78523465.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Killer driver had 13 prior criminal cases||NEW DELHI: The arrest of a Cluster Scheme bus driver in a hit-and-run case has revealed that he was previously involved in 13 criminal cases, including those of a murder and robberies, in Delhi and Haryana. The driver, who was on the run since the accident on October 1, was also involved in two more accidents, including another fatal one. The north Delhi police, which is investigating the case, is now probing how Pradeep alias Nagraj (45) managed to bag the driver’s job. The cops are trying to get the documentation regarding his verification etc and will soon question the bus owner, an officer said. The police control room received a call around 11.15pm regarding an accident near Metro gate no. 3 at Kashmere Gate, said DCP (North) Anto Alphonse. On reaching the spot, the cops found a man’s body on the road. He was later identified as Sanjay, a 33-year-old resident of Maujpur in northeast Delhi who was a clerk at a private firm in Chandni Chowk. He is survived by his wife and three children. A case was registered at Kashmere Gate police station. As police did not find any witness of the accident, teams were formed to work on various leads to trace the driver. Investigations revealed that Nagraj was so drunk that night that even the marshal and the conductor had refused to accompany him during the trip and he had sped out of the Mori Gate terminal alone. After the accident, Nagraj fled with the vehicle and a few commuters and, the same night, rammed a truck in west Delhi’s Mayapuri, an officer said. This time, he was caught on the spot and a case was registered at Mayapuri police station. During the medical examination, he was found to be inebriated. The Mayapuri police team wasn’t aware about the other accident committed by him and as the second offence was bailable, he was released. Meanwhile, north Delhi cops intensified their efforts to track the driver. Using technical surveillance, they contacted around 350 commuters travelling on that route that night and studied footage from around 200 CCTV cameras to establish that the vehicle plying on route no. 753 during that time was involved in the accident. The GPS locations of around 30 Cluster buses were also used to do the same, the DCP said. Commuters of that bus were identified too. They confirmed the accident and said the driver had immediately taken a U-turn and fled using a wrong lane. During the second accident, he was alone in the bus. The driver, Nagraj, was arrested from his residence in Issapur village following a raid on Tuesday, the DCP said. The bus has already been seized by the Mayapuri police after the second accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/killer-driver-had-13-prior-criminal-cases/articleshow/78543247.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Webinar held on wildlife week||Jaipur: On the occasion of the 68th Wildlife Week, a webinar was organized by Hope and Beyond Institute for students of environmental sciences of IIS University. The topic was “Felines and Their Conservation in India”. The students were guided by Nakul Singh Parihar. The main objective of the webinar was to make students aware of conservation issues related to all 15 feline species of India. Students actively participated in the webinar and raised many questions which were answered by the experts of Hope and Beyond. An online quiz competition was also organised under the joint aegis of Jaipur zoo, Hope & Beyond and St. Wilfred’s PG College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/webinar-held-on-wildlife-week/articleshow/78523459.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Around 80% villages in Satara have reported Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: Even as the number of Covid-19 patients in Satara district has come down in the last week, around 80% of the villages in the district have been affected by coronavirus. As per official data, as many as 1,207 villages out of 1,500 have reported Covid-19 cases and Satara and Karad tehsils have emerged as the worst-affected tehsils where patients are found in majority of the grampanchayats. Out of 194 grampanchayats in Satara tehsil, patients have been traced in 174 of them. Till Sunday night, as many as 9,243 positive cases have been reported along with 254 deaths. till Sunday night. Satara tehsil also has the highest number of deaths in the district. In Karad tehsil, 174 out of 198 gram panchayats have Covid-19 patients. However, the number of patients in Karad tehsil is higher than Satara tehsil. Till Sunday night, 9,474 cases and 155 deaths were reported in Karad. Phaltan tehsil stands third in number ofcases reported — 3,242 positive patients and 77 deaths. Officials said the presence of coronavirus is seen in 104 grampanchayats out of 127. Koregaon tehsil has 142 grampanchayats and patients have been found in 113 villages. The death here stands at 102 while the total number of Covid cases are 3,201. Wai tehsil is also badly affected with 99 grampanchayats out 104 recording Covid cases patients. The tehsil has 3,215 positive patients, while the death toll stands at 97. The lowest presence of coronavirus has been witnessed in Mahabaleshwar tehsil where 40 out of 79 grampanchayats have reported positive cases. The tehsil has 816 positive patients and 13 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/around-80-villages-in-satara-have-reported-covid-cases/articleshow/78520712.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||MC yet to come out with plan to check illegal power connections||LUDHIANA: Despite getting directions from the local bodies department for matching the number of electricity connections with the building plan approvals, MC officials are yet to come out with a concrete plan. The officials claimed they got the details from powercom department about the number of connections issued in one year, but in those records only mobile phone numbers of applicants were available along with incomplete address, due to which it was getting difficult to reach any conclusion. RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had made a complaint to the local bodies department that MC officials were ignorant about the number of new buildings under construction and they were not paying attention towards encouraging people to get their building plans approved from the civic body. This was causing financial loss to the civic body, he said. However, the local bodies department on its part had demanded a report from the civic body about the number of building plans and new electricity connections in one year. The MC commissioner had asked the municipal town planners SS Bindra and Monica Anand to find out the irregularities and submit their report to the additional commissioner Rishipal Singh. The officials claimed that they started the verification process and also got some data from the powercom department for checking but when they scanned the documents there were only the phone numbers of the applicants with incomplete address. In this manner it is difficult to approach them. One of the officials claimed that even then they tried calling on those numbers, but immediately certain political persons started calling them. The officials claimed that it was difficult to find out the defaulters in this manner. Meanwhile, municipal town planner Bindra said, “The process to verify details is still going on. It is a tedious process and it will take time. We did not get complete address from powercom records, so we will have to make a call on each number and then we can reach any conclusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-yet-to-come-out-with-plan-to-check-illegal-power-connections/articleshow/78521932.cms||---
October 7, 2020||World||Coronavirus aid hopes vanish as Trump ends talks with Democrats||WASHINGTON: Prospects for more aid for Americans struggling through the COVID-19 pandemic and US airlines seeking to avert a wave of layoffs crumbled on Tuesday when President Donald Trump ended negotiations with Congress over a large coronavirus bill. "I have instructed my representatives to stop negotiating until after the election when, immediately after I win, we will pass a major Stimulus Bill that focuses on hardworking Americans and Small Business," Trump wrote on Twitter a day after emerging from a hospital stay for COVID-19 treatment. Just days earlier, Trump had urged fast action on a fifth major coronavirus aid bill to augment the more than $3 trillion approved earlier this year. "OUR GREAT USA WANTS & NEEDS STIMULUS. WORK TOGETHER AND GET IT DONE," the Republican president tweeted from the military hospital where he had been undergoing treatment. ...also coming back in record numbers. We are leading the World in Economic Recovery, and THE BEST IS YET TO COME!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1602010127000On Nov. 3, the United States will decide whether Trump wins a second four-year term. Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden leads Trump in national opinion polls. In abruptly ending negotiations on another bill to stimulate the economy, Trump insisted that the Senate instead focus exclusively on confirming Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court seat left vacant with last month's death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Barrett's confirmation would cement a 6-3 conservative majority on the court. The United States has an estimated 7.5 million coronavirus cases and more than 210,600 deaths, the highest in the world. Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell, who had been cool to a large new aid package, told reporters he supported Trump's move. He said he thought the Republican president believed that a deal with Democrats was not in the offing and that "we need to concentrate on the achievable." But Republican Representative John Katko, who is from a New York district that Democrat Hillary Clinton won in the 2016 presidential election, urged Trump to reverse his decision. "With lives at stake, we cannot afford to stop negotiations on a relief package," Katko wrote in a tweet. Another Republican, Senator Susan Collins, who is in a tough re-election race in Maine, said Trump's move was a "huge mistake." Among the provisions that were being discussed by House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Trump administration were a new round of direct payments to individuals like the $1,200 checks dispatched earlier this year amid huge job losses and a possible new $25 billion bailout of US passenger airlines to keep tens of thousands of workers on the job for another six months. Following Trump's announcement breaking off negotiations, US stocks reversed course to close lower. Shares of major airlines also fell. 'COMPLETE DISARRAY' Pelosi, saying the White House was in "complete disarray," held a call with fellow House Democrats and raised the question of whether a steroid Trump is taking to battle his COVID-19 had clouded his judgment. “'Believe me, there are people ... who think that steroids have an impact on your thinking,'" Pelosi said, according to a source on the call. Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin had been talking regularly over the past week as they tried to narrow the gap between a recent Democratic call for around $2.2 trillion in new spending to battle the pandemic and bolster the economy, versus about $1.6 trillion sought by the administration. Earlier on Tuesday, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell told a business conference that failure to provide further relief "would lead to a weak (economic) recovery, creating unnecessary hardship for households and businesses." Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank President Loretta Mester told CNBC that "the recovery will continue without it, I think, but it' s going to be a much slower recovery and it's disappointing that we didn't get a package done." Four weeks before the presidential and congressional elections, opinion polls show that dealing with the pandemic is a top priority of voters, many of whom think filling Ginsburg's Supreme Court seat should wait until after Election Day. In recent days, financial markets had been hopeful that progress toward a COVID-19 vaccine and another round of economic stimulus from Congress would boost the U.S. economy, which has been showing signs of renewed weakness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/coronavirus-aid-hopes-vanish-as-trump-ends-talks-with-democrats/articleshow/78524939.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar: Thanagazi rape survivor and family want the convicts to be hanged||JAIPUR: The sentencing in the infamous Thanagazi gangrape case has not gone down well with the survivor and her family who claimed that the culprits should have been given capital punishment. The rape survivor’s father told TOI that considering the severity of the crime, the culprits have been let off easy. The family said it would approach the Supreme Court to ensure the accused are hanged, though the law does not have capital punishment for rape and life imprisonment is awarded for the remainder of the person’s natural life or death only if the culprit is a convicted repeat offender. थानागाजी रेप केस में न्यायालय का फैसला स्वागत योग्य है, यह एक नज़ीर है कि कैसे त्वरित जांच से कम समय में न्याय हो स… https://t.co/IISyfEjbyR— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1601995262000The rape survivor’s father told TOI, “Life imprisonment is also given in crimes which are not as heinous as the one that my daughter underwent. We did not want life imprisonment for the culprits but want them hanged. They have been let off too easy and this was not the justice that we were expecting.” थानागाज़ी दुष्कर्म मामले में मैं कोर्ट के निर्णय का स्वागत करती हूं। हमारी भाजपा सरकार ने दुष्कर्मियों को कठोरतम स… https://t.co/n7G6x5pd4G— Vasundhara Raje (@VasundharaBJP) 1601992142000On April 26 last year, five youths forcefully stopped the couple near Thanagazi in Alwar and committed the crime less than two kilometres away from the survivor’s house. According to the survivor’s account, the more she resisted, the more the five men tortured her and her husband. The gangrape went on for almost three hours. Later, one of the accused even blackmailed the couple with the 11 videos they had recorded for cash. One of the five men later called the couple and demanded Rs 9,000 to delete the videos. One of the videos was uploaded on social media, which went viral Her distraught father expressing his angst added, “The culprits are from the dominant community and now I fear that they might get their relatives to harm us while they are in jail. There is no saying at what length they will go to.” Following the assault, the 19-year-old survivor, who was in class XII at the time of the incident, told TOI that she wanted all the culprits to be hanged. “We want complete justice and will go to Supreme Court if required but our fight does not end with this sentencing,” said her father. The rape happened on April 26 but the FIR was not registered till May 2 and the government faced massive backlash over the laxity. Alwar SP along with SHO Thanagazi and other officials were removed from their posts. With increasing pressure, the state government gave the rape survivor job in the police department and she is currently posted in Jaipur at the rank of a constable. Meanwhile CM Ashok Gehlot and former CM Vasundhara Raje took to Twitter to welcome the court’s decision. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thanagazi-rape-survivor-and-family-want-the-convicts-to-be-hanged/articleshow/78523470.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Behala woman sets self ablaze, dies||KOLKATA: A 58-year-old woman from Jyoti Nagar in Parnasree died after she reportedly set herself on fire. The incident took place around 11.45am on Tuesday, after she returned from some work. She reportedly climbed up to the terrace and set herself ablaze. Though her family members rescued her and took her to Vidyasagar Hospital, doctors declared her dead with severe burns. The night before, around 9.30pm, a fire broke out at a hotel room in the New Market area. The fire was controlled locally before a fire engine could reach the spot. The reason was yet to be known and no one was injured or trapped, police said. In another incident, a fire was noticed on the third floor of a seven-storey building on JM Avenue under the Burtolla police station area around 7am on Tuesday. The residents were evacuated. Two fire engines brought the fire under control in 20 minutes, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/behala-woman-sets-self-ablaze-dies/articleshow/78523494.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nashik||NMC repairs ventilators under PM Care funds||NASHIK: Eight of the 10 ventilators provided to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) under the PM Care funds which were defunct have finally been repaired by the agency appointed by the ventilator manufacturer. The agency, however, failed to repair two ventilators which have been sent back to the manufacturer. The newly-repaired ventilators are now to be used for patients at the civic-run Bytco hospital. The NMC had received a total of 56 ventilators from the Centre under PM care funds around four months back. Of these, 10 ventilators were defunct and could not be installed. “Of the 56 ventilators that we received, 13 were installed at Zakir Hussain hospital and 20 ventilators at the medical college and hospital in the city. We had given 13 ventilators to private hospitals while 10 were to be installed at the Bytco hospital. However, they turned out to be non-functioning,” said civic officials. NMC had recently written to the ventilator manufacturer urging the company to either appoint an agency to repair the defunct ventilators under the PM Care funds or allow the civic body to repair ventilators on its own. The ventilator manufacturer then appointed an agency from Maharashtra to repair ventilators provided under the PM Care funds to various civic and government hospitals in the state. “The agency concerned has repaired eight of ten defunct ventilators, but it could not repair two ventilators. These ventilators are to be sent back to the manufacturer for replacement,” said NMC officials. “Moreover, we are also taking back 13 ventilators given to the private hospitals shortly,” NMC officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-repairs-ventilators-under-pm-care-funds/articleshow/78523467.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Chinkaras in west Raj infested with Hypoderma Vivid||Jaisalmer: A majority of chinkaras in western Rajasthan are infested with Hypoderma Vivid. The disease impairs their movement and they face trouble in search for food and fleeing from poachers and dogs. Indian Wildlife Institute veterinary doctor Shrawan Singh said that the disease spreads in western Rajasthan from August to November. It gets cured on its own and is not fatal. There is medicine for the disease but it is not practical to give medication by catching chinkaras. It is a seasonal cycle. A fly lays eggs on the body of chinkara which becomes larvae. It falls after 20 days on becoming pupae. Environment expert Radheyshyam Pemani said that around 90% chinkaras in Lathi area of Jaisalmer are affected by this disease. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chinkaras-in-west-raj-infested-with-hypoderma-vivid/articleshow/78523491.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Two auto routes to link N-S, E-W corridors in Kolkata||KOLKATA: They have silently borne losses for over three months during the Covid-induced lockdown. Now, two auto routes — MG Road-Phoolbagan and Ganesh Talkies-Phoolbagan — are expected to roar back to profits as they look to link two Metro corridors — East-West and North-South — in the city. A hop-on ride of 15 minutes — from either MG Road or Girish Park — for Rs 14 will be enough to connect commuters with the East-West link at Phoolbagan. Auto operators on both routes said the initial response had been encouraging. “For the first time on Tuesday, there were three full trips with four passengers after a long time. But it is still a long time before we can assess the situation as passenger flow is still low. We will have to wait for Sector V to fully open up to understand the impact. If required, we are ready to consider the fares,” said Pintu Sardar, who plies his auto on the Phoolbagan-Ganesh Talkies route. Arunima Banerjee, a resident of Kudghat, takes an AC bus to her office at Sector V. “It takes close to 1.5 hours in an AC bus which is still comparatively less crowded. I do intend to use the auto route through MG Road. But I am told they are carrying four to five passengers. That will be a major challenge for physical distancing,” Banerjee told TOI. Initial estimates — when the alignment began operations earlier this year — suggested that a large chunk of daily commuters, who earlier alighted at Girish Park Metro station, might get off at MG Road, take an auto to Kadapara, from where they will take the new Metro to Sector V or Karunamoyee. Similarly, those getting off on the Bypass for office or City Centre might opt for this Metro. “But now, there is not even the need for a second auto. Both the services have together over 350 autos and take the shortest possible route to Phoolbagan station,” pointed out Idris Mondal, who plies on the MG Road-Kadapara route. On Tuesday, 65,705 passengers took the north-south Metro while 522 availed of the East-West services. The footfall at Phoolbagan station stood at 185 on Tuesday. Amidst these calculations, another highly popular route — Phoolbagan to Karunamoyee — that is charging Rs 25 for a trip, is still trying to ascertain the losses. “If you see the Metro alignment, not many residential blocks come directly in its path. It caters to the commercial hubs. We connect the residential points. At the same time, thousands of commuters are not likely to let go of the opportunity to use this Metro just because it’s a bit off their routes. We will become important in ferrying them to and from stations,” said Tarit Das, an auto operator. “We stand to lose a few passengers who usually get off at Karunamoyee, but we will still remain the residents’ first choice,” a confident Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-auto-routes-to-link-n-s-e-w-corridors/articleshow/78521926.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 7, 2020||Pune||Cargo hub shift delay costs Rs 2.5 crore per day||PUNE: The city’s airport authorities stated that the space and the infrastructure constraints of their existing cargo hold facility was leading to loss of business pegged at around Rs2.5 crore each day. The plan of shifting the cargo hold facility to an Indian Air Force (IAF) plot, admeasuring 8.5 acres, has been pending for the past three years. “A total of 150 tonnes of domestic cargo is handled by the Pune airport every day. If we get the land in front of the IAF’s barrack store office (BSO) yard, the handling capacity will increase to more than 500 tonnes per day. We have had talks with business representatives and they echoed the same view,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said on Tuesday during the airport’s advisory committee meeting. Pune MP and airport advisory committee chairman Girish Bapat said, “The pandemic delayed the process. Cargo movement is our top priority right now. We are hopeful of getting the land from the IAF by the next month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cargo-hub-shift-delay-costs-rs-2-5cr-per-day/articleshow/78523478.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 7, 2020||Pune||‘Consensus must for Purandar land acquisition’||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday said they were awaiting consensus on land acquisition for the Purandar airport project. He said they could initiate talks with the villagers concerned after parleys with the elected representatives. Rao said it was a high-priority project and added that other infrastructure projects , including the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro line and Chandni Chowk flyover, in Pune were being reviewed at meetings with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/consensus-must-for-purandar-land-acquisition/articleshow/78523495.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bareilly||Farmer mauled to death by tiger in Pilibhit tiger reserve||PILIBHIT: A 36-year-old farmer was mauled to death by a tiger in Mala forest range of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR), under Gajraula police station, on Tuesday morning. Sukhveer Singh alias Budh Singh of Piparia Karam village was taking a shortcut through Banganj beat in Mala forest range on way home when he was attacked. The route is frequently used by residents of adjoining villages. The farmer's blood stained body was spotted by passersby who informed his family. On learning about his death, Singh's family took the body and placed it in the agricultural field to show that he had been attacked outside PTR and claim Rs 4 lakh as compensation. However, forest department staff was not convinced and traced the spot -- about a kilometer inside the forest from the its boundary -- where the farmer was actually attacked. Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR, said the spot where the farmer was killed was duly verified by the forest team. The tiger had bitten off his fingers. “However, we have deployed the field force for installing camera traps in the area to monitor the tiger's movement. We have appealed to the villagers not to enter the forest area for their own safety," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-mauled-to-death-by-tiger-in-ptr/articleshow/78520772.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Bodies of 2 sisters yet to be found||AURANGABAD: The bodies of two sisters, aged 20 and 14 years, who are presumed to have drowned in the Sahastrakund waterfall on the borders of Nanded and Yavatmal districts on September 25, are yet to be found, said police officers on Tuesday. According to police, the Sejal and her younger sister Samiksha, had gone to the waterfall with their parents Pravin Gavankar (45), a businessman from Hagaon in Nanded district, and Ashwini (38) and brother Siddhesh (12). The bodies of Ashwini and Siddhesh were recovered from a river canal at Darati and Bitargaon in Yavatmal district on September 28 while that of Pravin from a canal at Islapur in Nanded district on September 30 Nanded superintendent of police Pramod Shewale told TOI that the high currents from the waterfall on Penganga river is making the search operation difficult. Yavatmal SP Dilip Patil-Bhujbal said that despite best of efforts, the bodies of the two sisters have not been found. Police succeeded in identifying the bodies of the couple and their son after they found a mobile phone with SIM from the trousers of one of them. Three different cases of accidental deaths, one each at the police stations of Darati and Bitargaon in Yavatmal district on September 28 and one in Islapur police station of Nanded have been registered. The footwear of all the five family members were found near the waterfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bodies-of-2-sisters-yet-to-be-found/articleshow/78520747.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 7, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civil hosp to add 50 beds to DCH||NASHIK: The Nashik civil hospital has decided to add 50 more beds to the Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) in its premises, thus ensuring bed availability at all times for critical Covid-19 patients. Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said that at present the facility has 100 beds for catering to critically ill Covid patients along with 10 beds for pregnant women testing positive for the contagion. Currently, five transit beds have also been set up at the DCH, she said. According to civil hospital authorities, 55% Covid cases arriving at the DCH are from the city while 45% are from rural areas of the district. Though health officials appreciated the efforts of some people who voluntarily get themselves checked for the presence of virus, there are some others who still neglect the severity of the situation, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civil-hosp-to-add-50-beds-to-dch/articleshow/78523487.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Plug holes in action plan for hotspots: Watchdog||NEW DELHI: After assessing measures to counter air pollution on the ground for a week, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has pointed out lack of appropriate action in dealing with the critical issues in many areas across the city and asked the Delhi government to take “immediate and effective actions” to control and abate air pollution in the capital. In its letter to the Delhi government, the national pollution watchdog on Tuesday noted that the construction and demolition (C&D) activities, and dumping of garbage continue to be the major concern in most of the areas. Track the pollution level in your cityReferring to feedback of its teams which were deployed on the ground from September 15-21 to assess the situation, the CPCB in its letter noted several shortcomings in action plans for 13 identified hotspots and said up to 40% social media complaints on air polluting activities remain unresolved in the city. It also sent to the city government a list of actions where key tasks needed to be accomplished on priority to deal with the issue and flagged several areas where major polluting activities due to C&D waste, unpaved road, garbage burning, traffic congestion and industrial emission could not be dealt with despite earlier complaints. The CPCB through the letter sought to draw attention of the Delhi government on its earlier directions of October last year and September 8 this year where it sensitised the city authorities for enforcement of micro/short term action plans in 13 identified hotspot areas; taking stringent actions against illegal industries; strict vigilance to open dumping and unregulated C&D activities; implementation of dust mitigation measures during construction activities and random auditing of Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificates. Underlining those directions where the city government was requested for actions, the letter said though “some tasks” to curb air pollution in Delhi had been accomplished, more needed to be done. In compliance to the Supreme Court order in October 2018, the CPCB had created a social media complaints’ portal and sensitised local authorities for action on such complaints, saying expeditious actions would help in resolving air pollution problems. It, however, now noted that about 12% (2,162 out of 17,737) complaints on SAMEER App and about 40% (1,228 out of 3,041) complaints on social media are yet to be resolved. The major polluting areas due to industrial emission, identified by the pollution watchdog, include East of Kailash and Najafgarh. On the other hand, the areas where the air remains polluted due to traffic congestion include Paschim Vihar, Dilshad Garden, Ring Road, Ashram Chowk and Peeragarhi Red Light among several others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plug-holes-in-action-plan-for-hotspots-watchdog/articleshow/78543271.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||With 25 more deaths, Kerala Covid toll rises to 885||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 7,871 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday of which 7,671 were infected through local contacts. With this, the case has touched 2,42,799 with active cases standing at 87,738. Currently, there are 557 persons in ICUs with 171 on ventilator support. The source of infection of 640 cases is yet to be ascertained. Among the new cases are 111 healthcare workers and ten Coast Guard personnel. At the same time, 4,981 patients recovered from the disease. Of those diagnosed, 54 are returnees from abroad while 146 had travelled from other states. The government also confirmed 25 deaths, taking the state’s death toll to 885. The deceased were identified as: Brigitte (70), Sreedharan (63), Anthony Morris (64), Girija (59), Shaji (37), Tajuddin (62), Sreenivasan (71), Vijayababu (61) and Shankara Subramanya Iyer (78) from Thiruvananthapuram; Kabir (63), Zubaida (52), Prabhavathi Amma (73), Sreekumar (52) and Charles (80) from Kollam, Sathyan (65) from Alappuzha; Sabu Jacob (53), Raju Kurian (75) and Shyamala (60) from Kottayam; Etheri (75), Fathima (61), Sayedalavi (60) and Ibrahim Kutty (78) from Malappuram; Balakrishnan (71) and P Raveendran (73) from Kannur, and Raveendran (52) from Kasaragod. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases, at 989, followed by Malappuram with 854, Kollam 845, Ernakulam 837, Thrissur 757, Kozhikode 736, Kannur 545, Palakkad 520, Kottayam 427, Alappuzha 424, Kasaragod 416, Pathanamthitta 330, Wayanad 135 and Idukki 56. At 892, Thiruvananthapuram also reported the most number of contact cases. This was followed by Malappuram with 793 cases, Kollam (833), Ernakulam (688), Thrissur (733), Kozhikode (691), Kannur (398), Palakkad (293), Kottayam (424), Alappuzha (406), Kasaragod (393), Pathanamthitta (218), Wayanad (124) and Idukki (24). Kannur saw 32 healthcare workers get infected. The others were in Thiruvananthapuram (16), Pathanamthitta (13), Thrissur (12), Ernakulam (11), Kozhikode (eight), Malappuram and Kasaragod (five each), Palakkad (three), and Kollam, Kottayam and Wayanad (two each). So far, 1,54,092 persons have recovered from Covid-19 in the state. Currently there are 2,63,094 persons in isolation in various districts of the state, of which 2,33,703 are in home or institutional quarantine and 29,391 in hospitals.. In the last 24 hours 60,494 samples were tested. To date, 32,63,691 samples have been sent for testing, including 2,09,482 samples from high exposure groups as part of sentinel surveillance. Thirteen new hotspots were declared while 17 areas were excluded from the list. There are now 718 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/with-25-more-deaths-state-toll-rises-to-885/articleshow/78521960.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Three arrested on charge of conspiracy to kill developer in Pune||PUNE: The city police on Tuesday arrested a real estate businessman, a travel agency operator and their aide, a day after the daylight murder of developer Rajesh Kanabar (64) in front of the SBI treasury branch near the district collector’s office. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale told TOI, “We have arrested Rahul Kamble, Rupesh Kamble and Ganesh Kurhe, all residents of Bavdhan, based on an FIR lodged by the victim’s driver, Vishwas Gangawane, naming the trio and ‘some others’ as having an eye on an 11-acre land in Bavdhan and conspiring to eliminate Kanabar.” Kanabar was involved in a long-drawn dispute with the Kambles over the Bavdhan land, estimated to be worth “over Rs100 crore”. Police said Rahul operated a travel agency, Rupesh was a real estate businessman and Kurhe was a real estate agent, who had created an interest in the disputed Bavdhan property. Morale said, “Our preliminary inquiry and the trio’s questioning during their detention has enabled us to reach a prima facie conclusion of the arrested persons’ involvement in the murder conspiracy. More details will come out during the trio’s custodial interrogation. We shall seek their remand from a local court on Wednesday.” The arrested trio’s lawyer, Aniket Bhingare, told TOI at the Bund Garden police station, “My clients have nothing to do with the firing incident. On Monday, they had proceeded home after attending a hearing before a revenue tribunal related to the Bavdhan land dispute with the victim. We don’t know why the complainant, Gangawane, named our clients in the FIR. We are cooperating with the Bund Garden police and we shall legally fight the criminal case.” The police are yet to establish the identity of the man who fired at Kanabar around 2.45pm on Monday. Five teams have been constituted to arrest the assailant. Morale said, “The arrested men and the deceased had an ownership dispute over the land at Survey No. 348, near the Bavdhan crematorium. The Kambles claim to be among the primary landowners, while Kurhe, their family friend, had created an interest in the property around 12 years ago. Many other parties are involved in the dispute.” He said, “The dispute between the Kambles and Kanabar intensified after Kurhe created an interest in the property. Kanabar had offered a few crores of rupees to the Kambles and Kurhe to settle the dispute, but the trio had demanded an exorbitant amount in February 2020. The Kambles then filed a suit before the revenue tribunal, challenging Kanabar’s ownership in the land. The hearing was in progress. Kanabar on few occasions hinted that he would defend the suit successfully. Later, he also applied for registering his name in the 7/12 extract at the revenue department.” Morale said, “Our preliminary investigation suggests that the arrested men were shaken by Kanabar’s confidence. This prompted them to plot the killing and hire the service of a professional killer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-arrested-on-charge-of-conspiracy-to-kill-developer/articleshow/78523530.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Customers helpless as liquor stores resort to overpricing||JAIPUR: Liquor shops have again resorted to overpricing, charging additional amounts over MRP ranging between Rs 10 and Rs 40 on different brands and sizes. Many retailers admitted to the practice but said they cannot survive as margins have shrunk for them due to imposition of cow and calamity cess. They said the government guarantees them 24% margin but deducts the cess from their margin. In the excise policy for 2020-21, the department has made laws to curb the menace after many shops were caught overcharging customers. Raids were conducted at many places and shops were forced to close down which also led to a strike by the retailers. In policy, the retail shops were mandated to give bills for the purchases and provide online transaction facilities but the law is hardly practiced by the retailers. “They neither accept the payments through online, nor give the bills. Only after you fight with the shop personnel, some relent but other just ignore,” said a customer. He said even though the shops have POS (point of sale) machines, they are reluctant to use it because they cannot charge the extra money over the MRP. When TOI spoke to a senior official in the excise department, he said the department will look into it. Liquor rates in the state are already one of the highest in the country and the difference is glaring compared to neighboring states like Haryana and Punjab. When TOI spoke to president of Raj Liquor Welfare Society, association of retail shops, he their margins are far below what the government has promised them in the policy. “We were promised 24% margins but what we get is below 10%. The government has levied cow and calamity cess on the retailers’ margin. The additional duty is also eating into our margins,” said Nilesh Mewara, president of the association. The policy had also mentioned of putting holograms on bottles with a QR code which is designed to give details about the liquor in the bottle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/customers-helpless-as-liquor-stores-resort-to-overpricing/articleshow/78523499.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nashik||MPCB issues closure notices to 40 plating units in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik regional office of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has served closure notices to 40 metal finishing units in Nashik for failing to establish proper effluent treatment plants and causing pollution. Officials of the MPCB said the head office had earlier issued a show-cause a few months back to the said plants asking them as to why action should not be taken against them on the pollution issue. The units had applied to the MPCB head office in Mumbai to allow them to start operations until the proposed common effluent treatment plant (CETP) is in the process around two months ago. However, their applications were rejected last week. “We have asked the MSEDCL to disconnect power supply to the 40 units. The units in question use soak pits to treat effluents. But as per rules, effluents should be treated and reused through their individual ETP or CETP. But this is not happening,” said the officials. The officials said that the proposed CETP project is not in place for the past three years and that they should have full-fledged system of recycling of effluents. Meanwhile, city NCP president Ranjan Thakre and former MLC Jayant Jadhav met minister of state for tourism and industry Aditi Tatkare, who reportedly assured them that she would look into the issue of the closure notice. Meanwhile, industrial associations in Nashik expressed disappointment over the sudden action by the MPCB, saying that the industries have just started operations after the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mpcb-issues-closure-notices-to-40-plating-units-in-nashik/articleshow/78523521.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||City grapples with rising number of firing cases||LUDHIANA: There is no respite as far as the number of firing cases in the city is concerned. On Monday too, two firing cases were reported. In the first case three accused opened fire at the office of a money exchange firm in Kashmir Nagar here, in which no one got hurt. Hours later, two men opened fire at a man in Thapar Colony of Haibowal area following some old rivalry. Importantly, three firing incidents have been reported in the city in the period from October 1 to October 5. While one firing was caused by an old rivalry in Haibowal, Kashmir Nagar firing was with an intention of loot, while the Killa Mohalla firing on October 2 was in the wake of an argument. In all three cases illegal weapons had been used by the accused. Besides, four cases were reported in September also. Deep Nagar firing on September 14 was due to rivalry, Dehlon firing on September 10 was also due to an old rivalry, Giaspura firing on September 17 was a robbery attempt and Shimlapuri firing on September 21 led to robbery of Rs 4.43 lakh. In all these cases too, illegal weapons had been used by the accused. During lockdown also, nine firing cases were reported and in all cases, illegal weapons were used. Deputy commissioner of police, detective, SPS Dhindsa said, “We have been tracing all cases. Except for the recent cases, all cases have been solved. The accused have been arrested and weapons have also been seized from them.” Dhindsa added, “In majority of the cases country-made weapons had been used. These weapons are usually smuggled from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. In some recent cases the police have identified that some people who have migrated from UP and MP and are in Ludhiana or have any common contact in the city bring weapons from their home town and sell these here.” “Moreover, when an accused is arrested with an illegal weapon, the police also look for the person who has supplied him the weapon and trace him. There is no direct supplier of weapons. The illegal weapons are sold multiple times and then reach the city. As far as the recent firing cases are concerned, the police will soon crack these cases too,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-grapples-with-rising-number-of-firing-cases/articleshow/78521942.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 7, 2020||Chennai||Behind-the-scenes squabble clouds big screen reopening||In the final stage of unlocking Covid-19 restrictions, it’s the turn of cinema theatres in Tamil Nadu. Though the word is still not out from the state government, the Tamil film industry is confident that the more than six-month-long wait to return to the big screens will end soon. Having silently observed a ‘silver jubilee’ with no shows for over 180 days, theatre owners – both single screens and multiplex operators - are raring to get back to business. "We have been ready for the past two months. Maintenance and upkeep has been an ongoing exercise to keep the facilities ready. Operators, who had opted for downsizing due to shutdown of screens, have also started recruiting employees since they need at least a fortnight of training," said Udeep B, managing director, Mayajaal Entertainment. The industry was hoping for a favourable government order by Tuesday, as promised by the state minister Kadambur C Raju to exhibitors a couple of days ago, but the wrangle within the ruling AIADMK over the naming of the next chief ministerial candidate has seemingly delayed the process. "We are hopeful that the assent from the Tamil Nadu government will come through in the next couple of days. The authorities were waiting for the Centre to issue the SOPs for reopening of theatres and now that it has been released, it is just a matter of time now," said G Dhananjayan, vice-president, Tamil Film Active Producers Association (TFAPA), the new body that has been formed to take up issues concerning the producers. The gearing up, however, ends there. There are issues that the Tamil film industry needs to surmount before hoping for a better tomorrow in the post-Covid phase. The newly formed TFAPA has rekindled an old issue, among others, to put theatre owners and multiplex operators in a bind. It has decided against paying the ‘virtual print fee’ (VPF) to theatres for digital screening of the films. VPF has been a bone of contention that jolted the industry about two years ago and it has returned to haunt it at a time when industry is hoping to start afresh after the long closure and clearing of a backlog of films, completed but awaiting release. "It is not just about the association. The producers are clear not to pay the charges anymore, other than the key charges like mastering among others," says Dhananjayan. "There are at least 4-5 issues to sort out. But, we need to address the VPF issue and unless that is done, no producer is likely to release his film," he said. In the days of yore, when film prints were used for screening feature films, producers used to bear the print costs that were around `60,000 or more per print. In today’s digital world, players like Qube, UFO and others have equipped theatres with digital projectors. These digital service providers take a certain fee, on a per show, weekly or whole run basis, from producers for the infrastructure installed in theatres. "Producers now want theatre owners to pay that fee. It is an issue between theatres and producers to sort out. We have a legally binding agreement with theatres and we cannot take sides in this row," said a representative of a digital service provider. "While multiplex operators have invested a lot in creating the requisite infrastructure, they also make better money through screening of films. But, single screens suffer a lot and no way they will be able to pay those charges," the representative said. "This is the time to work together and help the industry get back on track. But the producers have chosen an inappropriate time to sort this issue out. No talks have taken place," said a single screen theatre owner, who did not want to be named. Some of the southern states like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Puducherry have already given the go-ahead for theatres to reopen from the second half of October. "There are many ifs and buts that need to be considered. Producers usually take money from theatres before giving their films for release. With six months shutdown, will theatres have that capacity. Without that comfort how are producers going to settle their finances and get the clearance for releasing their films? If all these happen, will the audience return to theatres with the same confidence with Covid threat still around, despite SOPs," asked an industry veteran. Time to ponder for all, over some popcorn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/behind-the-scenes-squabble-clouds-big-screen-reopening/articleshow/78524298.cms||D Govardan
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Metro seeks CRS nod for Dakshineswar stretch||KOLKATA: Metro Railway has applied for inspection of the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for extension of the existing north-south service to Dakshineswar. CRS, under the ministry of civil aviation, gives the safety nod for any new railway project. Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL), implementing the project, was eyeing a pre-Puja commissioning, especially after the state government’s request to ready the link to end the woes of Tallah-bound commuters. “We have applied for CRS inspection. Hopefully, after the CRS’ inspection and clearance, the section can be unveiled by mid-November,” said an official. Engineers and labourers are working for more than 12 hours a day to give finishing touches to the stations and tracks. The two stations — Dakshineswar and Baranagar — are ready. “Decorative work of the interiors are being done. The stations are almost complete and ready for CRS inspection,” said an official. The two new elevated stations are disabled-friendly, fitted with elevators and escalators. There are ramps leading to the ticket counters. As for the tracks, the laying work is over. The final alignment is being fixed. Some patchwork is left. The 4.2km track-laying on the viaduct was completed in September, following which cables for supplying electricity to the ballast-less tracks were being fitted. A crossover has been being installed to connect the Noapara carshed with the Dakshineswar-bound tracks. The added section promises to ferry people living in north Kolkata. There’s a passenger interface with the Dakshineswar suburban railway station that runs parallel to the Metro tracks. The state government had earlier requested Metro Railway to complete the extended service by September so that the vacuum created by the demolished Tallah bridge could be filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-seeks-crs-nod-for-dakshineswar-stretch/articleshow/78521938.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four ‘FBI agents’ from Gorai held for duping Americans||MUMBAI: A bogus call centre was busted by Kandivli police with the arrest of four men duping Americans for less than a month. People from California and New Jersey were targeted. Police suspect those arrested had links with a criminal based overseas who transferred them money made in the con. “We got a tip-off about the centre in Gorai and raided it on Monday after zonal DCP Vishal Thakur’s nod,” said inspector Ravi Adane. Irfan Shaikh, Adil Hussain, Jinel Patel and Umesh Parekh, the mastermind, spoke fluent English with an American accent and some were earlier with e-commerce firms. Bulk messages were being sent to Americans, claiming FBI found their vehicles were involved in crime and they faced legal action. They were told to call an international number, which connected to the centre here. They posed as FBI agents and were given a script. “The Americans were told drugs were found in their vehicles or bloodstains were found. The accused would claim access to social security numbers and if the target got scared, the accused would offer a settlement,” a police officer said. The targets were told to purchase gift cards online, scratch the number and share it with the accused. Police suspect the accused shared this with their overseas counterpart, who encashed the cards and transferred a share to the team here. “We need to find out who this aide is and how the money was transferred. Hawala is a possibility,” said an officer. Police have seized computers, laptops and routers from the centre. A magistrate’s court sent all accused to police custody till October 9. Police will also investigate who wrote the script and trained them to speak with an accent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-fbi-agents-from-gorai-held-for-duping-americans/articleshow/78521959.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Cops cuff four in Kharadi criminal murder case||PUNE: Four persons were arrested on Tuesday on the charge of bludgeoning a criminal on record to death over previous enmity behind the World Trade Center building in Kharadi around 12.30am on Monday. The suspects — Raju Aswale (23), Sunil Patil (24) and Vishal Bhadve (25) from Chandannagar and Akash Deokar (25) from Yerawada — would be in police custody till October 8. Senior inspector Shankar Khatke from the Chandannagar police said, “One of the suspects, Patil, a criminal on record, had a dispute with the victim, Shailendra Jagtap (27) from Kharadi, from 2016. Patil and Jagtap had hurled abuses at each other around three months ago. Patil and the three others attacked Jagtap with sticks and bludgeoned him to death with concrete blocks in a bid to take revenge.” Khatke said, “During investigations, we came to know that the four suspects had taken lift in a vehicle immediately after the incident and reached Ahmednagar. They were facing difficulties in arranging another vehicle for travelling further, when we received information that they were waiting at a particular place there.” A police team rushed to the spot and took the suspects into custody after seeking help of an informant. They were later brought to Pune,” he added. Offences under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-cuff-four-in-kharadi-criminal-murder-case/articleshow/78523508.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad rural police praised||AURANGABAD: Impressed by the Covid-related preventive measures undertaken by Aurangabad rural police, state home minister Anil Deshmukh has released a video message lauding efforts of the Aurangabad rural police. So far, 154 policemen have tested positive for Covid-19 and of them, 140 have successfully recovered and 13 are currently undergoing treatment, while one has succumbed to the infection. Superintendent of police Mokshada Patil, in order to ensure tracking every policeman’s health on daily basis, has come up with an online sheet and made it mandatory for all the policemen to voluntarily disclose about their health conditions including any symptoms. These sheets are filled during the daily roll calls and any policeman showing symptoms is immediately screened. Authorities said that early screening of the policemen with symptoms has ensured treatment of infected policemen at an early stage and has also kept a check on casualties. Patil said, “Being the head of my police unit, we are taking all the possible preventive and corrective measures, apart from ensuring best of the available treatment to the infected policemen and their families.” Under the state government’s latest initiative of ‘Majha Kutumb Majhi Jababdari’, Aurangabad rural police have started screening each of the police families along with distributing masks and sanitizers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-rural-police-praised/articleshow/78520776.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Martyrs honoured on Kharga Corps Raising Day||Chandigarh: The 50th Raising Day of Kharga Corps was celebrated solemnly with a wreath-laying ceremony at Vijay Smarak War Memorial, Ambala Cantonment on Tuesday. Lieutenant General S S Mahal, general officer commanding (GOC), Kharga Corps, paid homage to the brave warriors who laid down their lives defending the nation. The general conveyed his felicitations and best wishes to all ranks, veterans, civil employees and families of Kharga Corps on the occasion. Kharga Corps was raised on October 6, 1971 at Krishna Nagar (East Pakistan) and displayed unparalleled bravery in operations for the liberation of Bangladesh. The Corps has always lived up to its emblem, “Kharga”, the mythical weapon of Goddess Kali, symbolising destruction of the enemy on the battlefield. The formation has evolved into a battle-hardened outfit over the years and has contributed immensely in enhancing the security of the Nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/martyrs-honoured-on-kharga-corps-raising-day/articleshow/78523496.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||SECR employees clean 81 stations in Nagpur division||Nagpur: Under Swachhata Pakhwada 2020, employees of South Eastern Central Railway (SECR) and Central Railway (CR) of Nagpur division carried out several cleanliness activities, setting an example for other government office staffers. SECR organized a cleanliness drive under the leadership of DRM Shobhana Bandopadhyay where hundreds of employees of SECR rolled up their sleeves to clean 81 railway stations of the division, some trains, 18 railway colonies, toilets and offices. The aim was to spread awareness about cleanliness among the public and took help of banners and placards for the purpose. Bandopadhyay thanked the employees for their wholehearted participation and encouraged them to organize such events in future as well. On October 2, SECR employees had also conducted various programmes, including taking pledge on cleanliness and non-use of plastic, in their premises. Posters and slogans were put up at the narrow gauge museum at Motibagh and Nainpur. At CR, Swachh Rail Campus Day was observed under the guidance of DRM Somesh Kumar, an intensive inspection was carried out and cleaning was done with the help of cleaning staff. Cleanliness was also closely inspected in Ajni loco shed. On the occasion of National Nutrition Diet Month, Vidarbha chapter of IPA Child Welfare, Railway Child Line and Collab Child Line jointly organized a public awareness programme on nutrition at the Nagpur station. GRP, RPF as well as railway staff posted child line information posters on nutrition information sheets at the station. Station manager Dinesh Nagdeve, RPF inspector James, ASI Baghel, Suhasini Lad, Kalpana Jadhav, railway police inspector Jagdale and staff were present on the occasion. Coordinator Archana Basu, Collab Child Line coordinator Amarja Khedikar and Railway Child Line coordinator Anjali Sherekar were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secr-employees-clean-81-stations-in-nagpur-division/articleshow/78523515.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||IPS reshuffle makes way for Lather to become the next top cop of state||Jaipur: In a reshuffle prior to the appointment of a new DGP, five IPS officers were transferred late on Monday night with the most significant posting being of B L Soni as DG ACB. As DGP Bhupindra Singh has already opted for VRS, the road ahead for the top post now looks clear for DG (crime) M L Lather who will retire in May next. This reshuffle puts a few senior officers, including Soni, out of the race for DGP. “Soni has been made the DG ACB as the government was looking for someone dependable to head the department especially after the horse-trading of MLAs which happened over a month ago. The government possibly feels that such an issue might happen yet again and is looking for the ACB to get more involved in case of such an eventuality,” said a senior IPS officer. Last month, Alok Tripathi retired after being ADG and DG of ACB for a period of four years. In case Lather becomes DGP after Singh retires, then the former will get an extension of two years which will put senior officers, who still have two years of service left, out of the race, claimed sources in the police department. Rajeev Dasot, who has been appointed DG (jail) from DG (home guard), is likely to retire in the current post. Elaborating further, the officer added, “Bhupendra Dak, who is presently ADG, PHQ, and Umesh Mishra, ADG (intelligence) are the likely candidates for the DGP post after two years.” Sources claimed that others including Nina Singh, ADG (training) and Rajeev Sharma, ADG (Rajasthan Police Academy) can also be made DGP after Lather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ips-reshuffle-makes-way-for-lather-to-become-the-next-top-cop-of-state/articleshow/78523658.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 11 IAS officers given new responsibilities||JAIPUR: The state government transferred 11 IAS officers on Tuesday. Aparna Arora has been given charge of secretary of school education from secretary of the minorities department. Her new posting comes at a time when the education department is facing an unprecedented challenge caused by the Covid. The government has to successfully implement the online education system in addition to transfers of teachers in the coming weeks. P Ramesh has been made the divisional commissioner of Udaipur. He replaces Vikas Sitaramji who was removed from the post following violence in Dungarpur and Udaipur. Sources said Ramesh, a native of Hyderabad, is likely to file for VRS. Roli Singh, who was principal secretary department of personnel, has been made the principal resident commissioner in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-ias-officers-given-new-responsibilities/articleshow/78523669.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Cinemas tick all SOP boxes to welcome patrons back a week before Durga Puja||Kolkata: Staggered show timings, 50% occupancy, thermal screening, adequate protection gear for the staff and compulsorily providing phone numbers for “contact tracing” are among standard operating procedure (SOP) issued for operation of cinema halls from October 15. While Kolkata’s hall owners are happy with the clarity, the moot point is if implementing all these measures will lead to an increase in ticket prices. According to the SOP, the film exhibition activities shall be governed as per the guidelines of the ministries of home affairs and health & family welfare. If required, states can also propose additional measures. Currently, the occupancy of the cinemas/theatres/multiplexes shall not be more than 50% of their total seating capacity. The SOP states that the auditorium shall be sanitized after every screening. Longer intermissions may be used to allow audience seated in different rows move in a staggered manner. The exit should be done in a staggered, row-wise manner to avoid crowding. The SOP also maintains that adequate physical distancing of at least six feet to be followed outside the auditoriums, common areas and waiting areas at all times. The use of face covers/masks to be made mandatory at all times. Availability of hand sanitizers, preferably in the touch-free mode, at entry and exit points as well as common areas within the premises. Respiratory etiquettes to be strictly followed. This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly.  Seats “not to be occupied” should either be taped or marked with fluorescent markers to prevent people from occupying these seats so as to ensure adequate physical distancing at all times. Only packaged food and beverages will be allowed. There will be no delivery inside halls but provisions have to be kept for multiple sale counter for food and beverages. Temperature settings of all air conditioning should be in the rage of 24-30°C. Relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%. Public service announcements on wearing masks, physical distancing and hand hygiene to be made before and after screening and during intermission. Designated queue markers shall be made available for entry and exit of the audience from the auditorium and the premises. Contact number shall be taken at the time of booking of tickets to facilitate contact tracing. Number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining physical distancing norms. The show commencement time, intermission period and finish time of a show at any screen shall not overlap with the commencement time, intermission time, intermission period or finish time of a show at any other screen in a multiplex. The purchase of tickets at the box office shall be open throughout the day and advance booking shall be allowed to avoid crowding at the sale counters. Sufficient number of counters at the box office shall be opened with adequate physical distancing norms during physical booking of tickets. Floor markers shall be used for physical distancing during queue management at the box office.  Implementing these guidelines will ensure health protocols are followed. However, implementing these guidelines will mean lesser number of shows and less occupancy. The obvious question is whether or not all this will mean costlier tickets? According to Piya Sengupta, the president of Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA), “Everything will depend on hall owners.” Amitava Guha Thakurta, regional director at INOX (East), said: “There will be no change in ticket prices. There will be pedal-operated touch-free hand sanitizers at important locations. Our shows will be programmed in such a manner that there are no simultaneous entries, intermissions and exits. There will be extensive sanitization drills. Disinfection processes will be at right places and at right moments.” INOX will completely rely on e-tickets instead of paper tickets. “Each guest will receive a fully loaded all-in-one SMS. This SMS comes with four different links, one which allows to check in with the QR code, second, which shows the auditorium’s seat chart and the location of seat on the chart. The third link provides access to the food and beverage menu to place order and the fourth link allows to download complete e-ticket with all the details. We are also looking to innovate with private screenings, where families or smaller groups of guests can book the entire auditorium and enjoy the content of their choice,” Guha Thakurta added. Single screens like Star Theatre, Priya, Menoka, Navina and Ajanta Cinema will not hike prices. All of them believe their main priority is to ensure that the audience feels safe enough to return to theatres. A hike in price will puncture that effort. The owner of Navina has to make a one-time investment of Rs 1 lakh for buying equipment needed to follow the SOP. “We are buying auto taps, auto soap dispensers and auto santiniser machines. Besides, we need to buy fogging machines too. Besides the one-time investment on equipment, there will also be recurring costs. As per the new guidelines, the occupancy will go down from 820 to 410. “So, a full house sale will down from Rs 80,000 to Rs 40,000. Besides, I can’t have more than four shows. These are difficult times and we don’t want to tax our patrons. Hence, our pricing remains the same though our overhead cost will increase,” Choukhani said. Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya and three other single screens and three multiplexes across Bengal, needs to make lakhs of investment to reopen. “With servicing, cleaning, changing equipment, annual maintenance, I need to invest Rs 2.5 lakh for reopening Priya. The UPS is down in three multiplexes. Testing is going on in other properties. The air-conditioning is down in some properties,” Dutta said. Yet, he doesn’t want to increase the prices. “I can’t take that risk because people will not come if the prices are higher,” Dutta said. Menoka owner Pranab Kumar Roy added: “I have spent Rs 70,000 for equipment. The occupancy will be down from 680 to 340. Accordingly, for a full house, the income will go down from Rs 92,000 to Rs 46,000. We don’t have big-ticket films for Pujas. If prices are increased, who will come?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cinemas-tick-all-sop-boxes-to-welcome-patrons-back-a-week-before-durga-puja/articleshow/78521945.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 7, 2020||Nashik||No time extension for restaurants||Nashik: The Nashik district administration on Tuesday expressed its unwillingness to allow bars and restaurants to operate beyond 7 pm. According to district administration officials, the state government has allowed reopening of hotels and bars, but they have to ensure that all precautions are in place to prevent any spread of the infection. “We do not want to take any risk at this juncture when coronavirus cases are under control. Safety and good health of everyone is our first priority,” said officials. The district administration on Monday evening issued a revised order allowing bars and restaurants to function between 7 am and 7 pm as against the previous order of 9 am to 7 pm. The Association of Bar, Hotels and Restaurants (ABHAR), Nashik, on Tuesday reiterated its demand to extend the timing for functioning of bars and restaurants up to 9 pm or 10 pm. “The state government has allowed re-opening of bars and hotels in the state from October 5. The timings for opening bars and restaurants in major cities like Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur is until 9pm or 10 pm even though Covid-19 cases have increased at large in these cities,” Sanjay Chavan, president of ABHAR Nashik said. “The footfall of customers in bars and restaurants increases in the evening after 7 pm. If the hotels are to close by then, we will lose our business,” added Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-time-extension-for-restaurants/articleshow/78523498.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 7, 2020||Mysuru||DC asks MMCRI to increase Covid beds||Mysuru: Deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri Dasari on Tuesday visited KR Hospital and took stock of the situation ahead of the district administration’s plans to increase Covid testing. Dasari asked authorities of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute that runs KR Hospital to increase the number of beds to treat Covid patients as plans are afoot to increase testing. She also suggested to train PG students so that their services may be utilized in Covid-related work. Currently the hospital has 178 beds for Covid patients. The DC asked to add 200 more beds to it besides increasing numbers of oxygenated beds. She collected details about oxygen cylinders and the number of ventilators available at the facility. On the occasion, MMCRI authorities requested the DC to fill up vacancies of nursing staff. MMCRI dean and director CP Nanjaraj said, “We have petitioned the DC about our requirements to improve the facilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dc-asks-mmcri-to-increase-covid-beds/articleshow/78519631.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Covid count: Jaipur first district to breach 24,000 cases||JAIPUR: Jaipur became the first district in the state to breach 24,000 mark infections on Tuesday. The overall count increased to 24,098 as Jaipur reported its biggest single-day spike of 469 positive cases. Besides Jaipur, Jodhpur also breached 22,000 mark as it logged 292 new infections. The total count stood at 22,172. Active cases in Jaipur touched a new high of 8,975 cases on Tuesday which was 8,722 on Monday. Mansarovar remained the worst Covid-19 affected area in Jaipur on Tuesday having reported 85 new cases, followed by Sanganer (77), Malviya Nagar (44), Jagatpura (35) and Durgapura (31). The state reported 2,121 new infections, thus bringing its overall tally to 1,48316. Fifteen persons died too, taking the toll to 1,574. The recovery rate in the state rose to 84.5%, while the active cases remained at 21,294, thus accounting for 14.3% of total cases. A health department official said that recovery rate in the state is continuously increasing as the state government has expanded facilities for Covid-19 treatment. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (469), Jodhpur (292), Alwar (196), Bikaner (155), Bhilwara (151), Ajmer (146), Udaipur (145), Sikar (85), Kota (55), Sriganganagar (54), Barmer (36), Bharatpur (36), Churu (29), Jhunjhunu (29), Hanumangarh (29), Dholpur (25), Dungarpur (22), Pali (22), Jaisalmer (21), Karauli (15), Chittorgarh (15), Nagaur (14), Banswara (13), Jalore (11), Jhalawar (11), Rajsamand (10), Sawai Madhopur (8), Tonk (8), Sirohi (7), Dausa (7), Pratapgarh (3), Baran (1) and Bundi (1), So far deaths are concerned, Jaipur tops the tally with 328, Jodhpur 150, Bikaner 117, Ajmer 111, Kota 104, Bharatpur 83, Pali 67, Udaipur 51, Sikar 37, Bhilwara 25, Jalore 25, Baran 25, Chittorgarh 19, Sriganganagar 18 and Churu 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-count-jaipur-first-dist-to-breach-24000-cases/articleshow/78523526.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: SC lawyer Singhvi opposes plea of parents in school fee waiver issue||JAIPUR: Senior Supreme Court advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Tuesday opposed the appeal of the state government and parents association and said there were no free lunches in the world. Singhvi appeared on behalf of the school association on the fees issue before the division bench comprising Justice Prakash Gupta and Justice Mahendra Goyal. “There are no free lunches anywhere in the world. The single bench of the high court had allowed schools to charge 70 per cent of tuition fees, while five high courts of the country justified the charging of school fees upto 100 per cent. Also, the interim order of the single bench of Rajasthan High Court allowed schools to charge 70 per cent of tuition fees after hearing all the parties in the case,” Singhvi said while opposing the appeals by the state government and parents association. The appeal was filed in Rajasthan High Court against the order to collect 70 per cent of the tuition fees. Advocate Sunil Samadadia, who has filed an appeal on behalf of the parents association said, “Such an interim order cannot be allowed to recover 70 per cent of the fees, as it is not the final order.” He added that the Rajasthan School Fees Regulation Act 2016 had not fixed the fees of most schools and the single bench had given the order assuming that the fees of the schools are fixed as per the Act. “Most affected party in this case are the parents who were not been heard by the single bench. Even some parents who reached the court were not been made parties in the case,” he said. On the other hand, additional advocate general Rajesh Maharishi, on behalf of the state government, said in the present situation the government has postponed the order of collection of fees, which was not stayed by the single bench. “In this scenario it is wrong to charge 70 per cent tuition fees,” he said. However, network problems surfaced during the hearing because of which the court could only hear appellants and others for 40 minutes. Thus, the court ordered to hear the matter on October 9. On September 7, the single bench had given an interim order allowing private schools to charge 70 per cent of tuition fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-lawyer-singhvi-opposes-plea-of-parents-in-school-fee-waiver-issue/articleshow/78523666.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Introduce new edu policy in phases: Guv instructs VCs||Jaipur: Governor Kalraj Mishra has asked the vice-chancellors of the state-run universities to identify provisions in the New Education Policy (NEP) which can be implemented by next month. The urgency to implement NEP was expressed during the governor’s meeting with task force members, including the vice-chancellors and the educationists, on Tuesday via video conferencing. The task force was formed by the governor in April 2020 to introduce NEP in a phased manner. Mishra directed the task force to form subcommittees on the important provisions to be introduced in the state varsities. “The subcommittees will deliberate on how to implement and introduce the provisions of the NEP holistically,” said Mishra, who has called the three-day meeting with the V-Cs from October 21 to finalize the roadmap of the NEP in the state. The universities have formed the sub-task force and submitted a brief plan will introduce it on their campuses. Some members of the task force raised their concern on the scarcity of resources which will come in the way of its smooth implementation. He asked the university administrations that the NEP will bring a major change in the existing system of education—academic and administrative. “The introduction of self-financed courses, choice-based credit system, academic back off credit, changes in certificate and diploma scheme is curriculum etc. The institutes have to be prepared to embrace these changes,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/introduce-new-edu-policy-in-phases-guv-instructs-vcs/articleshow/78523644.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Mysuru||Healthcare staff protest in Shivamogga||Shivamogga: The protest being staged at the DC’s office by healthcare workers, who are serving on contract basis at Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences and the health department, entered 12th day on Tuesday. They are demanding minimum wages, equal pay and Rs 50 lakh compensation in case of death due to Covid-19. District president of healthcare workers’ association Dr Hemalatha told reporters that they launched a weeklong protest in the beginning. “But the government is cold out protest and the demands and so are the district health department officials. So we have decided to keep the protest going,” she rued. Some of their major demands are increasing grants to the health department and regularise the jobs of healthcare workers who are on contract. “We are given only 25% of the actual payment, and this is nothing but government violating the labour law and minimum wage policy. We have been working at various places and Covid hospitals. We do not have Covid compensation cover of Rs 50 lakh. The government should realise that our lives are also precious,” Dr Raghavendra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/healthcare-staff-protest-in-shivamogga/articleshow/78519653.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Prayers on lips, jatra groups hope to take the stage soon||Kolkata: Reeling under a loss of Rs 20 crore owing to the pandemic, jatra groups of Bengal are slowly getting back in business. On Tuesday, 35 officials of three jatra organizations of Chitpore met minister Aroop Biswas, who is the president of the Jatra Academy, to discuss the challenges faced by the fraternity and the way forward. “On Tuesday, I met everyone associated with jatra and told them that a maximum of 50 members per group will be allowed during a performance. Just like serials and films, it will take a little bit of time for the situation to improve in case of jatras. I am sure things will improve soon,” said Biswas. Manjil Banerjee, president of Songrami Jatra Prohori, is writing and directing five jatra palas this year and acting in ‘Boumoni Zindabad’ with actress Piya Sengupta. “In ‘Boumoni Zindabad’, I have named the villain as Corona. Rehearsals for that will begin in November. To maintain health protocol, we will maintain a gap of four feet between two actors on stage. Jatras had very little intimacy because they are meant for a family audience. But we will even cut down hugging on stage,” Banerjee said. Subir Chatterjee, vice-president of Paschim Banga Jatra Samellan and the director of two groups titled Swarnomanjari Opera and Rupmanjari Opera, begun rehearsals on Sunday for ‘Kolonkito Nayok’. “A maximum of five actors will now be there on a stage measuring 18ftX20 ft,” Chatterjee said. Mitali Chakraborty, secretary of Sangrami Jatra Prahari, added: “At least 10 among us have either committed suicide or died of starvation. Rehearsals used to be held in large community halls. Now, people are unwilling to allow groups to hire those halls for fear of risks.” Samir Sen, president of the Poschim Bonga Jatra Sammelan, also attended the meeting with Biswas. “In these seven months, we lost out on the business in March, April and May. Each group would get at least 150 shows. Jatra in Bengal had lost some Rs 20 crore due to the pandemic,” said Sen, who runs two groups named Biswabharati and Anadabharati and will wait for the reactions during Durga Puja and Kali Puja before taking the plunge.  Incidentally, regrouping isn’t easy. “Many small-time artistes have opened shops. Some staff members have become security guards. They are apprehensive about returning to jatras since we can’t guarantee shows. However, we are still optimistic. Jatra is not just a profession. It is a passion. Once things start getting normalized, I am sure they will all return,” Sen said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/prayers-on-lips-jatra-groups-hope-to-take-the-stage-soon/articleshow/78521957.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Teacher takes 45-minute coracle ride every week to take lessons||RAICHUR: At a time when many teachers are refusing to turn up for work for fear of being infected by the virus, Sharanabasappa Neelagalker shows remarkable zeal and commitment to his profession. As the only teacher-cum-headmaster of D Rampur High School in Raichur district, he takes a 45-minute coracle ride every week on the Krishna river to catch up with a handful of students and check on their progress. Sharanabasappa takes the risky coracle ride — water suddenly released from dams is a huge threat to life —to reach Kuruvakurda, an island village, to teach 13 students. The students are in classes eight, nine and 10. Sharanabasappa teaches in another government school in Manvi taluk, but despite the packed schedule he resolved to visit his students in Kuruvakurda as often as possible. He has already made four visits in September. Sharanabasappa said the village suffers long power cuts and it’s a major barrier to learning since students must also participate in classes aired on television. “In television classes, there is no repetitive teaching to make students understand the subjects better, so personal follow up is necessary,” Sharanabasappa said. “When I learnt of these hurdles, I got cluster resource person (CRP) Mehaboob to visit. After seeing the children struggle, I decided to visit once a week,” he said. From D Rampur, Sharanabasappa has to walk half a kilometre for the 45-minute coracle ride. He then has to again walk another kilometre to reach the village. A small bridge that connected the village with the mainland was destroyed in floods last year. Since then, a ride on the river is the only route. An eight standard student from the village said his visit helps them learn better. “It is quite hard to understand topics aired on TV. Moreover there are frequent power cuts. Sharanabasappa teacher clarifies many of our doubts,” the student said. Sharanabasappa said he keeps abreast of television classes and frames questions for children to monitor their progress. Very often, TV classes are an exercise in futility and he has to start from scratch again. Syed Hafizullah, an education activist, lauded Sharanabasappa, labelling him a model teacher. “Teachers have stopped visiting Kuruvakula, another island village, although there is a school located on the island. Teachers are demanding extension of holiday as they fear the pandemic. At a time like this, Sharanabasappa is risking his life to teach children,” said Hafizullah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teacher-takes-45-minute-coracle-ride-every-week-to-take-lessons/articleshow/78521152.cms||Shreyas HS
October 7, 2020||Pune||Different deadlines for food outlets and malls keep operators guessing||PUNE: Malls and food outlets at these shopping arcades are in a fix over differing operational deadlines. Though the deadline for the restaurants in the city to close was recently fixed at 10pm, malls and shopping complexes have to shut at 7pm. Representatives of restaurants in the city-based malls said there would be no point to keep the food courts open till 10pm when other retail outlets in the mall would close at 7pm, as most customers are driven to such facilities for the “food and shopping package”. The mall management said if they were to close at 7pm, they would have to keep the infrastructure like escalators and electricity running only for the restaurants on the premises. The owner of a restaurant brand in Pune with outlets in several malls in the city said, “Conflicting deadlines to a set of establishments operating under one roof are creating this issue.” The Quick Service Restaurant (QSR) model works on footfalls at the mall, which then translate into customers for food courts and restaurants in the mall. “ If there are no footfalls at the mall after 7pm as everything else is closed, there would be no point in keeping restaurants in the shopping complex open,” he said. Kishor Sarpotdar, owner of the Poona Guest House, who has his food outlet franchise in a mall, told TOI, “There is currently no clarity on this issue. Our outlets in malls may also have to shut at 7pm , the time when malls have to shut. This is despite the fact that restaurants can stay open till 10pm.” The Shopping Centres Association of India would send a representation to the state and local government to revise the mall closure deadline to 10pm, in accordance with the restaurants and food courts’ closing time, a mall representative said. Another mall representative said, “After the government passed an order on restaurant operation deadline, no subsequent directive came on the timings for restaurants within the malls. For any mall, the customers have to first cross the entire retail segment and then reach the food court. If all other outlets are closed and only restaurants are open, the malls will have to incur costs on keeping infrastructure like electricity and escalators functioning. This is unviable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/different-deadlines-for-food-outlets-and-malls-keep-operators-guessing/articleshow/78523566.cms||Neha Madaan
October 7, 2020||Nashik||Police scan footage of CCTV cameras||NASHIK: The city police have started scanning footages of 150 to 200 CCTV cameras as part of their investigation to crack chain-snatching cases, which have been happening every other day over the last few months. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey said, “We have taken serious note of chain robberies. Our teams are trying to identify the culprits. The footage of hundreds of CCTV cameras is being scanned. We have got strong leads about three to four chain snatchers. It is just a matter of time that they are arrested.” Pandey said chain snatchers generally target elderly women, but they have been robbing women walking with their husbands or members of their family or friends now. “Earlier, chain snatchers came from various parts of the state to commit the crime and escape from the city after a day or two, but local criminals have taken to the crime,” he said. Meanwhile, a 45-year-old woman was robbed of her gold chain worth Rs 40,000 in the Hirawadi Road, Panchavati, around 10.40pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-scan-footage-of-cctv-cameras/articleshow/78523532.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Dungarpur SP removed after unrest||JAIPUR: In the recent IPS transfer order, a significant posting was Dungarpur’s SP Jai Yadav who has been transferred to CID-CB and is being replaced by Kalu Ram Rawat who was previously DCP (headquarters and traffic). According to sources, Yadav was posted following the violence which happened in Dungarpur after tribals protested and blocked the highway. Senior officials from Jaipur were sent to intervene and bring back normalcy to the area. Elaborating on this transfer, a senior police officer said, “The government had to make someone take the fall for the violence in which two persons were also killed. As the situation continued for four days with no end in sight, seniors were asked to go there. This transfer was not unexpected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dungarpur-sp-transferred-to-cid-cb/articleshow/78523641.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport gets UV tunnel to sanitize flyers’ baggage||KOLKATA: The city airport has installed an ultra-violet luggage sanitization tunnel in one of the 10 arrival belts in the domestic wing. In the other nine belts and the ones in the international wing, sanitization of luggage is carried out manually. The 20-ft tunnel has a capacity to disinfect 1,000 bags per hour. While manual sanitization involves spraying of chemicals, the tunnel uses UV light to destroy the virus. The cost of the tunnel that has been installed at the airport is Rs 7 lakh. According to airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee, more such tunnels would be installed at the airport. “We are currently sanitizing all bags that depart or arrive at the airport. But these are being done manually. The introduction of the tunnels will reduce dependence on manpower,” he said. The tunnel system is similar to X-ray machines used for passenger luggage checks at airports. Only, instead of probing what's inside the bag, it disinfects the external surface by destroying fomites. Airport officials said that airline staff as well as CISF personnel had time and again raised concerns over having to touch passenger baggage. “All airline staff and CISF personnel wear gloves and masks all the time and also sanitize their hands every now and then. However, even then an amount of apprehension remains and these tunnels is an effort to make the work ambiance safer for the personnel working at the airport,” said another official. Additionally, handheld disinfection torches will continue to be in use at the airport, disinfecting passenger baggage while entering the airport as well as disinfecting cabin baggage and other contents. To up the sanitization meter, the airport has further placed shoe sanitizer mats at strategic places. The mats are soaked with a chemical that disinfects passengers’ shoes as one steps on the same. To ensure contactless usage, foot-operated sanitizer dispensers, sensor-based taps in passenger washrooms and sensor-based drinking water machines have also been installed at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-gets-uv-tunnel-to-sanitize-flyers-baggage/articleshow/78521964.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold seizure: Customs officials quiz seven merchants in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Customs officials, investigating the suspected illegal transfer of bullion, gold ornaments and diamonds via domestic air cargo, have started questioning seven merchants in the city and Vijayawada. While customs is looking at foreign gold angle, GST and IT sleuths are investigating the tax evasion issue. Acting on specific information on October 3, customs officials went to domestic inbound section of Air Cargo complex to verify foreign marked gold being sent from Hyderabad to Mumbai and Jaipur by an Indigo airlines flight. They verified the airway bills of the flight and found that VBS Parcel, Hyderabad, was sending gold jewellery through Pawan Cargo Forwarders Pvt Ltd in six packages to Bharathlal Gurjar & Surgyan Saini of Mumbai and a package to Shri Kamal Kishore Tetrawal/Sunil Kumar of Jaipur. Customs officials then scanned packages and found bullion along with jewellery. On opening the packages, customs officials found gold bars weighing 2.37 kilos, gold ornaments weighing 5.63 kilos, 814 carat loose diamonds and 512 carat loose uncut diamonds, antique coins, gems, two stainless steel watches and a pair of platinum tops, all worth Rs 6.62 crore. The courier agencies have given details of seven merchants in Hyderabad and Vijayawada as the senders of the packages. Customs officials began questioning the merchants in the city based in Mehdipatnam and Secunderabad, especially two merchants who were trying to send foreign gold to verify if they have bills of purchase for the yellow metal. Involvement of a few merchants from Vijayawada were also being verified. Meanwhile, goods and services tax (GST) and income tax officials have obtained details of the case from the customs officials to verify if any tax laws have been violated by the merchants, who were sending the bullion, diamonds and jewellery via air cargo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-seizure-customs-officials-quiz-seven-merchants-in-city/articleshow/78523562.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 7, 2020||Agra||Patients with viral infection, skin disease flock to Agra district hospital OPD||Agra: The out-patient departments at the district hospital and Lady Lyall Hospital (district women hospital) here have witnessed a surge in patients over the past one week. A majority of them were diagnosed as suffering from viral fever or skin diseases. Dr BS Yadav, superintendent of the district hospital, attributed the sudden increase in footfall to changing weather condition. The non-operation of the OPD at SN Medical College due to Covid-19 was another reason for increase in the number of patients at these two hospitals. "On Tuesday, 1,400 patients were attended at the district hospital OPD. A majority of them were suffering from viral infection and skin diseases. We have deployed four guards to maintain social distancing. Besides, additional para-medical staffers have also been deployed for the convenience of the patients,” he added. To avoid viral fever and skin diseases, Dr Yadav advised people to take a balanced diet, avoid drinking cold water or any other cold drink and maintain high personal hygiene. "Besides protection against Covid-19, wearing a face mask can also prevent common viral infection,” he said. The OPD at SN Medical College was closed for general patients as it was converted into a Covid-19 facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/patients-with-viral-infection-skin-disease-flock-to-agra-district-hospital-opd/articleshow/78519644.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid to affect Navaratra festivities as admin takes decision against gatherings||Kolhapur: The Covid-19 outbreak will play a spoilsport for citizens as the district administration has decided not to allow gatherings of devotees for any of the celebrations that are conducted to mark Navaratra that is set to begin from October 17. During the festival, thousands of devotees from far-flung places gather in the city to witness the Tremboli Yatra and Nagar Pradakshina of Goddess Ambabai (Mahalakshmi). Many also come to see the grand Dasara festival of Kolhapur’s royal family that is conducted at the end of the nine-day festival. The programme that takes place at Dasara Chowk is not only attended by every member of the royal family, but also the famous personalities from across the district. The processions passes through major routes in the city. Citizens come out of their homes to look at the goddess’ idol in the palanquin. After the palanquin reaches the Tremboli temple at Temblaiwadi, hundreds of devotees throng to witness a programme where kohala (winter melon) is broken. There is a rush among devotees to get atleast a piece of the kohala to take home as a blessing. District collector Daulat Desai said, “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, all celebrations will mostly be without devotees. The religious performances inside the Ambabai temple will continue. No decision has been taken to open the temple for the devotees. The procession of Ambabai for Tremboli fair and Nagar Pradakshina will be taken out on a vehicle.” “For Dussehra event, I am going to speak to the royal family. We will plan the event in a way such that there is no gathering of devotees,” said Desai. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has appealed mandals not to install large size idols of goddess Durga. It has also asked groups not to plan Dandiya programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-to-affect-navaratra-festivities-as-admin-takes-decision-against-gatherings/articleshow/78520793.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nashik||Bag containing Rs1L cash stolen||Nashik: The Sakharwada police have registered a case of theft against an unidentified person after he tricked a man seated in a four-wheeler to get down of the vehicle and decamping with a bag containing Rs 1lakh cash. According to police, the burglar told the victim that there was an oil leakage in his car. When the man stepped out of his car to inspect the leakage, the burglar stole the bag kept inside on one of the seats and fled. The incident took place in broad day light on the busy M G Road at around 1 pm on Monday. Police said that they are investigating the case and are looking for any leads in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bag-containing-rs1l-cash-stolen/articleshow/78523557.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Gym owners, employees to start protests from Sunday||PUNE: Gym owners and employees will begin their biweekly protest against the government at Taljai hill from Sunday for not granting them permission to resume operations in Unlock 5.0. The president of the Pune Fitness Club Association, Nilesh Kale, said, “We have shortlisted certain quotes that we will print on white T-shirts for all our members. We will wear these and take a morning walk at Taljai hill on Sunday.” Another gym owner from the city, Salim Ansari, said similar protests would be held in the different areas every Thursday and Sunday. “Industries like restaurants and bars, hotels and malls have been permitted to open. All these are places where there can be crowds and spread of the virus is probable. Whereas, at gyms, there would be fewer people on the premises at a time and all precautions would be taken,” Ansari said. Kaustubh Shedge, a member of the association, said, “We have no option but to launch such a peaceful protest. We have faced heavy losses while trainers are struggling to survive.” Kale said the association was also planning to meet deputy CM Ajit Pawar next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gym-owners-employees-to-start-protests-from-sunday/articleshow/78523556.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang of vehicle thieves busted, 3 held||LUDHIANA: The Khanna police busted a gang of vehicle thieves with the arrest of three persons on Tuesday. According to police, the accused used to steal pick-up trucks only and sell it for Rs 50,000 only after dismantling it. The Khanna police have also recovered two pick-up trucks from their possession. Those arrested have been identified as Naresh Kalu of Bhiwani, Neeraj Verma of Rohtak and Lakhbir Singh of Dhuri. Their absconding accomplices are Amrik Ram of Malaud, his brother Vicky Ram and their unidentified employee. Amrik and Vicky are scrap dealers. Khanna SSP Harpreet Singh said that the police had arrested the accused near Burkre village following a tip-off and recovered two pick-up trucks from their possession. The accused confessed that they had stolen the vehicles from Ambala on October 4 and they were coming to hide the vehicle at the godown of Amrik and Vicky. The police have also sealed the godown, where the accused used to hide and dismantle the vehicles. The SSP added that during questioning the police came to know that the accused used to steal vehicles from Ambala, Hisar, Patiala, Sangrur and Dhuri. A case under Sections 379 (punishment for theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the IPC has been lodged against the accused at police station, Malaud. According to police, the accused are already facing trials in over 14 cases lodged against them in Haryana and Punjab. The police are trying to trace their absconding accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-of-vehicle-thieves-busted-3-held/articleshow/78521956.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Speeding on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass defines killer stretch||PUNE: Vehicles going above 80kmph on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass remain a headache for traffic authorities dealing with recurring accidents. On Tuesday, an out-of-control truck with a burst tyre hit 13 vehicles, ran over a motorcyclist and injured eight others near Navale bridge, prompting citizens to reiterate that the movement of vehicles is not being regulated to prevent accidents. S M Chitnis, general manager of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said heavy vehicle drivers must follow speed limits and check the wear and tear of their vehicles, especially the tyres. “There is nothing wrong with the bypass which has been constructed as per the established engineering norms,” he told TOI. NHAI maintains a major part of the bypass. Drivers ply at much higher speeds than 80kmph which contributes to accidents. It is difficult to control the vehicle on a gradient in such cases, Chitnis said. Pune’s additional commissioner of police (traffic) Sanjay Shinde agreed that speeding was a problem on this stretch while conceding the need for better regulation of vehicular movement on the bypass. “We will deploy two interceptor vehicles on the bypass to act against violators of speed limits and other traffic offenders and reduce the fatality rate,” Shinde told TOI. Traffic authorities launched a `zero tolerance’ drive on Tuesday between Katraj and Chandni Chowk. The traffic branch has earlier implemented such a drive at Katraj Chowk to good effect.  Shinde said, “With help from PMC, MSRTC, PMPML and local residents, we have reduced the fatality rate at Katraj Chowk. A similar initiative will be taken on the bypass stretch. We are focusing on reducing accidents between Katraj Chowk and Handewadi.” Watch Pune: Potholes, crumbling surface make driving on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass a nightmare||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speeding-on-katraj-dehu-rd-bypass-defines-killer-stretch/articleshow/78523580.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 7, 2020||Pune||Excise department lens on bistros||Pune: The excise department has directed all restaurants and bars in the district to follow a detailed safety standard operating procedure (SOP) for functioning in the time of Covid-19 and formed at least four teams to keep a check on the facilities. The excise department said it would permanently cancel the licences of repeat defaulters — the restaurants and bars violating the SOP despite paying fines. Each of the four teams will have eight to 10 office Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association vice-president Vikram Shetty told TOI, “The restaurants and bars have received the SOP and will abide by it.” One of the rules that restaurants and bars have to adhere to is that customers not having the Arogya Setu application on their mobile phones should not be allowed on the eatery’s premises. Shetty said the bar counter and stools should be sanitized properly, while equipment such as shakers, blenders, mixers and peg measurers have to be cleaned regularly. All bottles of spirits, wine and beer are also to be sanitized with food-grade disinfectant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/excise-dept-lens-on-bistros/articleshow/78523581.cms||Neha Madaan
October 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Probe ordered against deputy SP||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has asked state police chief Loknath Behera to initiate a departmental inquiry against the deputy SP who was prima facie found to have accepted a bribe of Rs 25,000 to settle a case in favour of a petitioner, through a middleman. According to the order issued by the home department, deputy SP S Vidyadharan, while serving as Karunagappally ACP in May 2020, committed grave misuse of power, dereliction of duty and his act was unbecoming of a senior police officer that warranted stringent action. “The inquiry establishes that S Vidyadharan, ACP, had accepted bribe from the father of the petitioner through a middleman under the influence of the counter petitioner and thereby misused his official powers,” said the government order. The issue began with a complaint filed by the wife of Anwar Muhammed from Karunagappally. His wife had petitioned against him citing that her child was missing; knowing that the four-year old was with her father. Police then registered a missing case under Section 57 of Kerala Police Act and then called up the petitioner to threaten him that if he does not produce the child, a case under IPC Section 498A, that deals with domestic violence against women, will slapped against him and family members. The petitioner then handed over the child to the police after he was threatened. In the probe by the state police chief, it was found that the officer had slapped the charges despite knowing that matter between the petitioner and his wife was a family matter that was being dealt in the court. A middleman also was sent to the petitioner by the police officer, who said that if he pays Rs 25,000 to the deputy SP, the child would be returned. Later, the petitioner was summoned to the office of the ACP, where he was told in the presence of the middleman that he has to act as per the instructions given to him. The government order said a CCTV footage showed the money being handed over, and there are voice recordings of the middlemen, that proves that the officer was clearly involved and misused his powers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-ordered-against-deputy-sp/articleshow/78522199.cms||KP Saikiran
October 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM flays IMA for criticising health department||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan lashed out at criticisms made by Indian Medical Association (IMA) that health department is worm-infested, and it can’t lead the Covid-19 fight. “The criticism has reflected the mindset of a small group which has a decayed mindset. People of Kerala know well how the health department functions,” the chief minister said, while inaugurating 75 family health centres in an online event on Tuesday. The fight against the pandemic has been a collective effort and hence it had received widespread accolades. Those who are raising criticisms should have an introspection whether they are making responsible allegations against the health department, he said. While speaking to reporters during the evening news conference, the CM went on to add that IMA cannot be considered an expert group. “They are an association of doctors, and experts might be there in the group. But the government has never kept away organizations like IMA during the pandemic. All policy decisions during this time have been taken based on expert opinion. For this the government has constituted an expert committee. The government is also collecting opinions of the rapid response team and also the Covid cell, comprising several experts,” he said. The chief minister also alleged that IMA, despite being a national organization, has not been considered by the Union health ministry. Not even in any of their policy decisions the IMA was taken into confidence. IMA has no role in policies adopted by governments in other states. “If they are experts, then they should not create confusion among the people of the state. The so-called experts are now creating panic among the society which they are not supposed to do. The government is willing to listen to their suggestions and is also ready to give due consideration on the government’s failures that are being pointed out. But such baseless criticisms are not acceptable,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-flays-ima-for-critisizing-health-dept/articleshow/78522006.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||B’luru 5th among districts in country with high fatalities, says Centre||Bengaluru: Bengaluru Urban, which has recorded more than 3,000 Covid-19 fatalities, is in fifth place among 25 districts in the country with high virus deaths, according to data released by the Centre on Tuesday. Mumbai topped the list and was followed by Pune, Thane and Chennai in that order. As on Tuesday, Bengaluru had reported 3,101 deaths, while Mumbai had 9,155 deaths, Pune 6,002, Thane 5,023 and Chennai 3,290 deaths, according to data from respective state governments. Besides Bengaluru, Mysuru with 810 deaths is the other district from Karnataka that figures in the Centre’s weekly analysis of 25 districts. Maharashtra has 15 districts in the list. According to the Centre’s analysis, Bengaluru accounts for 3% of all Covid deaths in the country, while Mumbai tops the list with 7.5%. As per the report, the 25 districts from eight states account for 48% of all fatalities in the country. Among the states with high active cases, Karnataka is in second position. The state accounts for 12.5% of the country’s total active cases. Maharashtra again tops the list and accounts for a staggering 27.5% of the nation’s active caseload. Kerala, once regarded as a model state in managing the pandemic, follows Maharashtra and Karnataka with 9.2% of the country’s active cases. According to the analysis, Karnataka had 1,15,496 active cases and has seen a steady increase in cases over the past one week. The state had 1,04,067 active cases on September 29, and has seen close to 11% increase. This is in contrast to Maharastra which had 2.6 lakh active cases as on September 29 and witnessed a dip with 2.5 lakh active cases as on October 6. Dr Pradeep Rangappa, a Bengaluru-based intensive care physician, who is also head the Covid Critical Care of experts in the state government’s tele-ICU team, said one of the reasons for Mysuru showing 2.1% case fatality rate is that it gets referral cases from neighbouring districts. Most of these are of patients who are seeking care very late. He was of the view that seeking treatment early and avoiding late referrals to district hospitals can prevent Covid fatalities. “Maximising testing by taking it to doorsteps of people, identifying hidden clusters and intensifying measures can be effective,” said Dr Rangappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-5th-among-districts-in-country-with-high-fatalities-says-centre/articleshow/78521183.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SHRC seeks report in 13-year-old’s rape case||HYDERABAD: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Tuesday directed Khammam commissioner of police Tafseer Iqubal to submit a report by November 6 on the rape-cum-murder attempt of a 13-year-old girl by her employer. “TSHRC took suo motu cognizance on the media report about atrocity on minor girl published by TOI. The commission also pointed out lapses on part of the private hospital where treatment was being given to the victim since September 18, 2020 without any information given out to the police or the victim’s family for that matter. The case is posted to November 6, 2020,’’ SHRC said. Meanwhile, the accused, was nabbed by Khammam police on Monday evening. On Tuesday, he was produced before a local magistrate by the local police who sought judicial remand. The 26-year-old accused attempted to rape the girl but when she resisted, he poured petrol on her and set her on fire. Later, she was admitted to a local private hospital, where she was undergoing treatment for burn injuries till Monday. On the request of Khammam police, the district collector on Tuesday shifted the victim to Osmania General Hospital for better treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shrc-seeks-report-in-13-yr-olds-rape-case/articleshow/78523584.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Orphanage rape in Ameenpur: Four girls corroborate victim’s statement||HYDERABAD: About two months after three people were arrested for sexually assaulting a 14-year-old, living at an orphanage in Ameenpur, four children from the same shelter home have confirmed that they saw one of the offenders, Venugopal Reddy, visit the place several times.  The four girls recorded their statements before a magistrate recently. “The four witnesses’ statements are corroborating the victim’s statement. This is a major breakthrough in the case,” said D Divya, commissioner of Women and Child Welfare Department. Before she died on August 12, the victim had said that she was sent into a room in the hostel multiple times. In her statement she also stated that after having the juice offered by Venugopal, she would feel dizzy and sleep. Later her friends would come to wake her up and help her wear her clothes. “The preliminary forensic report and post mortem examination report suggested the girl was sexually assaulted. We want the case to be water tight,” said the commissioner adding that the high-power committee — appointed to look into the case — has also submitted a preliminary report. “We are expecting the charge sheet will be filed before 90 days and the high power committee will submit their final report soon,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/orphanage-rape-four-girls-corroborate-victims-statement/articleshow/78523583.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Security guard’s son cracks JEE, says Kota city changed his life||JAIPUR: Yuvraj Singh of Kota, who secured the 476th rank in JEE Advanced, has proved that obstacles can never come in the way of success if there’s grit and determination. Son of a security guard, Yuvraj couldn’t afford JEE coaching but found support from good samaritans after he scored 88.86% in Class 10 finals. Yuvraj’s father Kan Singh is a security guard at Central Bank of India and earns barely enough to sustain a family of four in a rented house. The family is from Jaipur but moved to Kota nine years ago after Singh got a job in the coaching hub. Yuvraj said, “My father rented another room for me and my sister so that we can study without disturbance. He has throughout his life made sacrifices for us.” While living in Kota, Yuvraj like other students was fully aware of all the competitive exams being held throughout the year. To test his ability, he appeared in some exams like NTSE and KVPY and qualified. “I was lucky that my coaching institute granted me a 90% scholarship that made this journey possible. I took it as an opportunity and focussed on my studies,” said Yuvraj. He is eyeing mechanical engineering from IIT-Bombay or computer science from IIT-Guwahati. The city’s vibrant ecosystem has changed the life of the family. Yuvraj’s elder sister is pursuing BTech from Rajasthan Technical University (RTU). “I will be indebted to this city forever as not only it gave me a stable job, but exposed my children to competitive exams. Had I remained in Jaipur or some other place, I would have never imagined my children taking a plunge into engineering,” said Singh. Sharing his dream, Yuvraj said once he settles down, he will buy a good house for his father and will give him all the luxuries of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/security-guards-son-cracks-jee-says-kota-city-changed-his-life/articleshow/78523668.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||PSIEC hints at extending deadline for bizmen||LUDHIANA: A day after TOI raised the issue of businessmen facing problems in coping with the deadlines of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) regarding completion of factories and other similar works, department’s chairman Gurpreet Gogi has taken notice of the issue and assured action on the demands of the businessmen. Speaking to TOI, Gogi said, “Covid-19 has had a huge impact on the industry and along with hitting the incomes, the pandemic has also led to several other problems. So, at this time it is not possible for the businessmen to start projects like expansion of existing units or making new factories. Therefore, it is obvious that they will miss the deadlines like submission of building plans, completion of construction and commencement of production in the industrial units. Keeping in view the situation and demands of the businessmen, I have decided to include this matter in the agenda of the next meeting of the PSIEC. Along with highlighting the matter in front of officials, I will also ensure that all deadlines of such statutory permissions are extended by at least one year.” Gogi added that, “As per another suggestion given by the businessmen, I will also try to get the same extension for the deadlines which passed during the last six months to one year and give another chance to businessmen to comply with the guidelines. As far as the matter of waiving the old penalties is concerned, that too will be taken up in the meeting and hopefully we will get a positive result.” For businessmen in designated industrial areas like focal points, the authorities concerned like Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) have fixed the deadlines for the tasks like submission of building plans, commencement of construction and commencement of production, etc. In case businessmen do not comply with these deadlines, they will be slapped with heavy penalties and other actions as per guidelines. In the wake of such a situation businessmen have demanded that the PSIEC extends all its deadlines and waives penalties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/psiec-hints-at-extending-deadline-for-bizmen/articleshow/78521973.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: History sheeter killed by rivals||HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old history sheeter of Falaknuma was stabbed to death by his rivals at Khulsumpura on Tuesday. The victim was Abdul Khadeer Khan. On Monday night, Khadeer Khan went to Tappachabutra history sheeter Md Akbar’s second wife’s house near Sabzi Mandi to attend a party. During the party, an argument broke out between the two about murder of Akbar’s nephew in Chandrayangutta in 2019. A murder case was filed under section 302 of the IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/history-sheeter-killed-by-rivals/articleshow/78523605.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Sedan set ablaze in Bibvewadi||PUNE: A 31-year-old car dealer registered a complaint with the Bibvewadi police stating that unidentified person(s) vandalized his sedan parked along a lane in Super Indiranagar around 2am on Monday. Senior inspector Kumar Ghadge from the Bibvewadi police said on Tuesday said, “Santosh Malpote runs a business of buying and selling new and old cars. He had parked the vehicle, a Honda City, in a lane near his residence. The culprit(s) sprayed a chemical substance on the bonnet and set it ablaze. They also damaged the rear windshield.” “We are questioning local residents for more clues. An FIR was registered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sedan-set-ablaze-in-bibvewadi/articleshow/78523601.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Rs 3 lakh loan taken on pharma exec’s a/c||AURANGABAD: An unidentified man cheated a senior executive of a multi-national pharmaceutical company of Rs 3.11 lakh by obtaining an instant loan on his bank account. Dhananjay Tapkire (45) was contacted by some suspect who falsely claimed to be a representative of a mobile service provider. The suspect offered to upgrade his SIM card from 3G to 4G stating that it would improve internet speed and also network coverage. Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said Tapkire responded to a message sent by the suspect who told him that his SIM card won’t work for 24 hours because of the upgradation process. Soon, Tapkire lost network on his cellphone and assuming that his SIM is getting upgraded, did not pay much heed. During this time, the suspect obtained an instant loan of Rs 3.88 lakh on his bank account by granting permission using his blocked SIM card. When Tapkire’s wife went to the ATM to withdraw money from his bank account, which did not have more than Rs 42,000, the ATM disbursed Rs 50,000 cash. The couple soon checked for the transaction details of the bank account and found that an instant loan had been obtained and money had been transferred through multiple transactions. Tapkire lodged a complaint with the cyber police, who after carrying out a preliminary probe, referred the matter to Pundaliknagar police station. A case of cheating along with sections of the IT Act has been registered.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rs-3-lakh-loan-taken-on-pharma-execs-a/c/articleshow/78520812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Electric engines to cut travelling time on Ludhiana-Dhuri track||LUDHIANA: The Northern railway authorities have turned the present crisis over farm laws into an opportunity by completing the work of electrification on the Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route. Taking the benefit of zero traffic on major routes, the railway authorities have upgraded the decade-old Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route, which till now was for the use of diesel engines, into an electric one on the by laying high tension cables. Railways authorities said the engineering department has completed all formalities to run the electric engine on the same route to reduce the use of diesel engines as they have completed all safety parameters, along with essential formalities and trial runs, in the past few days. Railways authorities are also working on the development plan of increasing the speed of passenger trains on the Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route to an estimated speed of 120km/hour by upgrading its railways tracks. Soon the railways will begin work of electrification of the Ludhiana-Mullanpur railway route in the next few months to promote their initiative of conservation of the environment. Apart from this, the railway authorities have also given instructions to all local railway security personnel to conduct random inspection on certain railway crossings in the district, especially Dhuri and Giaspura, to check for issues related to organising of religious function around the railway tracks in the next few days on the occasion of Dussehra and other festivals. Tarun Kumar, director of Ludhiana railway station, said, “The railway authorities have taken another important measure towards development of the railway infrastructure as we have completed all formalities for shifting from use of diesel engine to electric engine on Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route. Moreover, with the use of electric engines on the same route, the speed of passenger trains will increase as they have been developed with advanced technology.” Officials said in the next few years the railways will run electric engines across the border areas of Punjab to make passenger travelling more convenient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/electric-engines-to-cut-travelling-time-on-ludhiana-dhuri-track/articleshow/78522009.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
October 7, 2020||Agra||52 new cases in Agra, tally now at 6,054||Agra: At least 52 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Tuesday, taking the tally to 6,054. This includes a resident doctor of SN Medical College. A 42-year-old man died under treatment at SNMC, Agra. The patient was suffering from acute respiratory syndrome, hypertension, pneumonia and septicemia. So far, 129 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 60 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of 6,054 cases reported in the district, 5,364 have been declared cured and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district reduced from 570 to 561 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/52-new-cases-in-agra-tally-now-at-6054/articleshow/78519678.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Professor relives literary life to fight lockdown gloom||KOCHI: Every adversity, every failure, every heartbreak, carries with it the seed of an equal or greater benefit,“ - Napolean Hill. For septuagenarian English professor V Nithyanantha Bhat, these were among the many famous lines in the literary world that brought him back from the depressed feelings of being under lockdown during Covid-19. Turning to technology to stay connected, Prof V N Bhat did what he loved the most — write and interact with his students whom he had guided for their doctoral degrees. “A good part of my life was spent guiding PhD scholars, MPhil students in English and working for promotion of Sanskrit. While I am no literary expert in Sanskrit but as director of Sukrtindra Oriental Research Institute which promotes the ancient language, I am the publisher of Sanskrit literature by various authors. Suddenly, this shut down from direct interaction was something I had to learn and develop a solution for inactivity,” said Bhat, who re-started his literary life after retiring from Cochin college 20 years ago. Thus, he started a blog and opened email discussions with his students on his works and thoughts. “I had, a few months back, written a book ‘Vedanta & the modern world and other indological essays’ since Indology is of great interest for many,” he said, adding that I had sent the books to several eminent scholars and I used the lockdown time to publish the response of all these people on the blog to keep it going. Prof Bhat’s discussions mostly centred on philosophy, literature, human values, culture, education, communication and communicative English. “Most of my students are professors or senior lecturers of English in various colleges and it was with them that I opened my discussions.” A few of his books, written during lockdown period, are ready for publication. One of the books, ‘Aspects of education: An Indian perspective’, which is being published by the Indian council for philosophical research, has a foreword by Prof J S Rajput, India’s representative to the executive board of UNESCO and former director of NCERT. Bhat has also edited and published about 65 books and 42 issues of the journal for the Sanskrit research institute. He, however, doesn’t agree with the present campaign of Sanskrit as a communicative language. “There are people who give crash courses for spoken Sanskrit. How is it even possible to speak an ancient language which is more literary!” A grammar teacher, Bhat has published 35 English guides and study books, including three on Shakespearean plays for degree students. As the lockdown continues, he has started his next book on ‘vedic ecology.’ “I am researching the vedic texts to understand the ecological awareness in vedas and its importance today. I had presented a paper on this during a conference organised by ICPR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/prof-relives-literary-life-to-fight-lockdown-gloom/articleshow/78522008.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
October 7, 2020||Pune||Ela Foundation re-wilds 3 ‘rescued’ Chinkara fawns in half a day each||PUNE: The Ela Transit Treatment Centre (ETTC) of the city-based Ela Foundation and Maharashtra forest department examined, treated and successfully re-wilded three ‘rescued’ Chinkara fawns in April, July and August, during foaling season. The essential principles of such re-wilding were recently published by ‘EC Veterinary Science’ — an international peer-reviewed open access journal, in their current issue. Indian Gazelle or Chinkara is an antelope endemic to the Indian subcontinent. It is protected by the Wildlife Protection Act and is listed under Schedule 1. “A threat to the Chinkara fawns is that people ‘rescue’ them out of ignorance, when found alone on grasslands and scrublands. All these three cases were examples of such over enthusiasm,” said noted ornithologist Satish Pande of the Ela Foundation. “The rescued Chinkara fawns, like in other ungulates, feign limping, refuse to stand up and prefer to lie on the ground in the presence of humans. This can lead to the mistaken conclusion that they are paralysed or have weak legs. The fawns are often erroneously ‘rescued’ and are inadvertently deprived of parental care. Camera trap studies reveal that they can walk normally in the absence of human presence,” said Pande. He said the three ‘rescued’ fawns were colour coded and kept in the same place within 12 hours and monitored using trap cameras. The assumed parents came to the fawns and accepted them. The fawns were subsequently seen to be healthy and were living a natural lifestyle. The paper was authored by medical director Satish Pande of ETTC and Rahil Lonkar, Rajkumar Pawar, Omkar Sumant and Reuven Yosef.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ela-foundation-re-wilds-3-rescued-chinkara-fawns-in-half-a-day-each/articleshow/78523600.cms||Manjiri Damle
October 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Footballer reunites with family after decade in children’s home||MUMBAI: Faheem Wasim Khan (19) was reunited with his parents on Gandhi Jayanti after a decade at a children’s home. Faheem, then eight, was travelling with his parents and two siblings by train from Mumbai to their native village in Sultanpur district, UP, on May 9, 2010. They boarded at Kalyan station and at Nashik, while his parents were asleep, Faheem alighted to wash his mouth and fill drinking water in a bottle, but the train left before he could return. His father alighted at Bhusawal, while his mother went ahead with her daughters. Faheem boarded another train, hoping to find his parents. “He was crying and only remembered his parents were from Sultanpur. GRP personnel at Khandwa handed him over to Navjivan Children’s Home,” said Wasim’s maternal uncle Aman Khan, who has a transport business at Govandi, and who had hosted his brother-in-law and his family for a month here. Faheem’s father, now working in Saudi Arabia, had brought his family to Mumbai from Sultanpur on a vacation. Faheem was under the care of Sister Ambika at the children’s home, while his father and uncle searched for him in Nashik and Mumbai. “I was taken care of well. There were 24 other children. They sent me to Holy Spirit Convent School, from where I cleared my SSC exam. I then appeared for my class 12th exams and am awaiting the results,” Faheem said over the phone. His family searched for him at dargahs in Nashik and Mumbai, railway stations, mortuaries and registered a missing person’s complaint. Faheem excelled in basketball and football, played state-level football matches and represented MP at a national-level football championship. His uncle said the family, though disturbed, never lost hope. As Faheem turned 19 recently, the home said they could not keep him there as he was no longer a minor. Since he remembered Sultanpur as his parents’ home district, an official of the home took him there on September 1. He was handed over to district child welfare department, from where he reached a childcare centre in Sultanpur. Sultanpur’s additional superintendent of police Shivraj contacted local activist and social worker Gufran Ahmed Saifi, who shared the info with his photograph with anganwadi workers and activists on social media. “Within three hours, his uncle, mother Nasibun Nisa and elder sister Saharbano came to meet me,” Saifi said. The boy and his mother recognised each other, and locked in embrace for several minutes, they cried.“I want to follow my dream of playing football for India,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/footballer-reunites-with-family-after-decade-in-childrens-home/articleshow/78522501.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||VRO files complaint against MLA||HYDERABAD: A village revenue officer (VRO) of Qutbullapur mandal approached police on Tuesday alleging Quthbullapur MLA KP Vivekananda abused him using casteist remark. On September 3, G Shyam Kumar, VRO of Gajularamaram village, along with his field staff and cops carried out demolition of five rooms, three huts and a cattle shed illegally erected on a government land. In this connection, Qutbullapur MLA Vivekananda allegedly verbally abused the VRO, a Dalit, making remarks about his caste and threatened him over a phone call. “Knowing my caste, he started cursing and threatening for carrying demolition of illegal structures,” the VRO in his written complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vro-files-plaint-against-mla/articleshow/78523596.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Finance firm director duped of Rs 4.8 lakh in email spoofing fraud||PUNE: A 49-year-old director of a private financial services company became the victim of an email spoofing fraud in September. He lodged an FIR on Monday with the Nigdi police on Monday, following which a case was registered under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. On September 10, the complainant — who has an office in Chinchwad MIDC area — received an email, purportedly from his “senior director”. “The sender requested a transfer Rs4.8 lakh to a bank account number mentioned in the mail,” senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad of the Nigdi police station said. Without verifying whether the email was genuine, the complainant immediately made the transfer via real-time gross settlement (RTGS). “After confirming the transaction, the complainant called his boss and told him about the transfer,” Jawadwad. “He was shocked when his boss told him he did not ask for any money and did not send any email,” he added. He realized he was duped and immediately approached the police. Jawadwad said the fraudsters had created an email addresses quite similar to his boss’s address, and contacted the complainant. “The probe so far revealed that the amount has been transferred to a bank account in Bhiwandi, which is in the name of a logistics company,” Jawadwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/finance-firm-director-duped-of-rs-4-8l-in-email-spoofing-fraud/articleshow/78523586.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 7, 2020||Pune||DJs out of work even as bars reopen for customers||PUNE: Bars and restaurants in the city have opened to customers, but they haven’t yet called back in-house or guest DJs. The management at various bars have confirmed there will be no loud music or gigs as these prompt people to sing/shout or take to the dance floor thereby increasing the spread of coronavirus. DJs said that soft music will still be played at the venues but they have not been called back to their jobs. “Bar and club owners should consider helping out DJs by letting them handle the music even though opening dance floors is prohibited right now,” said DJ Faith, adding, “Clubs and bars in Bengaluru, Kolkata and Delhi have started hosting parties with DJs. It will take more time for rules to change in Maharashtra due to the high number of Covid cases. December is a big month for parties but I think by November itself parties will start with safety precautions.” “Everyone should take this positively as all our favourite bars and clubs are running and in a while so shall the entertainment. We just have to be patient. I’ve heard that many venues have received a full makeover so that’s exciting,” said DJ Dustin. Meanwhile, bars are simply trying to stay afloat. “A month after smooth operations, we will think about the entertainment part. Presently, we are streaming music online and making our own playlist,” said Rishu Baweja, director of The Cult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/djs-out-of-work-even-as-bars-reopen-for-customers/articleshow/78523587.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mysuru||LPG pipeline between Hassan-Secunderabad gets nod||Mysuru: Hassan district will soon get another LPG pipeline after Mangaluru-Bengaluru pipeline. The 72nd Land Audit Committee (LAC) meeting held recently has given a green signal to the ambitious HPCL LPG pipeline between Hassan and Cherlapally at Secunderabad in Telangana. This is a 680-kms pipeline. According to the proposal, the company will invest Rs 680 crore in this project which is expected to ease the burden of LPG transport between Hassan and neighbouring Telengana. Meanwhile, four districts of South Karnataka region are expected to witness huge flow of investment with many companies showing interest in industrially backward districts. According to the proposal, HPCL pipeline will go through Arsikere in Hassan, Tiputur and Chikkanayakanahalli in Tumakur, and Hiriur and Sira in Chitradurga. Officials from Karnataka Udyoga Mitra said that the project is expected to create hundreds of indirect jobs as it is a labour intensive project. According to Revanna Gowda, MD, Karnataka Udyoga Mitra, the project is also beneficial to Hyderabad. “Already HPCL has laid a pipeline between Mangaluru and Bengaluru. From Hassan, LPG will be supplied to Hyderabad through this new project,” he said. Meanwhile, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Hassan districts witnessed a flurry of investment proposals in the last few months. A total of Rs 1,692 crore investment has been proposed in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Hassan, which includes the HPCL pipeline project. The important proposals include R 270 crore investment by First Steps Babywear Pvt. Ltd in Chamarajanagar, Rs 154 crore investment by Sutlej Textiles and Industries in Chamarajanagar, and Rs 100 crore investment by Triveni Engineering and Industries in Mysuru. These projects are expected to generate about 3,400 jobs. Revanna Gowda, managing director, Karnataka Udyoga Mitra, said investors are showing more interest in in the districts of Southern Karnataka, especially Mysuru, Hassan and Chamarajanagar. The investment atmosphere is good now. More and more investors are coming forward, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lpg-pipeline-between-hassan-secunderabad-gets-nod/articleshow/78519696.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 7, 2020||Salem||Tomato prices dip due to oversupply in Salem||Salem: Tomato farmers in the district are anxious after prices of the vegetable dipped considerably in the last few days. A kilogram of tomato that was being sold in the market for Rs 50 in September is now selling for Rs 20. Farmers said the volume of tomato production has suddenly increased as many farmers have moved to the crop due to its high price. “Most farmers in Salem switched to tomato cultivation when the rate was peaking,” the farmers said. Mecheri and Vazhapadi in Salem district and Rayakottai in Krishnagiri district are the main tomato cultivation areas for the state. Tomatoes from these areas are sent to major markets in Pollachi and Coimbatore, Oddanchatram in Dindigul, Thalaivasal in Salem and Koyambedu in Chennai. From there, the tomatoes are sent to other retail markets. Earlier, a 15 kilo basket of tomato was being sold for Rs 750 when the retail price had touched Rs 50 per kg. After seeing a renewed demand for tomatoes, farmers across the district, especially from Mecheri and Vazhapadi, switched to tomato cultivation. “Even farmers who were earlier cultivating other crops such as tapioca, pulses and cereals have switched to tomato cultivation,” said M Rajendran, a farmer from Vazhapadi. Due to oversupply, the price started reducing drastically in the first week of October, with tomatoes selling for Rs 20 a kg in retail markets currently. Several farmers said that the demand for tomatoes is around 10 tonne in the district, while more than 20 tonne is reaching the market. “This is the reason for the price dip,” a farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tomato-prices-dip-due-to-oversupply-in-salem/articleshow/78523608.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 49% decline in crime against women||HYDERABAD: The crime against women witnessed a decline of 49 per cent in the city, compared to last year, however, gambling cases are on the rise, said Anjani Kumar, Commissioner of Police, Hyderabad on Tuesday. Speaking in a press meet, the CP said, the crime against women has dropped from 2,611 cases last year between January and September to 1,322 cases this year during the same period. “Currently, the city has 3.3 lakh CCTV cameras, which will be increased to 5 lakh. This has also led to a decline in the overall crime in the city,” said Kumar. Murder cases have witnessed a decline from 84 cases reported last year to 43 cases this year up till September. While attempt to murder cases declined from 202 cases to 88 this year, similarly, kidnapping cases dropped from 522 cases to 309 during the same period. “Cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has decreased from 98 cases to 58 cases this year,” said the CP. “In the past few days 27 arrests were made under the Gaming Act. We found several youths indulging in cricket betting given the IPL-2020 matches using mobile applications,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/49-decline-in-crime-against-women/articleshow/78523620.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||MAT: Handlers’ transfer can cause mental trauma to sniffer dogs||PUNE: Observing that transfer of handlers can cause mental trauma to sniffer dogs under their command, the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) on Thursday passed an interim order staying the transfer of six dog handlers of the Pune Police Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) till November 20. A total of 1,200 policemen, including dog handlers from the BDDS, were transferred by the city police in an internal reshuffle on September 26. The handlers had filed petitions with MAT for staying the transfer orders, stating that the sniffer dogs had started facing psychological problems and they were not taking commands from the new handlers. Quoting circulars issued by the state Criminal Investigation Department and the state Intelligence Bureau, lawyer Punam Mahajan, representing the dog handlers, told the tribunal that the policemen cannot be transferred till the sniffer dogs retire from service or till their natural death. Chief presenting officer Swati Manchekar, representing the state government, sought time for opposing the petitions filed by the handlers. MAT chairperson justice Mridula Bhatkar, after hearing both sides, relied on government circular of the Intelligence Bureau and passed an interim order staying the transfer of the dog hand0000000lers in the interest of BDDS. She observed that transfer of handlers can cause mental trauma to the dogs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mat-handlers-transfer-can-cause-mental-trauma-to-sniffer-dogs/articleshow/78523610.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 7, 2020||Pune||2 local trains to between Pune and Lonavla||PUNE: Two local trains would make four trips between Pune and Lonavla from October 12. “The first train to Lonavla would start from the Pune station at 8.05am. Another rake would start for the city from Lonavla at 8.20am. In the evening, one local will start from Lonavla at 6.02pm and another from Pune at 5.30pm,” a senior official of the Pune railway division said. Civic staffers would disinfect the rakes after each trip. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-local-trains-to-lonavla/articleshow/78523614.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP dials man who lost wife to Covid to check how she’s doing||Bengaluru: “How is your wife doing?” This query from a BBMP official on Tuesday triggered a fresh burst of tears for Palace Guttahalli resident Ramesh M. He felt like abusing the caller, but memories of his wife Geetha KM, who succumbed to Covid-19 a month ago, flooded back and he was overcome with grief. The fact that Geetha died has been lost in data goofups that plagues Bengaluru’s Covid management and Ramesh, who has been running from pillar to post to get his wife’s death certificate, has been getting such calls for two weeks now. “My wife is dead and I’m trying to get a certificate. These people are so heartless, they are asking about her health,” Ramesh said. “They call me every day to enquire about my wife. They ask if she is in home quarantine or in hospital and even to pay up hospital bills,” the 37-year-old marketing executive said. The ordeal began on August 1, when Geetha spiked a fever and she was taken to a private hospital in Seshadripuram. Two days later, blood tests confirmed she had dengue. Doctors said her platelet count was low and she needed rest. The hospital said they didn’t have beds or oxygen facility and asked Ramesh to take her to another hospital in Malleswaram. On reaching the hospital in Malleswaram, a rapid antigen test showed Geetha was Covid-19 positive. Hospital authorities asked Ramesh to shift her to another hospital in Kavalbyrasandra. By then, Geetha’s condition deteriorated and asked her husband to take her home. Ramesh dropped his wife off at her mother’s home and returned to his Palace Guttahalli residence. In less than an hour, he received a call from his wife, requesting his presence. Ramesh rushed back only to find his wife convulsing with eyes rolled up. Ramesh called an ambulance and rushed her to the Seshadripuram hospital. He waited outside the hospital in the ambulance for an hour as Geetha was stretchered in. “The ambulance driver berated me saying I was wasting his time. The doctors weren’t helpful either. They conducted another test on my wife and declared her Covid-19 positive and brought dead,” Ramesh said. They had been married 13 years and have a seven-year-old daughter. “My wife was cremated on August 4 and crematorium staff made a wrong entry in their records. Instead of entering 736, they entered 746,” Ramesh said. “When I tried to get the death certificate after 21 days, BBMP officials said nobody with the name of Geetha had died. I shouted at them asking if I was faking my wife’s death.” He’s still doing rounds of BBMP offices to get the death certificate and dealing with calls from BBMP officials inquiring about his wife’s condition. “It’s been a month since my wife died and they don’t know it,” he said. “BBMP needs to be a little more understanding. They should at least have data of the people who died.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-dials-man-who-lost-wife-to-covid-to-check-how-shes-doing/articleshow/78521235.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Demand to cancel backlog exams, slash 25% syllabus||PUNE: Cancellation of backlog exams for non-final year students, a 25% reduction in the syllabus, a 50% fee cut, and low-cost meals like Shiv-Bhojan scheme on campuses were some demands put forth by students to higher and technical education minister Uday Samant who was at Savitribai Phule Pune University on Tuesday. The minister promised to look into their grievances. “We have requested for a cancellation of backlog exams for non-final year students. In case they still decide to go ahead with the examination after 120 days as per the earlier notifications from the state as well as the university, we have appealed for these examinations to be taken in the multiple choice questions format instead of the regular pattern,” Kuldeep Ambekar, a law student, who runs an organisation called Students’ Helping Hands. Students have demanded that colleges should give them a 50% concession in fees as parents are struggling . Ambekar said, “Many colleges do not even have a proper e-learning portal that has been made available to the students, despite so many months since the pandemic. What we are trying to request from the university as well as the minister is to pass an order which does not allow colleges to collect fees on non-utilised heads such as parking, laboratory, library, mess and hostel at least for this semester.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-to-cancel-backlog-exams-slash-25-syllabus/articleshow/78523623.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, RT-PCR to confirm Covid negatives in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Effecting an official change in its testing regime, the state government has decided to go for RT-PCR tests on all Covid-19 suspected cases showing negative results in antigen tests. The decision was taken following the increase in caseload in almost all districts. In a September 24 report, TOI had quoted health department sources as saying that district administrations have been instructed on the same. The state has been relying heavily on antigen tests and those testing negative were not subjected to retests. The expert committee has advised the government of false negative reports from antigen tests and the Union health ministry and ICMR have recommended RT-PCR tests on antigen negatives. Hence, the state finally decided RT-PCR tests on cases with Covid-19 symptoms but negative in antigen tests. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan while announcing this said the government has decided to go for RT-PCR on antigen negatives since it is considered more reliable. The government has also decided to isolate all symptomatic patients in all the districts by intensifying screenings, he said. The government’s aim is to bring down the test positivity rate below 10. For this, stricter measures will have to be implemented. Doubling rates have come down in all districts, except Thiruvananthapuram. “All the precautions and preventive measures taken by the state have yielded good results and hence we could considerably bring down the spreading. When 99 people among ten lakh are dying in the country, here in Kerala it is 24.5. The national case fatality rate is 1.55% and in Kerala it is 0.36%. The test positivity rate in the country is 8.3% whereas it is 7.2% in Kerala,” said the chief minister. “The ICMR sero survey in August had found that only 0.8% people in the state might have been infected. However, the national average was 6.6%. But in September, the spread was rapid in the state. The high positivity rate indicates this. This was due to the laxity on our part in the precautions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-rt-pcr-to-confirm-antigen-ves/articleshow/78522067.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||E-pass a must to enter Valparai from today||Coimbatore: The district administration has received the state government’s nod to introduce the e-pass system for Valparai and the same would come into force from today (Wednesday). Now, people from other districts could enter Valparai only with an e-pass. They have to apply for the pass online and get the same cleared by the district administration. People from other parts of Coimbatore would also be allowed into Valparai only if their travel is necessary. Visitors from the district and outside would be allowed to stay in the hill station only for a maximum of two days. The idea is to limit the visitors to 400 to 500 a day. The move comes after local residents raised concerns over tourists spreading the virus in the sparsely populated town. They said Valparai had seen a sizable number of tourists in the past two weekends and many of them were roaming around without wearing face masks. Pearlin Christabel, a resident of Cooperative Colony in Valparai, said local people have been strictly following the face mask etiquette for the past three weeks. “In Valparai, we have had only a smattering of cases with a clear source, which was only locals till September first week. So, no one cared to wear a mask. However, now locals are concerned about the growing tourist crowd, who they think would cause community spread of Covid-19, and have started wearing masks.” The residents said they were not bothered about the biker groups or people who just drive through the town. “We are concerned about the families that come with children. Because they walk on the roads without wearing masks, probably to enjoy fresh air. They don’t understand how much that endangers us,” said another resident, Mohammed K. Premkumar, a resident of Cooperative Colony, said the visitors were also not maintaining social distancing. “They are extremely loud at nights and pollute the place.” The residents said they had just seven cases for almost four months after the outbreak of Covid-19. Then the hill station with a population of hardly 60,000 saw around 12 cases. In September, another 16 cases were recorded. “There is no one to monitor the tourists, places they visit and who they interact with, and ensure they follow the face masketiquette and maintain social distancing. So, tracing the source of infection may become difficult,” said Premkumar, who is also ascientist with the Nature Conservation Foundation. Mohammed, meanwhile, said many people were heading to Valapari as they couldn’t go to Ooty and Kodaikanal, where the e-pass system was in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/e-pass-a-must-to-enter-valparai-from-today/articleshow/78523628.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Pink City turning into a coaching hub for CLAT||Jaipur: The Pink City is fast developing into a coaching hub for Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) because of superb result by candidates. This has attracted many students from different parts of the country to make the city a gateway to their success. Like Kota city which is synonymous for IIT coaching, Jaipur will become the magnet for CLAT preparation. Gunjan Modi, a student from Bengaluru who secured 23 rank in India, said despite belonging to the city where first National Law University was established, there are no good coaching institutes. “I couldn’t get good marks in my first attempt due to lack of guidance. Good rankers from Jaipur motivated my family members to send me to Jaipur for preparation. The teachers are good and students are able to learn basics and clear their doubts here,” said Gunjan. Navneet Singh Rajpurohit, director of Law Prep tutorial, said that in last three years this trend has increased. “Jaipur city got AIR 1 two times in 2017 and 2018 that helped us show our potential to others. Students from Odisha, Karnataka, UP, Bihar are flocking to the city and we can expect this number to rise further,” said Rajpurohit. The number of applications has also risen in CLAT from Rajasthan. Last year, around 4,500 applicants were from Rajasthan which has now increased to more than 5,600. Students from Humanities and Commerce background are preferring to study for CLAT. Earlier, litigation in courts was the only option for lawyers which requires lot of patience. But now, lawyer can earn well by doing work other than litigation – drafting, research or in mergers or acquisitions in corporations. In litigation as well, a law graduate does not have to work for a decade in courts to establish himself/herself in the profession with meagre payment as new law firms are coming up for that. Abhishek Chaturvedi, director of CLAT Prep coaching institute, said that it’s not just chartered accountancy for Commerce students anymore. “Students from different background are studying for law exams looking at the lucrative career opportunities. Even, science students are opting it as a career option. For CLAT preparation many students have started to shift their base to Jaipur. They take admission in some school here to prepare for CLAT. We can say that in coming times, Jaipur will become a hub for CLAT preparation,” said Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pink-city-turning-into-a-coaching-hub-for-clat/articleshow/78523636.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Monsoon bids adieu to Lucknow after long dry season||LUCKNOW: Monsoon season came to an end in the city on Tuesday and left behind a deficit of 35%, the lowest rainfall in the past five years. Overall, west UP received 37% below normal rains, the lowest in the country this monsoon. However, east UP fared better with 7% below normal rains. Overall, only 12 UP districts received normal or above normal rainfall this season. On Tuesday, the monsoon withdrawal line was passing over Faizabad. It is expected to retreat from east UP by the weekend. Till then, generally dry weather is expected with possibility of scattered rains on Thursday in eastern parts of the state, said state Met director JP Gupta. In Lucknow, weather remained sultry on Tuesday with maximum temperature at 37.2 degrees Celsius, 3.6 units above normal, while minimum temperature was 22.6 degrees Celsius Similar conditions are expected on Wednesday. Monsoon arrived in Lucknow on June 24 this year, four days behind schedule, and turned weak soon after entry. There was some rain in later half of July and August. The rest of the period was mainly dry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/monsoon-bids-adieu-to-city-after-long-dry-season/articleshow/78524344.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Agra||Raped by cousin, 4-yr-old from Hathras dies in Delhi hospital after 18-day battle||Agra: A four-year-old from Hathras, allegedly raped by her minor cousin, died in a Delhi hospital on Monday after an 18-day battle for life. The child had been living with her aunt in Aligarh for the past three months after her mother died. “On September 17, we got information that a minor girl was being mistreated by her aunt. We informed the local police station. They got her out of the house and handed her over to us,” said Gyanendra Misra from the Aligarh unit of Childline. She was taken to the district hospital in Aligarh the same — her condition was serious. The local hospital referred her to Aligarh’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, where her medical examination was conducted. The report confirmed rape and, on the basis of a complaint by her father, an FIR was lodged under sections 376 (rape) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, along with the Pocso Act. When her condition started deteriorating, she was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital. That was on October 4. She died a day later. “Section 302 (murder) of the IPC will be added to the FIR. The girl’s aunt will be arrested,” Aligarh SSP Muniraj G said. Over the course of Monday night, residents of her village staged a blockade, demanding justice for the girl and refused to cremate her till her aunt was arrested. The boy had already been sent to the juvenile home in Mathura. Police promised the arrest would follow, after which the body was cremated. The administration gave Rs 5 lakh as assistance to the family. Station house officer at Iglas, PK Maan, has been suspended for delay in arresting the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/raped-by-cousin-4-yr-old-from-hathras-dies-in-delhi-hospital-after-18-day-battle/articleshow/78519719.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Former MLA withdraws bail application in rape case||Madurai: Former Nagercoil MLA Nanjil A Murugesan, who was arrested for raping a minor girl in Kanyakumari district withdrew his second bail application before Madras high court on Tuesday. After the counsel appearing for the petitioner sought permission to withdraw the bail application, justice G K Ilanthiraiyan dismissed the petition as withdrawn. According to the prosecution, the girl was kidnapped by a man in the district. Police secured the girl and handed her over to a home following a complaint from her father. The girl had given a statement saying that Murugesan raped her with the help of her mother. Based on a complaint from the district child protection officer, police had registered a case against the petitioner under several sections of the Pocso Act and arrested him on July 29. The petitioner stated that the girl made false allegations against him stating that he had sexually exploited her. Murugesan stated that the false case was foisted against him with a motive to spoil his political career. Earlier, in August, Murugesan had filed his first bail application before the HC Madurai bench. Since the court stated that it was not inclined to grant bail by taking into account the gravity of the offence, Murugesan withdrew the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/former-mla-withdraws-bail-application-in-rape-case/articleshow/78523633.cms||---
October 7, 2020||India||ED charges kin of former rail minister in bribe case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has filed a chargesheet in the railway bribery case against former railway board member Mahesh Kumar and Vijay Singla, nephew of former railway minister in the UPA-2 regime, Pawan Kumar Bansal. The chargesheet, which includes nine other names, was filed at a special PMLA court in Chandigarh on Tuesday. The ED began its investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act based on an FIR filed by CBI that allegedly caught Vijay Singla, nephew of then railway minister Pawan Kumar Bansal, accepting a bribe of Rs 90 lakh for promoting Mahesh Kumar as member (electrical) of the railway board. "Singla was caught red handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 89,68,000 for favourable appointment and posting of Mahesh Kumar, a 1975 batch officer of Indian Railway Service of Signal Engineers," ED claimed. The agency further said that during the course of its investigation it found that N Manjunath, one of the people named in the chargesheet,on behalf of Mahesh Kumar had persuaded various railway contractors for making arrangements of bribe amount for promotion of Kumar as member (electrical). The accused had assured these vendors that "all the contributors will be taken care of/benefited from the desired posting of Mahesh Kumar", ED said. As a first instalment of the bribe, nearly Rs 89.7 lakh was contributed by N Manjunath, M V Murli Krishna, Sushil Daga and Venketeshwara Rail Nirman Pvt Ltd. Manjunath alone contributed Rs 25 lakh, Krishna Rs 25 lakh, Rs 10 lakh by Venkteshwara Rail Nirman and Rs 5 lakh by Sushil Daga, the ED probe revealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-charges-kin-of-former-rail-minister-in-bribe-case/articleshow/78524969.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Mahatma Gandhi’s fondness for music recalled||PUNE: Mahatma Gandhi’s fondness for music, especially records of noted vocalist Hirabai Badodekar, was highlighted during a special webinar organised by the National Film Archive of India and the Society of Indian Record Collectors recently. Tales of gramophone records about Gandhi, including songs about him, and recordings of his speeches were shared. There were anecdotes about his musical tastes. “We conducted the session because Gandhi was a man of many dimensions. He liked a number of bhajans, the most famous being Vaishnava Jana To. He also listened to records of Hirabai Badodekar. All these were discussed at the session through records the society has collected about his life, numbering around 150,” said Prakash Magdum, the NFAI director. The Society also tracks and researches these records to their date of recording and their condition, and actively seeks out more to add to their inventory about Gandhi through their contacts. According to them, first known recordings of Gandhi’s speeches were in 1931. Towards end of his life, his sermons at Birla House were also recorded, but his words are barely audible now. The research has also led them to surprising conclusions, including discovering a song in Hindi that was erroneously credited to Gandhi, and was sung by Manna Dey to mark Gandhi’s birth centenary in 1969, with music by Vasant Desai. “A charitable mission in Chennai wrote to Gandhi is 1934 and asked him about his form of god and how he regarded the higher power. He wrote a letter in English and added a couple of paragraphs as an addendum, writing about god as an emperor of humility. That was translated years later into Hindi, and became lyrics of the song recorded by Manna Dey in 1969,” said Suresh Chandvankar of Society of Indian Record Collectors. “For years, it was thought to be only song ever composed by Gandhi. I went to Sabarmati Ashram and played the recording on my phone to them, and they were pleasantly surprised at hearing it after years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mahatma-gandhis-fondness-for-music-recalled/articleshow/78523637.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 7, 2020||Pune||Minister reviews university’s exam plans||Pune: Minister of higher education Uday Samant was at the Savitribai Phule Pune University on Tuesday to review the arrangements for the final semester examination. Samant met representatives of the district administration and the district collectorate for coordination between them, and SPPU to conduct the final semester examination. A coordination cell has been set up . If students fail in the exam, they will get another chance to take the exam. The minister said the district collector and police commissioner of the respective place will be involved in conducting exams of students who have opted for the offline exams. Samant said, “The repeater exam for those who fail in this exam conducted by the university will be done immediately, and students do not have to wait for six months. The university will make arrangements to conduct the re-exam till the last student passes.” Samant said there will be enough flexibility for students to change from online to offline, but they will have to decide before the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minister-reviews-universitys-exam-plans/articleshow/78523632.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Consistency is key: Rank holder Hemant||Jaipur: Hemant Sharma, a resident of Bandikui, secured 17th rank in the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) on Monday. He had joined weekend coaching in Jaipur and used to travel five hours daily to attend classes. “When I joined coaching, students from good schools with excellent command in English made me scared. Those students were well groomed, but after a few months when I scored better than them in a test series, it gave me confidence. My rank in CLAT is a message to people that with hard work and consistency nothing is impossible,” said Hemant. Hemant took up science stream in Class 12 but slowly he realised that he was more interested in doing law. “My parents supported my decision and I worked hard on writing skills and general knowledge. It is a subjective paper so practice is important. You must not take any break just improve your mistakes,” said Hemant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/consistency-is-key-rank-holder-hemant/articleshow/78523629.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks response on steps to stop dumping of biomedical waste||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on the monitoring mechanism put in place and steps taken to prevent dumping of biomedical wastes from other states in Tamil Nadu.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Manivel, who sought to prevent the dumping of biomedical wastes inside Karadukulam irrigation tank at Vaiyampatti village in Trichy district. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the dumping of biomedical wastes would not only pollute the waterbody but also cause the spread of infection to the people. The judges observed that taking advantage of the fact that people do not come out during the Covid-19 pandemic, some people are indulging in such activities instead of disposing such wastes in a scientific manner. The judges observed that there are very many instances where biomedical wastes from Kerala are dumped at the border districts in Tamil Nadu and such activities happen due to the corrupt activities of the officials. While officials from Kerala are acting in a responsible manner, those from Tamil Nadu are not acting in the interest of the public, they said. Hence, the judges suo motu impleaded the health secretary and director general of police as respondents in this case and put forth several queries. The judges sought as to whether biomedical wastes from other states are dumped in Tamil Nadu and steps taken to prevent such activities. The judges also sought details as to how many such violations were detected so far and the actions taken against such violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-steps-to-stop-dumping-of-biomedical-waste/articleshow/78523635.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Street libraries set up for govt school students in village||Madurai: Street libraries have been set up for students of Kondapethan government middle school in their village to engage children through reading. At a special reading session held at an open space on Tuesday, students were given books to read and the street library initiative was kicked off.Archana Deiva, an entrepreneur and college professor, who has been involved in organising reading sessions and donating books, as part of her ‘Nool Kodai’ initiative in various schools, donated books and was also the chief guest at the event on Tuesday. “This initiative is alongside our initiative for ‘Schooling at doorstep’ for our students. We are trying to bring initiatives to help students keep in touch with reading and learning,” said M Thennavan, headmaster, Kondapethan government middle school.Through the street libraries initiative set up in houses of volunteers in each street, students from the government school can borrow books every week to read and return it next week. “The volunteers are mostly parents of students at our school. We hand over the books to them and ask them to keep a register. Children can drop by at their houses every Saturday or Sunday to borrow/return books on a rotational basis,” said Thennavan. Depending on the success, street libraries may be expanded to more number of streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/street-libraries-set-up-for-govt-school-students-in-village/articleshow/78523627.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers feel cheated as JDA fails to develop land||JAIPUR: The 47-km southern ring road project proposed to connect Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road has proved to be a failed model of urban infrastructure. Not only the transport corridor is non-operational, land provided to farmers in the development corridor along the ring road as compensation remains underdeveloped even after eight years. For the construction of ring road project, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) took possession of a 360-metre-wide strip of land and came up with a transport corridor on a 90-metre-wide land. Along both sides of the road, a 135-135-metre development corridor has been constructed where JDA promised to give developed land as compensation to farmers. However, farmers whose land was acquired for the project are feeling duped as the JDA did not only take their land, but also their livelihood. They alleged that in order to construct the project, the JDA acquired 1,692 hectares. While the transport corridor could have been constructed on 422 hectares, the JDA, against the will of farmers, acquired 1,270-hectares in access. Anurag Sharma, an affected land owner said, “As JDA did not have money to take up the multi-crore project, the idea was to acquire the access land from farmers and sell it off after constructing a development corridor. From the farmers land, 30% share was given as compensation, claiming that JDA will provide developed land, which can be utilised as commercial, residential and for other purposes. However, besides roads, no development has been taken in the development corridor.” Farmers claimed that the JDA has not developed sewerage, electricity and water facility in the area as per the promise. The farmers who surrendered their entire land cannot construct a house on those plots. “We cannot construct a house on our plot as there is no facility. The JDA duped poor farmers and did not leave land with us from which we were earning our livelihood,” said Sher Singh, an aggrieved farmer. Many farmers are also willing to sell their plots, but are failing to find buyers in absence of development. “Who will come to purchase plots in a deserted area” questioned Ashok Mehta, another land owner. The cash-strapped civic body attempts to auction its plot in the development corridor, however, it too failed to attract buyers. A JDA official source said, “The JDA did not have money to carry out development work in the corridor. Attempts to attract warehousing companies and others failed in past.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-farmers-feel-cheated-as-jda-fails-to-develop-land/articleshow/78523626.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mysuru||Corporators battle it out over Covid handling at council meet||Mysuru: Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) council meeting on Tuesday, after members alleged that private hospitals were not administering proper treatment to Covid patients. Former mayor Arif Hussain alleged that while private hospitals in Bengaluru had reserved 50% of their beds for Covid patients and were providing them proper treatment, the hospitals in Mysuru were neglecting patients. “Private hospitals are fleecing Covid patients to the tune of lakhs of rupees. The poor are unable to get admitted to private hospitals. The government has neglected Mysuru. This is the worst government,” Arif said. His claim was supported by members Ayub Khan, Prema Shankare Gowda and others. Reacting to the allegations, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said that private hospitals have come forward to provide beds, but they express concern over shortage of staff. “We are discussing providing medical staff to the private hospitals through MCC,” he said. However, Arif statement against the state government irked BJP corporators, who demanded that mayor Tasneem remove the words used against the government from the records. As there was chaos and confusion, the mayor postponed the meeting for 10 minutes, but when the meeting resumed, BJP corporators ventured into the council well and protested, and demanded an apology from corporator Arif. The mayor postponed the meeting for the second time, and later important subjects were approved amid commotion. Funds approved for wards The MCC council approved Rs 50 lakh funds for each ward for initiating development works. When corporators claimed that developments works had come to a standstill, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said that the financial condition of the corporation was not good. “Based on the financial condition, the funds will be provided to the wards,” he said. Referring to allegations of misuse of fine amount collected from the public for not wearing face masks, Gurudatta Hegde said that the officials are keeping records for the fines collected from the public, and that there is no discrepancy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/corporators-battle-it-out-over-covid-handling-at-council-meet/articleshow/78519736.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Jaipur||‘Came to Pink City from B’luru for preparation’||Jaipur: Gunjan Modi, a 19-year-old student from Bengaluru who had prepared for CLAT in Jaipur, has secured 23rd rank in Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) whose results were declared on Monday. This was Modi’s second attempt. Last year, she got around 4,000 rank and wasn’t eligible to qualify for any national law School. Gunjan said, “I dropped one year to clear my concept and studied hard this time. I came to Jaipur from Bengaluru just for CLAT preparation. I wanted to get into NLSIU Bangalore as my family is here and I do not want to live away from my family for five years. I focused to clear my concepts and studied continuously.” Initially, she would study for five hours a day, but with time the study hours increased and practice as well. “Most of the paper is now subjective with difficult comprehensions to solve. Students usually keep revision for the end, but I believe continues revision with consistency is important. First clear your basics and then increase your time for revision. Solve previous year question paper for practice,” said Gunjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/came-to-pink-city-from-bluru-for-preparation/articleshow/78523631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Family in Hayatnagar seeks justice after car mows pet||HYDERABAD: A family in Hayatnagar is seeking justice for the death of their pet dog who was allegedly killed in a road accident at Yellareddy Colony in Hayatnagar. The police had earlier registered a case under Section 336 (endangering human life with rash and negligent act) of IPC, however, after the deceased dog’s owner B Srinivasa Rao and his family began seeking justice for their pet, the police said that they will book the car driver, who was allegedly speeding, for criminal intimidation and under sections of Animal Cruelty Act. “On September 26. Our pet was answering nature’s call near an electricity pole in our lane, when suddenly, a speeding car, with one P Venkatesh in the driver’s seat, hit the dog. My daughter who was there had a lucky escape. As the driver tried to flee, my son Vikas and a few locals stopped the car a few metres away. Venkatesh then beat up my son due to which he sustained injuries. With locals’ help, my son took the dog to the hospital, but he was declared brought dead,” Srinivasa said. Srinivasa adde that the accused had threatened him of dire consequences if the complaint is not withdrawn. Venkatesh also threatened the complainant with a counter case. “Police had booked a simple case against me as per the law, but Srinivasa went to the police station multiple times urging the police to book me under stringent sections of the law,” Venkatesh said. Hayatnagar inspector M Surender told TOI, “After a fresh complaint, we have decided to book the accused under stringent sections of the law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-seeks-justice-after-car-mows-pet/articleshow/78523630.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU docs’ white paper on Ivermectin on WHO site||LUCKNOW: A white paper on Ivermectin drug as potential therapy for Covid-19 prepared by head of KGMU’s respiratory medicine department Prof Surya Kant and other senior doctors from different states of India has found recognition by the World Health Organization (WHO). The paper published in the Indian Journal of Tuberculosis Elsevier is now a part of the global literature on Covid-19, getting space on WHO’s website. The abstract of the article states that “A group of senior doctors with vast clinical experience met on July 19, 2020, under the aegis of the Academy of Advanced Medical Education. The panel looked at Ivermectin, one of the old molecules and evaluated its use in Covid-19 management. After critical panel discussion, all the attending doctors came to a conclusion that Ivermectin can be a potential molecule for prophylaxis and treatment of people infected with novel coronavirus owing to its “anti-viral properties coupled with effective cost, availability and good tolerability and safety.” Along with KGMU, Dr VK Arora (Delhi), Dr D Behera (Chandigarh), Dr Agam Vora (Mumbai), Dr T Mohan Kumar (Coimbatore), Dr Narayana Pradeep (Kerala) and a team of other doctors published the white paper. “It is a moment of pride for KGMU, UP and the country that WHO recognised the effort,” said Prof Surya Kant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-docs-white-paper-on-ivermectin-on-who-site/articleshow/78524356.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: High-security plate drive put on hold after glitches, delay fuel resentment||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot instructed the transport department on Tuesday to delay the enforcement drive against vehicles that don’t have high security registration plates (HSRP) or colour-coded fuel stickers till further orders. The minister has also instructed people not to seek new appointment for HSRP fitment until a ‘proper’ system is in place. Those who have already booked slots, however, will get their plates and stickers. The transport department had publicised an enforcement drive on September 22, forcing vehicle owners to scurry to get the HSRP and fuel stickers affixed. But they faced numerous problems, from technical glitches on the booking website, www.bookmyhsrp.com, and finding that their HSRP and sticker hadn’t arrived after reaching the designated vehicle dealership on the allotted date and time to lack of information on the fate of their requirements. TOI has highlighted the woes of vehicles owners for the last 15 days, and with the complaints growing by the day, Gahlot convened a high-level meeting on Tuesday. It was attended by representatives of transport department, National Informatics Centre, original equipment manufacturers, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers and HSRP manufacturers, including Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited. In a statement later, the transport minister’s office said that Gahlot discussed the problems of the vehicle owners and instructed OEMs to creating a system to address these grievances. More than the glitches and delay in getting HSRP and fuel stickers, it was the lack of information and response from both vehicle dealerships and HSRP manufacturers that car owners were most bitter about. Many vented their ire on social media, exasperated by the futility of calling the helpline number provided on the booking website. After the meeting, Gahlot said, “Our objective is public convenience. It was wrongly interpreted that we were immediately enforcing the HSRP rule, creating panic among vehicle owners. We have now asked dealers and licence plate manufacturers not to take further appointments without a proper system in place. Plus, we are clear on giving car owners sufficient time to get the HSRP and fuel stickers fixed before enforcing the rules.” To avoid the trouble of visiting a vehicle dealership, the government is now considering service at the car owners’ doorsteps as well as the creation of a mobile app to ease the process. A spokesperson of Rosmerta said, “As instructed by the honourable minister, we are setting up a system to address the grievances of vehicle owners. We won’t accept new appointments for HSRP fitment till further notice, though those who have booked the plates till Tuesday will get them in the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-security-plate-drive-put-on-hold-after-glitches-delay-fuel-resentment/articleshow/78523647.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||17 people booked for smuggling PDS rice||Coimbatore: The Tirupur district administration said it had seized 2,612kg of PDS rice worth Rs 60,000 from 17 people in August. The rice was being smuggled out to other states. The administration has slapped a penalty of Rs 1.23 lakh on 1,091 shops that were involved in the illegal smuggling of rice, apart from slapping cases against 17 people, all of whom have been remanded to judicial custody. Tirupur district has 1,135 ration shops which distribute essential groceries to 7.62 lakh families, benefitting 22.15 lakh people. The public distribution system was getting several complaints that there were some people who were buying ration rice from some beneficiaries and selling it outside the state for a higher price. This prompted the revenue department to launch an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-people-booked-for-smuggling-pds-rice/articleshow/78523640.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras incident: BSP defends absence of workers on ground||LUCKNOW: Even as the leaders of opposition parties continue to rush to Hathras after the alleged rape and death of a 19-year-old dalit girl, the presence of BSP president Mayawati has largely remained limited to social media. When people questioned the absence of BSP cadre on the ground, Mayawati was forced to clarify twice that she had sent a delegation to meet the family in Hathras. According to party members, BSP does not organise or participate in protests. In the thick of anti-CAA protests in December 2019 too, Mayawati had said that while her party was opposed to the Citizenship Amendment Act, her party did not believe in violent protests or destruction of property. Instead, it took recourse to “legal” modes of protests like writing letters and sending delegations to meet public representatives. In July 2019, when at least 10 tribals were killed in Sonebhadra’s Umbha village following a land dispute and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi occupied the centre stage as the main voice of the Opposition, Mayawati had stated that a delegation from her party would visit the village only if the administration allowed it, as the party did not want to be on the wrong side of law. “Protests are the means to make the government aware that something is going wrong. If the government itself is responsible for the mess, what purpose do the protests serve,” asked a senior BSP leader, defending the party’s stand. “Our party was the first to send a delegation to Hathras village to meet the family but it was stopped by the police. The BSP team finally met the mother and brother of the girl at the police station. Again, it was with the help of local BSP workers that the victim’s medical test was done. We have been helping the family at all levels,” he said. Party members, however, recall that in 2006, when two girls were raped in Prayagraj, Mayawati had gone to the city to meet the family and held a rally there. Protests were organised in each district as well. “Now, as Mayawati has become active on social media, her followers know as and when she speaks. Our followers do not believe in violent protests. We work on the ground,” another party member said, denying accusations that Mayawati was losing touch with ground level politics or has ceded ground to other parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-incident-bsp-defends-absence-of-workers-on-ground/articleshow/78524361.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 7, 2020||Kochi||Three of a family in Palakkad die of Covid in six days||PALAKKAD: Three members of a family lost their lives in a gap of six days due to Covid-19 in the district. Two brothers and their niece died at Pudunagaram. The deceased are Jamaludeen, 52, Mujeeb Rehman, 45, and their niece Naseema, 24. The brothers were running a fish trading agency at Pudunagaram fish market. Jamaludeen, who collapsed in the bathroom, was admitted in a private hospital in Palakkad and passed away on Friday. The Covid-19 test conducted after death showed positive result. His brother Mujeeb Rehman, who had respiratory problems, died at Thrissur government medical college hospital on Sunday. His Covid-19 test too was positive, health department officials said. Their niece Naseema was a heart patient and died on September 29 at her house. The test conducted after death was Covid-19 positive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-of-a-family-die-of-covid-in-six-days/articleshow/78522073.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks ASI reply on setting up epigraphy branch in TN||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on the possibility of establishing an epigraphy branch of the ASI at Tamil Nadu, similar to the one situated at Mysuru in Karnataka.The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigations pertaining to carrying out excavation at various archaeological sites.Taking cognizance of the fact that more than 50% of the total stone inscriptions across the country are in Tamil, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought the possibility of establishing the epigraphy branch in the state. The judges also sought a response on the steps taken to digitalize the estampages of the inscriptions. Deputy director of the Tamil Nadu state archaeology department, R Sivanandam informed the court about the progress of excavation made at various sites. He further stated that the department in July had sought permission from the ASI to carry out further excavation at seven sites - Keeladi, Adichanallur, Sivagalai, Kodumanal, Mayiladumparai, Korkai and Gangaikonda Cholapuram. The judges directed the ASI to submit a report with regard to granting permission for excavation at the seven sites which was proposed by the state department. The judges also asked the ASI whether it has any plans to carry out excavation in Tamil Nadu. The judges observed that though ASI had done excavation in 26 ancient sites in the state it had just published the report regarding only one site at Gudiyam and pursuant to the order of the court, it is working on publishing the report on Adichanallur. The judges asked ASI as to when the reports of the remaining sites would be published. The judges noted that earlier in 2019, the court had directed to employ watchmen at 430 sites and sought a report from the central and state governments in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-asi-reply-on-setting-up-epigraphy-branch-in-tn/articleshow/78523638.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||AIDWA protests for basic amenities in Madurai wards||Madurai: Members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) protested demanding basic amenities for ward number 54, 55 and 56 of the Madurai Corporation.All the three wards which come under the extension areas of the city, include Keeraithottam, Gnanavel colony, Arasu Annamalai avenue, Mariammal Nagar, Ganesh Nagar, and Tagore Nagar. Over 4,000 people live in these areas under very bad conditions. Keeraithottam in ward number 54 is the only place where the UGD work has been initiated but the connection is pending. With no UGD connection in these areas, overflowing drains are resulting in mosquito menace for these regular tax payers.To add to their woes, the Pannaiyur channel that flows through their wards is covered with water hyacinths. Solid waste is choking the channel in ward number 55. This should be cleared immediately as the rainy season has started.In the ward 56, there is no water supply through taps nor a UGD connection. Repeated petitions to the corporation have not been heeded to. If steps were taken to carry the greywater from the Amman street in the 56th ward to the Anupandi channel it would help prevent water stagnation and mosquito breeding, the protestors said. This could be done by constructing drains for now till the area gets UGD connectivity. AIDWA district secretary R Sasikala, member Yamnua, CPM members M Ganeshan, Arockiaraja among others participated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aidwa-protests-for-basic-amenities-in-madurai-wards/articleshow/78523648.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven arrested for man’s murder in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A grocery store worker who went missing on September 16 in Jagadgirigutta was found murdered by his friends. Cops arrested the accused and based on their confession exhumed the body from Vikarabad on Tuesday. The victim was Veerabhadram. On September 19, the victim’s wife, G Sonu, lodged a complaint with cops. Subsequently on October 5, Sonu told cops that she suspects the role of G Mahesh, an auto driver, and his friends behind her husband’s missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-arrested-for-mans-murder/articleshow/78523643.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Fisher’s body brought from SL, laid to rest||Madurai: The body of a fisherman from Rameswaram, which was washed ashore at Jaffna in Sri Lanka, was brought to his hometown and cremated on Tuesday. Six fishermen from Thangatchimadam in Rameswaram went for fishing on September 30. One of them, Carson, 24, was hit by an iron hook on the head and fallen off his boat, while pulling the net. His fellow fishermen searched him in the waters, but could not find him. On October 4, his body washed ashore in Jaffna and the fishermen were informed. They made an appeal to the officials of the Indian embassy to bring back his body. The body was sent to the government hospital in Jaffna for postmortem, and photographs of the fisherman were sent to Rameswaram for confirmation. The body was received by fishermen from Pudukottai at Kottapattinam from the Indian Coast Guard who received the body from their Sri Lankan counterparts, and the body was brought in an ambulance to his village and cremated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fishers-body-brought-from-sl-laid-to-rest/articleshow/78523664.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||Need to expose those trying to create unrest in UP: Yogi||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said his government unmasked the perpetrators of violence in the name of protest against the amended Citizenship Act and those giving shelter to members of Tablighi Jamaat who were spreading coronavirus infection in the country. “Our government has dealt with such elements with an iron hand. Development carried out by the BJP government is not liked by some people who conspire to create an atmosphere of insecurity and seek to push the state into caste and communal conflict,” Yogi said while addressing BJP functionaries of the bypoll-bound Ghatampur assembly seat in Kanpur through virtual conference. “The opposition is spreading false propaganda and is trying to stop development of the state. We need to expose such people,” he added. The CM said his government was formulating schemes for the welfare of all sections of the society. “We do not go by the caste or religion of people. We do not follow the policy of appeasement,” he said, adding that his government was committed to providing security to all. Yogi said the youth were being provided employment on merit and not on the basis of caste or religion. “Before BJP came to power, the state was infested with a frail infrastructure, poor law and order situation and high corruption. Things have changed over the last three years with youth getting employment and state receiving investments,” Yogi said, recounting a host of central schemes including construction of toilets under Swachh Bharat Mission, allotment of houses to poor under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and Ayushman Bharat Scheme. He said technology was a key driver in the implementation of welfare schemes during pandemic. “Had there been no technology the government would have been left helpless,” the CM said while referring to various people and farmer-centric schemes. “The government used technology to provide grants to street vendors and labourers who got badly affected by coronavirus lockdown. We also took steps to mitigate problems faced by migrants who returned to the state in large numbers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/need-to-expose-those-trying-to-create-unrest-in-up-yogi/articleshow/78524365.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 2/kg a day fine for vehicles abandoned on arterial roads||NEW DELHI: To tackle the menace of abandoned vehicles parked illegally on main or arterial roads for months or even years, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to impose a fine of Rs 2 per kg (weight of vehicles) every day on such vehicles after confiscating them. The issue was raised by standing committee member Bhupender Gupta during the last committee meeting, wherein a majority of members agreed that the old and abandoned vehicles parked on roadsides interrupt traffic movement, lead to jam, damaging of roads and also hinder sweeping or sanitation exercise in the area. In some cases, the broken vehicles even become a source of mosquito breeding. “There are chances that these vehicles could be stolen or belong to tour and travel agencies. Taking stern action against violators we carried one such intensive drive in all four zones last month and confiscated at least 250 vehicles, which were not removed despite pasting challans on them for 10 days,” said Gupta. He added , “There were instances when these cars were parked on the sides of roads, nullah or parks by people living in other colonies just because they don’t have parking space in front of their houses. Through our drive, we generated an amount of Rs 20 lakh from the challans or auctioning of such vehicles.” “I have asked the SDMC commissioner to formulate a policy specifying all terms and conditions for dealing with such old or abandoned vehicles on main arterial roads. However, no action was recommended against parked vehicles on internal roads,” he further said. Members of the standing committee suggested that teams should identify such vehicles, paste notices on them and if no response came even after one week then these vehicles should be towed away and auctioned within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-2/kg-a-day-fine-for-vehicles-abandoned-on-arterial-roads/articleshow/78523671.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man gets life for killing his wife||HYDERABAD: A local court sentenced a man to life imprisonment for killing his wife in 2015. On November 25, 2015, the offender, Anantha Ramulu, of Bhagya Nagar Colony in Hasthinapuram, came home in a drunken condition and asked his wife Laxmamma for money to buy liquor. As she refused to give money he assaulted her. He later doused her with kerosene and set her ablaze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-lifer-for-killing-his-wife/articleshow/78523667.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Biker dies, 8 injured after truck hits 13 vehicles on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass||Pune: A speeding truck ploughed into several vehicles after its front tyre burst, killing a motorcyclist and injuring eight others — four of them seriously — in front of Orchid International School near Navale bridge on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass at 10.45am on Tuesday. The truck was going towards Dehu Road from Katraj when the tyre burst, resulting in the driver losing control over the wheel and hitting three cars, two SUVs, seven two-wheelers and a pick-up van before coming to a halt. Senior inspector Vasant Kuvar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “The deceased 24-year-old motorcyclist, Shubham Prakash Supekar, was on his way to work at a packaged drinking water plant near Navale bridge from his residence in Ambegaon Pathar. He came under the front wheel of the truck and died on the spot.” Of the injured, Prakash Ashok Arakh (33) of Uttamnagar, Ravindra Swamilal (55) of Kondhwe Dhavade, Nagnath Bharat Idane (39) of Kondhwa and one more person whose identity is being ascertained, have been admitted to nearby hospitals. Barring one whose condition is critical, the others have sustained fractures. Four others were discharged after treatment, Kuvar said. The truck driver fled the accident spot. “We have summoned the truck owner and a search is on for the driver. The truck came from Nagpur and was going to Mumbai,” Kuvar said. The accident disrupted traffic along the bypass that connects the Pune-Bengaluru national highway with the Pune-Mumbai highway. Vehicles queued up on either side of the road, and the police had a tough time restoring normalcy. Autorickshaw driver Sachin Kothimbire of Mangdewadi near Katraj told TOI that he was heading towards Navale bridge when he heard a loud bang and stopped. “I turned around and saw that a truck had hit several vehicles. I spotted a man trapped under the front tyre and rushed to rescue him with help from a few others,” Kothimbire said. They also helped the police clear the wreckage of the vehicles. Sonya, who works at a roadside eatery, said he was serving ‘vada pav’ to some customers when he heard the loud bang and screams. “I saw a speeding truck hit vehicles. I crossed the road and saw that several vehicles were damaged and some people had fallen on the road. I helped them get up. Many two-wheelers were stuck under the truck,” he said. A car driver, who did not wish to be named, said he was heading towards Baner from his residence in Katraj when an SUV rammed his car at high speed. “My car then hit two other cars ahead of me,” he said. His car’s bumper and the bonnet were completely damaged. “There was complete destruction when I got out of the car and looked around,” he said. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police were in the process of registering a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-dies-8-injured-after-truck-hits-13-vehicles-on-katraj-dehu-road-bypass/articleshow/78523659.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Madurai to get direct flight to Kolkata from Oct 25; Bengaluru flight from Oct 12||Madurai: As people have started travelling to various parts of the country, Madurai airport has been witnessing an increase in the number of domestic flight operations to cater to their demand.Madurai is going to get a direct flight from Kolkata starting October 25 as IndiGo airlines has started taking bookings. The flight with a touchdown in Bengaluru will be operated six days a week, sources from Madurai airport said.The flight will depart Kolkata at 7.20 am, will reached Madurai airport at 12 pm. There will be a layover of 40 minutes at Bengaluru airport in between. While returning, the flight will depart Madurai airport at 12.30 pm and will reach Kolkata at 4.55 pm. The airbus 320 aircraft will be operated on all days except for Tuesday.Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India is also going to start its operation of Bengaluru-Madurai-Coimbatore service from October 12. The flight will depart Bengaluru at 6.30 am to reach Madurai at 7.50 am. It will depart Madurai at 8.20 am to reach Coimbatore at 9.10 am. While returning, it will depart Coimbatore at 9.35 am to reach Bengaluru at 10.35 am. The ART aircraft will be operated four days in a week (Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday), sources said.While there were only nine domestic flights connecting Madurai airport last month, it has increased to 13 flights now that include four flights connecting Chennai, three connecting Bengaluru, three connecting New Delhi, two connecting Hyderabad and one connecting Mumbai. Once the two proposed flights start operation, it will increase to 15 flights. Officials said that there were 24 domestic flights connecting Madurai before the Covid-19 pandemic.There are a considerable number of repatriation flights being operated every month. This month, 23 flights have been scheduled so far from various countries, officials said.Travel agents from the city said that most of the people travelling at present are stranded passengers. B S G Mustafa of Meraj Travels said that there is a considerable increase in number of people booking for flights through travel agents. This is certainly a good sign for tourism sector. “Domestic tourism activities are slowly picking up in as there are a good number of inquiries for various destinations such as Coorg, Goa and other spots,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-to-get-direct-flight-to-kolkata-from-oct-25-bengaluru-flight-from-oct-12/articleshow/78523670.cms||V Devanathan
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Central TN reports 616 Covid-19 cases, southern dists 462||Trichy/Madurai: Central region of the state recorded 616 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the tally to 55,893, which include 4,751 active cases. Meanwhile, the 10 southern districts of the state reported 462 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths. The number of daily fresh cases has come below 500 in the south for the first time since the last week of June. The last time lesser cases were reported in the region was 444 on June 26 – more than 100 days ago. By adding 80 new cases, Madurai’s toll has climbed to 17,044. It took 14 days for the region to add the 1,000 cases after crossing 16,000 on September 22. There are only 690 active cases (4.05%) in Madurai now. The death rate has declined to 2.3% from 2.5% a month ago. The four deaths in the southern region on Tuesday include a 54-year-old man from Tirunelveli who did not have any comorbid conditions. Death rate in Tirunelveli is 1.52% against 13,173 cases. Active cases in the region also continue to drop. All the districts in the south have less than 800 active cases. Among them, six districts have less than 500 active cases. In the central TN, the number of deaths in the region was reduced to three. The casualties were reported in Ariyalur, Thanjavur and Trichy. Trichy recorded 78 cases on Tuesday pushing the tally to 11,003 making it the second district to cross the 11,000-mark after Thanjavur. Trichy crossed 10,000 cases on September 25, and took 11 days to add another 1,000 cases to the tally. Thanjavur district again made it to the top with 224 fresh cases as the district also ramped up the testing taking the number of positive cases to 12,616. Covid cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (103), Pudukottai (71), and Nagappattinam (62).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/central-tn-reports-616-covid-19-cases-southern-dists-462/articleshow/78523655.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mysuru||Taluk hosps to get 50 oxygen beds: ZP CEO||Mysuru: Following a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the health department has decided to convert 50 beds at taluk hospitals into oxygen beds to treat patients facing breathing issues. At a meeting here on Tuesday, ZP CEO D Bharati informed said the work has already been started at the hospitals in Nanjanagud and T Narasipura. By next one week, all these beds will be available for patients. A jumbo oxygen cylinder will be installed in all taluk hospitals for this purpose. At the meeting presided over by ZP president Parimala Shyam, ZP members alleged that private hospitals are exploiting the poor. They said a few hospitals are charging several lakhs for treating patients for a few days. Members Birihundi Basavanna, Pushpa Amaranath, Chandrika Suresh and others urged officials to control such errant hospitals. Pushpa urged the ZP authorities to release data on the funds released by the state government to Mysuru district for Covid-19 management. ZP standing committee on health chairman Manjunath alleged that district health officer Dr R Venkatesh was not picking calls and respond to serious issues. Other members also echoed the complaint. Later, Dr R Venkatesh said private hospitals have agreed to share 50% of their beds for patients referred by the government. “In the next five days, a Bengaluru-like system will be implemented here. Data on bed availability will be put on a website to ensure no patient faces any kind of problems,” he said. He added that a death audit is being carried out to get a clear picture about the total Covid-19 deaths in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/taluk-hosps-to-get-50-oxygen-beds-zp-ceo/articleshow/78519766.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||K’taka may acquire RT-PCR test kits which give results in 13 minutes||Bengaluru: The state is mulling purchase of a rapid RT-PCR testing kit that is widely used in the US and gives results in 13 minutes. A private company that produces these kits is in talks with the government with a sticking point being the price. Conventional RT-PCR tests take a minimum 6-8 hours to deliver results and this had led to samples piling up. Patients have to wait a minimum two days to find out if they are infected. The new kit costs between Rs 2,000 and 2,500 per test but the government wants it slashed to Rs 1,200. “The kit has US FDA approval for emergency use and is said to be accurate,” said Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer for testing. The kit could be a game changer since isolation of patients and treatment can begin very early. It is said that the test is quicker as it employs ‘direct swab’ testing, unlike conventional RT-PCR test where the swab is stored and protected in a viral transport medium. Dr Manjunath said such tests will help hospitals determine positivity of a patient in emergency care quickly. “This test does not require huge infrastructure. It is helpful in emergency surgeries, emergency units of hospitals where decision have to be taken immediately. The product has got approval from ICMR, and Drugs Controller General of India,” he said. The RT-PCR machine which is handy in this testing costs Rs 6 lakh, but the price per test would be Rs 2200. “This may not serve the purpose of mass testing. But it will be of immense help in primary health centres and community health centres where conventional RT-PCR testing facilities can’t be set up” said Dr Manjunath. However, when contacted, officials from the company manufacturing the product said that the official communication with the state government was pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-may-acquire-rt-pcr-test-kits-which-give-results-in-13-minutes/articleshow/78521313.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi zoo’s annual contribution to ecology? It’s worth Rs 423 crore||NEW DELHI: The Centre is working on a plan to upgrade and develop all 160 zoos across the country in the public-private partnership (PPP) mode to connect visitors with wildlife and nature in a much better way, announced Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar while releasing a report which details how Delhi zoo annually provides ecosystem services worth Rs 423 crore to the city. The first of its kind study on any zoo in India, brought out by the Central Zoo Authority in association with The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), has put the total value of one-time cost of services and land of the national zoological park in the capital at Rs 55,209 crore. Economic valuation of ecosystem services (biodiversity conservation, employment generation, carbon sequestration, education and research, and recreational and cultural) is considered an important tool to enable rational decision-making by incorporating ecological values into economic policies. “I am sure this report will foster scientific evidence and influence decisions for efficient management of zoological parks in the country,” said Javadekar while noting importance of habitats such as zoos to human well being. On upgradation of all zoos across the country, he said a detailed framework of the plan would be prepared within a month and it would be taken up for implementation in the next (2021-22) budget. Economic valuation of other major zoos in the country will also be done in due course the way India has done it in the case of 10 biggest tiger reserves. The Centre for Ecological Services Management at the Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM), Bhopal had in 2019 valued these tiger reserves at over Rs 5.96 lakh crore. The reserves, surveyed during 2016-19 period, include Melghat tiger reserve (Maharashtra), Dudhwa (Uttar Pradesh), Pakke (Arunachal Pradesh), Palamu (Jharkhand), Similipal (Odisha), Valmiki (Bihar), Nagarjunasagar Srisailam (Andhra Pradesh), Annamalai (Tamil Nadu), Bandipur (Karnataka) and Panna (Madhya Pradesh). “Today, the economic valuation of ecosystem services is recognised as an important way of valuing the many benefits that nature provides for human well being. It is a powerful tool for decision making as it helps to incorporate the ecological value into our developmental policies and decision making which could facilitate more effective planning and management,” said Ajay Mathur, director general of TERI, in the preface of the study on Delhi zoo. The study is based on the data collected during 2019-20, considered as a baseline year. Noting the annual economic value of ecosystem services at nearly Rs 423 crore in 2019-20, the report flags that almost 77% of the contribution comes from the recreational and cultural service. “Irrespective of the contributions, every service is important as it contributes towards the improvement of the local environment. The benefits of the zoo are not only restricted to its visitors but also reach Delhi’s citizens. Hence, it is necessary to ensure the proper maintenance of the zoo to improve its services,” said the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-zoos-contribution-to-ecology-its-worth-rs-423cr/articleshow/78502392.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government in a spot over diet contractor||HYDERABAD: Telangana government found itself in a piquant situation in HC on Tuesday when its actions were found to be at variance with those of its officials in the field. While it is proposing to take action against diet supply contractor Koduri Suresh Babu for his substandard food supply and embezzling hospital funds to the tune of over Rs 1 crore at Niloufer Hospital, its officials rewarded him with two more contracts of diet supply at Gandhi Hospital and Chest Hospital.  A bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy came down heavily on conflicting postures of state and its instruments and set aside the termination order. “You cannot act in a whimsical manner. This does not mean this court is advising you to let that contractor go scot-free,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-in-a-spot-over-diet-contractor/articleshow/78523687.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||ED to probe fin links of 4 PFI men nabbed in Mathura||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) would initiate a probe against four persons with Popular Front of India (PFI) links arrested in Mathura on Tuesday evening. One of them claims to be a journalist. The agency is already examining the FIR registered by Hathras police at Chandpa police station against a website, accused of fanning protests, to probe its funding and also mulling to register a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against it soon. “The four members of PFI and its associate organsation Campus Front of India (CFI), arrested near Mant toll plaza, were produced before a magistrate on Tuesday and sent in 14-day judicial custody,” said the Mathura police. The ED sources said that the agency would send a team to interrogate the four identified as Atiq-ur-Rahman from Muzaffarnagar, Siddiqui from Malappuram in Kerala, Massod Ahmad from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur to probe their financial links. The agency would also be conducting a probe into their foreign links and partners. Earlier this year, Rs 120 crore credited to bank accounts allegedly linked to the PFI, had come under the ED scanner. It was also suspected and alleged that these funds were used by PFI affiliates to fuel the anti-CAA protests in various parts of Uttar Pradesh. The ED is still probing the case while the PFI had denied allegations. ED sources claimed that details from the data traffic analysis from Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) for tracing first IP resolution, details of which were also set to arrive soon which will give evidences in conspiracy case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-to-probe-fin-links-of-4-pfi-men-nabbed-in-mathura/articleshow/78524366.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Dehradun||Man who stabbed woman and her daughter arrested||Dehradun: Less than a day after a man stabbed a woman and her daughter in the Nehru Colony police station area, the city police on Tuesday morning arrested the accused. The accused, identified as Jeevan Kumar, was nabbed from his residence in Ladpur on the outskirts of Dehradun within 12-hours of his crime, the police said. He has been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), officials said. Shweta Choubey, superintendent of police (city), told TOI, “A team was formed to nab the accused. After making multiple raids, police arrested Jeevan from his residence on Tuesday morning. Police have also recovered the knife used in the crime.” Earlier on Monday night, Jeevan entered the house of 40-year-old Rajni Rawat and stabbed her multiple times following an argument. The daughter of Rajni Rawat also sustained injuries as she intervened to save her mother. Both Rajni and her daughter were admitted to a private hospital. The condition of Rajni is said to be critical. Police have said that Jeevan was known to victim Ranji Rawat and her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-who-stabbed-woman-and-her-daughter-arrested/articleshow/78520865.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||1,000 pilgrims a day, live virtual darshan: Sabarimala panel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The expert committee headed by chief secretary Vishwas Mehta has submitted its recommendations on the guidelines that have to be followed during the Mandala-Makaravilakku festival season at Sabarimala. As per the recommendations, the committee has suggested that all pilgrims who come for darshan should carry Covid-19-negative certificate. The tests should be done 48 hours prior to darshan. All devotees from other states should register at the Covid Arogya Jagratha portal. The Covid-negative certificate should be uploaded on the portal during registration. Testing will be made mandatory for all at the entry point preferably Nilackal. Facilities for conducting antigen testing at the entry point should be made. Only one entry point and one trekking path should be opened for darshan. The forest route through Erumeli and Pullumedu should be totally closed this time. “Only 1,000 devotees per day should be allowed to have darshan on week days. During weekends the numbers can be increased to 2,000. According to the panel, on Mandala pooja and Makaravilakku festival days, 5,000 persons can be allowed,” said devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran. The committee suggested Tirupathi-model online darshan at Sabarimala. Live virtual darshan of deity can be allowed. But the decision should be taken only after consultation with the melshanthi (head priest) and tantri of the temple, the committee said. The committee also suggested that no night stay of devotees should be allowed and ghee abhishek (neyyabhishekam) should be restricted. The virtual queue token should be given with prescribed date and time to avoid rush right from Pampa. No one should be allowed to camp at Pampa and Nilackal. Devotees below the age of 10 and above 60 years should not be allowed to trek the holy path and have darshan. Kadakampally said that government is considering a suggestion to allow medically-devotees aged between 60 and 65 years. The state cabinet will discuss and decide on the recommendations by the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/1000-pilgrims-a-day-live-virtual-darshan-panel/articleshow/78522158.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid positivity rate dips below 5%||NEW DELHI: The positivity rate of Covid-19 in Delhi witnessed a marginal decline on Tuesday with 2,676 (4.99%) out of 53,591 persons tested in the last 24 hours being found positive for the viral infection. On Monday, the positivity rate — number of positive cases from those tested — stood at 5.47%. Officials in the health department said reduction in positivity rate signals that the disease spread is under control. According to the Delhi health department, 9,103 tests were conducted using RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and the rest, 44,488 tests, were carried out using rapid antigen tests in the last 24 hours. Of those tested, 2,676 came positive. The total number of cases in Delhi has now crossed 2.95 lakh, while the death toll from the disease has mounted to 5,581. Thirty-nine fresh fatalities were recorded on Tuesday. The number of active cases stands at 22,720, of which 13,178 are in home isolation. “The demand for hospital beds has reduced significantly over the last one week. Situation is under control,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital. The Delhi government-run hospital has 2,000 Covid beds. Of them, 1,545 (77%) beds are vacant, Dr Kumar said. The rush for ICU beds has also gone down. Data shared by the hospitals on the Delhi Corona app shows 43% of ICU beds with ventilator support and 35% ICU beds without ventilator support are vacant. In September, the national capital saw more than one lakh Covid-19 cases, the highest in a month since March. The major reason behind this spike was the record number of tests being carried out last month — 15.2 lakh, around 50,000 a day. Nearly 75% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were occupied. Deaths recorded in September stood at 917. This did not include patients who came to Delhi from other states and died during treatment. The average number of deaths due to Covid-19 recorded daily in April, May, June, July and August was 2, 14, 77, 41 and 16, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-positivity-rate-dips-below-5/articleshow/78523690.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Marathon cycling starts rolling after 7 months||Madurai: Ramalingam Rajipillai of Chennai is not a new name to the cycling community. The 68-year-old reached Madurai with fellow rider Sathish Kumar, 38, on Monday evening, set off for Theni on Tuesday morning and halted at Dindigul. It is part of their 1,500km tour of Tamil Nadu which they started at Chennai on October 3. City Cycling Club Madurai was happy to receive them as it has been more than seven months since they hosted long distance cyclists. Cyclists mainly take up long-distance expeditions to Kanyakumari to set new records, break existing ones or create awareness on a host of issues like protecting children from sexual abuse or green cover or even for leisure annually. The 3,800kilometre Kashmir-Kanyakumari expedition remains the most popular one. In a normal year, one could easily find such cyclists celebrating on reaching the southernmost tip by holding the national flag. “But due to Covid-19, many cyclists started cancelling rides in February. We hosted 25 long-distance riders last year. Before Mr Ramalingam, the last rider we hosted this year was in January,” Kutti Muthukumar, founder of City Cycling Club, Madurai, told TOI. The primarily obstacles now were logistical and unavailability of eateries enroute. Not everyone can afford to have an accompanying vehicle with supplies and support. “We cannot take a big load on the cycles in long expeditions such as K2K, tour of South India or Tamil Nadu as it burdens the rider who has to complete anywhere between 150 and 250 kms a day and for days together. The jersey has provision for only chikki, oral rehydration salt and a bottle of water. So we have to take breaks at regular intervals to rehydrate ourselves and food to gain energy,” Kutti said. During the lockdown, eateries were closed and so were lodges making it impossible for long expeditions. On the other hand Ramalingam and K Rajnesh Kumar of Madurai said the lockdown made it easy for many to take up cycling as a hobby and healthy exercise. Members of city cycling club said they ensured adequate safety measures like using gloves and sanitizers. It was not possible to wear masks while pedalling, but they wore it whenever they stopped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/marathon-cycling-starts-rolling-after-7-months/articleshow/78523688.cms||M K Ananth
October 7, 2020||Madurai||40% increase in helmet-seat belt violation cases in Madurai||Madurai: Not wearing helmets has cost 1,68,407 motorists in Madurai district to cough up Rs 1.7 crore as fine amount till September this year. Police also collected Rs 53.8 lakh from 53,801 people for not wearing seat belts. The number of cases registered for seat belt and helmet violations by the rural police so far this year, is higher by 40% compared to the corresponding period last year.Police officials said that strict enforcement of rules are helping to bring down the number of accidents and casualties. “It is a proven fact that loss of lives occurs especially in accidents involving two-wheelers due to head injury. People should wear helmet to save their own lives, not because police are booking cases,” said a police officer. Among police sub-divisions in the district, the Usilampatti range has registered the highest number of helmet rule violations with 45,634 cases. It is followed by Samayanallur range with 36,965 cases, Oomachikulam with 27,220 cases, Thirumangalam range with 21,801 cases, Melur range with 19,824 cases and Peraiyur with 16,963 cases.A police official said that strict action is being taken against those who involve in rash and reckless driving. Officials send recommendations to regional transport officials to temporarily suspend driving licences of such drivers. Recommendations have been made for cancellation and suspension of 9,666 driving licences so far this year. Out of the 9,666 recommendations, 5,718 were accepted so far, police officials said. Melur range holds the distinction of highest success rate with 85% of the recommendations having been accepted. Samayanallur has the lowest success rate of 20%.Apart from booking cases and cancelling licences, awareness activities are also being carried out. Despite Covid-19 lockdown, 1,483 sensitisation programmes were carried out so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/40-increase-in-helmet-seat-belt-violation-cases-in-madurai/articleshow/78523680.cms||V Devanathan
October 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Mobile phone snatchers held||HYDERABAD: Six persons along with two juveniles were nabbed by Moghulpura police on Tuesday as they were allegedly involved in several mobile snatching cases in city. Hyderabad police seized 26 mobile phones from the accused. The prime accused, Prashanth, is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mobile-phone-snatchers-held/articleshow/78523672.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Children go on rampage in observation home||Madurai: A section of children in conflict with law went on a rampage inside the government observation home in Kamarajar Salai on Tuesday morning, demanding the authorities to arrange bail for them. They broke furniture, electrical bulbs and fans. Some of them also inflicted injuries upon themselves using the pieces of broken lamp. Based on an information from the home authorities, 80 police personnel were deployed. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Madurai city, R Shiva Prasad also rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. Officers entered the home and negotiated with the rioting inmates. The group calmed down only after police assured them of every possible help. Shiva Prasad said that of the 36 inmates, 23 were involved in the incident. Sixteen of them, who were involved in violent activities, have been identified. They will be transferred to other observation homes in neighbouring districts. A police source said that two inmates had fought a week ago. The home authorities wrote to their parents to initiate steps to bail them out. As they did not turn up, the inmates got agitated and along with other inmates the riot was held to release them on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/children-go-on-rampage-in-observation-home/articleshow/78523692.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Pune||Faceless interaction impacts social dynamics in the times of Covid-19||PUNE: The Covid-19 pandemic reconfigured the basic tenets of communication when daily interaction broadly shifted base to the digital sphere and underwent changes to be conveyed solely through pixels, codes and audio waves. Online communication was embraced with open arms to maintain some semblance of normalcy in a ‘socially distanced’ world. Masks came off inside homes and people breathed easy in front of screens, but only initially. Almost 10 months since the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the novel coronavirus outbreak a public health emergency of international concern, the world has moved on for people amid lost lives, crashing economies and job losses. Psychiatrist N Rangarajan, member of the Indian Medical Association, said, “Any activity, be it educational or occupational, involves socialization. Meeting people and discussions help develop a healthy bond among peers. Lack of physical contact with a friend or peer for a prolonged period will have a telling impact on one’s development in the longer run. The quality of social relationships will not be very rewarding either.That said, where physical contact is restricted and discouraged, you have to make the best of whatever is available.” Those with jobs either braved the virus outdoors or battled technology that rendered people faceless in an era of switched-off videos and muted calls indoors. Approximately 80% human interaction is believed to be through body language. “I know of my peers virtually but I don’t really know them. I talk to them only about work,” said a corporate communication fresher at an IT company, who joined work from home, without ever setting foot in an office. Senior manager with an education company, Shikha Gaba said, “A lot of trust goes into working as a team, which is difficult without prior rapport. The bigger picture is hazy for new recruits. The amount of documentation and communication has increased but personal interaction has taken a step back. I try to have one non-essential conversation with my recruits at least once a week to put them at ease.” A majority of non-verbal cues are fuelled by the subconscious and are important indicators to determine mood, thought processes, intentions, and more. “Once I climbed up the learning curve of technology, the real challenge I faced was human. Zoom sessions felt impersonal. Interaction and energy levels were low and not being able to read faces behind switched-off video screens meant I was flying blind without the kind of feedback that offline classes thrive on. Recording videos felt like delivering Hamlet soliloquies to an empty theatre,” said associate professor at Delhi School of Economics Parikshit Ghosh. History professor at the University of Manchester Anindita Ghosh expressed similar views. “Online learning feeds loneliness and solitary learning can never be a fruitful experience. Discussion, argumentation and presentation, basic skills underpinning employability, cannot be acquired holistically in a virtual world,” she said. With the pandemic, people have come a full circle where instead of leaving the nest they have been forced to roost there a while longer. “I have grown accustomed to this new normal. I embarked on a new academic journey but the campus buzz is amiss. A rigorous curriculum, coupled with staring at a laptop screen 12-16 hours a day takes a toll,” said Pankaj Joshi, an MBA student attending online classes from his home in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/faceless-interaction-impacts-social-dynamics-in-the-times-of-covid-19/articleshow/78523857.cms||Nandini Paul
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||SIT likely to submit report to CM today||Lucknow: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras is likely to submit its report to UP chief minister on Wednesday. The three-member panel headed by UP home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop comprises DIG Chandraprakash and IPS officer Poonam. It was formed on September 30. The SIT, constituted by the CM following allegations of poor handling of the case by the local administration and the police, was mandated to probe the crime as well as the conduct of the district administration and the police in connection with allegations of threatening the victim’s family. The SIT team stayed for in the village for three days and recorded the statements of each member of the victim’s family along with the cops who were deployed on the duty. As per sources, the team recorded statements of over 100 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-likely-to-submit-report-to-cm-today/articleshow/78524383.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Sailing vessels hit by newly begun cargo service to Maldives||Madurai: The launch of cargo ferry service from India (Tuticorin and Kochi) to Maldives on September 21 has hit operation of sailing vessels from Tuticorin ferrying cargo between the two countries. Expressing concern over the impact of the services launched by the Shipping Corporation of India, the coastal sailing vessel owners’ association, Tuticorin, has appealed for reservation of select cargo to protect their sector.Launched by minister of state (independent charge) for shipping Mansukh L Mandaviya, the ship will ferry cargo from Tuticorin to Kochi and then sail to Maldives and return in the same route. The ship has a capacity of 200 TEUs of containers and 3,000 tonnes of general cargo, which is manifold in comparison to the capacity of sailing vessels that have a capacity of 250 to 400 tonnes. The shipping service also gives a clear edge over sailing vessels in freight charges.“We ferry cargo for $35 a tonne of perishable commodities, $30 for general cargo and $25 for construction materials from India to Maldives and $20 for scrap from Maldives to India. But due to lack of adequate cargo, the service has offered the service for $10 to $15 per tonne in the recent voyage. Even the government service cannot survive at these highly reduced fares ,” association secretary S Lasington Fernando said . Their vessels have seen a big dip in cargo.Lasington said that there were 85 cargo vessels in Tuticorin a couple of decades ago.Hindrances in the same and cargo shipping between the destinations affected sailing vessels and reduced it to just 20. At this juncture, they made an appeal to the Ministry of shipping and government of India for reservation of cargo – essential and perishable commodities and general cargo – for sailing vessels. A representation on the same was recently given to Tuticorin MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi and will soon be made to the ministry of shipping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sailing-vessels-hit-by-newly-begun-cargo-service-to-maldives/articleshow/78523693.cms||M K Ananth
October 7, 2020||Coimbatore||8-year-old female leopard found dead||Udhagamandalam: A leopard was found dead in a stream in Chelivayal area in the Gudalur range of forest on Monday night. The postmortem was conducted by government veterinarians in the presence of forest officials and representatives of an NGO at the spot on Tuesday. “After examination, the age of the fully grown leopard was estimated to be around 8 years,” Sumesh Soman, district forest officer, Gudalur division, said. “The leopard could have died about three days ago. As the carcass was in the stream, it was partially decomposed,” Soman said, adding, “There was no external injury or snare mark found on the body of the animal. Canine teeth and nails of the animal were found intact.” Preliminary postmortem report suggested it was a natural death, the official said. Samples of the vital parts of the animal were taken for further tests. As it was a part of Schedule-I animal as per the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, an investigation will be conducted in nearby areas. The carcass was found near tea and coffee estates falling under section 17 of Gudalur Janmam Land Act, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/8-year-old-female-leopard-found-dead/articleshow/78523700.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Over half of Madurai city folk wear masks, only 11% avoid crowds: Survey||Madurai: The district administration in coordination with Madurai Institute of Social Sciences has conducted a study on behavioural changes of city residents in public and found that more than half of them wore masks at public places and washed or sanitized their hands regularly. Monitoring Officer for Covid-19 in Madurai, Dr B Chandramohan, told reporters on Tuesday that a lot of awareness had been created in the district on the importance of masking, hand sanitizing and maintaining social distance in public to prevent the spread of the disease. Adherence by the public had helped the district keep the disease under control with less than 100 daily Covid-19 cases for the past one month since lockdown measures were eased. The analysis was done with descriptive statistical tests on a total sample size of 2,125 spread over all 100 wards of the city corporation at an average 21 samples per ward. The groups were divided into three — those below 30 years or the active group, between 30 and 60, which had the most number of infections, and those above 60 or the vulnerable group. Luckily, Madurai had lesser number of cases in this category. The findings showed that 68.6% stated they wore masks whenever they went out in public, 27.4 % did it sometimes and 4% rarely. “Taking into consideration the behavioural change, this is encouraging, but we have to work on the 27% and 4% people and make them also wear masks,” he said. In all, 67.2% said they sanitized their hands regularly, 27% sometimes and 5.6% rarely. Social distancing was the biggest problem. With places of worship and larger gatherings being allowed, people were crowding at many places. The survey showed that only 10.8 % of people avoided going into crowded places. “We have to make the people understand that we are not free of the disease yet, and that they should avoid crowded congregations, parties and celebrations and work on this,” he said. In the survey, 42.1 % said they maintained about 3 feet distance and 21% a 6 feet distance at public places. Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan said they were following the masking fine rule strictly and that monitoring officials were visiting commercial areas even late in the night for checking. “We will now concentrate on wards where the results of the survey are low, and ensure they adhere to the rules strictly by imposing fines,” he said. Another similar survey would be conducted to see how the adherence is now, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-half-of-madurai-city-folk-wear-masks-only-11-avoid-crowds-survey/articleshow/78523698.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Trichy||Five arrested for running prostitution rackets in spas||Trichy: The Trichy city police busted prostitution rackets operating in four spas and arrested five pimps and rescued 10 women. Four special teams formed by the commissioner of police, Trichy J Loganathan raided the Dharshini Ayurveda Spa at Kalyanasundaram Nagar in Karumandapam, Orange Spa at Ponnagar third Cross Street, Dhivyam Spa at Williams’s road in Cantonment and Heavenly Spa at Jaya Nagar in KK Nagar on Monday. The raids brought to light that the centres were used for prostitution. The teams booked S Kanmani Murugan, 36 of Theni district and M Dharmendra, 30, Mohammed Mustafa, A Praveen, 26, A Ajith, 28, and N Gopinath, 23, from Trichy under sections of the Immoral traffic (prevention) Act. Except Mustafa, the owner of Dhivyam Spa, who is absconding others were arrested.Police rescued 10 women belonging to Bengaluru, Chennai, Karur, Erode, Bhavani and Tenkasi areas, who were lured into prostitution trade due to their poverty.The accused were produced in court and remanded in judicial custody, while the women were sent to the government home in Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/five-arrested-for-running-prostitution-rackets-in-spas/articleshow/78523691.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Expert panel suggests area-specific strategies to contain spread of virus||NEW DELHI: The committee of experts headed by Dr V K Paul of NITI Aayog on Tuesday suggested making area-specific strategies for containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. In the meeting with Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), it was proposed to make larger containment zones in unauthorised colonies compared with planned areas like Dwarka. In planned areas, district authorities could make micro-containment zones to ensure maximum surveillance without hindering economic activities. Meanwhile, the suspense on organising Ramlila and opening of multiplexes continued as DDMA didn’t discuss Unlock 5.0. Delhi government, however, proposed opening of cinema halls in the city. A source said DDMA may take a call on the issues before October 15. Ramlila committees have been spending sleepless nights because several days of planning go into organising the function, which is why they have been seeking early permission. The containment strategy would vary in each district according to the area, scale of infection and spread of the virus, among other factors. The government would now focus on long-term Covid-19 management targets to respond to spike in cases in the future. The plans would be dynamic and adjustable to suit the current demands. The committee suggested situation-based planning for Covid-19 management and advised the authorities that healthcare infrastructure should be further boosted to ensure that it was capable of handling 15,000 cases a day. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who heads DDMA, tweeted, “Discussed the recent trends of Covid-19 situation in Delhi and revised strategy as suggested by experts, including perspective planning for management of Covid-19 in the coming months.” The meeting was attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, Dr Paul, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria, Delhi chief secretary and director NCDC. In mid-September, when the second Covid-19 wave was touching its peak, DDMA had asked the committee of experts to develop a management blueprint with focus on restrategising containment policy, unlocking process, emergency measures, clinical management, aggressive contact tracing and reducing positivity rate and deaths. Recognising that the Covid-19 situation in Delhi was improving fast, but the situation continued to be grave, DDMA stressed that the existing strategy should be strictly implemented. The focus should be on containing transmission, strengthening medical infrastructure, improving recovery of patients and reducing fatalities. In the wake of the upcoming festive season, DDMA reiterated upon the importance of extensive information, education and communication activities, awareness and community engagement by roping in youth, RWAs, NGOs for behavioural change of public to contain the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/expert-panel-suggests-area-specific-strategies-to-contain-spread-of-virus/articleshow/78523697.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Corpn bill collector held for taking bribe||Madurai: A revenue assistant from Madurai corporation was caught red-handed while taking a bribe of Rs 3000 from a city resident. The resident had applied for a change of name in property tax documents of a recently purchased house. The accused was identified as Krishnan, 46, bill collector for Madurai corporation’s ward 31, located in Maruthupandiar Street in Anna Nagar. Senthil Kumar, a resident of Sathasiva Nagar wanted to change the name in the property tax, water and underground drainage connections. He had approached Krishnan a few days back and made an application on Monday. As Krishnan demanded Rs 3000 as a bribe, Senthil Kumar called up the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption. Based on the advice of the vigilance officials, Senthil Kumar asked Krishnan to come and collect the cash in front of Madurai district court. While he was receiving the cash on Tuesday noon, a team led by deputy superintendent of police Sathyaseelan and inspector Ambrose Jayaraja Krishnan caught him red-handed. A case was registered against him. He was produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded to prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-bill-collector-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/78523701.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||SP writes to guv, seeks govt dismissal||Lucknow: Senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary on Tuesday wrote a letter to Governor AnandibenPatel, demanding dismissal of the BJP government in UP over increasing lawlessness, rising crime against women and unemployment. In the letter, Chaudhary, who is also Leader of the Opposition in UP Assembly, pointed out how SP leaders and workers were lathicharged in Lucknow when they staged a protest against these issues on October 2. “Even women party workers were not spared and treated disrespectfully by police,” he said. He also accused the government of implicating SP leaders and workers in fake cases. In the three-paged letter, Chaudhary urged the governor to recommend the Centre to dismiss the BJP government in the state 'to protect democracy and constitutional rights of people'. Citing statistics released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Chaudhary said a rape was being committed every 15 minutes. He said that 10.09 per cent of the crimes registered under the Indian Penal Code across the country have been committed in UP. He said lawlessness had turned Uttar Pradesh as the country's crime capital. Referring to the Hathras incident, Chaudhary said the attitude of police and the administration has been 'extremely shameful'. He said incidents of molestation and rape in various parts of the state have brought disrepute to it, while the Yogi government is busy in hiding its failures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-writes-to-guv-seeks-govt-dismissal/articleshow/78524391.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Schools worried over lack of clarity on 40% cut in Tamil Nadu board syllabus||MADURAI: Teachers and students from government and private schools in the district are seeking more clarity and directives from the school education department regarding the 40% reduction of state board syllabus for the academic year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. With no clarity on how and what portions will be cut, schools said they are prevented from properly formulating academic plans for the year, especially with online classes under way. “For Class I to IX, it could be better if schools could be left to decide which portions may be removed since schools in different areas have students with different levels of access to online classes. For Class X to XII, the state can come up with a common syllabus since board exams are to happen,” said M Senthilnathan, president, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. Some schools, which have been holding online classes for students since June, have completed up to 50% of syllabus for Class XII board exam students. “Students, especially those in science groups, will need more time to learn and prepare. Usually by this time, mock tests for 50% of syllabus is held in schools. With the syllabus not yet finalised, teachers are not able to plan lessons properly and fear wasting time on some topics. If the syllabus is not completed in time, how can students focus on preparation for board exams?” said J Meenakshisundaram, a Class XII biology teacher. Students are also equally left anxious. A Class XII student at a private school, S Dhanushya said, “The reduction is supposed to help us feel relaxed. But, without the finalised syllabus given to us, we don’t even know if what we are learning will come for our exams. Teachers, at this rate, will be forced to complete and push us to study the entire portions since already a quarter of the academic year is over,” she said. In government schools as well, though online classes are not happening, teachers said video lessons through ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ should be based on the reduced syllabus. “Why should students feel pressured to learn if it is not in their syllabus? We are already expecting a tough time this year for late bloomers. At least, if the reduced syllabus is announced, we can focus on helping them to learn only the required portions and get pass marks,” said the headmaster of the government higher secondary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-worried-over-lack-of-clarity-on-40-cut-in-state-board-syllabus/articleshow/78523709.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 7, 2020||Delhi||This 22-year-old is helping kids deal with depression||According to the World Health Organization, about 200 million people in India suffer from depression. Twenty-two-year-old Kairavi Bharat Ram is one of them. And she is on a mission to help others like her. “I was a typical happy child who started having panic attacks. When I began talking about it, we realised it was something bigger. I took a year gap and then two more as I was in bad shape. For three years, I tried so many different medicines, different therapies. I consulted doctors in India and abroad but at the end of the day what helped me was the knowledge that there are other people like me who are battling depression and I am not alone in this. I decided to write a book. So that I, too, can reach out to people like me and help them in some way,” said Ram, who is better now but still has good and bad days. Ram chose to write the book on depression — C is for Cat, D is for Depression — in verse, accompanied with illustrations by Priya Kuriyan. Though aimed at children, Ram said anybody who suffers from this mental illness characterised by feelings of sadness and/or a loss of interest in activities you once enjoyed, can read it to feel that he or she is not alone in this. Ram, a makeup blogger, was diagnosed with depression when she was 17-years-old and studying in Class XII. She said when she used to visit her therapist, she would see children younger than her waiting for their session. “In my sessions, I would use a lot of metaphors to explain how I am feeling. My therapist would often write them down so that she could use them with her other patients. It’s from there that I got the idea of this book. I have explained depression and what it feels like using metaphors so that it’s easy for children to understand,” said Ram. Watch This 22-year-old youth is helping kids deal with depression||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/this-22-year-old-is-helping-kids-deal-with-depression/articleshow/78523705.cms||Shobita Dhar
October 7, 2020||Surat||Sari trader skirts nCov even in isolation wards||Surat: His selfless service and dedication to serving Covid-19 patients has won many hearts among Surat’s traders’ community and has turned a role model for many.Prankaj Goyal (49), a textile trader, spent over two months in the isolation ward of Seva Hospital in Pandesara as a volunteer when the coronavirus was peaking. Even after two months with Covid patients, Goyal remained uninfected by the virus.Goyal, who trades in saris, had committed himself for the 24x7 voluntary service at thethe hospital is run by the city-based NGO Seva Foundation. For two months of August and September, he did not even visit his family or shop, while serving at the 50-bed hospital. “I have learnt a life lesson ‘Jo dar gaya samjho wo mar gaya’ (one who fears is dead). Whoever I met in the last few months, I could see the fear of death due to Covid-19. I decided to offer my voluntary service to help the patients recover with the extra dose of love and affection,” said Goyal, who has resumed work at his textile shop. Right from administering medicines to patients to encouraging them for yoga, pranayama, laughter therapy and other exercises, Goyal’s efforts paid off. About 260 patients with mild to moderate symptoms have recovered during the two months he served at the hospital.“While the doctors would visit the hospital wearing PPE kits, I used to wear only mask and gloves for protection. When I completed two months in the hospital, I underwent the RT-PCR test, which turned out to be negative. When you have a pure heart to serve humanity, no disease can ever touch you,” said Goyal.For Goyal, his wife and his 22-year-old son were his pillars of strength. “Without the support of my wife and son, I could not have served the Covid-19 patients. My son would look after the textile business and my wife used to inspire me by calling me on phone 5-10 times a day,” he added.A number of textile associations felicitated Goyal for his service in the last two days. Lalit Sharma, president of Japan Textile Market told TOI, “The entire textile traders’ community is proud of Goyal. Despite the fact that the Covid-19 has infected hundreds of textile traders, Goyal continued to serve the patients in the isolation ward without caring for his own life. His dedication is commendable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sari-trader-skirts-ncov-even-in-isolation-wards/articleshow/78520901.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Salem||Three dead, 4 injured as truck, SUV collide near Trichy||TRICHY: Three men died and four others suffered injuries when a truck collided with a sport utility vehicle at Umaiyalpuram on the outskirts of Trichy on Monday night. The deceased have been identified as S Prabhu of Saminathapuram in Salem, N Sathish Kumar of Arisipalayam in Salem and K Palanisamy, who was also from Salem district. The Musiri police identified the injured as S Rajalingam, Gopal, V Prabakaran and Mani. All are from Salem. The accident took place around 10.30pm when Prabhu and six others were travelling from Salem to Kumbakonam to attend a funeral. When the MUV was going near Cethar food oil company at Umaiyalpuram, a truck coming in the opposite direction collided head-on with the MUV. Three of them died on the spot while the rest suffered head injuries and leg fractures. The truck driver fled the scene. Residents of the area rescued the injured and informed the Musiri police. The injured were taken to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy for treatment. Police were on the lookout for the absconding truck driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/3-dead-4-injured-as-truck-suv-collide-near-trichy/articleshow/78532342.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Trichy||Three dead, 4 injured as truck, SUV collide near Trichy||TRICHY: Three men died and four others suffered injuries when a truck collided with a sport utility vehicle at Umaiyalpuram on the outskirts of Trichy on Monday night. The deceased have been identified as S Prabhu of Saminathapuram in Salem, N Sathish Kumar of Arisipalayam in Salem and K Palanisamy, who was also from Salem district. The Musiri police identified the injured as S Rajalingam, Gopal, V Prabakaran and Mani. All are from Salem. The accident took place around 10.30pm when Prabhu and six others were travelling from Salem to Kumbakonam to attend a funeral. When the MUV was going near Cethar food oil company at Umaiyalpuram, a truck coming in the opposite direction collided head-on with the MUV. Three of them died on the spot while the rest suffered head injuries and leg fractures. The truck driver fled the scene. Residents of the area rescued the injured and informed the Musiri police. The injured were taken to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy for treatment. Police were on the lookout for the absconding truck driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-dead-4-injured-as-truck-suv-collide-near-trichy/articleshow/78523702.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 7, 2020||Goa||A day after transfer, Satija appointed as health secretary||PANAJI: A day after the Union home ministry issued the order for his transfer out of Goa, Amit Satija, an IAS officer of the 2008 batch, has been appointed health secretary in place of Nila Mohanan, who has since been relieved from the Goa administration to take up a new assignment in Delhi Satija will continue to hold the portfolios of urban development, transport, science and technology, factories and boilers, CEO entertainment society of Goa and nodal officer SBM (U) and PMAY (U). He was earlier commissioner of excise. On Monday, Satija was transferred by the Union home ministry, the cadre controlling authority, to the Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu administration. The education portfolio held by Mohanan has been handed to Sanjay Kumar while industries trade and commerce, also held by her, has been handed to J Ashok Kumar, who is also secretary to the chief minister. The portfolio of environment that Satija held has been handed to secretary elections Kunal. The chief electoral officer has also been given portfolios of power and non-conventional energy. Mines and geology will be held by chief secretary Parimal Rai along with the portfolios of vigilance/chief vigilance, home, personnel, ARD, PWD and civil aviation. Principal secretary finance Puneet Kumar Goel will hold portfolios of finance, forest, TCP, and planning and statistics. Mihir Vardhan is secretary to the governor while Rupesh Kumar Thakur is secretary general administration also holding portfolios of civil supplies, Goa gazetteer, printing and stationery, museum and protocol. Besides education Sanjay holds portfolios of revenue, education, information and publicity, IT and labour, and employment. In addition to holding industries, trade and commerce, J Ashok Kumar is secretary to chief minister as well as sports and youth affairs, tourism, handicraft and PPP division. Chokha Ram Garg is secretary art and culture, skill development and entrepreneurship, archaeology, archives, cooperation and law and judiciary and legislative affairs. Sanjay Gihar secretary water resources is also secretary provedoria, rural development, panchayats, housing, official language and nodal officer SBM (R) and PMAY R. Kuldeep Singh Gangar is secretary agriculture, animal husbandry and veterinary services, public grievances, secretary Goa state commission for protection of child rights. Isha Khosla is resident commissioner of Goa Sadan, New Delhi and Tariq Thomas is the director of urban development and special secretary personnel, home and vigilance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-day-after-transfer-satija-appointed-as-health-secretary/articleshow/78523716.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Madurai||Guns found abandoned near stream in Dindigul||Dindigul: The Dindigul district police have seized 10 country-made firearms near a stream at the foothills of Sirumalai hills on Thursday. Police said the firearms were found near the stream away from Thavasimadai village. A team led by Dindigul rural DSP Vinoth has been conducting frequent checks in various villages along with forest teams to keep a check on the usage of unlicensed firearms. “Afraid of being caught during the frequent checks, someone might have dumped the firearms near the stream,” police said. Based on a complaint from Thavasimadai village administrative officer Thiruvarutchelvam, a case was registered with the Sanarpatti police station. An inquiry was underway to find people, who left the firearms there. Unlicensed firearms usage is high in place like Chinnamalaiyur, Periyamalaiyur, Karanthamalai, Mannavanur, Kookal, Poondi, Thandikudi, K C Patti and Pachalur, police say. In mid-September 14 fire arms were found abandoned in the same police limit. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guns-found-abandoned-near-stream-in-dindigul/articleshow/78523704.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami will get CM seat; no clarity on steering committee members||CHENNAI: Setting aside differences, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam are expected to jointly announce on Wednesday the AIADMK’s chief minister candidate for the 2021 assembly election as well as the constitution of a steering committee. OPS is likely to formally propose EPS as the CM candidate. But there is a minor hitch. Until Tuesday night, both sides were yet to finalise members from their respective sides for the committee. The agreement was a 6:5 ratio, with the EPS team expected to propose six members. With leaders insisting that the various castes, religions and regions be represented in a fair manner, the wrangling continued well into the night. Five ministers, P Thangamani, S P Velumani, C Ve Shanmugam, D Jayakumar and R B Udayakumar and four leaders, including deputy coordinators, K P Munusamy and R Vaithilingam, were closeted at OPS’s residence shortlisting the members. Sources said EPS’s close confidantes Thangamani and Velumani were frontrunners while the names of Jayakumar, Shanmugam and senior leader Natham R Viswanathan were mentioned too. Sources said veteran leaders Panruti S Ramachandran and J C D Prabhakar from the OPS group may find a place in the committee. The OPS group is said to be pushing for a more authoritative role in the party. Meanwhile, arrangements were being made at the party headquarters on Tuesday night and staff were told to come by 9am on Wednesday while most of the AIADMK legislators remained in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-will-get-cm-seat-no-clarity-on-steering-committee-members/articleshow/78522172.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi man gets death for killing 12-year-old||NEW DELHI: Terming it a “rarest of rare” crime, a city court on Tuesday awarded the death penalty to a man for kidnapping and killing a minor boy in 2009. The court found that the motive of the accused for seeking ransom was his family’s “heavy debt”. The death penalty is subject to confirmation by the Delhi high court. Before arriving at the quantum of punishment for accused Jeevak Nagpal, additional sessions judge Shivaji Anand held the crime as a “cruel and gruesome” act, committed on an innocent child who was only 12 years old. “For such an act, the convict does not deserve any leniency and life imprisonment is highly inadequate. There is no alternative but to impose the death sentence,” the judge added. The victim’s uncle, Brijesh, who had lodged a missing person’s report, was the complainant. His counsel, Prashant Diwan, sought maximum punishment for Nagpal stating the child was in his custody for hours, the trauma of which couldn’t be determined. He also submitted the accused showed no remorse as he kept sending messages even after the killing. ‘Death for sinister act and depravity of mind’On March 18, 2009, the 12-year-old boy had stepped out of his home to buy stationery, but didn’t return. A few hours later, his father, a property dealer and builder, who was out of the city, received SMSs seeking ransom. Brijesh’s testimony mentioned that his nephew went missing around 6.30pm. When he spoke to his brother, Rajesh, he came to know that the kidnapper had made a ransom call. Nagpal was arrested around noon the following day on the basis of technical surveillance and informers. On interrogation, he confessed to kidnapping, hitting the child with a car jack and smothering him. Nagpal was tried under IPC sections 364A (kidnapping), 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 506 (criminal intimidation). The trial saw testimonies from 42 prosecution witnesses. The accused claimed a false case had been lodged against him. Rajesh, who was a crucial police witness, revealed the details of Nagpal’s ransom demand, which ranged from Rs 25 lakh to Rs 7 crore. The court convicted Nagpal observing that his call data records showed his location within the area of kidnapping, murder and disposal of the body, which resulted in disappearance of evidence. To decide the quantum of punishment, the court took into account the family’s trauma, demands for ransom and death threats to the child. The accused not only caused injuries to the child with the jack handle of his car, but also smothered him to death, the court noted. The accused was in a dominating position as the victim was only 12 years old. The victim was hardly in a position to resist the “sinister acts” of Nagpal, who, even after the murder, continued to send ransom messages to the boy’s family reflecting “depravity of his mind”. “No doubt the convict was only 21 years of age at the time of the incident and there was no previous history of crime by the convict, yet the aggravating circumstances weigh much heavily,” the court pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-man-gets-death-for-killing-12-year-old/articleshow/78524978.cms||Aamir Khan
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||OF BREAD, BRICOLAGE... AND MAHESH ELKUNCHWAR||Mahesh Elkunchwar has upskilled himself during the pandemic lockdown. His house in Dandige Layout, which would earlier reverberate with the sound of music (both north Indian and Western classical) is redolent these days with the warm, intoxicating aroma of flour and yeast. He is deep into baking bread with the steadfast dedication of someone who hasn't attained octogenarian status through sheer chronology! A poli-chapati connoisseur himself, most of the fragrant and detectable end products of his newly acquired Dutch oven are given away to friends and admirers. “There is something meditative about the entire process, you know,” Dada confesses as he leans back on his recliner, “the temperature setting of the oven has to be precisely set, plus the outside temperature has to be taken into account. Every ingredient has to be added in the exact proportion, or you might as well throw the damn thing away! And it requires the patience you kids (this to someone in his mid-50s) will never have!” He grins at the suggestion that the road outside be rechristened Baker Street and launches into the different varieties of continental bread — baguette, brioche, pita, ciabatta, focaccia, pumpernickel... with all the eagerness and fervour of a neophyte! Elkunchwar is no stranger to these factors — proportion, concentration, patience are some of the qualities which had made him an iconic playwright in the 80s. Just when ‘Party’, ‘Pratibimb’, the ‘Wada’ trilogy, ‘Atmakatha’, ‘Raktapushpa’, ‘Sonata’ had taken the theatre world by storm making connoisseurs yearn for more, he wrote some almost-experimental quickies like ‘Dharmaputra’, ‘Wasamsi Jeernani’, ‘Ek Natacha Mrityu’ and almost disdainfully turned his back to the stage. What he attempted next is extremely rare in the world of writing. He not only switched genres but gave his newly embraced form a completely new orientation and impetus! The essays he wrote in the new millennium: ‘Utkhanan’, ‘Necropolis’, ‘Mounraag’, ‘Yatha Kastham Cha’, ‘Luklukte Dive Gawatle’, ‘Bindu Naad Kalateet’ (written when he was rendered hors de combat with a broken bone) among others, he introduced a unique variant of the personal essay — a melange of memoir, art and culture criticism, aesthetics, metaphysics, philosophy — replete with anecdotes, quotes and insights without ever lapsing into pedantry or sophistry. The reader immediately realizes he is in the presence of an extraordinarily agile mind, one that, like a master bricoleur, has digested and assimilated influences from every source it was possible for him to access, and yet, a mind which still retained a wacky sense of humour and a joie de vivre that would put people one fourth his age to shame! As if all this was not enough, Nagpur's only true celebrity also found time to translate Henry Miller's critique of Rimbaud, ‘Time of the Assassins’ (Vinaashbela)! A very happy 82nd, Dada, may you keep discovering newer modes of creative expression for at least two more decades, for, who knows better than you that man does not live by bread alone!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-bread-bricolage-and-mahesh-elkunchwar/articleshow/78522195.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||First online exam from Thu, but NU yet to start helplines||Nagpur: Though Nagpur University’s first ever online examinations for final year students are set to start on Thursday, the university has failed to start its helplines even on Tuesday. Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable had announced that the varsity would be starting 10 helplines by Tuesday after receiving numerous complaints from aggrieved students. Sable, however, failed to respond to TOI’s calls and text messages in this regard on Tuesday. Even vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari didn’t respond to TOI’s calls. Complaints regarding technical snags in the much-hyped ‘Pariksha App’ continued to pour in, despite tall claims by NU officials that it was working even in areas with low Internet connectivity. NU had announced to constitute coordination committees of young teachers at college levels to guide students, but even that attempt has failed to resolve the difficulties, say students. The university had planned to start 10 helplines to handle the bulk of complaints being received every day. It was supposed to consist of officials from NU and Promarc Software Ltd that had developed the app. Instead of the helplines, the university launched an updated version of its frequently asked questions (FAQs) claiming these can offer solution to a majority of the problems. Though the NU had advised examinees to go through the FAQs thoroughly before filing complaints, the examinees weren’t satisfied with it. “Even the existing numbers displayed on NU website are shut down, which shows the varsity’s helplessness. This is sheer harassment of thousands of students. We’re receiving numerous calls from examinees from rural areas in Bhandara, Gondia and Wardha districts regarding their problems. NU should immediately resolve these issues before the exams, as students are already in distress,” ABVP city secretary Amit Patle told TOI. Sable while talking to TOI on Monday had assured students that even if they miss online exams due to low connectivity, server problems or any other reason, they can still appear in offline papers. This exam would be conducted through optical mark recognition (OMR) sheets at stipulated exam centres after the end of online papers on October 31 and, therefore, results could be delayed. The director had told TOI that the university has updated ‘Pariksha App’ so that even those having old Android version 5, Lollipop, can use it for the exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-online-exam-from-thu-but-nu-yet-to-start-helplines/articleshow/78522219.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Rajura tiger evades dart, kills 8th human||Chandrapur: After surviving tranquilization bid by a whisker on Monday morning, the dreaded tiger of Rajura (RT-1) made its 8th human kill in the evening in Khambada forest in the district. Sources claimed the tiger was spotted by trackers in Khambada beat and the forest department shooter fired a tranquillizer dart at the beast. However, the feline jumped from its place at the same instance failing the tranquillizing attempt. Victim Maroti Pendor, 70, became the eighth human prey of the problem tiger that has terrorized villages in three forest ranges. The remains of Pendor’s partially eaten body were found in Khambada forest area on Tuesday morning. The Rajura tiger has claimed eight human lives in the last 626 days. Officials informed that Pendor had gone to collect firewood on Monday and did not return home till late in the night. Family members and villagers went out to search for him in the forest on Tuesday morning, only to find his remains devoured by the tiger in compartment no. 178 of Rajura range. The tiger had devoured nearly 70% of the body and only a few remains were recovered. CCF, Chandrapur, NR Pravin ratified the death in tiger attack and suspected that it is the same tiger that has earlier killed seven people in the last 21 months. Chief wildlife warden has extended orders to capture the problem tiger till December 31. “We are increasing number of hunting teams and optimistic about capturing the tiger very soon,” Pravin told TOI. Principal chief conservator of forests (Wildlife) had granted third extension to the orders to capture Rajura tiger which also prowls in neighbouring Virur and Kothari ranges. The tiger has grown quite clever towards the hunting operation and is shrewdly evading the capturing team for the last eight months, said experts. Monday’s casualty is the 25th human kill in Chandrapur district this year. Dreadful Record 1) January 19, 2019 Varsha Todase, Khambada 2) November 25, 2019 Farmer Shrihari Salve, Murti village 3) December 25, 2019 Firewood collector Mahesh Khopde, Rajura 4) January 4, 2020 Shepherd Santosh Khamankar, Kavitpeth 5) March 6, 2020 Firewood collector Maroti Tekam, Chunala 6) August 18, 2020 Farmer Vausdev Kondekar, Navegaon 7) September 26, 2020 Farmer Govinda Madavi, Navegaon 8) October 5, 2020 Maroti Pendor, Khambada||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rajura-tiger-evades-dart-kills-8th-human/articleshow/78522227.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||G’chiroli teachers restart group study programme||Nagpur: After a brief pause due to floods and Covid pandemic, zilla parishad schoolteachers in some pockets of Gadchiroli district have restarted their home/group study programme. This innovative initiative was started by teachers of Bhamragarh tehsil in June, as online classes are not an option for an overwhelming majority of their students. In the remote Gundurwahi village of Bhamragarh tehsil, the study groups are back in action with the assigned teacher there handing out assignments and clarifying doubts. A few pictures taken on Monday by the teacher there show half a dozen kids busy in solving their worksheets, and some elder ones helping their younger counterparts. Students either gather in the courtyard of some villager or of the school, if present. Here the teachers take care of all students and solve their difficulties once or twice a week. Assignments are given every time so that the students weekly progress can be tracked. Seniormost child in the group is made a mentor, who ensures that everyone completes their assignment before the teacher’s next visit. An education department employee from Gadchiroli said, “It is very crucial that we continue with their education. If the break from studies is prolonged, then these tribal kids will simply drop out of the formal education system. As our education minister Varsha Gaikwad said school buildings may be closed, but education has to go on.” Teachers are slowly fanning out across the tough geographical terrain of Bhamragarh tehsil in an effort to reach out to their students. Another set of pictures from Arewada, Golguda and Hodri villages show how senior students are being coached for their crucial board exams. Std X students from these villages are seen in these pics going through a series of worksheets given by the teacher. Female teachers who travelled to these locations said special study session for math and geography subjects were being held. Schools in this region had reopened in July, but closed down within a few days to align themselves with a central government directive. Now, they are awaiting instructions from Maharashtra government about reopening of education institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gchiroli-teachers-restart-group-study-programme/articleshow/78522243.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers using many resources to assess students online||Nagpur: Online classes have meant an increase in regular assessments of students to gauge their progress. To address this rising ‘demand’, teachers and principals are dipping into the question bank provided in workbooks or e-learning software, making their own and even scouring the net.Teacher Shubra Roy said teachers rely on themselves to create the question bank. “At our school we are not using any e-learning software, so teacher involvement is more. Everyone creates their own question bank from the books or workbooks,” she said.Teacher Soma Datey said teachers do have to dig into textbooks to cull out questions. “You have to go through all printed reference books and create questions. There is enough content to create the question bank, but yes, you have to put in a lot of effort,” she added.Teacher Kshama Yadav said the first go-to point is always of ‘creating own question bank’. “A lot of teachers do that and create their questions. It is probably the best way to go about things but yes, there ways to do some value addition as well. E-resources help in adding on more questions to the assessment tools,” she said.Most of the question paper banks are available online. Some charge a nominal fee while others are free. E-learning companies also provide software that enables online/offline assessments for students.Resmi Umesh, principal of a state board school, said even if question banks were available online another problem persisted. “Biggest challenge is to transfer the question bank into the desired format like Google Forms or into any other software. That is a part that has to be done manually, question by question and it takes a lot of time and effort,” she said.Teachers are slowly getting used to the technology part of online teaching platforms. Many are struggle with fast typing, others are not comfortable with making online assessment question papers, evaluating and putting remarks on hand written assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-using-many-resources-to-assess-students-online/articleshow/78522301.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Lone G’chiroli woman cabbie enters India Book of Records||Nagpur: Kiran Kurmawar, holding a master’s degree in Economics, added yet another feather in her cap after being acknowledged as ‘Only woman driver in Maoist-infested area’ by India Book of Records, a widely circulated records book considered as custodian of records since 2006 highlighting extraordinary feats by Indians.This postgraduate woman drives 70km stretch back-and-forth, through forested stretches and sensitive locations identified as Maoist dens by security agencies, between Regunta and Sironcha in south Gadchiroli daily.Given her family’s socio-economic struggle in the remote hamlet of south Gadchiroli under the shadow of Maoists, Kurmawar’s educational accomplishment and then opting to be a passenger taxi driver seems to be a plot more from a reel life than reality. “I had applied online in September for an entry in the India Book of Records as I was feeling that not many women would be driving like me in Gadchiroli,” she said attributing her success to father Ramesh, mother and also media which highlighted her efforts.Kurmawar wanted to apply for Guinness World Records, but her grandmother’s demise derailed the plan. “Guinness authorities would visit for a day to examine my claims. I would need a day for it, but as father is not in proper state of mind at present, I have deferred it for some time,” said Kurmawar.After her master’s, Kurmawar had proceeded to Delhi to pursue her dreams in aviation sector and also take up a subject for PhD but had to abort the plan as father wanted her to join the family business. She is the youngest of the three sisters and parents had brought her up as their son.In January this year, Kurmawar had driven more than 1,500km to complete a round trip to south India reaching up to Kanyakumari. “I wish to visit north India and also dream to participate in a car race in Paris. I would also love to go on world tour,” said Kurmawar, whose profession is her passion too.Despite a PG degree from Osmania University in Hyderabad, 24-year-old Kurmawar decided to walk into her father’s shoes to drive passenger taxi in Sironcha to help sustain family. She drives family-owned taxi to earn Rs2,000-Rs3,000 a day, but often offers free trips to elderly citizens and others who may not have enough to pay the fare.Kurmawar’s father Ramesh was the first driver on Regunta-Sironcha stretch. In 2016, he had trained her youngest daughter to drive the taxi. Since then, the father-daughter duo has added two more vehicles to the family business from the the earlier one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lone-gchiroli-woman-cabbie-enters-india-book-of-records/articleshow/78522347.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Kangana’s counsel to take up activist Shah’s case||Nagpur: Rizwan Siddiquee, counsel for actress Kangana Ranaut, will take up advocate and RTI activist Ankita Shah’s case against Lakadganj police which has taken the social media by storm with support pouring in for her. Shah and her husband Nilesh Makheja were manhandled by staffers of Lakadganj police station when the couple had gone to lodge a police complaint on March 25. Siddiquee, who legally represents several other Bollywood celebrities, said he would write to All India Bar Council regarding the high-handedness of Lakadganj police who harassed Shah and her family member. “Police should not have used force against Shah. There may be a disciplinary action but now we will fight to get the erring cops prosecuted under section 166 of IPC for causing injury to my client,” he said. “Police officers misuse provision of laws and have audacity to act or behave in such rash way with a lawyer. The duty of an officer is to save the citizens as law enforcers and not misuse such provisions,” he said. He described the behaviour of the Lakadganj police as abusive and aggressive. “The role of police complaint authority is crucial and is required for bring curbs on such incidents,” said Siddiquee. A 39-second CCTV footage of the police station in which Shah was seen being thrashed repeatedly, has gone viral in social media platforms inviting wrath and angst against the police department. In the footage, senior inspector Narendra Hiware was seen directing women cops who manhandled her. The cops were also seen snatching mobile phone from Shah who was injured in the incident. District Bar Association president Kamal Satuja said Shah has already made a representation regarding the incident. “We are going to meet the CP (Amitesh Kumar) to highlight the atrocity against Shah and seek action,” he said. Several lawyer have already expressed solidarity to Shah in her fight against the police department. State animal welfare board members, of which Shah too is an active participant, has also sent their complaint against Lakadganj police to CP seeking action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kanganas-counsel-to-take-up-activist-shahs-case/articleshow/78522361.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 7, 2020||India||Oppn picking cases with vote banks in mind: Nadda on Hathras protests||NEW DELHI: After days of opposition party's concerted campaign against the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over death and alleged rape of a Dalit girl in Hathras, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday, in his first reaction to the whole incident, said the opposition parties were picking cases selectively for vote-bank considerations. "We must feel concerned if rape, murder is committed against a daughter whether Dalit or poor.... It is abhorrent irrespective of which government is there...however, it is sad when people pick a crime looking at who is in power and which community the murderers or rapists belong to, what is the vote bank there," Nadda said in his address to the party's national office-bearers. The BJP chief's apparent reference was about incidents of rape and murder being reported at various places in the recent past but the opposition parties including Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra choosing to visit Hathras and not others. The saffron party has been questioning the opposition parties also over the recent incidents of crimes against women in Congress-ruled Rajasthan. Addressing a press conference after Nadda's speech, party general secretary Dushyant Gautam said similar crimes occurred at four places in UP and also in other states, including in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, as he claimed that there is a "conspiracy" to divide the country. "This love for Dalits for vote bank is harmful to the country," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oppn-picking-cases-with-vote-banks-in-mind-nadda-on-hathras-protests/articleshow/78524997.cms||---
October 7, 2020||India||EC: File on Maha CEO appointment missing||MUMBAI: The Election Commission of India has informed RTI activist Binod Agarwal that records pertaining to the appointment of senior bureaucrat Baldev Singh as Maharashtra's chief electoral officer are non-traceable. "A missing file circular in this regard has been issued. Once the file is traced, information will be provided to you..." ECI's Kaptan Chand said. Agarwal had applied online under the RTI Act seeking details about the procedure followed for the appointment of the CEO, names of officers shortlisted and the status of complaints against Singh. He had also asked if "vigilance clearance" was sought before Singh's appointment. Vigilance clearance is sought to verify if cases or probes are pending against officers shortlisted for sensitive posts. The EC's reply was sent through the central public information officer of the Union ministry of commerce, the parent department under which Singh was last posted. On vigilance clearance, it said the state had on June 19 and July 4, 2019 informed EC that Singh was in the "clear". Expressing shock over the file going missing, Agarwal questioned the claim about Singh getting vigilance clearance since the commerce ministry had referred Singh's file to the Central Vigilance Commission for "first stage advice" based on an earlier complaint sent by Agarwal. Agarwal, in his complaints before the CBI, CVC and PMO, had sought a probe against Singh regarding his tenure as the development commissioner, SEEPZ (Santacruz Electronic Export Processing Zone) from July 19, 2017 to June 12, 2019. Agarwal had alleged that Singh committed several irregularities. Singh had defended himself saying he had not committed any irregularity, and that it had all happened during the tenure of his predecessor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-file-on-maha-ceo-appointment-missing/articleshow/78525003.cms||---
October 7, 2020||World||Trump administration to sharply limit skilled-worker visas||WASHINGTON: The Trump administration announced plans Tuesday to sharply limit visas issued to skilled workers from overseas, a move officials said was a priority amid job losses caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Department of Homeland Security and Department of Labor officials said new rules on who can obtain the visas and how much they should be paid would be released soon to restrict the use of what's known as the H-1B program. Acting deputy secretary Ken Cuccinelli said DHS estimates that about one-third of applicants would be denied under new rules that include limits on the number of specialty occupations open to H-1B holders and requirements that employers pay higher wages under the program. Read AlsoDonald Trump turns the knife in, H-1B workers say deja vuThe Donald Trump administration moved on Tuesday to cut back H-1B visas for foreign skilled workers and tightened wage-based entry barriers citing "data" that more than 500,000 Americans have lost their jobs because of "H-1B non-immigrants".US President Donald Trump in July issued an order temporarily suspending the H-1B program until the end of the year. Cuccinelli and deputy secretary of Labor Patrick Pizzella said the program has been abused to allow companies to displace American workers with less expensive employees from overseas. “US workers are being ousted from good paying, middle-class jobs and replaced with non-US workers,” Pizzella said. “It has also caused US wages in some instances to stagnate. That is wrong.” The H-1B program was created under President George HW Bush to help companies fill specialized jobs as the tech sector began to boom and it was harder to find qualified workers. Read AlsoUS judge blocks Donald Trump's H-1B visa banA federal judge has blocked the enforcement of the H-1B visa ban issued by US President Donald Trump in June this year, saying the President exceeded his constitutional authority. The ruling places an immediate hold on a series of visa restrictions that prevent manufacturers from filling crucial,Many companies insist they still need the program to fill critical positions. The US can issue up to 85,000 H-1B visas per year for jobs such as computer programmers, accountants, architects and database administrators. They are typically issued for an initial period of three years and can be renewed. People from India and China make up the majority of the estimated 500,000 H-1B visa holders in the US. Officials said the new rules would be published in the Federal Register this week for public comments before they take effect. Watch Trump administration set to put sharp limits on skilled-worker visas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-administration-to-sharply-limit-skilled-worker-visas/articleshow/78525010.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Business||Trump administration to sharply limit skilled-worker visas||WASHINGTON: The Trump administration announced plans Tuesday to sharply limit visas issued to skilled workers from overseas, a move officials said was a priority amid job losses caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Department of Homeland Security and Department of Labor officials said new rules on who can obtain the visas and how much they should be paid would be released soon to restrict the use of what's known as the H-1B program. Acting deputy secretary Ken Cuccinelli said DHS estimates that about one-third of applicants would be denied under new rules that include limits on the number of specialty occupations open to H-1B holders and requirements that employers pay higher wages under the program. Read AlsoDonald Trump turns the knife in, H-1B workers say deja vuThe Donald Trump administration moved on Tuesday to cut back H-1B visas for foreign skilled workers and tightened wage-based entry barriers citing "data" that more than 500,000 Americans have lost their jobs because of "H-1B non-immigrants".US President Donald Trump in July issued an order temporarily suspending the H-1B program until the end of the year. Cuccinelli and deputy secretary of Labor Patrick Pizzella said the program has been abused to allow companies to displace American workers with less expensive employees from overseas. “US workers are being ousted from good paying, middle-class jobs and replaced with non-US workers,” Pizzella said. “It has also caused US wages in some instances to stagnate. That is wrong.” The H-1B program was created under President George HW Bush to help companies fill specialized jobs as the tech sector began to boom and it was harder to find qualified workers. Read AlsoUS judge blocks Donald Trump's H-1B visa banA federal judge has blocked the enforcement of the H-1B visa ban issued by US President Donald Trump in June this year, saying the President exceeded his constitutional authority. The ruling places an immediate hold on a series of visa restrictions that prevent manufacturers from filling crucial,Many companies insist they still need the program to fill critical positions. The US can issue up to 85,000 H-1B visas per year for jobs such as computer programmers, accountants, architects and database administrators. They are typically issued for an initial period of three years and can be renewed. People from India and China make up the majority of the estimated 500,000 H-1B visa holders in the US. Officials said the new rules would be published in the Federal Register this week for public comments before they take effect. Watch Trump administration set to put sharp limits on skilled-worker visas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trump-administration-to-sharply-limit-skilled-worker-visas/articleshow/78525017.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi past peak of second Covid wave, situation controlled to a large extent: Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Delhi is already past the peak of the second wave of the novel coronavirus, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday, adding that the situation has been controlled to a large extent. "Delhi hit the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 on September 17 when 4,500 cases were reported across the city. The situation has been controlled to a large extent," he told reporters on Tuesday. Kejriwal said that the number of fresh cases being reported has seen a decline since and is slowly coming down. "In hospitals too, suddenly the number of beds occupied has come down. At one point, 7,200 beds were occupied and when I checked this morning, I found 2,000 of those are now vacant. A number of ICU beds are also getting vacant," the chief minister said. Kejriwal said that total 10,000 Covid-19 beds are now unoccupied in hospitals. "I hope the second wave will slowly pass," he added. The total number of Covid-19 beds in hospitals is 15,834, out of which 5,571 are occupied and 10,263 vacant. Kejriwal said that Delhi government increased the testing exponentially to detect the infection, which helps in containing the spread. Testing in Delhi hit the 60,000 a day mark in September compared with 20,000 tests per day in August. As many as 15.2 lakh tests were carried out last month. On September 24, Kejriwal had said that "experts feel that the number of Covid-19 cases will decline in the coming days." The capital had recorded more than one lakh Covid-19 cases in September, the highest in a month since March, when the city saw its first Covid-19 case. A major reason behind this spike is also the record number of tests being carried out - around 50,000 Covid tests each day on average. The total number of positive Covid-19 cases till Tuesday was 2,95,236, out of which 2,66,935 people have recovered, putting the recovery rate at 90.4%. The death rate on Tuesday was 1.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-past-peak-of-second-covid-wave-situation-controlled-to-a-large-extent-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/78525015.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Not joining BJP, says Vinay Kulkarni||Dharwad: Former MLA Vinay Kulkarni said on Tuesday that he had no plans to quit Congress amid fevered speculation about a switch to BJP. Reports said that Kulkarni camped in Delhi for three days to formalise the move to BJP. “Why should I join BJP when my party has given me everything? I never met any top BJP members in Delhi. I went to Rajasthan for personal and business reasons,” he said. But his clarification failed to stop the chatter. Some BJP functionaries said there were enough indications that he was looking to jump ship. Political observers believe one major trigger for the step could be the CBI’s inquiry into the 2016 murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda. The agency has summoned Kulkarni’s younger brother, Vijay, personal assistant Prashant, ZP vice-president Karigar, Congress member Nagaraj Gouri and Yogeeshgouda’s wife, Mallamma, for questioning. Joining BJP might help Kulkarni avoid scrutiny, political observers said. Newly elected BJP MLC CP Yogeshwar, who was previously with Congress, is reportedly leading the talks to induct Kulkarni in the saffron party. Dharwad MP and Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi and Karnataka industries minister Jagadish Shettar, who is in charge of the district, said they were not aware of any such development and nobody had approached them. Congress Youth leader Shakir Sanadi has urged DK Shivakumar to speak to Kulkarni and end the speculation. Kulkarni was a minister in the previous Congress government led by Siddaramaiah. He was among the Lingayat politicians from north Karnataka who led a campaign to seek a separate religious identity for the community ahead of the 2018 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/not-joining-bjp-says-vinay-kulkarni/articleshow/78524966.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Nagpur||Chaotic start to NU online exams: Students unable to login, OTPs not generated||NAGPUR: The Nagpur University’s maiden online exam faced several glitches in the morning and afternoon shifts with students being unable to login to the RTMNU Pariskha App for more than 30 minutes after the scheduled start for want of OTPs. Worried students called up their college officials and activists complaining no one answered their calls on helplines as well officials deployed to answer students queries. NU officials blamed the glitches on telecom network issues and claimed the server had only 10% usage since morning ruling out any crash of the application or its website. “I had my microbiology exam at 1.30pm. I tried to login 10 minutes before using the link sent on my email id. I keyed in the user id and password as per the hall ticket. But it was showing invalid for a sometime. Later, when this was accepted by the system, I didn’t receive the OTP on my registered mobile number,” said a BSc final year student. She kept trying without luck for an hour. “All our classmates are facing same problem. Our college group is flooded with same complaints since morning,” she said. Another student said the helplines were not working too. The students said they had successful logged in and appeared for mock test using same smart phones. Padvidhar Mahasangh president Mahendra Nimbarte held private agency Promarc responsible for the mess. “I had been receiving calls since morning from students, parents and teachers. The app is not working. Promarc is responsible for playing with students’ future and tarnishing Nagpur university’s image. The university must immediately file an FIR with Sitabuldi police station against Promarc. Even officials should be booked too. I am running a WhatsApp group to address these issues. But the University has objection over its name and wants to file an FIR,” he said. . In a press statement, Nimbarte demanded vice chancellor SR Chaudhari’s resignation. “I had been pointing out that the app had fault. Promarc has no experience in exam work. It is running its business from the university utilizing its resources. The VC has failed in assuring smooth conduct of exam and take action against those responsible for causing grievance to innocent students and parents,” he said. An exam official said the app was working without issues. “Students were not able to receive OTP because of telecom network which is not in our hand. Still, 20 minutes grace time was given and support through helplines. Officials are calling back if calls were missed. In some cases, students get two OTPs when they relogin. But overall it has been going on smoothly. There will be no rescheduling of exam,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chaotic-start-to-nu-online-exams-students-unable-to-login-otps-not-generated/articleshow/78551519.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Bad air may add to Covid burden||NEW DELHI: Years of exposure to high levels of pollutants has left people in Delhi-NCR with structural changes in lungs that may cause respiratory problems in future. They may also develop serious complications due to this if they contract infections causing diseases such as Covid-19. According to Dr Nitin P Ghonge, senior consultant radiologist and academic coordinator at the radiology department of Apollo hospital, they recently conducted a study involving 120 patients that showed people living in Delhi-NCR were twice as likely to have structural changes in lungs that could lead to respiratory problems compared to those from other states like Bihar, Odisha and Bengal. Patients, who didn't have any history of smoking or pre-existing lung illness, were visiting hospital for medical reasons. The radiology unit performed CT densitometry - a software-based test that allows detection of fine changes in the lungs at an early stage when it is not visible to human eyes during routine CT scan interpretation. "We found that 63% of the patients from Delhi-NCR had damaged lung structure compared to 38% in the patients from other states," Dr Ghonge said. The findings herald an ongoing silent harm to the lungs of Delhi-NCR people due to air pollution, he added. "In absence of adequate measures to improve air quality, these findings may gradually manifest on routine CT images and may even cause respiratory symptoms." Watch Bad air in Delhi may add to Covid burden||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-bad-air-may-add-to-covid-burden/articleshow/78525034.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Delhi||Road rage: Two hurt as car rams bike in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In an alleged case of road rage, a man rammed his car into a motorcycle following a heated argument in east Delhi's Seemapuri late on Monday night. The two bike riders were severely injured. Police are trying to identify the accused car driver. The incident took place when Jubair and Shiraj, residents of Seemapuri, were returning home from their shop on their motorcycle. They stopped by an egg vendor when a man driving a Maruti Swift hit their motorcycle that was parked close by, they claimed. Jubair and Shiraj had an argument with the man. However, it did not last long as locals and passersby intervened. "Later, when the two youths started heading home on their bike, the man allegedly rammed his car into their two-wheeler on the main road. The two fell off the bike, which went dragging metres ahead. Both of them sustained severe injuries and the car driver fled the spot," said a police officer. The two bike riders were undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital where they were stated to be out of danger. Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said that a case had been registered."The injured youths have said that the car driver was drunk. Efforts are on to identify and arrest the car driver," DCP Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/road-rage-two-hurt-as-car-rams-bike-in-delhi/articleshow/78525043.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hit by fund crunch, smaller private schools in Andhra Pradesh struggle to stay afloat||VISAKHAPATNAM: Small private schools in Andhra Pradesh are struggling to stay afloat in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent financial constraints. Even though the state government has allowed schools to collect tuition fee, many parents are either unable or unwilling to pay fees as they have suffered a cut in incomes during this period. According to managements of a section of some such budget private schools, fee collection has dropped to nearly 25%. Primary schools have suffered the worst blow especially with new admissions having taken a massive drop. This is being attributed to parents’ apprehensions about sending young ones to school amid the pandemic. Most such smaller budget private schools operate from rented buildings. The financial situation is so dire that many such schools are struggling to pay rent and meet incidental expenses. There are around 10,000 such schools in Andhra Pradesh. KSN Murthy, state chairman of AP Private Schools Association, said that apart from some corporate school chains, the remaining schools work as not-for-profit institutions charging less than Rs 1,000 fees a month. “Teachers and managements run these schools with commitment and dedication towards education. But Covid-19 has turned things upside down overnight. Several schools are staring at closure. We request the government to offer special financial assistance to teachers working at these schools and offer interest-free loans to the schools,” Murthy said. Murthy further requested the government to exempt small schools from commercial property tax and commercial electricity tariffs from March till such time that schools reopen. “The government may consider starting a separate corporation for small schools on the lines of corporations opened for various institutions,” Murthy added. K Subash, principal of one such small private school said that several small schools have announced closure due to the financial crisis. “Small schools were the worst-affected as majority of students come from deprived sections and we cannot lose them despite them not clearing dues. It is difficult for small schools to match their corporate counterparts in terms of digital infrastructure,” Subash said. Meanwhile, unable to afford even such small budget schools, many parents are now looking at getting their children admitted to government schools. According to official statistics, around 2.5 lakh students have shifted to government schools in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hit-by-fund-crunch-smaller-private-schools-struggle-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/78521686.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh adds 5,795 new Covid-19 cases, tally at 7.29 lakh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 5,795 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative tally to 7,29,307. The toll increased to 6,052 as 33 more people succumbed to the disease. As many as 6,046 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 50,776 active cases with the 6,72,479 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 92%. The recovery rate was over 95% in Anantapur and Kurnool districts. As per an analysis done by the state health department based on the cases reported in the fourth week of September, the projected average case doubling rate of the state stands at about 72 days. It is 181 days for Kurnool district, which has been posting the lowest daily infection numbers. The projected case positivity rate in districts like Prakasam (51.7), West Godavari (52.1 days), Krishna (52.8), Chittoor (60.6), Kadapa (64.4), Vizianagaram (67.8) and East Godavari (68.7) may be lower than of the state’s average. Krishna district has been witnessing a gradual surge in the daily case numbers in the last one to two weeks after it was believed to have crossed its first peak. Chittoor reported 970 fresh infections on Tuesday, followed by East Godavari 801 and West Godavari 696. Of the 33 deaths registered on Tuesday, six are from Krishna, five from Prakasam, four each from East Godavari and Visakhapatnam, three each from Anantapur and Chittoor, two each from Guntur, Nellore and West Godavari, and one each from Kadapa and Vizianagaram. The state so far conducted 62.16 lakh tests, including 65,889 people tested for the virus on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-adds-5795-new-cases-tally-at-7-29l/articleshow/78521695.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD grants IOB more time to repay gold||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has given Indian Overseas Bank, Chennai, six months more to repay matured gold deposits along with interest in view of Covid-19 impact. The gold deposits with IOB include 409.252 kg (matured on June 17, 2020), 1118.730 kg (matured on June 19, 2020) and 33.412 kg (matured on August 2, 2020). IOB told TTD that it will repay 409.252 kg gold with interest which matured on June 17. But the bank said it can deliver only 575 kg gold under the 1118.730 kg deposit that matured on June 19 due to non-availability of stock. IOB also cited moratorium granted by RBI. The bank said it would deliver the remaining 54.730 kg gold with interest at the rate of 2.5% per annum. IOB gave 409 kg gold deposit that matured on June 17 to SBI, Bullion branch, Mumbai on June 18 and the remaining 252 grams was agreed to be paid rupees along with interest. The part payment of the second gold deposit that matured on June 19 (575 kg) was given to SBI, Bullion branch, Mumbai on June 23 and 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-grants-iob-more-time-to-repay-gold/articleshow/78521729.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: DIG finds fault with N Chandrababu Naidu's criticism||VIJAYAWADA: Addressing a press conference at the AP Police Headquarters on Tuesday, deputy inspector general of police G Pala Raju on Tuesday clarified that National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data on criminal cases against AP police personnel was inaccurate and admitted it was a technical error from their side. “Three police units–Chittoor, Visakhapatnam rural and Visakhapatnam city--had entered wrong figures and a letter has been sent to NCRB seeking corrections in its publication,” Pala Raju said. He found fault with opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu and said it was not right to issue a letter about the figures even after the police gave a clarification as it affects the morale of police personnel. “The opposition leader who was in power for three terms saw the legacy of AP police and his allegations raised in the letter are not appropriate,” Pala Raju said. According to AP police, there were only 111 cases registered against police personnel under IPC sections as against NCRB’s figure which showed 1,681 cases. Pala Raju also said that charge memos were issued to the erring officials who fed the wrong data and departmental action has been initiated. Pala Raju also rebutted the claim regarding a conspiracy behind the ‘attack’ on temples in the state citing that not even a single case has a connection with the other. “As many as 8238 persons identified to have history of same modus operandi who committed similar crimes in places of worship. The incidents should be called as mischievous act and cannot be called as ‘attacks’,” he explained. He said all the 964 Law and Order (L&O) police stations in the state will be equipped with CCTV cameras and day-to-day functioning will be monitored by control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dig-finds-fault-with-naidus-criticism/articleshow/78521743.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 7, 2020||Lucknow||7 burglars attack retd official with knife in Chinhat; loot cash||LUCKNOW: A group of about seven burglars attacked a retired food inspector with a knife and decamped with Rs 1.25 lakh in cash, a motorcycle, a phone and some ornaments in Vikalp Khand under Chinhat police station area in the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Police said that the miscreants first scaled the boundary wall to enter the house of Uday Pratap Singh in Vikalp Khand 3. Singh lives with his wife Manisha and son Ayush. “It was around 3am when Singh woke up due to the noise and challenged the miscreants. He also raised an alarm to alert other family members and neighbours. But this failed to deter the miscreants and one of them attacked him with a knife,” said police on the basis of complaint. Singh tried to fend off the attack and was injured in the hand. The thieves then reportedly locked other members in a bathroom and decamped with cash, motorcycle, mobile phone and other articles. “Singh’s brother Santosh lodged a case,” said assistant commissioner of police, Chinhat, Swatantra Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/7-burglars-attack-retd-official-with-knife-in-chinhat-loot-cash/articleshow/78525071.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Amaravati||Krishna river board office to be shifted to Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments on Tuesday agreed for the shifting of the office of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) from Hyderabad to a place in Andhra Pradesh. AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhara Rao, who participated in the Apex Council meeting, gave their nod for the relocation of the KRMB office. The meeting of the Apex Council on inter-state water disputes was chaired by Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. As per the AP Reorganisation Act, the office of the KRMB should be located on AP soil and that of the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) in Telangana. However, both KRMB and GRMB have been functioning from Hyderabad. It is not clear where in AP the office of the KRMB will be located. The previous state government wanted the KRMB to be located in Vijayawada. Since the AP Reorganization Act had only mentioned that KRMB should be located in AP, it is the discretion of the state government to take the final call. Sources said that the state government may locate the KRMB headquarters in Kurnool. Shekhawat said that the maintenance of the projects would be taken care of by the river management boards. Telangana government had earlier opposed the shifting of KRMB from Hyderabad. Telangana had been contending that the KRMB should be shifted to AP soil only after completion of the fair allocation of waters from Krishna river. However, Telangana government agreed for its relocation at the Tuesday’s meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/krishna-river-board-office-to-be-shifted-to-ap/articleshow/78521791.cms||Samdani MN
October 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada cops stop actor collecting charity||VIJAYAWADA: City police on Tuesday stopped Tollywood actor Shakalaka Shankar of Jabardasth fame from collecting donations from the public at Benz Circle. Following the intervention, Shankar told the media that his intention is to help people affected by the pandemic. “There are many people struggling without jobs, food. Many families have lost their breadwinners.” Police said that the actor needs to take prior permission before collecting money and stated that there needs to be accountability in his operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-stop-actor-collecting-charity/articleshow/78521821.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mumbai||Lockdown seizures: Up to Rs 4 lakh bond to get cars back||MUMBAI: Reclaiming vehicles seized for violating lockdown norms is proving to be arduous and expensive for some "offenders." At the Bandra magistrate court alone, last month in about 15 such cases, accused who were booked under sections of Indian Penal Code were granted "interim custody" of their seized cars and motorbikes. However, they had to furnish indemnity bonds dictated by value of the vehicles, some as hefty as Rs 4 lakh, and deposit cash sureties that ranged from Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000. The offenders had sought interim custody claiming false implication in the cases.  Allowing pleas for return of property, the magistrate cautioned, "He (offender) has breached the lockdown order on movement and gathering in public places, causing danger of spread of coronavirus. The applicant seems to have prima facie committed the offence." The court however said interim custody of vehicle can be given to avoid damage and rusting. The applicants had to produce an affidavit and copies of registration and insurance certificates. Imposing "strict conditions," the court ordered the owners to submit three pictures of the vehicle from different angles and forbid them from parting, renting or destroying the vehicles. "That the applicant to furnish three photographs of the vehicle from three different angles to the police station, which later on to be filed along with the final report in the court by the police. The applicant shall produce copies of RC book, insurance, license to the police station," the orders said.  While in some cases, offenders were found roaming around without any "valid reasons", in others they had allegedly also not worn masks. They have been booked under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) and provisions of National Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act.  Among those whose pleas were decided by the Bandra magistrate court last month were 3 autorickshaw owners, 4 car owners and 8 bikers. While Umesh Gawad booked by Kherwadi police has to furnish an indemnity bond of Rs 4 lakh and a cash security of Rs 15,000 for his Wagon R, the bond for Mohammed Shaikh's two-wheeler was lowest at Rs 30,000 and his cash security Rs 5,000. The 3 auto owners had to furnish bonds of Rs 2 lakh each and their cash sureties were Rs 10,000.  Officials said those booked under Section 188 have to make a "return of property" plea before court. Those issued a challan had to retrieve vehicles from the cop station by paying a fine and furnishing a bond. Cops said people were charged on the basis of offence committed.  The offenders will face trial. A Jogeshwari man booked in June after he breached the 2km radius rule said he was waiting for the notice for court appearance. "I was 200m away from my house, on way to fetch groceries, when cops stopped me. Despite wearing a mask, my bike was taken away. Thankfully, I retrieved it from cops the next day and did not have to go to court. I have neither been given a copy of the FIR nor summoned by court until now," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lockdown-seizures-up-to-4-lakh-bond-to-get-cars-back/articleshow/78525080.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 7, 2020||India||5th legislator dies of post-Covid problems||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: Even as India reports a steady decline in Covid-19 cases, a Congress MLA from Rajasthan died in a private hospital in Gurgaon on Tuesday, becoming the fifth legislator in the country to die of post-Covid complications, underlying the risks that patients with co-morbidities face during their recovery period. Kailash Trivedi, 72, had tested positive on September 7 and was shifted from RUHS, a designated Covid hospitals in Jaipur, to SMS Hospital on September 15 after his report came negative. However, the three-term MLA, who suffered from diabetes and had undergone a bypass surgery, was airlifted to the Gurgaon hospital on October 2 when his condition worsened. With Tiwari’s demise, the virus has claimed the lives of 17 serving legislators, including three MPs, 12 MLAs and two MLCs. Five of the 17 legislators had tested negative after days of treatment, but died later due to post-Covid complications. Among those who died of complications was Lok Sabha MP from Kanyakumari, Vasanthakumar, 70. He developed Covid pneumonia and died 18 days after he was brought to hospital. On Sunday, seven-term BJD MLA from Odisha, Pradeep Maharathy, 65, had died due to “multi-organ failure” 20 days after he had tested positive. He was earlier discharged but was readmitted after a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5th-legislator-dies-of-post-covid-problems/articleshow/78525081.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cox & Kings Group CFO and internal auditor held by ED||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday arrested Cox & Kings Group (CKG) CFO Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain in a money laundering matter pertaining to the Yes Bank case. Yes Bank has an outstanding of Rs 3,642 crore in respect of the CKG. The duo was produced in the special court and remanded in seven-day ED custody. It is alleged that CKG companies availed themselves of loans from Yes Bank by submitting forged balance sheets and board resolutions. The money thus obtained was laundered through companies in the country and abroad. The loans were sanctioned when Rana Kapoor was heading the bank and there were clear instructions by him not to take efforts to recover the loan, said the ED. The ED alleged that Khandelwal and Jain acquired mortgage property worth Rs 63 crore in their own entity, Reward Business Solutions, without any payment. The duo also bought immovable properties from funds diverted from the CKG. “Investigation conducted so far has revealed that the bank transactions of Cox & Kings Group are not matching with the books of accounts and Anil Khandelwal and Naresh Jain creating disparities between the books of accounts and the bank statements to camouflage the fraud,” the ED said in a release. Investigation revealed that from 2015 to 2019, sales of Rs 3,908 crore were made to 15 non-existent or fictitious customers. A majority of the collection shown in ledgers from Ezeego, a group entity of the CKG, was not found in the bank statements. The ED found 15 fictitious high-value debtors and another 147 non-existent customers. From Ezeego, Rs 150 crore was diverted to Redkite Capital Pvt Ltd, which was promoted by the members of the families of Khandelwal and Jain, said the ED. The CKG diverted Rs 1,100 crore to another stressed company, Alok Industries, without any approval of the board, which has no business relation with the company. Officials said that the CKG sold its subsidiary in the UK, Holiday Break Education, for Rs 4,387 crore and instead of discharging the liability of the bank, it siphoned off the majority of the money. It included a transfer of $15.3 million to Kuber Investment Mauritius Pvt Ltd, which was controlled by CKG promoter Peter Kerker. The ED is investigating a money laundering case against Rana Kapoor, who had allegedly sanctioned loans from Yes Bank when he was leading it to various entities in exchange for kickbacks of around Rs 5,000 crore from different companies. Around Rs 20,000 crore of such loans turned into non-performing assets. The ED is yet to trace evidence suggesting any payment from the CKG to Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cox-kings-group-cfo-and-internal-auditor-held-by-ed/articleshow/78525087.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University distance education exams hit by 'cyber attack' on server||MUMBAI: Exams of the Institute of Open and Distance Learning (IDOL) of the University of Mumbai had to be called off after a "cyber attack" on the exam server on Tuesday. The fiasco on the second day of examinations by the distance education provider caused exams slated for Wednesday, too, to be called off. IDOL postponed the final year arts, commerce and science exams with no new dates for the conduct of the exams. Times ViewWhile the new exam format was a change for students and Mumbai University authorities, the inefficiency of officials of the university has once again led to an embarrassing fiasco. The university officials are aware of the limitations of their technology partner and should have insisted on a series of security drills. The exam process has ended up as a nightmarish experience for close to 1 lakh candidates.On Tuesday, many candidates complained that when they clicked on the exam link sent to them, a message saying 'No exams scheduled' flashed. Around 8,000 TYBA and TYBCom students were scheduled to take their second exam on Tuesday. The university, which held a review meeting, concluded it was a case of cyber attack. A complaint was lodged with the cyber cell. Several IDOL officials said they felt the crash was a result of a coordination failure between two edtech agencies handling the IDOL account. For years, IDOL and all Mumbai University work has been with the Maharashtra Knowledge Corporation Ltd, which registers students and carries out other IT-related services like issuing hall tickets. This time the university selected a Singapore-based edtech firm, Littlemore Innovation Labs (LMI), to conduct the exams for IDOL. "We cannot rule out cyber attack," Deepak Mukadam, a long-serving former senate member and current management council member of the university, said. He said the company claimed the server crashed and so exams could not be conducted. "This default by our third-party exam conducting partner has caused embarrassment to a prestigious university like ours. The company should be blacklisted by our technical team and the failure to conduct the exam also reflects poorly on us for choosing such a partner," he said. Another senate member, Supriya Karande said: "If there would have been coordination between the two companies this exam would not have been a fiasco." LMI is the most expensive among the firms employed by other state universities and MU-affiliated colleges to conduct online exams and charges Rs 20 per student per paper, claimed sources. Phone calls to LMI met with no response. A MU press note said: "A technical problem has arisen due to a cyber attack on the server responsible for conducting the final year exams on Tuesday. As a result, the University has also postponed the exams scheduled on October 7. The new dates for these exams will be decided soon and will be displayed on the university's website. The university will file a formal complaint in the matter." Exams for BSc-IT, BSc-computer science, MCA and backlog exams for BA and BCom had been scheduled on Wednesday. Mumbai University College Teachers' Association demanded a high-level inquiry against the software vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-university-distance-education-exams-hit-by-cyber-attack-on-server/articleshow/78525093.cms||Hemali Chhapia
October 7, 2020||World||Police open murder investigation following triple death of Tamil-origin family in London||LONDON: Police have opened a murder investigation after the triple death of Tamil-origin family - including their three-year old toddler – at their home in west London in what is believed to be a murder-suicide. Tamilian Kuha Raj Sithamparanathan, aged 42, died at the scene with stab injuries when police officers forced entry to his family home in Brentford just before 1am on Tuesday morning after concerns were raised about the welfare of his family. Inside the apartment on the fourth floor of the new build block of flats, officers found the bodies of his 36-year-old wife Poorna Kaameshwari Sivaraj, and their three-year-old son Kailash Kuha Raj. Police had received a call on Sunday from a family member saying they were concerned about Poorna. Officers tried to attend the property several times in the early hours of Monday but did got get a reply. From talking to neighbours as the day progressed, concerns heightened and a decision was made to force entry. Detective Chief Inspector Simon Harding from the Met’s Specialist Crime Command said: “It appears that Poorna and Kailash had been dead for some time. This is a murder investigation and my team will work diligently to establish the sequence of events that led to their murders and the death of Kuha Raj Sithamparanathan. Our initial enquiries have established that Poorna and Kailash had not been seen or heard from for some time, perhaps since around the 21 September,” Harding said. Neighbours said that the couple had been having blazing rows and screaming at each other during lockdown. Kuha, who speaks English, Malay and Tamil, moved to London from Petaling Jaya in Selangor, Malaysia. A video online shows the couple beaming with joy at their religious Hindu wedding in January 2015 held in Kuala Lumpur. The family often walked their dog, a poodle cross breed, in and around the local area. Police told TOI the dog was also found deceased inside the property. A spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police said: “Despite the best efforts of officers and London Ambulance Service, Kuha died at the scene. The Directorate of Professional Standards has made a referral to the Independent Office for Police Conduct as it is believed that Kuha fatally injured himself when officers entered the property. This meets the criteria of a mandatory referral.” West Area BCU Commander, Peter Gardner said officers were doing everything they could to piece together what led to this terrible incident and are appealing for anyone who saw them at any time in the last month to contact police. Next of kin have been informed and post mortem examinations are scheduled to commence on Thursday, 8 October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/police-open-murder-investigation-following-triple-death-of-tamil-origin-family-in-london/articleshow/78525099.cms||NAOMI CANTON
October 7, 2020||Ranchi||Bhog delivery, loudspeakers for aarti top list of demands||Ranchi: Durga Puja organizers in Ranchi are exploring options for home delivery of bhog within their localities. A delegation of Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti (RZDPS), an umbrella outfit of around 100 puja samitis in the capital, will soon meet with the authorities in the state government and the district administration to formally seek their consent for this plan. Along with the host of other curbs aimed at minimizing crowds, Puja guidelines issued by the state government last week have banned distribution of bhog. RZDPS is also tweaking their budgets with a focus on Covid safety during the conduct of puja and has planned to relay puja live through social media sites and other platforms to prevent crowding. On the other hand, Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Roy on Tuesday appealed the Jharkhand government to be considerate in relaxing the stringent norms in public interest. RZDPS president Ashok Purohit while they are bound to follow the government guidelines, there are certain issues for which they are gearing up to press for relaxations. “In any puja, bhog is an important component and cannot be done away with entirely. During During Puja, offering bhog to the goddess is a vital ritual and it is equally important that it is later distributed among devotees.” He added, “After consultations with our affiliate samitis, we have decided that puja organizing groups will home deliver bhog to homes in their own localities through their members following all safety norms. We will put this request before the government formally,” Purohit said, adding that a meeting with the district administration is expected to be held later this week. “We have already started appealing everyone not to turn-up to pandals and mandaps for puja and this will also apply to bhog, which we plan to provide it at everyone’s door steps. In Ranchi, almost every locality hosts Durga Puja so the network of safe distribution of bhog can easily be set through this way. We hope the administration will not reject the idea,” he said. RZDPS also wants permission for restricted use of loudspeakers at Puja venues. Purohit said, “Use of loudspeakers will be useful only during the time of puja and aarti for crowd control even within the main mandap. At other times of the day, we are okay with the ban on public address system. Also, about 10-15 puja organizers had booked idols more than four feet in height before the government guidelines were issued saying the height will be capped. We want the government to allow their installation as making the idols will not be possible now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bhog-delivery-loudspeakers-for-aarti-top-list-of-demands/articleshow/78521629.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 7, 2020||Ranchi||Widow of dead reserve battalion employee seeks job, force says hubby never joined||Bokaro: Sonia Devi (24), along her three children, met Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh on Tuesday to seek justice after her husband Sundarlal Birhor (27), an employee of the Special Indian Reserve Battalion (SIRB), died a little more than two months back but the force denied giving her a job on grounds of compassion. SIRB said Sundarlal had failed to join duty. Sundarlal had gone to Dumka on January 4 this year to join SIRB after receiving an offer letter for the post of a sweeper. A month later on February 9, the family members were informed that he is unwell and has been admitted to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) in Ranchi where he was diagnosed with CVT/hypoxia. Sundarlal regained consciousness after four months and was discharged from Rims, but 15 days later, he died at his home on July 12. The family later approached SIRB for a job on compassionate grounds, but a letter on September 1 from the SIRB said Sundarlal had failed to join duty and thus Sonia could not be given a job. Since then, the young mother of three is struggling to establish that her husband had joined the job. As evidence, Sonia presented a few photographs before the DC which Sundarlal sent her during his one-month stay at the SIRB campus. “I will inquire into the matter and speak to the commandant of SIRB,” Singh said. Sundarlal was one of the youths who were nurtured by Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) under its corporate social responsibility. He studied in a BSL-run school and lived in an accommodation provided by the company. Bahadur Singh Yadav, warden of the hostel in which he lived, had also accompanied Sonia to the DC’s office. “The family is very poor and needs support from the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/widow-of-dead-reserve-battalion-employee-seeks-job-force-says-hubby-never-joined/articleshow/78521511.cms||Divy Khare
October 7, 2020||Ranchi||Seraikela-Kharswan installs 6th TrueNat machine, increases testing capacity||Jamshedpur: The Seraikela-Kharswan district administration has installed its sixth TrueNat machine test facility at the community health centre (CHC) in Chandil. The new facility, which became functional on Monday and covered residents of Ichagarh and Nimdih blocks, will increase the testing capacity in the district to 800 per day. District surveillance officer Jujhar Majhi said, “Currently, we are conducting an average of 750 tests per day, which includes 250 tests on five TrueNat machines and 500 rapid antigen tests, but with the start of the TrueNat machine at Chandil, 50 additional tests will be conducted every day.” Majhi said the district does not have any RT-PCR testing machine and samples for verification or related tests are sent to the government-run MGM hospital in Jamshedpur. “I am excluding the RT-PCR test count from our daily capacity because it is done in the neighbouring district. Besides, we don’t get the test reports from MGM on a daily,” he said, adding that close to 50 samples of the district are sent to MGM daily. He further said all CHCs in the district will be equipped with TrueNat machines soon. “Ichagarh and Nimdih CHCs lack sufficient space to install the TrueNat facility, hence the Chandil CHC machine will cover residents of the two adjoining blocks,” Majhi said, adding that Kharsawan and Rajnagar blocks will have dedicated TrueNat machines in the next few weeks. As of Tuesday morning, the district has a total of 3,105 cases, of which 2,708 are cured and 388 are active. The district has also reported 9 deaths so far. “The mortality rate in the district, which has a mix of urban and rural pockets, is quite low and the recovery rate is good, but positive cases are being reported daily. Hence, we are focusing more on conducting rapid antigen tests. We also urge the residents to comply with the Covid safety measures,” Majhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/seraikela-kharswan-installs-6th-truenat-machine-increases-testing-capacity/articleshow/78521543.cms||B Sridhar
October 7, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic slowing down in J’khand, urban popn develops herd immunity: Experts||Ranchi: The Covid-19 infection has shown signs of slowing down in Jharkhand in the first week of October and the number of recoveries has gone up substantially, according to the data of the state integrated disease surveillance program (IDSP) cell. Medical experts claimed that a large section of the urban population has developed herd immunity, leading to a decline in the new cases. While the state had detected a little over 9,028 new infections in between September 1 and 5, the cases in October dropped by 48.68% during the same period. As on Monday night, 4,375 new infections were detected between October 1 and 5. In October, the number of recoveries was higher than the number of infections. Till Monday night since October 1, a total of 5,475 patients had recovered. Moreover, the state’s weekly positivity rate, which was 4.53% in August and stood at 3.62% as on September 7, dropped to 2.22% on October 4. Ranchi and East Singhbhum districts, which have reported the highest number of among all 24 districts, have reported a gradual decline in the number infections in between September 1 and October 4. The state capital had 3,290 cases between August 31 and September 6, but reported 2,442 new infections between September 28 and October 4. East Singhbhum, which had 2,136 new infections in between August 31 and September 6, has seen only 990 new cases between September 28 and October 4. Dr Pravin Karn, nodal officer of the state IDSP, said: “The testing has been constant. The decline in positivity rate indicates that our containment plans are working. It also means that contact-tracing programmes are working well. So far, we had traced around 2.5 lakh people through the exercise.” East Singbhum also made a remarkable improvement in the weekly positivity rate. As on October 4, its rate stood at 3.71%, which is a significant drop from 13.67% in the first week of September. While its weekly testing per million gain dropped from the first week of September, Jharkhand conducted 12 lakh tests in the past four weeks. As on October 4, the state was ranked 13th in terms of weekly samples tested (3.28 lakh), only next to West Bengal (3.39 lakh) and Odisha (3.7 lakh). There were 36,143 new infections detected between September 7 and October 4, making Jharkhand the 19th most Covid-19 infected state in India as of this month. Dr Devesh Kumar, a public health expert at Rims, said, “The curve of infection is on a gradual decline since August-end. It is because of two reasons. Firstly, a considerable population in urban areas has developed herd immunity. The other is the fact that a large chunk of people are not getting tested.” Kumar, however, warned that Jharkhand may be looking at a spike in new cases after the festive season. “A large section of society has already become lax. They are stepping out for shopping and their daily business. During the festivals, there is likely to be large congregations and will lead to transmission. Unless citizens follow the basic protocols such as wearing masks, hand washing and social distancing, the state will witness a spike in Covid-19 cases from mid-November,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-slowing-down-in-jkhand-urban-popn-develops-herd-immunity-experts/articleshow/78521940.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||CID arrests 2, detains 7 in Titagarh leader murder case||KOLKATA: The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on Tuesday arrested two persons and detained seven others for the murder of Titagarh BJP leader Manish Shukla, giving a fillip to the “personal enmity” angle in the case. The same day, Shukla’s father Chandra Mani Shukla lodged a complaint with Titagarh Police naming, among others, two administrators of Trinamool-run municipalities of Titagarh and Barrackpore, hinting at a political hand in the murder. The two in CID custody — Md Khurram and Gulab Sheikh — are history sheeters. Khurram owns a restaurant on Titagarh Station Road and is said to have Trinamool connections. Gulab Sheikh is a sharpshooter. Police tracked them down by the number plates of motorbikes used on the fateful day. Khurram has given some important leads to investigators, CID sources said. CCTV footage accessed by police — and later media — revealed that at least four men were directly linked with the murder of Shukla, Titagarh Municipality’s ward 7 coordinator. The footage shows Shukla standing by his Scorpio car when a motorbike approaches him even as his supporters go to fetch tea. The pillion rider is seen firing at Shukla. When he falls to the ground amid commotion all around, a second shooter is seen emerging from nearby and firing at him. Both shooters fire multiple times. The second shooter is then seen jumping on to a second bike and both bikes race towards Dunlop. The autopsy report says Shukla had seven bullet injuries in his face and chest, showing that attackers sprayed bullets at close range. Khurram gains prominence in the investigation because Shukla was among the accused in the August 2012 murder of Khurram’s father Md Ismail, a cloth trader in the Station Road area. CID investigators have reasons to suspect that Khurram plotted Shukla’s murder to avenge his father’s death. They are also exploring if Khurram had contacted Gulab for the job. Khurram’s uncle and Titagarh Municipality staffer Raju Khan, who is also under scanner, said his relative had been framed. Khurram was busy with his business of late and had left behind his chequered past, Raju said. ADG (CID) Siddh Nath Gupta confirmed the two arrests but did not elaborate on the course of investigation. More arrests were likely, said sources. Shukla’s father, however, refused to believe that the murder was the brainchild of a local trader. He has named two Trinamool heavyweights — Prasanta Chowdhury of Titagarh Municipality and Uttam Das of Barrackpore Municipality — in his FIR with Titagarh Police, taking forward BJP’s allegation that these two masterminded the murder and funded supari killers. BJP leaders said Shukla, an Arjun Singh loyalist, was emerging as a threat to TMC leaders in the Barrackpore-Titagarh belt. Talks were on in local Trinamool circles to combat Shukla; they had also identified Arman Mandal as an “antidote” to Shukla. Das denied the BJP charge. “BJP MP Arjun Singh insisted our names be included in the FIR. The fact is Prasanta Chowdhury and I have been continuing with development work in the Titagarh-Barrackpore belt. BJP was on the backfoot. People came to our blood donation camps and we recently organized a 7,000-strong rally in the area. BJP, unnerved at such activities, prevailed on the victim’s father to include our names in the FIR,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cid-arrests-2-detains-7-in-titagarh-leader-murder-case/articleshow/78524463.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Centre’s tripartite talks on Hills in jeopardy||DARJEELING: The tripartite meeting convened by the Centre on Wednesday is in jeopardy with the state government taking a muted stance and stakeholders in the Darjeeling Hills unwilling to participate amid the confusion. The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxist (CPRM) have distanced themselves from the October 7 talks in Delhi while the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) remained non-committal following a corrigendum issued by the Centre on the agenda. On October 3, the Union government had announced the tripartite meeting to discuss “Gorkhaland”, and invited the GTA principal secretary and the Darjeeling district magistrate for the same. However, on Monday (October 5), it did a U-turn and said the meeting would focus only on GTA. The CPRM said the “true nature” of the BJP government had been exposed. “This is simply a ploy to confuse and hoodwink the people of the Hills,” said party spokesperson Govind Chhetri . The GNLF, which is an ally of the BJP, has been left red-faced by the faux pax, but said a decision would be taken by the central leadership on Wednesday. The Gurung faction of the GJM, whose political fate hinges on the BJP, refused to comment on the development. The Binoy Tamang faction of the GJM, however, said they stood vindicated. “We have all along said the BJP cannot be trusted. The leadership is using people of the Hills as mere vote bank. Now, there’s proof. We urge all BJP allies to consider their stand,” said Keshavraj Pokhrel, spokesperson for the Tamang faction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centres-tripartite-talks-on-hills-in-jeopardy/articleshow/78524551.cms||Deep Gazmer
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal CM warns against discrimination while selecting scheme beneficiaries||KHARAGPUR: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday asked the administration and public representatives not to make a difference between “us and them” while selecting beneficiaries of state schemes. “I say this to the police as well. You should give permission to all puja committees that have been organizing pujas for 10 years. Don’t discriminate while giving permission to them. And all those who will get permission should get Rs 50,000,” the CM said at the Kharagpur administrative meeting on Tuesday. Banerjee also told the director general of police to send out the message to police ranks. The CM pulled up the administration over backlogs in distribution of Kanyashree II scholarships. “I know what you will say. Colleges and schools are closed. Don’t wait for institutional verifications. Students are making online applications to colleges. Get a self-certified statement from the student that s/he is taking admission to a college. I believe no one will make a false claim,” she said. Banerjee urged the administration to take special care of Lodha, Sabar and Santhal communities and see that they get Swastha Sathi cards and also a house under Banglar Abas Yojana. “Include them while sending out Swastha Sathi cards to 7.5 crore people. They will get free treatment,” she said. While saying so, the CM announced that her government had no problem with PM Arogya Yojana if the Centre bears the entire amount. “We introduced the Swastha Sathi Scheme much before the PM Arogya Yojana was launched. We are reaching out to 7.5 crore people with our own funds while the Centre targets 1.5 crore people in the state. We have already written to them that they can run the scheme in Bengal at their own cost,” she said. Banerjee also took stock of the Matir Shristi project that aims at plantation in 50,000 acres of arid land spread over six districts. WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha reported that the work has started in 1954 acres of land in Paschim Midnapore involving 8,000 farmers. The chief minister asked the administration to engage the migrant labourers in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-warns-against-discrimination-while-selecting-scheme-beneficiaries/articleshow/78524497.cms||Sujoy Khanra
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal home department, governor in war of words over crime stats||KOLKATA: The state home department on Tuesday dubbed Raj Bhavan data on rape and kidnapping in Bengal as “baseless, ill- founded and misguiding” allegations which are “totally incongruous with authentic facts and figures”. Governor Jagdeep Dhankar had shared “official reports” on Twitter suggesting there were 223 rapes and 639 kidnappings in Bengal in August 2020, which he said was “worrisome” and “a cause of concern”. The state home department in its response said, “Raj Bhavan’s dissemination of WB ‘statistics’ on rape and kidnapping is not based on any official report, data, or information. Allegations are baseless, ill- founded, and misguiding: totally incongruous with authentic facts and figures.” The governor reacted sharply, “Those responsible for such outrageously incorrect assertions to run down a constitutional office will not be without consequences. Such stance in public interest cannot be countenanced. Action will surely ensue. Hope they are as quick with truth as with falsehood and make amends.” Recently, Dhankhar had written to the state DGP, following which chief minister Mamata Banerjee had replied that the governor was overstepping his limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-home-dept-guv-in-war-of-words-over-crime-stats/articleshow/78524554.cms||---
October 7, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh explains UP-Bihar ‘mafia raj’ remark||KOLKATA: A day after his comment that West Bengal was becoming a mafia-ruled state like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh reasoned that gangsters who used to have a free run there had now taken shelter in Bengal. Ghosh also pointed at the possibility of “supari killers” from Mumbai having masterminded the attack on BJP leader Manish Shukla. The Bengal BJP chief had on Monday said that the state was slipping into a mafia raj-like situation such as in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Elaborating on his remark, Ghosh on Tuesday said: “If you look at the arms factories busted in recent times, you will find links to Munger. It is quite evident that after administration in those states started cracking down on them, they fled and started operating from West Bengal. Since the law and order situation has deteriorated in Bengal, they are having a free run now.” But his statement prompted Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee to take to his Twitter account on Tuesday and write: “I am thankful to Dilip Ghosh for accepting the fact that there is mafia-raj in Yogi Adityanath’s Uttar Pradesh and NDA ally Nitish Kumar’s Bihar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-explains-up-bihar-mafia-raj-remark/articleshow/78524469.cms||---
