October 9, 2020||Chennai||Central gets a hand-painted mural depicting the train journeys of Mahatma Gandhi||Several photographs of Mahatma Gandhi’s journeys in general class compartments of trains, covering the entire expanse of the country, are found in the archives. By choosing a simple mode of transport, he connected with the masses. And that’s exactly what this mural on the Moore Market Complex (MMC) building within the Central Railway Station premises, too, is aimed at. The 80ft mural was unveiled on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, this year. “If you look at it from one angle, it looks as if Gandhiji’s walking out of the building,” says Varshini Ramakrishnan, a design strategist who worked on this project, initiated by the Southern Railways and an automotive company. Talking about the mural and its significance, Sivaji Anguru, Station Director, Dr MGR Central Railway Station, says, “The idea was actually mooted by the former AGM of Southern Railway, PK Mishra sir. Later, P Mahesh sir (DRM, Chennai Division) took it forward. A mural like this brings back a lot of memories of the independence movement and the role of Gandhiji in the freedom struggle. We have some photographs, where thousands of people are seen waiting right next to the tracks, eagerly awaiting Gandhiji’s arrival. ” Varshini, who was earlier involved in creating a mural that salutes COVID-19 warriors at the Tambaram station, says this work is quite different. “That was a work done using vinyl decal, whereas this one is a hand-painted mural,” she states. Different photographs of Gandhiji inside trains and a painting by MA Sankaralingam, a retired employee of Southern Railways, were her resources. “The challenge was to come up with a composition that would fit in the 80ft height and 25ft width of the wall. The digital illustration that I did was replicated as a mural on the wall by graffiti artist Akill,” says Varshini, adding that Akill specialises in monotone portraiture technique. It was their joint idea to give an illusion of Gandhiji walking out of the building, she says. “ That’s why we decided to give the background of the mural the same burgundy colour as the building. And the characters are highlighted in black and white. That makes the mural clearly visible even from quite some distance,” explains the artist, adding that it also gives the mural the look and feel of a massive vintage photograph. “I was excited about doing a mural of this scale; it is said to be the tallest one in the city. The space where it’s done — Central Station — is a landmark on its own,” says Akill, who had earlier done a mural in Kannagi Nagar in an effort to make it an art district. “I completed the Gandhiji mural in nine days along with two other artists — Raghu and Jaya. The base of the mural was done using rollers and brushes, and the effects were given using spray cans,” he informs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/central-gets-a-hand-painted-mural-depicting-the-train-journeys-of-mahatma-gandhi/articleshow/78560796.cms||Ashish Joseph
October 9, 2020||India||Govt starts preparation for 'India@75 package' 2 yrs in advance||NEW DELHI: The government has started the preparation of projects which can be dedicated to the nation around August 15, 2022 when India celebrates its 75th year of independence. The Prime Minister’s Office has sought details from infrastructure and economic affairs ministries by Friday, well two years in advance, so that none of the listed projects “India@75 package” miss any deadline. “Projects which are expected to be completed in the second half of 2022 may be expedited, to the extent possible, so as to advance the completion date on or before August 15, 2022. Likewise, projects which are expected to be completed in the first half of 2023 may be expedited to the extent possible, so as to complete the project in 2022 itself,” the PMO has told nearly two dozen ministries including railway, road, shipping, civil aviation, urban affairs, commerce and finance. Some of the ministries have also been asked to provide details of the major policy decisions and reforms that have been implemented in the past six years since the Narendra Modi government came to power. The message of expediting projects is being seen as a move to put greater focus on advancing the completion of projects and programmes. Officials said this means there will be keen monitoring of the progress of projects. Recently, the cabinet Secretariat had asked each ministry to set the timelines for implementation of all cabinet decisions since June 2014. Sources said this is being done to ensure that all the projects started during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's tenure are completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-starts-preparation-for-india75-package-2-yrs-in-advance/articleshow/78562292.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 9, 2020||---||LJP to fight against all JD(U), HAM nominees in first phase||NEW DELHI: The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Thursday fielded 42 candidates for the first phase of Bihar assembly polls, which included four former BJP leaders and one from Janata Dal (United). LJP leaders said they have only nominated candidates for those seats where JD(U) or its ally Jitan Ram Manjhi’s, Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) have put up nominees. LJP has put candidates against six HAM nominees who have filed nominations for the first phase of election and the remaining 36 are against JD(U). Polling will be done across 71 assembly constituencies during the first phase on October 28. “We have done what we had said. We have not put a single candidate against BJP nominees as we had made clear from day one that we have nothing against BJP and we want it to form the government,” an LJP leader said. The four BJP leaders who crossed over to LJP in the past three days are Rajendra Singh, Usha Vidyarthi, Rameswar Chaurasiya and Ravindra Yadav. The lone former JD(U) leader who has been accommodated in LJP is former minister Bhagwan Singh Kushwaha. Some LJP leaders said in every phase, they will have some candidates who have left BJP and JD(U) and joined hands with Chirag Paswan. “We have given most of the tickets to our district presidents as they have built the party and they are our backbone. We are contesting to win and hence winnability is the most important aspect while considering any name for an assembly constituency,” a party leader said. He added that more leaders from other parties would join LJP in the next few days. Sources said LJP was considering whether it would reduce the number of nominees to 122 rather than contesting in 143 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-to-fight-against-all-jdu-ham-nominees-in-first-phase/articleshow/78562846.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 9, 2020||Goa||Out for two seasons with injury, Keenan backs himself to come good again||PANAJI: It’s been five years but the sight of Keenan Almeida celebrating his strike against ATK with a bandaged head is still fresh. It was Keenan at his best: young, combative and determined to move up the ladder. It was a season when he won FC Goa coach Zico’s confidence, but despite starting the first five games and securing a 81st minute equaliser against ATK at the Nehru stadium in Fatorda, he still found himself behind. “I had pneumonia after the first five games and it took me a month to recover. By the time I returned, the team was already in the semifinals and it wasn’t a good time to make any change (to the starting 11),” said Keenan. The next season – FC Goa’s worst ever – was chaotic. It was time for wholesome changes after the team finished at the bottom in the Indian Super League (ISL). Keenan tried to move on, even winning the title with Chennaiyin FC the next year, but the full-back’s role was limited. At FC Pune City in 2018, it looked like a fresh start, only to be derailed by an ACL injury during pre-season that kept him out for a whole year. He was back with Hyderabad FC the next season but ended up with a torn meniscus that kept him out for another four months. “When I got injured for the first time and had to undergo surgery, I was fine. I knew this is part of every footballer’s life. The second surgery (for a torn meniscus) was hard. Two seasons were wasted because of injury,” said the former Sporting Clube de Goa and Salgaocar defender. Two surgeries, two seasons out on the sidelines and a competitive game almost 30 months ago can be tough for any footballer. It can deflate you, but Keenan is cut from a different cloth. He’s determined more than ever to prove that his football career is far from over. “I know what is the path for me to move up again. I know since I have not played for two seasons, no ISL team would be interested, so it was I-League for me. I just wanted to find a club where I would be comfortable and get playing time,” said Keenan. That club is Churchill Brothers FC, and the defender is eager to prove everyone wrong. When the chips were down and almost everyone believed there’s too little left in him, Keenan didn’t lose hope. He believed in his abilities and that has kept him going. “No matter what others tell you, what matters is your own belief. I want to play badly. If I get a chance to play, I can make it to the top-tier again,” said Keenan. For someone who has gone through enough of the injury, surgery and rehab cycle for the last two seasons, it’s time for a change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/out-for-two-seasons-with-injury-keenan-backs-himself-to-come-good-again/articleshow/78563629.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 9, 2020||---||Paswan's death set to add emotive element to Bihar election campaign||NEW DELHI: The demise of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is set to become an emotive issue in the Bihar assembly polls with his son Chirag seeking to inherit the mantle in an election where he has declared chief minister Nitish Kumar as his number one target for alleged misrule and broken promises. Paswan's departure increases the possibility of fellow Dusadhs rallying around his son Chirag as a mark of tribute to the leader who remained their mascot for decades. Dusadhs, a politically aware Dalit sub-caste, known to vote aggressively, were the main reason behind the political prominence the Union minister enjoyed. With Ramvilas Paswan out of action this poll season because of his illness, doubts were being raised whether his successor would succeed in mobilising the community in the same measure. The death of its founder has increased the possibility of the community casting a sympathy vote for LJP which on Thursday pressed ahead with its plan to hurt chief minister Nitish Kumar and his JDU. Chirag had a month ago declared that he intends to carry on his father's political work while citing the LJP founder's bad health and how the senior Paswan would not be able to take part in the poll campaign. Given his stature as a Dalit leader, Ramvilas Paswan was not just a Bihar figure but had acquired a national profile. While BJP leaders paid handsome tributes, the elections are going to see the party and ally JD(U) take on LJP. While there has been speculation about BJP "egging on" LJP, the saffron party does not want a scenario where its alliance with JD(U) falls short of a majority, giving Chirag an outsize leverage. As campaigning gets under way, BJP is likely to be in a situation where it pays tributes to Paswan but actively opposes LJP with top leaders making clear their support for Nitish Kumar. Paswan's void is a test for Chirag as the experienced leader could manage several contradictions without losing sight of his political goals. He had left the NDA in a huff after his portfolio in the Vajpayee ministry was changed and became a minister in UPA. But this did not prevent him from making up with BJP and becoming part of a winning team in 2014. Chirag in a recent appeal to voters and partymen had said that being a part of his father (papa ka ansh hoon), he had learnt how to succeed in adverse conditions. The late minister's endorsement to stand by Chirag's decision is going to be a political narrative amid claims from Bihar deputy CM Sushil Modi that LJP would not have left NDA had the senior Paswan not been ill and hospitalised, sources said. "It's an irreparable loss for the entire LJP family. We have lost our guardian and poll is not an issue for us now," said party's national spokesperson Sanjay Saraf. Sources said Chirag and LJP would go to the people to fulfil the "dream" of Paswan who stood for rights and welfare of Dalits. On Thursday, hours before Paswan passed away in Delhi, LJP had made public a letter of September 24 from Chirag to BJP chief J P Nadda in which he had highlighted how Kumar's behaviour was "not proper" when his father had gone to meet and convince him before filing nomination for the Rajya Sabha seat. Since now this letter has been made public, there is every possibility of this getting circulated widely to consolidate LJP's position in the coming polls. The likely sympathy may also have implications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/paswans-death-set-to-add-emotive-element-to-bihar-election-campaign/articleshow/78563650.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 9, 2020||India||Rape accused can’t access complaint before trial: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday said no accused in a sexual harassment case was entitled to access a woman complainant’s statement recorded by a magistrate under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code till the trial court took cognisance of the chargesheet. The ruling came in a much discussed case involving former minister Swami Chinmayanand, who had been MoS home in the Vajpayee government. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Vineet Saran and S Ravindra Bhat disapproved of an Allahabad HC decision to give a copy of a girl’s statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC to Chinmayanand, accused of sexual harassment by the complainant, who was a student in a Shahjahanpur law college managed by the ashram run by the former minister. The Supreme Court said, "The filing of the chargesheet by itself does not entitle an accused to copies of any of the relevant documents, including statement under Section 164 of the Code. No person is entitled to a copy of statement recorded under Section 164 of the Code till the appropriate orders are passed by the court after the chargesheet is filed." Like the Hathras case which has attracted massive media coverage, the allegation of sexual assault by the former minister had gone viral after the girl made a social media post accusing Chinmayanand of ruining the lives of many girls. Chinmayanand had dismissed the charge as blackmail tactics and counter-alleged that Rs 5 crore demand was made with the threat that non-payment would lead to ruining his reputation. The SC had suo motu taken cognisance of the incident on August 30 last year, the day the girl was traced to Dausa, Rajasthan. The SC had ordered, "We are not expressing any opinion regarding the grievances expressed by the girl Miss A and apprehensions of her parents. All that we wish to point out is that the correctness of the grievances/apprehension has to be addressed as per the procedure established in law. In view of above, we direct the chief secretary, Uttar Pradesh, to constitute a special team headed by a police officer in the rank of the inspector general of police to be assisted by the superintendent of police and a team of police officers to enquire into the grievances expressed by Miss A and insofar as the apprehension expressed by the parents of Miss A." The SC had also asked the SIT so constituted to investigate the FIR lodged by Chinmayanand about alleged blackmail and demand of extortion money and had requested the chief justice of Allahabad HC to monitor the investigations. The chargesheet was filed after investigations and immediately the accused moved the court for supply of a copy of the Section 164 CrPC statement of the complainant, which was given by the HC to the accused. The woman had filed a petition challenging the decision of the HC. The Justice Lalit-led bench said there was a clear enunciation of procedure by the SC mandating that a witness's statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC would be handed over to the investigating officer with strict direction not to divulge it to anyone prior to filing of chargesheet. Watch Rape accused can’t access complaint before trial, says Supreme Court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rape-accused-cant-access-complaint-before-trial-sc/articleshow/78563821.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 9, 2020||India||SC raps govt for ‘nonsensical’ affidavit on Tablighi coverage||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday pulled up the Centre for allowing a junior I&B ministry official to file a "nonsensical" affidavit, which informed the court that it was impossible to act on the basis of Jamiat Ulama I-Hind's plea for gagging the media from reporting that Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi's Nizamuddin in led to spread of Covid in many parts of India. Jamiat, through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, had petitioned the apex court saying false propaganda was unleashed by circulating fake news about the Tablighi Jamaat on social media, TV and print media to singularly target the Muslim community as a whole and alleged that the government remained a mute spectator instead of taking action under the law against those circulating fake news to spread communal hatred. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian took exception to the affidavit filed by under-secretary Sonika Khattar and told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, "The government cannot treat the court this way. The affidavit is filed by some junior officer. We find it extremely evasive. It does not make any effort to address the issue (raised by the petitioner) and says no particular incident of violation of programme code is pointed out by the petitioner." When the solicitor general said the media exercised the right to free speech and that a blanket ban or gag order on reporting on any kind of issue was not advisable, the Chief Justice of India-led bench said, "Freedom of speech is the most abused freedom these days." Though the solicitor general tried to make amends by saying affidavits before the Supreme Court should always be filed by a senior officer, the bench said, "The new affidavit has to be filed by the secretary of the department. He must tell us what he thinks of the issue and not nonsensical things said in the present affidavit. It also should list all the action taken in the past." The bench asked the solicitor general whether the government had a mechanism to deal with grievances of citizens against circulation of fake news in the media. "We might send all these petitions there if there exists a mechanism to address complaints in such issues," the bench said and give two weeks to the government to file a fresh affidavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-raps-govt-for-nonsensical-affidavit-on-tablighi-coverage/articleshow/78564154.cms||---
October 9, 2020||India||Covid positivity rates of 22 states below national average||NEW DELHI: In line with World Health Organisation (WHO) recommendation, almost all states and UTs in India are testing more than 140 samples "per day per million population", the health ministry said, underlining higher testing on a sustained basis has aided in bringing down the positivity rate. The national cumulative positivity rate declined over the last 11 days to 8.2%. Currently, six states and one UT have a less than 5% positivity rate, whereas 22 are below national average, indicating the rate of infection spread is being contained in many parts. The national average of tests per day per million population stands at 865. India has conducted 60,323 tests per million population so far, whereas US has done 344,858 and Brazil - which has the third highest number of total Covid cases reported so far - has performed 84,051 tests per million population. Bihar, Mizoram, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Dadar & Nagar Haveli and Himachal Pradesh have cumulative positivity rates of below 5%. India has stepped up its testing capacity over last six months with over 1,900 laboratories under the ICMR network including government and private ones. The country's testing capacities have multiplied manifold and more than 15 lakh samples can be tested every day now. With 11,94,321 tests on Wednesday, the cumulative tests in India have now crossed 8.34 crore. Higher testing across wide regions leads to early identification of positive cases, prompt tracking through efficient surveillance and tracing, and timely and effective treatment in homes or facilities and in hospitals for the severe cases, the ministry said. These measures in tandem eventually lead to lower mortality rate, it added. Helped by more recoveries and fewer new cases, the active case load remained below 10 lakh for the 17th day on Wednesday. A total of 78,524 new confirmed cases were reported during Wednesday, whereas 83,011 people were discharged on recovery. Watch Covid-19: Positivity rates of 22 states below national average||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-positivity-rates-of-22-states-below-national-average/articleshow/78564347.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 9, 2020||India||Ahead of festival season, PM launches Covid 'Jan Andolan', celebrities join in||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the upcoming festival season and amid reopening of the economy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched an awareness campaign 'Jan Andolan' to promote appropriate Covid-19 behaviour like wearing of masks, hand hygiene and maintaining physical distance. "India's Covid-19 fight is people driven and gets great strength from our Covid warriors. Our collective efforts have helped saved many lives. We have to continue the momentum and protect our citizens from the virus. #Unite2FightCorona," Modi tweeted. India’s COVID-19 fight is people driven and gets great strength from our COVID warriors. Our collective efforts hav… https://t.co/JP19AFTTc2— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1602124243000"Let us #Unite2FightCorona. Let us always remember: Wear a mask. Wash hands. Follow social distancing. Practice 'do gaj ki doori'. Together, we will succeed. Together, we will win against Covid-19," he said in another tweet. The campaign, launched via a series of tweets with the #Unite2FightCorona tag, garnered major support on social media, including endorsements from Bollywood celebrities like Salman Khan, Shankar Mahadevan, Kriti Sanon and Kangana Ranaut. The campaign has been launched in view of the upcoming festivals and the winter season as well as the opening of the economy, the PMO said in a statement. It aims to be a low-cost, high-intensity campaign with the key messages of 'wear mask, follow physical distancing and maintaining hand hygiene'. The government also plans to implement a concerted action plan along with state governments and Union Territories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-festival-season-pm-launches-covid-jan-andolan-celebrities-join-in/articleshow/78564377.cms||---
October 9, 2020||India||Assam BJP govt to shut state-run Muslim schools||GUWAHATI: Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday announced that the state government will close down all government-run madrassas in Assam because it cannot allow religious education with public money. Sarma said a notification will be issued next month. "No religious educational institutes will be allowed to function with government funds. We will bring out a notification in November to this effect. We have nothing to say about privately-run madrassas," said Sarma. Soon after this statement, AIUDF supremo and Lok Sabha MP Badruddin Ajmal said that if the BJP-led state government closes down government-run madrassas, his party would re-open them after coming to power in the assembly elections scheduled early next year. "You cannot shut madrassas. After we come to power, we will take a cabinet decision to reopen these 50-60-year-old madrassas if this present government closes them forcibly," said Ajmal. In February, Sarma had announced that the government planned to close down not just government-run madrassas but also government-run Sanksrit 'tols'. He had then justified it by saying that religious teachings cannot be carried out with government funds in a secular country. However, on Thursday, Sarma said, "The Sanksrit tol matter was different." "The objection to government-run Sanksrit tols is that they are not transparent. We are taking steps to address this," he said. There are 614 government madrassas in Assam and about 900 private madrassas, almost all of which are run by Jamiat Ulama, while there are about 100 government Sanskrit tols and over 500 private tols. The government spends about Rs 3 crore to Rs 4 crore on madrassas in the state and about Rs 1 crore on Sanskrit tols annually. Two years ago, the state government had scrapped the two controlling boards - State Madrassa Education Board and Assam Sanskrit Board - and brought the madrassas under the Secondary Board of Education Assam and the Sanskrit tols under Kumar Bhaskar Varma Sanskrit and Ancient Studies University to introduce modern education to learners to bring them into the mainstream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/assam-bjp-govt-to-shut-state-run-muslim-schools/articleshow/78564457.cms||Prabin Kalita
October 9, 2020||Patna||Congress, BJP to fight it out in Kahalgaon||BHAGALPUR: Largely a Congress bastion with 12 wins in its kitty since Independence, the electoral battle in Kahalgaon assembly segment is once again likely to be between the Congress from Mahagathbandhan and BJP from NDA. Out of total 16 assembly elections held since 1952, the Congress won he seat 12 times, CPI won it once in 1967, Janata Dal in 1990, 1995 and JD (U) in 2005. Interestingly, the present Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh won the seat nine times between 1969 to 2015. Singh even won in 1977 assembly elections (during JP Movement) when Congress was routed from the country. He had also won the 1985 assembly election as ‘Independent’ after he was denied ticket from Congress. Subsequently he joined Congress after his victory. Political observers said that despite several issues in Kahalgaon, the electoral battle since 1969 mostly hangs between ‘Sadanand jitao’ or ‘Sadanand harao’, which is one of the major sub-divisions of Bhagalpur and has the prestigious electricity producing public sector unit of NTPC Ltd- Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Station. In 2015 assembly election, Congress nominee Sadanand Singh had received 64,981 votes (36.68%) to defeat his nearest rival Niraj Kumar of LJP with a margin of 21,220. Niraj had polled 43,752 votes (24.7%) as NDA nominee. This time the CLP leader himself volunteered to withdraw from the electoral battle citing old age. However, Congress has nominated Sadanand’s engineer son Shubhanand Mukesh to contest the election as party’s candidate and GA nominee in order to wrest the seat for Congress and GA again. The BJP, who got the Kahalgaon assembly seat for the first time under NDA, has fielded Pawan Kumar Yadav. Yadav, who had rebelled against NDA candidate in 2015 and received fairly good votes, has been nominated by the BJP. Some major issues of Kahalgaon assembly segment are poor condition of National Highway (NH-80) between Sabour and Kahalgaon, development of ancient Vikramshila Mahavihara set up a Central University there, inordinate delay in ddevelopment of Industrial Growth Center (IGC under BIADA), agriculture and farming, flood in the riverine areas around Ganga and others. Prof Pawan Kumar Singh, HoD (Hindi) at SSV College in Khalagaon and Bhagalpur University Teachers’ Association (BHUTA) general secretary said, “This time major issues around the electorates are poor condition of NH 80 as it is full of big potholes, delay in take-off of IGC for which 1600 acres was acquired by the BIADA, delay in developing of Central University at Vikramshila Mahavihara. Sanhoula panchayat mukhiya and social activist Bhanu Yadav said, “Despite several issues plaguing the residents, the electoral battle will again narrow down ultimately on ‘Sadanand Babu jitao’ (this time Sadanand Singh’s son Shubhanand) or ‘Sadanand harao’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-bjp-to-fight-it-out-in-kahalgaon/articleshow/78561410.cms||Kumar Rajesh
October 9, 2020||Patna||Poll material suppliers expect brisk business in Bihar in few days||PATNA: A number of kiosks and makeshift shops selling poll material have come up at the political party offices on Beer Chand Patel Marg. But the shopkeepers expect their businesses to pick up only after the announcement of candidates. Such kiosks at the offices of BJP, JD(U) and RJD are offering a wide range of poll items such as banners, posters, badges, sashes, caps, flags, party symbols, wristbands, face masks. Rajesh Verma, co-organization secretary of BJP, told this newspaper that the poll material sales would pick up after the candidates file their nomination papers from their allotted seats. “Some poll materials would be sent to different constituencies for electioneering. The business is dull right now. I guess it would pick up in the next couple of days,” he said. The wide range of poll materials at the BJP office includes cotton and silk flags of different sizes, mufflers with party emblem, mobile stickers, masks, posters, pen with strings, key rings and caps. At JD(U) office, large cutouts, banners, posters, wristbands, masks, pens, stickers, caps, badges and ribbons are available with CM Nitish Kumar’s image and party symbol. People managing the kiosk said the sales of face masks, wristbands and party flags have picked up, The items are available in the range of Rs4 to Rs200. “Badges and caps carrying JD(U) symbol cost anywhere between Rs5 and Rs10 per piece. Flags with images of Nitish are being sold at Rs7 to 20 per piece,” the shopkeeper said. The kiosk at RJD office is adorned with mufflers, caps, bindis, bangles, saris, festoons, car flags with party emblem, key rings, badges and T-shirts with image of Tejashwi. Bholu Yadav, who was looking after the sales, said the prices of poll-related materials varied from Rs3 to Rs300 per piece. Several other shops have also come up in the city. “The day party announces all the candidates, we hope to get some business,” said Bablu Sharma, who supplied the wide range of poll materials to the party offices. “We are receiving orders from the party offices, but due to Covid pandemic, the business is low. Earlier, the parties were not sure whether election would be conducted or not. But after the election dates announcement, many parties are still in a dilemma about the mode electioneering. Now, as things become clear, we are getting orders. We hope the sales would pick up once the parties announce their candidates,” Sharma said. Aniket, who also supplies poll materials to party offices, said since so many small parties have mushroomed, they are expecting to make good business in the next few days. “Once the candidates are announced, we expect brisk business,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poll-material-suppliers-expect-brisk-business-in-few-days/articleshow/78561361.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 9, 2020||Patna||Sandesh to witness a triangular contest||ARA: The electoral battle has become triangular in Sandesh assembly constituency in Bhojpur district. While the RJD has fielded Kiran Devi, wife of party’s sitting MLA Arun Yadav, who has been absconding since he was named as an accused in a rape case, the JD(U) has fielded Arun’s elder brother Vijendra Kumar Yadav, former RJD state vice-president, who joined CM Nitish Kumar’s party on July 7. With Shweta Singh, the former BJP Mahila Morcha state spokesperson, entering the fray on an LJP ticket after quitting the BJP, the contest has become triangular. An RJD leader said Shweta Singh, a Rajput, would give both RJD and JD(U) candidates a run for their money. As far as caste arithmetic of Sandesh seat is concerned, the Yadavs enjoy the highest share of voters. Of 2,88,631 total voters in the constituency, at least 80,000 are Yadavs, 20,000 Rajputs, 15,000 Muslims, 12,000 Brahmins, 12,000 Bhumihars, 2,000 Kayasthas and the rest SC/ST communities and tribal. The prominent issue for people in the constituency is completion of Dhindhuan pump nahar (canal) scheme, which can help in irrigation of large swathes of land. Satyanarayan Singh, a former mukhiya and resident of Dihri village, said, “Besides Dhindhuan pump nahar scheme that will pump out water from Sone river and release it in canals for irrigation, we have been demanding Asni pump nahar scheme from Banas river, which can benefit 30 villages in Udwantnagar block. We have submitted a memorandum to Ara MP R K Singh, demanding Asni pump nahar scheme. JD(U) candidate Vijendra Kumar Yadav, a two-term MLA, said if elected, his priorities would be completion of canal schemes and construction of embankments and boundary walls around the graveyards. “Three power sub-stations came up at Sandesh during my tenure. My three decades of political experience will come in handy for people of Sandesh,” he added. RJD candidate Kiran Devi, on the other hand, said her husband had been implicated in a false case under a political conspiracy. “I won’t let my people feel orphaned in his absence. Every week, more than 1,000 people in Sandesh come at our janata darbar and get their grievances resolved.” LJP candidate Shweta had told mediapersons after filing her nomination papers on Wednesday that she would ensure all-round development in the constituency if elected by people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sandesh-to-witness-a-triangular-contest/articleshow/78561397.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Patna||‘Smaller alliances to have no remarkable impact on polls’||PATNA: The fact that elections in Bihar never fail to amaze political pundits seems to have come true this time as well. Until a few weeks ago, many of them had thought the state would witness a clear-cut fight between the Nitish Kumar-led NDA and Tejashwi Prasad-led Grand Alliance (GA). However, the emergence of several smaller parties, fresh alliances and turncoats has heated up the political battleground, making it an interesting electoral contest. Each smaller alliance has the potential to cut at least a few thousand votes of the ruling as well as the opposition parties in every constituency. According to Shaibal Gupta, a social scientist and founding member-secretary of the Asian Development Research Institute in Patna, the potentially bipolar  will remain unchanged, but the emergence of the LJP and several small alliances will certainly cut the vote banks of both the parties. “The Bihar elections will become photo finish because the competition will be extremely strict,” says Gupta. Former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar, points out, “The BJP has announced that its CM face is Nitish because it understands that if it loses him, he may go somewhere else and the party may not be a part of the government.” Another political observer and former principal of Patna College, N K Choudhary, claims that the main fight is between the GA (RJD, Congress, CPI and CPM) and the NDA (BJP, JD-U, HAM-S and VIP). “The outcome will be decided on the basis of the performance of these two groups,” he adds. Talking about the emergence of smaller parties, Choudhary says, “Pappu Yadav, Upendra Kushwaha, Asaduddin Owaisi and others will get few votes and have no remarkable impact on the Bihar elections.” However, BJP state general secretary Devesh Kumar claims that the emergence of smaller parties and turncoats will eventually benefit the NDA. “The NDA is going to be the net-gainer in the present scenario as multi-corner contest always suits the parties in power. Ours is a tried and tested government, whereas the opposition is scattered and still to take shape,” he adds. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari, on the other hand, says, “NDA sarkar ne janata ko kiya hai confuse, ab janata karegi inko refuse. They know their governments in the Centre as well as the state have not done anything. Therefore, they are trying to confuse the voters by creating political drama. They also know they will not win the elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/smaller-alliances-to-have-no-remarkable-impact-on-polls/articleshow/78560471.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 9, 2020||Business||Wary lenders go slow on festive auto loan offers||CHENNAI: Despite the festival season being just round the corner, car financiers are not rolling out the big bang schemes that are de rigueur this time of the year. Although car loan rates are the lowest in the last 12 months, auto dealers and marketers say banks and financiers are being extra cautious in view of the moratorium-related non-performing assets (NPAs) that they are expecting. Kotak Mahindra Prime MD Vyomesh Kapasi said, “The car loan interest rates are down 125 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) year on year. The ongoing interest rates are the lowest in a long time with sub-9% for all segments and sub-8% for luxury vehicles. Even used car rates are now down to 12-12.5%.” Car dealers say that most banks and NBFCs are offering longer tenure loans and that too for select customers. M&M dealer Nikunj Sanghi of JS 4Wheel Motor said, “The festival season normally sees major offers by financiers as well, but right now there is very little. And the only sops are on-road funding and 5-year instead of 3-year tenures. Some of these sops are even backed by car companies.” With the moratorium coming to an end, “banks are trying to optimise profits” and being “extra cautious”, he added. Car marketers say the NPA flood from fleet operators and business customers is making financiers chary of being aggressive. But with the festive season imminent, finance support is critical to demand revival. Toyota Kirloskar Motor senior VP (sales & service) Naveen Soni said, “Finance availability and rates are a great enabler to improve market sentiment. The Reserve Bank of India has taken various measures to improve liquidity in the system to support banks and NBFCs to safely lend to customers. With the onset of festive season, demand should improve and this would be a good opportunity for finance companies to capitalise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wary-lenders-go-slow-on-festive-auto-loan-offers/articleshow/78561821.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 9, 2020||Business||LVB receives indicative non-binding offer from Clix Group||CHENNAI: Lakshmi Vilas Bank, on Thursday, said that it received an indicative non-binding offer from Clix Capital, while no agreements have been reached on the offer, which is kept under wraps. Further to the process of considering and evaluating the proposed amalgamation, the two parties met for the first time today to revisit discussions on the offer price, the bank said in a statement. “We want to speed-up the process and close the deal in the next 15 days. We will raise capital from the market parallel,” said Shakti Sinha, member of the committee of directors (COD) set up by the Reserve Bank of India to look after the daily affairs at LVB. An official spokesperson of Clix Capital said, “We have extended an indicative non-binding offer to the Lakshmi Vilas Bank’s board. We continue to engage with the board on the next steps.” With the bank’s September quarter results due to be approved by auditors, Sinha said, the bank’s board has submitted a list of statutory auditors and awaits the banking regulator to choose and appoint an auditor. In an unprecedented move irate shareholders of LVB ousted seven directors, including its MD & CEO and auditors at the AGM held last month, leading to uncertainty in the proposed amalgamation of Clix Capital and LVB. This led to an RBI-approved constitution of a committee of three independent directors to manage the day-to-day affairs of the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-receives-indicative-non-binding-offer-from-clix-group/articleshow/78561761.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 9, 2020||Business||Google Play Store’s Indian alternatives get a boost||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: With Google facing heat for its billing policies, the search for a national app store alternative to the Play Store is gathering pace. Paytm is leading a coalition of entrepreneurs towards this search, while homegrown app store Indus App Bazaar is pitching itself as a ‘Made in India’ product to “democratise app access”. Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma on Thursday announced a new fund of Rs 10 crore to back mini-app developers on its platform. “This means that they will have an equity investment. These investment terms will be one of the most lenient one can expect,” Sharma said. In a display of its distribution power, Paytm — which unveiled its app-in-app service earlier this week — said it has 150 million monthly active users. “This will be like an incubator (making investment) with pre-defined terms, which typically is...a certain percentage of stake in the firm for a certain amount of capital. No extra rights, no extra obligations,” Sharma added. Paytm also said it was aiming to on-board a million apps before Google’s billing policy kicks-in here by April 2022. A group of local entrepreneurs have been protesting against Google’s move to implement 30% fees on digital transactions in India, which pushed the tech giant to defer the deadline by six months to April 2022. Indus App Bazaar, an app store by Mumbai-based Indus OS, reported increased traction in both users and developer base in the past week. “We have seen an increase of 40-50% in the number of (developer) signups in the last two weeks,” Indus OS co-founder and IIT-Bombay alumnus Rakesh Deshmukh told TOI. Without specifying details, Deshmukh said “discussions have begun with relevant policymakers” to help them with “our insights and experience on building Bharat ka app store”. Launched in 2014, Indus has over 400,000 apps listed on it and around 100 million users across English and 12 other regional languages. It is currently on Samsung, Micromax and Karbonn phones — its OEM partners. Omidyar Network, JSW Ventures and Samsung Ventures are a few investors in Indus OS. Users can download apps without an email address and find apps in local languages. The store does not charge developers any fee. “Indus App Bazaar is specially designed to cater to Indian users and elevate Indian developers. We want to provide a level-playing field to local developers to compete with global players,” Deshmukh said. However, owing to its current B2B2C model, the app store can be accessed only on partner OEM devices. The company said it is in discussions with other Indian and global smartphone brands. Pavel Naiya, a senior analyst at Counterpoint Research, said creating an app store in the same technical league as Google Play Store is going to be “a mammoth task”. Watch Paytm's Mini App Store to support 1 million apps||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-play-stores-indian-alternatives-get-a-boost/articleshow/78562462.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 9, 2020||Business||RIL-Future deal: Amazon seeks arbitration in Singapore||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Amazon has now approached the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) over its dispute with Future Coupons, one of the holding companies of Kishore Biyani’s Future Group. The US-based e-commerce major has cited breach of terms due to Future’s sale of its retail assets to Reliance Industries (RIL), two sources aware of the matter said. The move comes after Amazon sent a legal notice to Future Group and a copy of the notice to other relevant authorities like markets regulator Sebi and the stock exchanges, informing them about the matter, which TOI reported in its Thursday edition. SIAC is a not-for-profit organisation offering arbitration services to companies across the globe, which have been enforced in jurisdictions like China, India, the US and the UK. “We have initiated steps to enforce our contractual rights. As the matter is sub judice, we can’t provide details,” a spokesperson of Amazon said, confirming the development. Emails sent to Future Group, SIAC and RIL did not elicit any response. As reported by TOI, the dispute primarily comes from Amazon’s Rs 1,431-crore investment in Future Coupons, which held about 10% stake in the flagship Future Retail, in August last year. As a part of the deal, Biyani had also entered into a restriction on transfer of shares to specified persons and right of first offer of shares (ROFO) to Amazon as well, according to filings made by Future Retail at the time. This list of specified persons included RIL, according to the sources mentioned earlier. The deal gave a right to Amazon to acquire the entire or part of the shares of promoters of Future Retail after 3 years of the deal and before 10 years, in “certain circumstances” and subject to the law. Clearly, Amazon is of the view that Future’s deal in August with RIL’s Reliance Retail violates the e-tailer’s contractual rights and thus it has taken the recent steps against Future Group. This development also comes as Reliance has approached the Competition Commission of India (CCI) for an approval of its Rs 24,713-crore deal to acquire Future Group’s assets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-future-deal-amazon-seeks-arbitration-in-singapore/articleshow/78562399.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 9, 2020||Rajkot||Racket of stealing vehicles from travel operators busted||Rajkot: The Rajkot crime branch sleuths while investigating two car theft case seems to have unearthed a massive racket of stealing cars from travel operators and selling it outside Gujarat through online platforms using forged identity papers like registration book and Aadhar cards.The Rajkot city police on Thursday arrested Vipul Mangrolia and Divyesh Patolia, both natives of Champarada village of Visavadar taluka in Jungadh and booked them for theft, cheating and forgery.Sources in the police said that the arrested duo was part of state-wide racket being operated by the mastermind from Surat.The accused were held following complaints of Ashok Pala, owner of Neelkanth Tours and Travels, and Rashesh Kariya, owner of Happy Riding Travels. “One of the accused had approached one of the complainants, a car owner, on August 28 and said he needed to hire his car to go to Ahmedabad to see his ailing mother who was suffering from coronavirus,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot crime branch. “The accused were well aware of the GPS installed in the car. They drove a few kilometres, so that the car owner could track his car through the GPS. However, late at night, they removed the GPS from the car and threw it away. Before the car owner could check the GPS net morning, the accused had already driven many kilometres away,” explained Gadhvi. “We have seized one car and one SUV from the accused. Also seized were number of voters’ IDs and driving licenses without photographs, blank vehicle registration books, Aadhar cards, PAN cards and a smart card printing machine from the accused,” said P M Dhakhada, sub-inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch. He said that there were many like Mangrolia and Patolia involved in the racket that could be spread across the state. At present, the police have detained the accused. The accused will be formally arrested, once they undergo Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/racket-of-stealing-vehicles-from-travel-operators-busted/articleshow/78561830.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Rajkot||Couple held for blackmailing, robbing man||Rajkot: A couple was arrested in Rajkot on Wednesday on charges of blackmailing and robbing a man of Rs 22,500. Two GRD jawans were also allegedly involved in the crime, said cops who detained Ashish Maradia and his wife Alpa and also booked two GRD jawans who posed as cops. According to case details, victim Sanjay Somaiya had an extra-marital relationship with Alpa for the past four years. On October 5, Alpa called up Somaiya, saying that her husband was away and he could come and meet her. Somaiya drove down to Rajkot from Morbi.“While Somaiya and Alpa were alone in Alpa’s house in Rameshwer Society at Nanavati Chowk in Rajkot, Ashish barged into the room along with two GRD jawans who identified themselves as cops,” said A B Jadeja, sub-inspector with University police station. Ashish accused Somaiya of molesting his wife and demanded Rs 5 lakh in order not to press molestation charges on him. “After haggling, the accused later scaled down the amount to Rs 2 lakh and let Somaiya go after robbing him of Rs 22,500 in cash,” added Jadeja. The accused asked Somaiya to pay the remaining amount by October 10. But, Somaiya approached the police, thus leading to the arrest of the accused couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-held-for-blackmailing-robbing-man/articleshow/78561886.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Business||RBI extends interbank market hours||TNN Mumbai: The RBI has extended the timing of the interbank markets for money, bond and currency trading by one to two hours. The trading hours for these markets were curtailed because of the lockdown earlier this year. From October 9, the money market and the market for repos in government securities will have their closing time extended by an hour and will be open from 10am to 3pm. All the other RBI-regulated markets, including those for debt instruments like commercial paper, government securities, repo in corporate bonds, foreign currency and all currency derivatives, will be open from 10am to 4pm as against till 2 pm now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-extends-interbank-market-hours/articleshow/78562501.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Mysuru||Govt receptive to feedback on farm bills, says Sadananda Gowda||Mysuru: Union chemicals and fertilisers minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Thursday said that the central government is ready to accept any suggestions from farmers with regard to three farmer bills for their benefit, and that it was not ready for any dialogue with those who are opposing it just for the sake of opposing it. “The bills have been introduced for the benefit of farmers, and to rescue them from the clutches of middlemen. However, the opposition parties are trying to mislead farmers for political reasons. Some farmer leaders having political affiliations have colluded with opposition parties, and are creating turmoil and trying to create complications,” Gowda told reporters. “Before the amendments were made, the central government has consulted with all chief ministers, and the Planning Commission has obtained opinions from farmers, experts and scientists. The bills will facilitate farmers to sell their produce anywhere, and to anyone. If they wish, they can also store them in godowns,” he said. “There is no proposal of stopping MSP for farmers or any intention to shut down APMCs. Farmers shouldn’t heed false claims of opposition parties. The government is working to double the income of farmers,” Sadananda stated. On CBI raids on DKS Gowda on Thursday said the CBI raid on KPCC chief D K Shivakumar will not have any impact on the byelections in the state. “I don’t buy that the Vokkaligas are with one party. There are many Vokkaliga leaders in the BJP too. We will fight elections based on the party ideology,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-receptive-to-feedback-on-farm-bills-says-sadananda-gowda/articleshow/78563164.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Trainee flight cadet commits suicide in AFS Hakimpet||Hyderabad: On the eve of Air Force Day, a 23-year-old flight cadet, undergoing training at Air Force Station (AFS), Hakimpet, allegedly committed suicide by hanging in his room on the station premises on Wednesday night. Police said there was no suicide note and they are yet to ascertain the reason for the suicide. On Thursday, Alwal police of Cyberabad commissionerate received a complaint from Squadron Leader Saradh Kumar of AFS, Hakimpet, that flight cadet Akash P Dominic, 23, a trainee pilot, committed suicide in his room. At about 9pm on Wednesday, Akash had dinner at the flight cadet mess. Later, during the night, another flight cadet, S Eshwar, who stays in Akash’s adjacent room, noticed that the latter’s door was closed. Subsequently on Thursday morning, Akash was absent for the morning briefing. At 9.05am, Eshwar along with mess boy Madhu, went to Akash’s room and tried to open the door as he was not responding to their calls. They forcibly opened the door and found Akash hanging from the ceiling fan, said AVR Narasimha Rao, ACP, Pet Basheerabad. A suspicious death case was filed under Section 174 of CrPC. Air Force Station officials informed that Akash was from Athirampuzha in Kottayam, Kerala and he joined the facility in June 2020. “Some cadets and staff said he appeared to be depressed,” Alwal sub-inspector (SI) Bhaskar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trainee-flight-cadet-commits-suicide-in-afs-hakimpet/articleshow/78563244.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Goa||Goa CM sanctions Rs 23 crore for 4 waste management facilities at Sonsoddo||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday approved Rs 23 crore for the setting up of four integrated dry waste management facilities and biodigester plants having a cumulative capacity of 15 tonne per day, at Sonsoddo. Waste management minister Michael Lobo told reporters that after the first four plants are set up, three more will be added. The Margao Municipal Council (MMC), at a special meeting, gave its approval to the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) to set up seven bio-digester plants at Sonsoddo to treat waste generated in Margao. To address the commercial capital’s long-pending garbage issue, GWMC had proposed the upgrade of the MMC’s waste management facility in two phases, including the setting up of the integrated dry waste management facility and biodigester plants. Margao generates nearly 60 tonne of waste each day, comprising 18-22 tonne of dry waste, 14-18 tonne of wet waste and 26-28 tonne of mixed waste. The first phase proposes the setting up of an integrated dry waste management facility and biodigester plants having a cumulative capacity of 15 tonne per day, construction of proper roads to the shed, remediation of legacy waste to generate space for the construction of a shed, shifting of a high tension line and repair and commissioning of an existing landfill at Sonsoddo. In the second phase, biodigester plants having a cumulative capacity of 20 tonne per day, construction of a leachate disposal line that will connect to main sewerage line and avenue planting have been proposed. The MMC had set up a windrow waste management facility through a concessionaire, Fomento Green, in 2011, which is presently managed by the MMC. The initial philosophy of waste management was that wet waste would be windrow composted and dry waste would be sent to the landfill. In 2016, the new waste management rules came into being, wherein segregation of waste is mandatory and management of dry and wet waste should be done scientifically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-sanctions-rs-23cr-for-4-waste-mgmt-facilities-at-sonsoddo/articleshow/78563838.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Goa||Goa govt set to re-engage retired teachers||PANAJI: The state government has decided to reengage the services of “retired resourceful teachers” holding a PhD degree to work in the government sector so as to “utilise their academic excellence and skills”. According to the scheme, the maximum tenure of engaging the services of the retired teacher will be up to three years from the date of retirement/superannuation or up to the completion of the approved project, whichever is earlier. Under the scheme, a retired senior professor can receive a maximum monthly remuneration of Rs 1.4 lakh, a professor Rs 1.3 lakh, associate professor Rs 1.2 lakh and assistant professor Rs 80,000. The retired teachers will also be allowed to retain the accommodation with a 10% deduction in their remuneration. The scheme is also aimed at providing effective academic advise to student to help them utilise the extensive network of academic support services available on campus. It is also to empower the student “to realise the full academic experience and boost the efforts of the state in promoting quality education, research and innovation”, said a notification issued by the directorate of higher education. Under the scheme, the teacher’s services can only be used in government departments, government autonomous bodies, government societies, government corporations and other government institutions and public sector undertakings. Only retired teachers holding a PhD degree in any specialised discipline, who have served on regular basis for a minimum of 10 years in any educational institutions and have a minimum 15 year domicile can apply. Goan origin teachers, who have provided service for a minimum of five years in Goa in their entire academic career, with residence in Goa, will also be considered, the notification said. The directorate of higher education said that the retired teachers will be engaged to “utilise their academic excellence, capabilities and skills to assist in developing meaningful educational, cultural, scientific, social, rural, urban, agricultural, developmental, oceanographic and other related goals that are consistent with interests, values and abilities of the state”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-set-to-re-engage-retd-teachers/articleshow/78563789.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid tally goes past 1.92 lakh with 1,244 fresh cases||PATNA: Altogether 1,244 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,92,671. Officially, three deaths were reported following which the toll reached 929. However, with 1,80,357 recoveries, there are 11,383 active cases in the state. As per the figure shared by the health department, one death each was reported from Patna and Saran, taking the toll in the two districts to 224 and 33, respectively. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths, including two from Patna. One was a 67-year-old man of Rupaspur and another was a 50-year-old man of Shastrinagar. The third deceased was a 65-year-old man from Sirniya village in Munger district. Giving details on the health condition of state panchayati raj minister Kapil Dev Kamat, who is undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna and was put on ventilator on Wednesday, hospital’s nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said Kamat was a little better than before. However, his dialysis will continue. He further said one more MLA, who was admitted to the hospital, has shown signs of recovery. He further said 18 new patients were admitted and 23 discharged from the hospital on Thursday. Those admitted were also from different localities of Patna like Police Colony, Rajeev Nagar, Pataliputra Colony, Machchli Gali in Raja Bazaar and Vidyapati lane. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) did not report any death on Thursday. While two people were admitted, one was discharged from the hospital on Thursday. Of total 1,244 new cases registered on Thursday, 312 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 29,943. However, with 27,373 recoveries and 224 deaths so far, there are 2,346 active cases in Patna. Covid-19 cases registered in other districts include Muzaffarpur (52), Araria (50), Madhubani (50), East Champaran (48), Nalanda (43) and Supaul (42). As per the tweet shared by state health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday, 1006 people have recovered in a span of 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 93.61%. He further stated that 1,04,537 samples have been tested till Wednesday and so far, over 81 lakh samples tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-tally-goes-past-1-92l-with-1244-fresh-cases/articleshow/78560555.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 9, 2020||Patna||Names of new candidates in BJP’s 1st list bring discontent to fore||PATNA: Two days after BJP announced the names of its candidates for the 27 seats it will be contesting in the first phase of the assembly polls, discontent within its ranks has come to the fore, especially over four of the five fresh faces it has fielded. While Friday is the last day for filing of nomination papers, the first phase of polling would be held on October 28. So the candidates have roughly 20 days left to quell the discontent and also reach out to people with their poll campaign in tune with the Election Commission guidelines. The five fresh faces fielded in the first phase — Pawan Kumar Yadav from Kahalgaon, Atul Kumar (Bikram), Kaushal Kumar Singh (Tarari), Deepak Sharma (Arwal), Parshuram Chaturvedi (Buxar) and Shresyasi Singh (Jamui) — are drawing murmurs of discontent. In Arwal, former BJP MLA Chitranajan Sharma has rebelled and filed his nomination papers for the seat against the official nominee Deepak Sharma. The latter is the general secretary of the party’s Kisan Morcha. “Chitranjan had been preparing his field in the constituency for the past five years since he lost in 2015,” a state BJP source said. Similarly, the nomination of Atul Kumar, who is a former national vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, from Bikram seat has caused simmering discontent in the party’s rank and file. Same is the case with Kahalgaon nominee Pawan Kumar Yadav, who had fought as a BJP rebel from the same seat in 2015 against the official nominee of the LJP, which was then a partner in the BJP-led NDA. His nomination has caused heartburns in local BJP ranks. Senior functionary and a resident of Bhagalpur town, Gautam Kumar alias Banti Yadav had been seeking the party ticket for either Bhagalpur or Kahalgaon seat. “I am in the party, and will work for it whatever assignment I am given,” he said. Kaushal Kumar Singh alias Kaushal Vidyarthi fielded by BJP at the Tarari seat was the party’s district incharge and is reported to be popular at the grassroots level, yet there's an overall atmosphere of discontent in the party. But the most interesting case is the Buxar seat, which has been given to Purushottam Choubey, a former police constable, who pipped former state DGP Gupteshwar Pandey who was eyeing a ticket from his home town Buxar. It was being speculated that Pandey would contest the Buxar seat either as a BJP or JDU candidate. He joined JD(U) but the seat went to BJP as part of the seat-sharing arrangements. To further underscore the growing discontent in BJP, former MLAs Usha Vidyarthi and Rameshwar Chaurasia and Jawahir Prasad have quit the party and joined LJP. Among others, the party’s state general secretary Rajendra Singh and its other functionaries like Mrinal Shekhar and Indu Kashyap have also taken the same route. The only saving grace for the first list of BJP is that it has fielded five women candidates, including Shreyasi Singh, Arjuna awardee and gold medalist in rifle shooting at the Commonwealth Games. The four other women candidates are Nikki Hembrom, two sitting MLAs Aruna Devi (Warisaliganj) and Rinki Rani Pandey (Bhabhua), as well as former MLA Munni Devi (Shahpur).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/names-of-new-candidates-in-bjps-1st-list-bring-discontent-to-fore/articleshow/78561320.cms||Abhay Singh
October 9, 2020||Patna||Durga Puja to be a low key affair as samitis await Bihar government guidelines||PATNA: With Durga Puja samitis still awaiting directions from the state government to hold pujas, most of have decided to hold just a symbolic one this festive season keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. Patna DM-cum-district electoral officer Kumar Ravi told this newspaper on Thursday that the state government would issue the guidelines for the festive season soon. No preparation has started by any Puja samiti, however, they have worked out a plan for the celebration. This year’s celebration of Dussehra would be a low key affair due to Covid, only if the state government gives its nod. Sanjiv Prasad Toni, chairperson of Navyuvak Sangh Shri Durga Puja Samiti said they have been organizing prayer service, puja pandal and fair since 1954 near the Dak Bungalow crossing. “We are waiting for the district administration’s order after which ‘kalash sthapna’ would take place, following which other arrangements will be made. We are ready to follow the SOP of the Centre,” he said. Jitendra Kumar, organizer of Shri Shri Durga Puja Samiti Mahavir Sthan, Raja Bazaar said, “We start preparations almost two months ahead of the Dussehra. We call artisans from other states to design the pandal, but this year, nothing can be done,” he said. “Even if the administration allows to set up Puja pandals, it seems impossible to make all arrangements on time as barely 10-12 days are left for the celebration to begin,” said Santosh Kumar, chairperson of Shri Vijay Vahini Durga Puja Samiti, Anandpuri. Aakash Bhardwaj, secretary of Navyuvak Durga Puja Samiti, Boring Canal road said, “They will hold a small prayer ceremony without any function while only ‘kalash- sthapna’. Meanwhile, the Union ministry of health and family welfare has already issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for celebration of Dussehra and Diwali. Limited crowd, staggered timings and restricted entry are advised during events such as exhibitions, fairs, puja pandals, Ramlila pandals or concerts and theatres, outside the containment zones. The Puja samitis have been asked to make necessary arrangements for personal protection gears (PPE) like face masks, hand sanitizers, soap and sodium hypochlorite solution for sanitizing the frequently touched surfaces. As per the Centre’s guidelines, multiple and separate entries and exits for visitors shall be ensured while entry points should have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions at pandals. In processions and rallies, crowds should not exceed the permitted number. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance is a must. Close circuit cameras will also have to be put at multiple locations in the venue to monitor the compliance of physical distancing norms. Besides, ambulance facility has been made mandatory for events such as long-distance rallies and processions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/durga-puja-to-be-a-low-key-affair-as-samitis-await-govt-guidelines/articleshow/78560622.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 9, 2020||Patna||‘My reaction on SSR case not politically motivated’||PATNA: Hours after the ruling JD (U) released the list of its candidates for the state assembly polls missing former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey’s name, he wrote a Facebook post in Hindi. “I have been receiving numerous calls of well-wishers ever since the list of JD (U) candidates was announced on Wednesday. I understand their anxiety and troubles. After I got free, everybody expected that I would contest the election. But I am not doing so this time,” the post read. Reacting to the political developments, the 1987-batch IPS officer said, “I have experienced a lot of struggle in my life. Be patient. I will serve the people all the time. I bow down to my birthplace Buxar.” The former state police chief on Thursday clarified that he had not been deceived by anybody and put his full faith in the leadership of chief minister and JD (U) president Nitish Kumar. “Nitish Kumar ji zuban ke pakke hain. Mere saath koi thagi nahi hui hai (Nitish Kumar kept his words. I don’t think I have ever been deceived),” he told mediapersons. In reply to a query, Pandey said, “I am a disciplined worker of the JD (U) led by Nitish Kumar and stand solidly behind the NDA.” The former DGP, who opted for voluntary retirement scheme five months ahead of the assembly polls, also said it was untrue that he had left the coveted post and joined the party as he wished to fight elections. “Joining a political party after leaving a job and contesting elections are two different things. Yes, I had said I could contest elections, but am not doing so this time,” he asserted. Referring to Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide case, the ex-DGP said, “I had tried contacting my counterpart in Maharashtra, but he refused to interact with me. Therefore, I turned to social media to put forth the fact about the case.” He also stated that the way an IPS officer was treated in Mumbai when he had gone for investigation was an open secret. “Whatever I did then was aimed at protecting the dignity of the state police of which I happened to be the chief. It was not politically motivated as claimed by some people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/my-reaction-on-ssr-case-not-politically-motivated/articleshow/78560491.cms||Ramashankar
October 9, 2020||Patna||Shocker for Chirag Paswan in middle of a make-or-break Bihar poll battle||PATNA: Chirag Paswan, son of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, is arguably in the toughest situation of his life with the demise of his father in New Delhi on Thursday evening in the middle of the crucial Bihar election. Chirag now not only has to helm his party without his father by his side to guide but also has to carry forward senior Paswan’s political legacy amid the rebellion started by him against former allies in the NDA, especially JD (U). Fulfilling the responsibilities as a son, 37-year-old Chirag has been away from Battleground Bihar even as he has blown the bugle for battle against his father’s ‘friends’, including CM Nitish Kumar, as well as Lalu Prasad’s RJD in the Opposition. On several occasions, Chirag has written to his party men regretting his absence in the ensuing Bihar polls as he had to be with his father, who was battling for his life owing to cardiac and other ailments since mid-August. With his father’s demise, Chirag now has the mantle to carry the legacy of one of the tallest socialist and Dalit faces in the country. Having opened the rebellion against ally JD (U) and the subsequent ‘public abandonment’ by BJP in the Bihar polls, Chirag also seems to be a man waging a lonely and long-drawn battle against the old warhorses. However, Patna-based political observer and economist Shaibal Gupta is of the view that Chirag and LJP may not be that lonely and benefit from the sympathy of supporters as well as party workers. “LJP was established by Ram Vilas Paswan and he maintained the stature of a national level leader with good rapport with all political parties. His demise is most likely to generate sympathy for Chirag as well as LJP. LJP will be the net gainer as party workers, as well as supporters, will consolidate. However, much of it will depend on how Chirag emerges in his own right and to what extent BJP supports him over the next few weeks,” Gupta told TOI. LJP national spokesperson Sanjay Saraf echoed a similar view. “Ram Vilas Ji’s demise is a great loss for not only LJP but for the entire country as a great leader has left us. The party was already working as per his guidance and we will all work even harder to succeed in his vision of a developed Bihar. All party workers are in pain with his demise but we will rise even higher,” Saraf said. In his last days, Ram Vilas had put his weight behind son Chirag. In an emotional tweet made on September 11, Ram Vilas had said he was happy that his son Chirag took proper care of him during his illness and also dealt with the affairs of the party. “I stand firmly by every decision of his (Chirag). I am confident that the youthful thinking of Chirag will take the party and Bihar to new heights,” senior Paswan had tweeted. Managing his responsibilities between party affairs and hospital over the past few weeks, Chirag said even on Thursday, while releasing the first list of LJP’s 42 candidates for Bihar polls that he is unable to be with his partymen because of his father’s health but he will be with them as soon as health improves. LJP party workers were seen shedding tears at the party’s Patna office on Thursday evening after hearing about Ram Vilas’s demise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shocker-for-chirag-in-middle-of-a-make-or-break-poll-battle/articleshow/78563525.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 9, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Man held for cattle smuggling||VARANASI: An interstate cattle smuggler, Mukaddas Shah, was arrested after suffering bullet injuries in an exchange of fire with cops in Naugarh area of Chandauli district on Thursday morning. He was admitted to a hospital for treatment. The incident occurred when he was trying to cross UP border to enter Bihar in a stolen SUV in which four cattle were packed brutally. SP Chandauli Hemant Kutiyal said, “Acting on a tip-off, cops from Chakia, Shahabganj and crime branch cordoned Chakia-Naugarh road and started checking vehicles after mid-night. In the morning, an MUV passed through the area,. When the cops signalled it to stop its driver accelerated the pace after which cops chased it.” On reaching Jalebiamod area they were surrounded and opened fire on the police. Kutiyal said that when cops also retaliated one of them suffered bullet injuries in leg and fell on road while others managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-held-for-cattlesmuggling/articleshow/78561556.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Girnar ropeway may unveil on November 9||RAJKOT: If it goes as planned, Junagadh will gift itself the biggest ropeway project in Asia, the Rs 130-crore Girnar ropeway, on its independence day on November 9. While “nothing is officially finalized about the grand inauguration yet”, work on the ambitious project is almost over and is being wrapped up in a week. “The 2.3km ropeway work will get over by October 17 and will be ready for inauguration any day. However, November 9 is Junagadh’s independence day and the people want the services to be inaugurated on that day. Hence, the tourism department too is contemplating on that day,” regional head of Usha Breco, Deepak Kaplish told TOI. However, managing director of Tourism Corporation of Gujarat Limited, Jenu Devan told TOI, “We will make the inauguration date public only when we get instructions on it from the government.” The ropeway, developed on BOT (build operate transfer) basis by Usha Breco with technical assistance of Austria-based company Doppelmayr, will have nine towers and ferry 8,000 people in one day. Eight passengers can accommodate in the 25 carriages, while each trip will be completed with 800 people in one hour. The ropeway will connect Bhavnath Taleti with Ambaji temple in less than 10 minutes, while now pilgrims climb five thousand steps to reach Ambaji temple. “A tourist can now complete his mount Girnar pilgrimage in nearly two hours. We want to recreate a holy triangle on the lines of the golden triangle of Jaipur, Agra Delhi by joining three popular religious places of Girnar, Somnath and Dwarka,” Kaplish added. Even after the project commences for public, technical experts of Doppelmayr, which conducted successful trial run of the ropeway recently, will stay put in Junagadh for another month. Girnar ropeway is PM Narendra Modi’s dream project of which he had laid the foundation while he was the chief minister of Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/girnar-ropeway-may-unveil-on-november-9/articleshow/78561949.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Rajkot||Key aide of Jamnagar gangster nabbed from Ahmedabad||RAJKOT: Razak Chavda alias Razak Sopari, a key aide of notorious Jayesh Patel gang, was nabbed from Bopal area of Ahmedabad in a joint operation by the Jamanagar special operations group SOG) and Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), on Thursday.Sopari (45) was wanted in the firing case of builder Girish Der in Jamnagar. It is alleged that Sopari had given orders to open fire on Der about two-and-a half months ago. Der was carrying out a construction work on the land to which Patel, who is accused in several criminal cases, mostly land grabbing and extortion, had staked his claim. “We nabbed Sopari on the basis of a tip-off about his hide-out in Bopal,” said S S Ninama, inspector with Jamnagar SOG. Razak entered the crime world by looting a truck loaded with betel nuts near Valsad in 1998. After carrying out such loots, he earned the nickname ‘Sopari’ (betel nut.) He has several cases lodged against him. In 2001, he was arrested in a physical assault case in Jamnagar. Five months ago, he was released from Jamnagar Central Jail where he was lodged for 10 years in the Anwar Patel murder case of 2002. Patel was a leader of the community to which Sopari belongs and both had some dispute. Patel had fled to Dubai before his name figured in advocate Kirit Joshi murder case. Joshi was stabbed to death on April 28, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/key-aide-of-jamnagar-gangster-nabbed-from-ahmedabad/articleshow/78561751.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Business||‘Boundary-less model helped us sustain ops’||Shilpa.Phadnis@timesgroup.com Under a new boss, Wipro has embraced a boundary-less operating model and a no-shore delivery approach that’s redefined its business operations in the new normal. CEO & MD Thierry Delaporte envisages a hybrid model where Wipro’s employees have the flexibility to work from either office or home. He makes it clear that there will be no return to a model that is 100% work-from-office… How far has your business returned to normal? Today, both our customers and employees have settled into new ways of working. Less than 3% of the employees work from our offices. Nevertheless, our adaptive and boundary-less operating model coupled with our ‘no-shore’ approach has ensured that we continue to deliver critical processes, large transitions and transformation projects seamlessly. We will first look to stabilise and then build on the momentum. What challenges has the new normal posed? We have kept our employees at the centre during this pandemic. Our focus has been threefold: protecting the health, safety, and jobs of employees. The challenges around resilience and transformation also mean that most of our customers will continue to invest in technology to thrive in the new environment. Overall, we believe that the secular trend around IT investments will remain on an upward trajectory. How much cost increase are you facing? A well-executed, comprehensive cost management programme helped us defend our margins in the April-June quarter. Savings from some actions in Q1 will reflect in Q2. Spends on travel, hiring, marketing, etc, will increase as business/economic activity picks up. Profitable growth is our priority. Do companies that were more digitised and automated appear to have done better? A resilient enterprise distinguishes itself in its preparedness and response during times of crisis. Our ‘Digital First” strategy, adaptive and boundary-less operating model and the ‘no shore’ delivery approach have helped us sustain and redefine business operations — both for Wipro and for our customers — to “work from anywhere”. Will you have a more liberal WFH policy? We will never go back to a 100% work-from-office model. In the long-term, we envisage a hybrid model, where one would have the flexibility to work from either office or work from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/boundary-less-model-helped-us-sustain-ops/articleshow/78562217.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
October 9, 2020||Business||LIC HF reports record Sept biz||TNN Mumbai: LIC Housing Finance (LIC HF), the country’s second-largest home loan company, has said new business last month has been the best for any September in its history. The company is also expecting to end the year with double-digit growth, given the smart recovery in applications, said MD & CEO Siddhartha Mohanty. “People are deciding to buy because there are so many incentives on offer by builders and state governments have reduced stamp duty. I believe the momentum will continue because of the festival season and we will have double-digit growth for the current financial year,” said Mohanty. Mohanty was addressing newspersons to announce the appointment of Boston Consultancy Group (BCG) to help bring about a digital transformation to make it possible for borrowers to apply and obtain home loans through an end-to-end digital process. “We are investing in this project with long-term objectives that would generate more stakeholder value, expand geographies, thereby contributing to the economic growth of the country. Winning will require a new playbook. The ultimate objective is to organise and automate every facet of customer interaction to deliver elevated customer experience,” said Mohanty. Weeks before the lockdown, LIC had announced that it was adopting Google Cloud to power its app Homy. The app was launched to help speed up the entire process of granting loans. It was also designed to handle a large volume of clients. “Our objective is to be present in every district in the country. We had no idea that the lockdown would take place, but the launch of the app helped in continuity,” said Mohanty. He added that there was a need to expedite the process of digital transformation and be future-ready because things were going to change very fast after the pandemic. Currently, most of the company’s loans are being sourced by agents. Mohanty said that while agents would continue to source loans, they would use the digital platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lic-hf-reports-record-sept-biz/articleshow/78562534.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||Protest after non-staffers told to get off special train||Kolkata: Nearly 200 people squatted on the tracks at Sonarpur station on Thursday morning after being asked to get off a Sealdah-bound local train meant for railway employees. The police had to resort to a lathicharge to disperse the mob which started pelting stones at the train and authorities. It is the fear of incidents such as these that has kept the railways from resuming local train services in the Kolkata suburbs. Authorities are well aware that crowd management will be a major problem in most suburban stations, unlike in the Metro Railway network. “We couldn’t allow normal commuters on this train as it was meant for only railway employees. When asked to get off, they created trouble and we had to disperse them. Some people have been detained,” said V B Chandra Sekhar, superintendent of railway police, Sealdah. Among those who participated in the agitation were people who used to commute to Kolkata by train for work from the southern suburbs, including many employed as domestic helps. They maintained that there was no harm if they squeezed into coaches of the special trains that were bound for Sealdah anyway. Over the past few days, many people from Kolkata have tweeted to the ministry of railways on how all rules are being flouted in these “staff specials” by people who have nothing to do with the railways. This jeopardizes the health of railway employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/protest-after-non-staffers-told-to-get-off-special-train/articleshow/78561841.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
October 9, 2020||Rajkot||Seven including woman booked for man’s suicide abetment||Rajkot: Seven persons including a woman were booked on Wednesday night for the suicide abetment of a youth who ended his life by plunging into a crater filled with water near Aji Dam in Rajkot. Ankit Dholakia had left his home on October 1. His body was found floating in the crater on October 3. Suspecting Dholakia of his involvement in the murder of one of their family members, the accused used to harass the victim, asking him to vacate his house and move elsewhere. Tired of this, Dholakia decided to end his life. The accused, Kirit Solanki, his sons — Kishan Solanki and Mahendra Solanki, Rajdeep Parmar, Rajdeep Padhiyar, Vijay Makwana and Kiran Patel, were booked on the complaint of Dholakia’s elder brother Chetan. According to the details of the case, Divya Parolia got married with Rahul Solanki against the wishes of her family members. Members of the Parolia family had murdered Rahul a month ago. “Suspecting that Dholakia and Chetan, who were the cousins of Divya, were also involved in the crime, the accused started harassing them. They would come to the victim’s house and create a ruckus, hurling abuses at Dholakia and his family members. They had also allegedly threaten to kill the victim and his family members, if they did not vacate their house and move elsewhere,” said R V Kadachha, sub-inspector with Aji Dam police station. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-including-woman-booked-for-mans-suicide-abetment/articleshow/78561925.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Business||Sensex atop Mt 40k after 7 mths||Mumbai: The sensex on Thursday managed to nearly reach the same level seen in late February this year, just before the global pandemic started to impact Indian markets. Within a month of closing a tad above the 40k mark on February 25, the benchmark index had lost about 15,000 points — or 40% — to sink below 26k in intra-day trades on March 24. However, despite a never-seen-before slide in the economy due to one of the strictest lockdowns in the world, the sensex has since rallied. On Thursday, it again closed above the 40k mark again at 40,183. Reliance Industries — on the back of a series of investments in its two major subsidiaries Jio in telecom and Reliance Retail in organised retailing — led the gainers. Software stocks and select auto stocks also added to this recovery, while banks & financial services stocks continue to lag. In the last couple of weeks, financial stocks had seen some gains. These came after the government said that it would pick up the tab of the six-month interest burden on all small borrowers (with loans of up to Rs 2 crore), market players said. These borrowers are struggling to meet their payment obligations due to the pandemic. As a result, the recent trend of news-driven sectoral rotation of stocks continued. “The euphoric rise in the market without the backing of any large macro positives suggests continuation of sector rotation,” said HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani. Some traders feel that the Indian market is decoupled from the economy in the sense that it rallied despite a massive 24% de-growth during the April-June quarter. However, there is another group that believes the recent surge has mainly been backed by unprecedented liquidity and stock investors are ahead of the economic curve. On Thursday, IT stocks led the rally, along with those from the cement sector. Outside of the sensex, Wipro, which also announced that its board will consider a buyback proposal later this month in addition to TCS, rallied over 10% in early trades on the BSE and finally settled at Rs 359 — up 7.2% on the day. According to LKP Securities head (research) S Ranganathan, the sensex vaulted past the 40k mark powered by TCS and IT biggies, and got good support from cement majors. “Although the sector rotation did exhibit a polarised market, afternoon trade witnessed buying interest in pharma despite profit-taking,” Ranganathan said. Additionally, the day’s rally was supported by talk of a new stimulus by the government. Moreover, a global rally — again on the back of a stimulus by the US government — also had its positive impact on the Indian markets. “European stocks rose on Thursday as optimism returned to financial markets on signs there might be some stimulus after all for the world’s largest economy,” said Jasani. “Asian shares were mostly higher on Thursday on optimism the US stimulus may be coming after all, as President Donald Trump appeared to reverse his earlier decision to halt talks on another economic rescue effort.” For Friday’s trading cues, investors on Dalal Street will look at decisions in the RBI’s monetary policy meeting and, for the next week, at the Supreme Court for its order on interest rate on loans during the six lockdown months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-atop-mt-40k-after-7-mths/articleshow/78563050.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Patna||Freedom struggle to Parl, Bihar women blaze a trail||PATNA: Any mention of women in Bihar politics and governance will throw up obvious names such as former CM Rabri Devi and ex-Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar among a host of other women leaders, who have been ministers and governors. But there are a few names that go back to the pre-Independence era as far back as the late 19th century. These names continue to find a place in the public imagination, from social reformer Rashidan Bibi ((1855-1926) to freedom fighter Tarakeshwari Sinha, Rajvanshi Devi, wife of first President Rajendra Prasad in whose memory the Rajbanshi Nagar locality has been named in Patna, and Prabhavati Devi, wife of Jayaprakash Narayan. “One may invent reasons to look sideways at the mention of Rabri Devi as the state’s CM, but her being the CM is also reflective of the larger general accommodative stance and tolerance that the people of the state show towards anything new,” Congress leader and former minister Harkhoo Jha said. “Think of the male-centric hostile conditions and obstacles that women face in their bid to sustain their presence in the public sphere. I would say that today the situation has changed a lot, and the prevailing atmosphere is also not what used to be a century ago,” he added. Going back to the pioneering Rashidan Bibi, she was the first woman novelist in the state who took to popularizing education among Muslim girls and women in those times. Later, with assistance from Badshah Nawab and Hathua Estate Maharani, she opened the Badshah Nawab Rizvi School, with its building named as Bettiah House. The trail blazed by Rashidan Bibi among others paved the way for women leaders from the state to enter the Lok Sabha and the state assembly. The prominent among them are Tarkeshwari Sinha, who became the first woman minister from Bihar to be inducted into the Union cabinet in 1952. Meira Kumar went on to became the first woman Lok Sabha Speaker while Ram Dulari Sinha and Mridula Sinha became governors. Krishna Shahi, as well as Sumitra Devi (Meira Kumar’s mother-in-law), Uma Pandey and Prabhavati Gupta, are other prominent names. However, their emergence in the state was neither obstacle-free nor sudden. The elections to legislative council were held in the state from 1920, but only those who owned property and paid taxes enjoyed voting rights. However, it was the impetus that Mahatma Gandhi gave to the freedom struggle from the 1920s, by coupling it with educational and social reforms, that brought women in the public arena in large numbers. During the agitation against the indigo planters as part of the Champaran movement, Gandhi stayed in Bihar in 1917. The next year, he brought his wife Kasturba Gandhi, popularly known as Ba, to induce local women towards education and cleanliness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/freedom-struggle-to-parl-bihar-women-blaze-a-trail/articleshow/78560447.cms||Abhay Singh
October 9, 2020||Surat||‘Over 20 more said to be involved in trafficking’||Surat: The mephedrone trafficking racket busted by the city police last month may open the Pandora’s Box for many with investigators identifying at least 20 persons allegedly involved in the illicit sale of this sought-after party drug.Police have so far gathered details and questioned around 50 people regarding links with the those arrested till now. The biggest challenge for cops now is the time consumed in identifying those involved in the racket which is touted to be biggest ever busted in the city’s recent history.“Those who were linked to the already arrested persons have gone underground since the operation started. Even if they are not involved in the racket, it’s possible that they may be consuming drugs. However, we have gathered clinching details about some suspects,” said a police officer. Police have called around 15 top businessmen and their family members for questioning after they were found to have close contacts with Aadil Nurani, owner of a locally popular Gujarati thaali restaurant, who was arrested earlier. These businessmen were questioned about their dealings in drugs with Nurani, sources close to the investigation told TOI.The probe so far has revealed that Nurani, an addict himself, was involved in trafficking in partnership with prime accused Salman alias Aman Zaveri, who was caught with mephedrone worth Rs one crore from Dumas Road on September 22. Some businessmen and their wives, who were regular to parties where Nurani supplied drugs, are said to have escaped the city. Some are learnt to be changing their phone numbers and locations regularly to evade questioning. Cops are keeping an eye on movement of these people and attempts are being made to call them for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-20-more-said-to-be-involved-in-trafficking/articleshow/78540987.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 9, 2020||Rajkot||Hardik, Mewani meet minor rape survivor in Jamnagar||Rajkot: Congress working president Hardik Patel and independent MLA Jignesh Mewani on Thursday visited the family members of a minor rape survivor in Jamnagar on Thursday. While talking to media persons, Hardik recalled Rajya Sabha MP Parimal Nathwani’s recent tweets suggesting that there was atmosphere of fear in the district.Hardik said that three rape complaints were registered in Jamnagar district in last four days which is a matter of grave concern and police needs to act fast. “According to CAG report 3,500 rape incidents have been registered in Gujarat in last three years, which proves that the claim of peace and security by the state government is incorrect. These incidents are proof of Parimalbhai’s words,” Hardik said demanding strict action against the culprits.Mewani said, “This kind of incidents cannot be tolerated. We are not here to make political comments but I want to tell the (Vijay) Rupani government in such cases we all stand together to ensure justice to the survivor and her family.” He also demanded prompt and quick action by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hardik-mewani-meet-minor-rape-survivor-in-jamnagar/articleshow/78561609.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Day 1: NU fails online test||Nagpur: With hundreds of complaints pouring in since the launch of Nagpur University’s ‘Pariksha App’, the writing was on the wall. On Thursday, apprehensions about technical glitches came true after several students failed to appear for the final year examinations on account of one or the other snags, mostly technical. Most common issue was failure to receive the one-time password (OTP) on a registered mobile number, which pressed the panic button for students.Though the first two sessions of commerce and humanities, and the last one of engineering, of MCQ tests went off smoothly barring minor hitches, the third slot for science had a slew of problems, besides OTP-related ones.Mostly, those appearing in BSc papers of microbiology and statistics bore the brunt, as many couldn’t receive OTP, despite repeated attempts while several received the message that their “device is changed”. Many were shocked after receiving the message that they had solved zero questions even after attempting more than 25 out of 50.Since morning, NU helplines as well as officials’ numbers were flooded with calls from anxious examinees regarding various issues. After afternoon, many of them complaint that the numbers were either engaged or their calls weren’t picked up by the officials. They also rang up college principals and teachers, but failed to get any clarity.Though students lost time in receiving OTPs, their exam ended on stipulated time leaving them exasperated. Those who managed to appear complained of repetition of several questions.The panic-stricken students even rang up various youth organizations like ABVP and NSUI with their grievances after failing to get any response from the helpline numbers and officials. These organizations demanded NU administration to immediately resolve the issues and conduct re-exam for those who missed it on Thursday due to technical faults.“Today’s online exam fiasco shows that NU is playing with students’ future. We demand a high-level inquiry into the entire mess and action against the erring officials. We will be writing to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and education minister Uday Samant. Someone must be held accountable for such blunders,” said NSUI activist Ajit Singh, also a final year student.The ABVP warned of agitation if NU failed to reschedule exam for those who missed it. “We have requested vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari through an e-mail to resolve the OTP problem before Friday’s papers and also demanded increase in helpline numbers, which currently are insufficient,” said city secretary Amit Patle. Current and former statutory members blasted NU administration for rushing in with the online exams without proper planning or testing it on pilot basis and putting thousands of students in a quandary. Some like ex-Management Council member Mahendra Nimbarte went to the extent of demanding VC’s resignation over the fiasco.“I had been pointing out faults in app for a long time. Its developer Promarc lacks experience of conducting MCQ tests for such a large number of students. The VC has miserably failed in ensuring smooth conduct of important exams and taking action against Promarc and erring NU officials,” he said.EXAM BLUES#PROBLEMS FACED BY STUDENTS* App failed to open due to poor network connectivity * When it opened, OTP not received for long time* Helplines either engaged or calls weren’t picked* Several questions repeated in many papers* Some received papers of other subjects* Received message of 0/50 questions solved # WHAT IF INTERNET CUT/MOBILE SWITCHED OFF/ LOGGED OUT* In such situation, students will be able to access app by re-login* Solved answers will be automatically saved on real time basis* They need to continue with remaining unanswered MCQs* They will be able to resume exam within stipulated 60 mins only# How to appear in MCQ tests on Pariksha App* Login using username and password printed on admission card* It will contain 50 MCQ questions, of which 25 need to be solved* Students can solve more than 25, best 25 answers will be selected* Each question carries two marks and there is no negative marking* This examination is for final year regular/failure students only||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-1-nu-fails-online-test/articleshow/78562021.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Police arrest two chain snatchers||Hyderabad: Madhapur police on Thursday nabbed two chain snatchers and recovered 35 grams of gold ornaments and three two-wheelers from their possession. The duo was identified as Afroz Khan, an auto driver and Mohammed Amir, a salesman. Both are residents of Tolichowki. Afroz and Amir planned to commit the thefts together. To avoid getting caught, the duo used a bike without a number plate to snatch chains. Recently, they committed three offences in Narsingi limits. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-arrest-two-chain-snatchers/articleshow/78563226.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||Station branding: E-W Metro opts for Kol’s first love, soccer||Kolkata: East-West Metro’s Salt Lake Stadium station was prefixed with Indian Football Association (IFA) and a one year’s renewal agreement was signed between Metro Railway and IFA on Thursday. In 2016, Metro had come up with a proposal called “Own Your Station”, under which private companies would get advertisement rights in Metro stations and brand stations with their names prefixed or suffixed to the existing name. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said, “The co-branding has been done to earn some non-fare revenue. This is our first venture, so it is only for a year. Next time, we shall invite tenders so that the branding can be done for longer periods. “We are following the Railway Board’s ‘new innovative non-fare revenue earning scheme’, a policy that can be tried out for a period of a year.” Principal chief operations manager (PCOM) Satyaki Nath and senior commercial manager Kaushik Mitra represented Metro Railway at Thursday’s event. Joydeep Mukherjee, general secretary, IFA, said, “This a result of planning and discussion over months. We wanted to carry forward the brand of IFA and always look forward to doing something that others haven’t. I wish to thank Metro Railway for extending their support to Bengal football.” The naming spree, of leasing out stations to prominent brands, was started by Gurgaon’s Rapid Metro, later followed by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which earns around Rs 1.5 crore per station annually and saves on maintenance cost as the station exterior is covered with branding. Delhi now has station a called “Honda 2 Wheelers Vishwaviduyalaya”. Others, like Mumbai and Kochi Metro, have picked up the model, too. Metro Railway has been trying to invite corporates to brand all 24 stations — from Noapara to Kavi Subhas — on the north-south line. But the first success came with the East-West Metro’s truncated section, which was launched on February 13. “It’s just as well that we have struck a deal with IFA, which is a sports association. The branding is very appropriate because our station is already named after the Salt Lake stadium,” a Metro official said. He hoped “the swank East-West Metro” will attract more corporates. Kolkata’s “old” Metro, the north-south corridor, used to record 6.5 lakh footfall a day even in February 2020. But the country’s first underground mass rapid transit system, which started operations in 1984, has been incurring huge losses. “For every Rs 100 earned, Metro Railway spends around Rs 250. You can understand what the situation is now, amidst the pandemic when passenger count is anyway low,” the GM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/station-branding-e-w-metro-opts-for-kols-first-love-soccer/articleshow/78561737.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 9, 2020||Hubballi||Bus depot staff drive a green cause during lockdown||Gadag: While on a visit to any bus depot, one may find buses, scrap materials and the smell of diesel and oil. But not at the Gajendragad depot of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), where one will get to enjoy a green and cool ambience, thanks to the efforts and contribution of the depot staff during the lockdown. The staff utilised the lockdown period to develop a garden using waste materials like bus tyres and are maintaining it with water stored at rainwater-harvesting ponds. Depot manager Devakka Nayak told TOI that the as the buses were idling, many staff started cleaning the weed grown in open spaces. “After that, the idea of developing a garden was pitched. Many officials and staff offered their skills and also money. We brought red soil from nearby hills and fields. As it was raining heavily, we created two ponds, complete with a canal, so the rainwater received in the premises could reach these ponds,” the manager said. The open space, which had become a haven for reptiles like snakes, has now turned into a park of 60 rose saplings. After consulting gardening experts, they planted decorative saplings in discarded tyres. For buying gardening equipment, almost all drivers, conductors and mechanics pooled in Rs 60,000 and also procured saplings from a nursery run by the forest department at Nellur. “We were happy to know that many of our staff are multi-skilled to plant saplings, construct ponds, maintain trees and engage in eco-friendly activities,” Devakka said. Traffic inspectors Rajashekhar Maski and Shaila Jigalur said the depot premises has now been equipped with over 500 plants of about 30 species. “Earlier, we used to switch on fans at top speed to beat the hot weather. Now, we feel cool while sitting with greenery around. All the depot staff, including officials, worked in the garden before and after the work hours,” they stated. Mechanic S Manjula, drivers M A Hadapad, A R Guledgudda, H S Pujar and supervisor S S Sunkad said that a fountain will come up near the office building soon. “Even the arch erected at main entrance is made up of herbs,” they claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bus-depot-staff-drive-a-green-cause-during-lockdown/articleshow/78564000.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||No fear of Covid but app goof up gives them nightmare||Nagpur: Students of Nagpur University on Thursday lived some anxious moments though there was no typical atmosphere dreaded during exams, hunt for the centre, exam hall and pressure of studies.The first-ever online exam of the university made the final year students more nervous than what the traditional pen and paper method would have. The reason was the ‘RTMNU Pariskha’ app which didn’t work as per expectations and left students thinking about their result till late in the evening.Rupal Lamsonge, who wrote to the university, said she just couldn’t give up thinking if her marks would be deducted for repeated questions. “I wish to take up MSc from a good college. But I am afraid today’s glitch will affect my overall percentage,” said Rupal with her voice choking. The student said she couldn’t hold back her tears after the app abruptly shut when the exam time was up. “I couldn’t login on time because of OTP delay,” she said.Another final year student Samiskha Maske said, “ I don’t know if it was really an exam. Our study link was broken yet we had prepared well. Since lockdown there had been uncertainty about exams, which still remains.” Samiskha added that she was not sure if her answers were submitted.Apoorva Randale too said it has become like a cat-and-mouse game. “Exams are on, then off, then on. Then timetable was announced and postponed. Now, again there is no surety,” she said.All three students agreed that the only good thing to happen during the day was that they didn’t fear contracting Covid infection during exam hours.Nayan Joshi said he appeared for the exam just like doing any other routine work at home. “Normally, university exams take a lot of efforts. It was a good move to hold it online but for the goof up which ruined everyone’s experience,” he said.Samina Amin was stressed out because of the repetitive questions. “My classmates had problems submitting the answers. In FAQs, it was mentioned that we would be proctored. But there was no virtual watch on examinees. I have appeared in several other online exams. Most of them are held on laptops and those apps can control mic, sense motion and vision so that examinees don’t indulge in unfair practices,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-fear-of-covid-but-app-goof-up-gives-them-nightmare/articleshow/78561987.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Turnaround time for RTPCR test reduces at Wenlock||Mangaluru: Planning to fly abroad for a job interview and urgently need a Covid-19 negative report based on the RTPCR test? Then head to the Covid-19 lab at Wenlock Hospital. Not only is the test carried out for free, but the report is also given within 8 hours, if the person indicates the urgency for it. The lab will also arrange to send a copy of the report by email or WhatsApp in such cases. Giving this assurance at the 20th general meeting of the body here on Thursday, district surgeon Dr Sadashiva said the ramped up testing capacity at the district lab now makes it possible to test up to 1,200 samples per day. “With the RTPCR test result valid for 96 hours, people in need of it for job and other travel requirements may approach the lab and not miss out on an opportunity to earn their livelihood for want of it,” he said. The assurance came after Dhanalakshmi Gatti, chairperson of the standing committee on health and education, said that she is personally aware of instances of youths having lost the opportunity to fly out to join their new jobs due to delay in receiving test reports. Dr Sadashiva said those in need of Covid-19 reports could also approach labs at private medical colleges where Rs 1,600 is charged for the test, as per the latest guideline from the government. Sources at the district Covid-19 lab said the machines at the lab are now able to perform up to 1,200 tests per day, with around 96 tests per cycle, with an average of 8-10 cycles per day. This is up from the 200 to 300 samples that were tested initially, the sources said. Tests for government employees and front-line Covid-19 warriors are free, as it is for BPL families. “We are now able to give the test reports quicker than usual,” the sources maintained. To a complaint from ZP member Koragappa Naik, Dr Ramachandra Bairy, district health officer, said action will be taken against doctors if they refer a patient sent to Wenlock Hospital from government health facilities in the district to private hospitals. Patients covered under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana should be referred to private hospitals only if specialists to treat the particular case at Wenlock Hospital are not available, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/turnaround-time-for-rtpcr-test-reduces-at-wenlock/articleshow/78563922.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Rajkot||Two murder accused from MP hiding in Rajula village nabbed||Rajkot: Two murder accused who had been absconding from Madhya Pradesh for the past seven months were nabbed from Vavadi village of Rajula taluka in Amreli district on Thursday.Police said the accused, Mahesh Ajnar (23) and his brother Manish Ajnar (19), along with their father Sitaram Ajnar had allegedly clubbed to death Sitaram’s brother Rajaram Ajnar in Kubadakuva village of Amjera taluka in Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh.Sitaram and Rajaram had a long pending land dispute, following which they had frequent altercations that subsequently resulted in Rajaram’s murder. “After the crime, while Sitaram was arrested and jailed, Mahesh and Manish escaped to Amreli where they had been working as labourers,” said M A Mori, sub-inspector with Amreli special operation group. “We received a tip-off about them hiding in Vavadi, following which we nabbed them. During their interrogation, they broke down and confessed to their crime,” said Mori. Before they fled from MP, the accused duo had already been booked for murder in Amjera police station of Dhar district in MP. “After nabbing the accused duo, we have handed them over to Amjera police station officials,” added Mori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-murder-accused-from-mp-hiding-in-rajula-village-nabbed/articleshow/78561977.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||44-year-old MNC staffer held for raping three minor girls in Vadodara||VADODARA: A routine session of ‘good touch and bad touch’ for school children at a residential building complex in Maneja area of Vadodara on Wednesday brought out horrifying details of sexual assault that three minor girls aged 12, 9 and 6 years, had been facing for over a year. On Thursday police arrested a 44-year-old man working with a multinational company, for allegedly raping the minors living in his building. Police said that the accused Rajnikant Mahto had been exploiting the girls for over a year by calling the girls to his house or while in the building’s elevator. Mahto’s misdeeds came to light on Wednesday when one of the girls started crying during a ‘good touch, bad touch’ session that was conducted by a woman in the building. On being asked, the 12-year-old told how Mahto had been exploiting her. After hearing about it, two siblings – a nine-year-old girl and her six-year-old sister – claimed that they too have gone through the same ordeal. All three girls used to go to the woman to get their queries in school lessons solved. The woman then informed the girls’ parents about what she heard from the girls. When their parents asked, the girls confirmed and said that all these months they did not say anything as Mahto had threatened them. The parents then called the police and got Mahto arrested. During the interrogation, Mahto told cops that he used to lure the girl to his house when his wife would not be around by offering them sweets and chocolates. He would then touch the girls inappropriately, said police. “We have booked the accused under section 376 AB, 2N of the amended law on rape. We are also investigating if he had targeted other girls or women from the building or elsewhere,” said inspector R A Patel of Makarpura police station. Mahto was also booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Police officials said that Mahto works as a contract workers’ supervisor in the MNC’s facility in Maneja. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/44-yr-old-mnc-staffer-held-for-raping-three-minor-girls/articleshow/78560972.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Business||Google Play Store’s Indian alternatives get a boost||Chennai/Bengaluru: With Google facing heat for its billing policies, the search for a national app store alternative to the Play Store is gathering pace.Paytm is leading a coalition of entrepreneurs towards this search, while homegrown app store Indus App Bazaar is pitching itself as a ‘Made in India’ product to “democratise app access”.Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma on Thursday announced a new fund of Rs 10 crore to back mini-app developers on its platform. “This means that they will have an equity investment. These investment terms will be one of the most lenient one can expect,” Sharma said. In a display of its distribution power, Paytm — which unveiled its app-in-app service earlier this week — said it has 150 million monthly active users. “This will be like an incubator (making investment) with pre-defined terms, which typically is...a certain percentage of stake in the firm for a certain amount of capital. No extra rights, no extra obligations,” Sharma added. Paytm also said it was aiming to on-board a million apps before Google’s billing policy kicks-in here by April 2022. A group of local entrepreneurs have been protesting against Google’s move to implement 30% fees on digital transactions in India, which pushed the tech giant to defer the deadline by six months to April 2022.Indus App Bazaar, an app store by Mumbai-based Indus OS, reported increased traction in both users and developer base in the past week. “We have seen an increase of 40-50% in the number of (developer) signups in the last two weeks,” Indus OS co-founder and IIT-Bombay alumnus Rakesh Deshmukh told TOI. Without specifying details, Deshmukh said “discussions have begun with relevant policymakers” to help them with “our insights and experience on building Bharat ka app store”. Launched in 2014, Indus has over 400,000 apps listed on it and around 100 million users across English and 12 other regional languages. It is currently on Samsung, Micromax and Karbonn phones — its OEM partners. Omidyar Network, JSW Ventures and Samsung Ventures are a few investors in Indus OS. Users can download apps without an email address and find apps in local languages. The store does not charge developers any fee.“Indus App Bazaar is specially designed to cater to Indian users and elevate Indian developers. We want to provide a level-playing field to local developers to compete with global players,” Deshmukh said. However, owing to its current B2B2C model, the app store can be accessed only on partner OEM devices. The company said it is in discussions with other Indian and global smartphone brands.Pavel Naiya, a senior analyst at Counterpoint Research, said creating an app store in the same technical league as Google Play Store is going to be “a mammoth task”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-play-stores-indian-alternatives-get-a-boost/articleshow/78561251.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 9, 2020||Business||Gold ETF inflows drop 34% in September||CHENNAI: Gold ETF inflows saw a 34% decline to Rs 597 crore in September on a monthly basis, even as folios grew by 13,000. Mutual fund body Amfi CEO N S Venkatesh said that investor sentiment moved towards economic revival and the stimulus has led to investments being driven towards equity funds and away from paper gold, which was seen as a safe haven in the last few months. “In August, there was a ‘risk-off’ mode, where people started investing in paper gold with easy access to entry and exit. Now, we see a ‘risk-on’ mode with higher risk due to gold’s volatile prices, diverting investments towards equity funds. Though gold prices are on a rising trend, they are still not as high as previous months,” Venkatesh said. Net AUM stands at Rs 13,589 crore as of September 2020. “From the lifetime highs of Rs 56,191 per 10 gram in August, gold prices has corrected by 10.4%. Despite some correction, we do expect gold prices to shoot up during Diwali,” said Angel Broking deputy VP (commodities & currencies research) Anuj Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-etf-inflows-drop-34-in-sept/articleshow/78561694.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata-London direct flight operations extended till March||KOLKATA: The direct flight between Kolkata and London will now operate up to March 31, 2021. The flight that was originally scheduled to operate till October 24 had been extended till December 31 only a week ago. While the news was welcomed by families in Kolkata who have relatives settled in the UK, it wasn’t music to the ears for those waiting to travel elsewhere. The announcement of the flight extension under the air-bubble agreement with the UK means that scheduled commercial flights are unlikely to resume services till March-end. “The London flight with the Dreamliner aircraft will continue to operate till the end of this fiscal. The extended run will give flyers a chance to plan their travel well in advance. For the airline, it will give the flight time to stabilize in the new post-Covid environment,” an airline official told TOI. Travel agents, too, felt the flight would get time to stabilize. “We are glad AI has extended the flight till the end of March. Now, it has to be marketed well so that loads go up and the flight becomes viable and not a liability for the airline. This is where the travel agent community can play a crucial role. The airline must utilize the 500-strong travel agent force in the city to its advantage. We have to retain the flight,” said Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Till now, the flight’s loads have been dismal. The 256-seater aircraft is yet to get 100 passengers either way since it started the twice-a-week operation on September 16. Tollywood has been a saviour of sorts, aggregating 125 seats till date. Among those that have travelled are Churni Ganguly, who went on the first flight, Nusrat Jahan, Riddhi Sen, Mimi Chakraborty and Jeet, who flew out on Thursday. The next highest segment of flyers have been students travelling to the UK to join several institutions after the fall break. Prospective travellers, particularly NRIs who have relatives and homes in Kolkata and prefer spending the winter in the city, have, however, welcomed the move. Sources in the airline said the Covid situation that restricted trips to only essential travel was proving to be a problem. Though the UK is offering all visas, the 14-day home quarantine rule means only those who have relatives in the country are taking the chance to travel. An official also said there had been no travellers from states in the region or from the north-east. “Usually, Kolkata is the hub from where residents of other eastern and north-eastern states take international flights. But we have not had any flyer from the region yet,” he said. A section of travel agents, however, felt it would have been better had the civil aviation ministry announced the resumption of normal flight operations on the international sector instead of extending bubble flights. “Yes, we want the direct flight to London to do well. But that should not be at the cost of all other flights that used to operate to Kolkata,” said Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-london-direct-flight-ops-extended-till-march/articleshow/78561771.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Realty sees business surge in July-September||KOLKATA: The real estate industry in the city is witnessing signs of a revival after the second phase of unlocking started in July this year. A study of the period from July to September by Knight Frank India, a real estate consultancy firm, has revealed that home sales buoyed by the demand in the affordable segment have witnessed a 139% surge in this quarter in the city compared to the quarterly average of 2019. This figure is highest among the big cities in India. In office space transactions, too, the city has recorded 62% recovery in this quarter of 2020 compared to the average office space transactions in 2019. The figures were corroborated by leading real estate players in the state. “Developers were able to garner buyer interest through active usage of digital platforms. A lower home loan interest rate also supported pick-up in residential sales. The acute labour crunch experienced in the earlier part of the lockdown also started to ease out,” the study said. Swapan Dutta, director east, Knight Frank, said, “Last year, the demand in the city was subdued, which is why this year’s figure looks quite good. A lot of developers have linked projects with PMAY so that customers get interest subsidies. The GST on affordable housing has also been reduced to 1%, which is an incentive.” Incidentally, housing up to Rs 45 lakh is under the affordable housing segment. According to the study, current quarterly sales of residential units were 3,921, compared to the average quarterly demand of 2,817 in 2019. Chennai had recorded a growth of 73%, followed by 60% in Pune, 57% in NCR and 50% in Mumbai. However, the study pointed out that like other metro cities, the average price has gone down. In office space transactions, Kolkata recorded 0.2 million sqft this quarter. Chennai recorded a 57% recovery followed by NCR with 43% and Mumbai with 42%. Sushil Mohta, chairman, Merlin Group & president, Credai West Bengal, said, “Post unlock, Merlin has witnessed positive response from customers and channel partners starting from site visits to booking of apartments. August and September were quite encouraging for Merlin group where we have reinforced the trust and faith of customers. In the past two months, we had crossed the best response over the past year.” Commenting on office space, he said despite a lot of people working from home, office space demand has picked up. H V Patodia, national president elect of Credai, said “Customers are coming back and booking has improved. The number of inventories is also getting reduced.” Sanjay Jain, MD of Siddha Group, admitted that in the last quarter, business has come back to the pre-Covid level. “Customers are now coming throughout the week. Earlier, it had only been on the weekends,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/realty-sees-biz-surge-in-july-sept/articleshow/78561809.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Business||TCS beats Accenture as most valued IT company||MUMBAI: Indian software services major Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Thursday became the most valued company in its sector globally, surpassing Accenture. At 11pm IST, Accenture’s market capitalisation was $143.1 billion, compared to TCS’s $144.7 billion (by Thursday’s close on the BSE). IBM, the other global IT software major, had a market cap of $116 billion, data from NYSE, Nasdaq and BSE showed. On Thursday, TCS rallied over 3% to close at Rs 2,825 after its board decided the previous evening to go for a buyback at Rs 3,000 per share. Several of the brokerage houses have also upgraded the stock in recent weeks and have also hiked its target price. In India, TCS is the most valued company across sectors, behind Reliance Industries which is at nearly $215 billion. tnn In the past few weeks, boosted by expectations of better business prospects, most Indian software services majors have witnessed good buying interest on the bourses. On Thursday, Wipro rallied over 10% in early trades and closed 7% higher, while Infosys rallied over 4% and closed 2.6% higher. Watch Indian software services TCS beats Accenture as most valued IT company||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcs-beats-accenture-as-most-valued-it-co/articleshow/78563089.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar, other Bihar leaders condole Ram Vilas Paswan’s death||PATNA: Politicians, social workers and people cutting across party lines condoled the death of Union minister and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away in New Delhi on Thursday. Residents of Hajipur in Vaishali, the seat he had represented in the Lok Sabha for a long time were shocked at the demise of their beloved leader. CM Nitish Kumar, in his condolence message, said Paswan left a strong imprint on Indian politics. Paying his homage to the departed soul, Nitish described him (Ram Vilas) as an elegant orator, popular leader, able administrator, good organizer and a lovable person. Referring to the departed leader’s political journey Nitish said Ram Vilas Paswan was first elected as a member of the state legislative assembly in 1969. In 1977, he got elected as an MP from Hajipur (SC) parliamentary constituency with a record margin. The CM said, “I had a very old relationship with Ram Vilas Paswan. I pray to the almighty to give enough courage and patience to the bereaved family to bear the great loss.” Former CM Rabri Devi and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also expressed grief over the demise of the Union minister and said no food was cooked in their house on Thursday night to mark the mourning. RJD national vice- president Shivanad Tiwari remembered Paswan as a man, who went out of the way to maintain personal relations. “I remember I somehow forgot to invite Ram Vilas Ji to my daughter’s wedding at Patna in 1992. He came on his own with his younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras, saying how could he not bless his niece on her wedding. He always told me to keep blessing his son Chirag Paswan,” Tiwari said. Former Maharashtra CM and BJP in-charge of Bihar elections Devendra Fadnavis said that the nation has lost a great humanist leader. “We used to meet and discuss the issues related to Maharashtra. His contribution to uplift weaker sections of society would always be remembered,” the former Maharashtra CM said. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said Ram Vilas Paswan always worked for the development of Bihar. “His contribution as Union minister will always be remembered. Whichever ministries he was allotted, he worked hard and left his impact,” he added. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha also expressed his condolence. “He was not only counted as a senior Dalit leader in Bihar but was a famous socialist leader across the country. He emerged during the JP movement,” recalled Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-other-bihar-leaders-condole-paswans-death/articleshow/78563538.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Patna||All sections given representation in Bihar assembly polls: JD(U)||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) has tried to give proper representation to all segments of society as far as allotment of tickets to candidates for the upcoming assembly polls is concerned. A cursory view of the list of 115 candidates released by the party on Wednesday revealed that Nitish followed ‘sabka saath, sabkta vikas’ policy in allotment of tickets. The names of altogether 22 women figured in the list, suggesting the party’s commitment towards women empowerment. According to the list, the highest 19 tickets were given to candidates belonging to the EBC category, the base vote of the JD(U), for which the Nitish Kumar government had earlier initiated a slew of welfare measures. Yadavs also didn’t lag behind and were allotted 18 tickets. The members of Kushwaha community bagged 15 seats followed by Kurmi (12), scheduled caste (17) and Muslims (11). One seat went to the ST category and three to Vaishya (businessmen) community. Nitish also reposed faith in the upper caste voters and allotted 19 seats to them, equal to the EBCs. The break-up of the upper caste tickets is Bhumihars (10), Rajputs (7) and Brahmins (2). A rough survey of the castes revealed that Yadavs constituted around 14% of the state’s population, Muslims nearly 17% and the upper castes around 13% followed by OBCs 11%, SC constitutes around 16% and the EBC around 29-30%. The JD(U) has got a total of 122 seats as part of its seat-sharing with the BJP. Of the 122, the JD(U) allotted seven seats to former CM Jitam Ram Manjhi led HAM (S). Reacting to the list of candidates, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said, “Nitish ji has always given due representation to every section of society. The list of the candidates released by the party also followed the same pattern. Women have also been given proper representation in the list.” There is no denying the fact that tickets are distributed by political parties in Bihar keeping in mind the caste factor. Former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies D M Diwakar said, “Not only in politics, caste plays an important role in every sphere of life in Bihar. The political parties distribute the tickets keeping it in mind as they have to win more and more seats to come to power.” Diwakar said though democracy has strengthened in the country with the passage of time, it is yet to get rid of caste, creed and religion. “It has miserably failed to address the basic question of democracy – making a sensible citizen,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-all-sections-given-representation/articleshow/78561294.cms||Ramashankar
October 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ticket seekers continue to throng party offices||PATNA: Even as political parties have already started releasing names of their candidates phase wise, many ticket aspirants can still be seen making rounds of the party offices to convince their leaders. Offices of all the three major parties – JD(U), BJP and RJD – on Beerchand Patel Marg have been witnessing huge crowd of ticket seekers and their supporters. Workers come with bio-data and portfolios and spend the whole day in party offices, if necessary, to meet senior leaders. Every time, they see an SUV with party flags, the ticket seekers crowd it along with their supporters. Few candidates are also seen revolting at party offices after denial of tickets. At the BJP office, one Tarkeshwar Singh staged protest along with his supporters on Thursday after his ticket was given to the VIP, which recently joined the NDA. Tarkeshwar said he was supposed to get ticket to contest from Baniapur assembly constituency in Saran district. “I was denied ticket at the last minute as part of a conspiracy,” he added. Gyanendra Kumar Sharma (49), who wants to contest from any constituency in Sitamarhi, said, “I have done a lot for farmers in Belsand and Riga. I have been working hard for over years to gain the trust of people in those constituencies. I’m now waiting for an opportunity to meet the right person in BJP to get the ticket,” he said. Similarly, people are making a beeline for RJD office in the hope of meeting senior leaders. Raman Singh Yadav, who wanted to contest from Amarpur in Banka, said, “I had submitted my bio-data at the office and tried to meet Tejaswhiji, but in vain. The seat was given to the Congress,” he said. Bhola Singh (43), another ticket aspirant, was seen sitting at the RJD office with his supporters with files in his hand. “I am keen to contest from Katoria in Bhagalpur,” he said. At JD(U) office too, ticket aspirants were seen sitting in groups with their supporters. Even the Congress office at Sadaquat Ashram and LJP office near Patna airport are buzzing with activities. “Now that the party has parted ways with NDA, I am hopeful of getting ticket. I have been supporting the LJP for more than five years and want to contest from Pipra constituency,” said Narendra Singh (37), who hails from Supaul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ticket-seekers-continue-to-throng-party-offices/articleshow/78560500.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 9, 2020||Patna||Centralised counselling for Patna university admissions to begin on October 12||PATNA: The centralised counselling for admission to BCom honours courses of Patna University (PU) will start on October 12. Colleges are likely to announce their cut-off lists soon. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said counselling for admission to commerce courses both under conventional and self-financing modes would be done at Wheeler Senate House, adhering to Covid-19 safety norms. Fixed number of students figuring in the merit list would be called for counselling per day and colleges would be allotted as per their choice mentioned in the application form. First of all, all the 400 sanctioned seats available for conventional stream at Vanijya Mahavidyalaya will be filled according to the marks obtained in the combined entrance test and then counselling for admission on seats available for self-financing stream at Magadh Mahila College and Vanijya Mahavidyalaya would be taken up, Jha said. “After completion of admission to the BCom honours courses, PU will start centralised counselling for admission to BSc and BA honours courses in different colleges, including Patna Science College, Patna College, B N College and Magadh Mahila College. The results of combined entrance test for admission to BSc honours course have already been published and the results of entrance test or admission to BA honours course are likely to be published soon,” he added. PU has already extended the last date for submission of online application forms for admission to conventional postgraduate courses in different streams till October 12. The date has been extended due to the delay in publication of the results of Degree part III honours examinations of the university. However, as per the revised academic calendar, admission to all the courses of PU for the academic session 2020-21 would be completed by October 31. “Induction meet for the newly admitted students of both UG and PG courses will be held from November 2 to 5 and the classes of newly admitted students will commence on November 5,” Jha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centralised-counselling-for-pu-admissions-to-begin-on-oct-12/articleshow/78560598.cms||B K Mishra
October 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM, BJP netas should tender apology: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday said CM Nitish Kumar and BJP leaders should tender an apology for “defaming” him and his elder brother Tej Pratap in the case pertaining to murder of expelled RJD Dalit leader Shakti Malik. Tejashwi even dared to file a defamation suit against the ruling party leaders for naming them in the case. Tejashwi said the police should find out on whose pressure Malik’s wife had lodged an FIR against him and his elder brother. Describing the allegations as “dirty politics” and “conspiracy”, Tejashwi said, “I believe in clean politics. However, the level of politics has stooped to a new low. Ruling party leaders, including BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, organised a press conference and put baseless allegations on me and my brother. On behalf of JD(U), CM Nitish Kumar should tender a public apology.” He also raised the issue of phone numbers used in demanding money from Malik. “That number was given to a guesthouse in the zoo, which comes under the forest department and deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi is the minister of that department. It is clear under whose instruction these things were done,” he added. A day before, Tejashwi had also written to CM Nitish, asking him to recommend a CBI inquiry into Malik’s murder. Malik was shot dead at his home in Purnia on October 3. His wife had lodged an FIR against six people, including Tej and Tejashwi. However, the Purnia SP had on Wednesday said no evidence was found against RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s sons in the case. The SP had said Malik was killed over a financial dispute as he used to give loans and levy high interest besides harassing people. Seven people have so far been arrested in connection with the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-bjp-netas-should-tender-apology-tejashwi/articleshow/78561263.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Family cremates man, probe begins||Ahmedabad: Amraiwadi police on Thursday began an inquiry in a suicide case where a man, 32, hanged himself to death at his home in New Cotton Mill chawl late on Wednesday night and his family members cremated his body without informing cops. Inspector N L Desai of Amraiwadi police said that Raju Dantani, 32, had a tiff with his wife over his drinking habit on Wednesday night after which he went inside his house in New Cotton Mill chawl. His wife and two kids were sleeping outside their home. During the wee hours of Thursday, his wife found him hanging inside house and informed his brother. Raju’s family members reached his home and cremated him immediately. At that time, some unknown person called up police and said that a murder victim was being cremated at Hatkeshwar crematorium. When police reached there, Raju’s family members told cops that they did not suspect murder, so they performed his last rites. Police began questioning his family members about the circumstances which led them to cremate the body, said Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/family-cremates-man-probe-begins/articleshow/78562050.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||ACP’s 4-day custody ends, proves tough nut to crack||Hyderabad: As arrested assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Y Narasimha Reddy proved to be a tough nut to crack during the four-day custodial interrogation, ACB investigators have sought details from registration department about gift deeds registered in the names of four accused at LB Nagar sub-registrar office pertaining to 1,960 square yard of government land opposite Cyber Towers at Madhapur. Narasimha Reddy’s police custody ended on Thursday and he was sent back in judicial remand to Chanchalguda prison. On September 23, ACB had conducted simultaneous searches at various places linked to Narasimha Reddy in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and unearthed alleged disproportionate assets over Rs 70 crore. One of the key assets that was unearthed was a 1,960 square yard of plot in front of Cyber Towers registered in the ACP’s wife’s name and four others. On October 2, ACB had arrested eight more persons, including those who claimed to have owned the land and those who purchased it from them, citing that it was government land allotted to APIIC, HUDA and other government organisations. ACB officials said in 2016 the four accused — G Sajjan Goud, distributor at a pharmacy in Amberpet, P Thirupathi Reddy, a water cans supplier from Narsingi, Y Chandrasekhar, a nursery worker from SR Nagar, and A Jaipal, a landscape contractor — fraudulently created gift deeds for the four plots of 490 square yards each (1960 sq yards in total) and got them registered on their names, showing as if they got the land from their fathers by mentioning fictitious house numbers and fake tax identification numbers . “We will examine the fathers of the four accused, whose details were mentioned in the gift deeds,” an ACB official said. Subsequently in 2018, the four plots were purchased by ACP Y Narasimha Reddy in the name of his wife Y Manga along with four other accused — Madhukar Sri Ram, an MPP of Karimnagar, B Chandra Reddy, a realtor, B Ramesh, a realtor, and A Srinivasa Reddy, a contractor for Rs 80 lakh. “It was shown in records as if Manga had paid Rs 20 lakh and Srinivasa Reddy paid Rs 60 lakh while all five members are joint owners of the four plots. We have written to registration department seeking details of how the gift deeds were registered and who did the registration,” an ACB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acps-4-day-custody-ends-proves-tough-nut-to-crack/articleshow/78563253.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Surat||Mega infra boost for Diamond City||Surat: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Monday approved the ‘Surat Development Plan-2035’ that is expected to give an impetus of the lockdown-battered real estate sector, hasten important projects like the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train and the overfall infrastructure development in and around the city.In the last four months, Surat city got two major policy level pushes from the state government. In June, almost after 14 years, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)‘s limit was expanded as two municipalities- Sachin and Kansad - having total 27 villages, were merged into the city. Surat city, famed for its diamond and textile industries, has a population of over 60 lakh population and is spread over 326 square km.In the run-up to finalizing the development plan 2035, the state government in November last year had taken a landmark decision to dereserve nearly 859 hecatres of 1,660 hectares of private and government land in Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and Surat Urban Development Authority (SUDA) areas. This land was under reservation since 1986.According to officials, this chunk of land will now be available for development purposes. Farmers and land owners will be able to executive their projects on their lands which had been reserved for the last 30 years.“The station for Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train is proposed at Antroli near Surat and this plan will give an impetus to this,” said an official.Dhaval Dhola, senior office-bearer of CREDAI (Surat) said, “The development plan 2035 was awaited for the last four years. CREDAI had hired expert agencies who played a vital role with necessary inputs in this plan. The city’s expansion will now happen in a planned manner and it can be pitched for Metro City status.”Dhola added, “The new areas will encourage more horizontal development like bungalows and row houses. Provision of the industrial corridor connecting NH-8 with Hazira will speed up industrial development and warehousing facilities required at the port. Also, the polluting industrial zones will be moved out from the city area to provide a good living environment to the residents.”The government decision comes at a time when municipal corporation and other civic body polls are scheduled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mega-infra-boost-for-diamond-city/articleshow/78560743.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong leaders booked for protest||Hyderabad: Congress leaders, including Youth Congress president Anil Kumar Yadav, were taken into custody and cases booked against them after they staged a protest at home minister Mahmood Ali’s residence in Hyderabad. The Congress leaders raised slogans and said violent incidents against women had increased in the state. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka met the 13-year-old Khammam girl, who was abused and set on fire, at a city hospital. AICC in-charge of Telangana affairs Manickam Tagore condemned the arrests of Congress workers. Banjara Hills police arrested 69 Congress party, Youth Congress and NSUI workers for barging into the minister’s quarters and staging protest. “The accused were booked under various Sections of IPC including 353, 342 and 147. They have been produced before the magistrate for judicial remand,” AR Srinivas, West Zone joint commissioner, said. If remanded, the accused will be sent to Chanchalguda prison. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-leaders-booked-for-protest/articleshow/78563257.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Govt launches toll free no. to check illicit activities in forests||Dehradun: In a major move aimed at curbing forest and wildlife-related issues, the state government has launched a tollfree number – 1926 – on Thursday with an aim to clampdown on all the illicit activities as well as mishaps in the forests. Chief minister Trivendera Singh Rawat, while inaugurating the number, laid stress on the need to involve locals in keeping the habitats of wild animals. “The surging issue of crop raiding by the wild animals like elephants and wild boars can be handled by crafting a scheme, wherein locals can be involved in making the forest more greener and richer for wildlife so that they stay inside and do not venture out to find out food,” he said. The scheme was launched in the presence of head of forest force Jairaj and chief wildlife warden JS Suhag. “The instant calling will help us in mapping the vulnerable zones and enhancing our forest frontline forces, to avert any mishap,” Suhag said. This year, Uttarakhand has already crossed over two dozen human-wildlife conflict and lost over a dozen human being to these deadly wild animal attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-launches-toll-free-no-to-check-illicit-activities-in-forests/articleshow/78560761.cms||Shivani Azad
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Notification for graduate constituency polls soon||Aurangabad: District collector and returning officer Sunil Chavan has urged the officials concerned to ensure utmost care while handling the process for the Aurangabad division graduate constituency election. “The notification for the elections is expected soon and all nodal officials concerned are to take every possible precaution amid the pandemic,” Chavan said while reviewing the preparation for the elections at a meeting on Wednesday. Chavan added that that in the wake of the ongoing pandemic all the officials have to read the election commission guidelines minutely and implement them effectively under their respective areas while following Covid-19 norms. Additional collector Anant Gavhane also apprised the officials, who attended the meeting, about their roles while deputy collector (election) Bharat Kadam informed the participants about the stages that need to be followed systematically as the election is being held in all the eight districts of Marathwada. The seat is currently being represented by Satish Chavan of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). He had won the Aurangabad division graduates constituency by defeating Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee Shirish Boralkar. Out of around 3.79 lakh voters, only 37.47% (around 1.42 lakh) voters participated in the elections held on June 20, 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/notification-for-graduate-constituency-polls-soon/articleshow/78559477.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||City sees Covid deaths in single digit after 69 days||Nagpur: After registering Covid-19 deaths in double digits for 69 days, the city saw fatalities drop to single digit on Thursday. The district too registered lowest deaths in a single day after 54 days.As per daily data released by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district civil surgeon, the district reported 20 Covid-19 deaths on Thursday, which is the lowest single-day toll after August 15 when 14 fatalities were reported. Of the 20 deaths on Thursday, eight were reported from the city which had last registered the same number on July 31.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI, “District’s Covid-19 curve has started to bend. Cases, deaths, test positivity rate are on a decline while recovery rate is improving. It is a positive development after two months.” Kumar feels the district is going through final stages of the pandemic. “We can hope the district will get rid of Covid-19 soon. From administration to doctors and others have been working hard for last seven months and continue to do so till the pandemic is over,” he said.Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe said cases have dropped but we are still registering 700-900 new patients daily. Regarding dip in number of deaths, he said it has happened due to various factors. “Unlike in the past when people did not come forward due to social stigma, they are reporting to hospitals and taking treatment at early stage with onset of symptoms. Also, awareness about testing and treating for Covid-19 has increased tremendously at clinic and OPD levels. Now, medicines too are available to a great extent,” he said.As per NMC’s data, bed availability has also increased. There were over 1,400 vacant beds in Covid hospitals as on Thursday.The city had registered first positive case on March 11 and first death on April 5. Fatalities started increasing from third week of August while the decline started from third week of September. As per NMC’s data, there were 83 deaths till end of July and by August end the toll reached 960. In August, 877 deaths were registered for a daily average of 28.The number of deaths surged to 2,096 on September 30. There were 1,136 deaths in September for a daily average of 38. Fatalities started declining from the first week of October. There were 138 deaths between October 1 and 7 for daily average of 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-sees-covid-deaths-in-single-digit-after-69-days/articleshow/78562042.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 9, 2020||Goa||Russian charters seeking landing slots in Goa: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Minister for ports Michael Lobo on Thursday said that the Union government will give a green signal to operate charter flights in November directly from Russia to Goa, and also added that casinos should be allowed to operate from November, which was the opinion of hoteliers too. Lobo was speaking to reporters after meeting with the chief minister and said that he has urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to hold a meeting with the state’s tourism stakeholders to understand their difficulties. He said that this meeting will be chaired by the chief minister and attended by tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar, environment minister Nilesh Cabral and he would be present as the MLA of the state’s coastal belt. Cabral’s presence, Lobo said, is needed because of issues related to coastal regulation zones (CRZ). He said that the meeting will decide how procedures can be expedited to allow private huts and shacks on beaches. “The meeting with tourism stakeholders will be held next week,” he said. Lobo also said that charter flights from Europe will also start operations, but Russian charter operators have already asked for landing slots. “Russian charter operators have shown their readiness to come to Goa. When they have shown willingness to come to Goa, we have to welcome them,” he said, adding that the Centre should first give permission for charters to land at the Goa airport and the state government should follow suit. The Calangute MLA said that only six casinos will remain in the Mandovi river. “The casino industry should start, and this is the opinion of the hotel industry. 50 percent of the tourists who stay in hotels go to the casinos. Some people go to play, and some people just visit,” he said. “To revive the state economy, casinos should be allowed to operate from November depending on the situation at that time. The chief minister should agree, the tourism minister should agree, and the cabinet should agree to start casinos,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/russian-charters-seeking-landing-slots-in-goa-lobo/articleshow/78563827.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Operator says went by book while hiring driver with 13 criminal cases||NEW DELHI: The arrest of Cluster Scheme bus driver Pradeep alias Nagraj (45) in a hit-and-run case and the revelation that he was involved in 13 criminal cases, including murder and robberies, has raised questions over the verification process for recruitment of drivers by private concessionaires. Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS), which operates and monitors Cluster Scheme, claimed that all legal requirements had been met when the driver was hired. Nagraj had mowed down three people, including a minor, after allegedly losing control of the bus while driving down a flyover in northeast Delhi’s Nand Nagri in the last week of September. Three others, including the parents of the minor who was killed, sustained grievous injuries. While the driver managed to run away, the bus was pelted with stones and damaged by locals after the incident. “What happened at Nand Nagri is extremely unfortunate. The driver, who is from Rajghat Depot, has been doing this job for a long time. He has a Delhi driving licence and a Public Service Vehicle (PSV) badge, which were verified during recruitment. We complied with all laws, conducted medical tests and even provided the mandatory training,” a DIMTS official said. The official added that the stretch where the accident took place was accident-prone and similar incidents were witnessed there earlier too. “The stretch has a steep slope, which is very risky. We are analysing it to ensure that no such accidents take place anymore. Various measures are being taken so that Cluster Scheme buses are not involved in accidents in the future,” he said. Data of road crashes showed that compared with Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses, Cluster Scheme buses were involved in more fatal accidents in 2020. They caused 17 fatal accidents, killing 19 people up to September 30 this year. During the same period, DTC buses were involved in 11 fatal accidents in 19 were killed. Last year, Cluster Scheme buses mowed down 23 people in 21 fatal accidents (up to September 30), whereas DTC buses killed 16 people in 21 incidents. Speaking to TOI, special commissioner (traffic) Taj Hasan said, “We have been regularly conducting road safety lessons for bus drivers. When accidents occur, we make it a point to analyse it and bring those aspects while teaching them. Regarding accidents caused by Cluster Scheme buses, if they are repetitive, we write to the management so that they can take necessary action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/operator-says-went-by-book-while-hiring-driver-with-13-criminal-cases/articleshow/78563260.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Conmen flee with IAS officer’s bag in Madiaon||LUCKNOW: Unidentified conmen stole a briefcase containing cash and gold rings studded with gems from the car of an IAS officer in Madiaon after diverting his driver’s attention and spraying a foul smelling liquid while he was returning home on Wednesday. SHO Madiaon, V P Singh said IAS officer Dr Vedpati Mishra, resident of Sahara City Homes, is special secretary in UP science and technology department. “On Wednesday evening, Mishra stopped at a shop near Madiaon Kotwali to purchase sweets while returning home. His driver Nitish parked the car at the roadside and went to the shop. When Nitish returned, two youths approached him, while pointing towards the bonnet of the car,” Singh said. “Mishra said one of the miscreants sprayed some liquid after which he felt a stinking smell and breathlessness,” he said. “I came out of the car as I was feeling suffocated and Nitish bent down to see under the bonnet. When we sat in the car again, I found the briefcase missing,” Mishra said in his complaint. There was Rs 50,000 cash and three gold rings studded with ruby, pearl and topaz in the suitcase, he added. “We have registered a case and started the investigation. The teams are scanning the CCTV footages also,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/conmen-flee-with-ias-officers-bag/articleshow/78563849.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid Covid spread, 10% cyber crime cases detected this year||Hyderabad: Amid the spread of the pandemic, less than ten per cent of cyber crime cases have been detected this year, said police. Cops expect the detection per cent to increase in the next two months. This year, till September, as many as 1,973 cyber crime cases have been registered, of which only 160 cases were detected, as most fraudsters are traced outside the state, said police. “Cyber crime has no jurisdiction. At the time of lockdown, even though cops could not travel to other states to track offenders, the cybercrime cases kept pouring in,” said a cyber crime cop. “Currently, three teams are in Rajasthan, West Bengal and Delhi to track offenders. Now that the teams have started travelling again, we are hoping the detection percentage will increase in the next two months,” said KVM Prasad, ACP cyber crime, Hyderabad. Most of the offences were financial frauds like-- debit-credit card fraud, KYC scam, OTP fraud. Over 400 cases of KYC scams were recorded this year, while, 300 offences were marketplace fraud with most traced to Bharatpur in Rajasthan. “The offenders, pretending to be army officials, lure victims by posting vehicles or electronic items for sale ads on online marketplaces for second-hand products and cheat citizens,” said the ACP. Three teams are in Rajasthan, West Bengal and Delhi to track offenders. Now that the teams have started travelling , we are hoping the detection percentage will increase in two months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-covid-spread-10-cyber-crime-cases-detected-this-year/articleshow/78563262.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How his journey on road to crime started 21 years ago||NEW DELHI: The crime journey of 45-year-old Pradeep alias Nagraj started in 1999 when he was arrested for mowing down a woman in Vikaspuri with his bus. The woman, Poonam Gupta, was declared brought dead at a hospital. He was sent to jail, but was acquitted in 2007 by a judge at Tis Hazari Courts. In 2001, Nagraj injured his neighbour’s two-year-old child playing outside his house in outer Delhi with his Blueline bus. He was acquitted in the case in 2010. In 2002, he was arrested for assaulting a woman. The same year, as he wasn’t allowed to drive, he formed a gang with four people from his village and two from Haryana to rob truck drivers. He was arrested in several such cases. In two of them, he was also charged with abduction as he had driven off with the truck helper. An investigating officer said the gang members would target vehicles parked on the roadside or while their tyres were being changed. “In October 2002, they tied up a truck driver and his helper, who were changing a flat tyre in Sampla, Haryana, and fled with the vehicle. He was convicted in the case in 2005 by a court in Haryana,” added the officer. Out of 13 criminal cases, Nagraj was acquitted in five, while he completed his jail term in a case lodged under Arms Act. A resident of Issapur village, Nagraj was known to be an aggressive person. Police said he was an alcoholic and even consumed drugs. He would easily pick up fights with not just locals, but also his family members. He has a wife, two sons and a daughter, apart from his father and brother. In 2009, Nagraj attacked his uncle with an axe during an argument and injured him critically. He then went underground only to return in 2014 when he was caught in a theft case. This October, he was booked for rash and negligent driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-his-journey-on-road-to-crime-started-18-yrs-ago/articleshow/78563272.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad woman’s photo morphed on social media, FIR filed||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old woman from the Ranip area of the city filed a complaint with cyber crime police on Wednesday alleging that some unknown person had put her morphed pictures on Facebook with obscene messages suggesting she is a sex-worker. In her FIR, the woman states that her friend had informed her on September 10 that someone had put her morphed picture with an account name Payal Patel and put an obscene message also. She said that the pictures might have been picked from her Instagram account or from her Whattsapp display pictures. She said that the accused had also put her husband’s cellphone number with the obscene message. Police registered a complaint under charges of information technology act and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ranip-womans-photo-morphed-on-social-media-fir-filed/articleshow/78562054.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand youth returning home during lockdown now prefer start-ups, agri sector over returning to big cities for blue-collar jobs||Dehradun: Their monthly profits may not be earth-shattering, but they have acted as a catalyst in the process of boosting the chances of reverse migration in a state which has seen migration of over 5 lakh people in the last 10 years and total number of uninhabited villages rising to almost 1800. During the Covid-induced national lockdown and slightly before it, around 4.5 lakh people have returned to the Himalayan state, and many have set examples that starting their own work in their home towns or villages was more profitable and satisfying than working in outside places.Dinesh Sharma and Govind Singh for instance have started making LED lights in a small village of Almora. Residents of Patalgaon village in Almora’s Chaukhutiya block — Sharma and Singh returned to the state during the lockdown. Both were working in private firms in Delhi and with the Covid-19 situation, they were uncertain of their future in Delhi. Forty-year-old Singh told TOI, “We decided that we should start our own work, which could help generate income while staying in our beautiful and peaceful village.”With a small investment of around Rs 1 lakh, Singh and Sharma started manufacturing LED lights in April. As the orders started pouring in, they ventured into streetlights, solar lights and floodlights. They even managed to provide jobs to half-a-dozen people from their village. “We are getting a good amount of orders, and after deducting all the expenses, our profits range between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 per month. I know it is not enough, but we are confident that our work will pick up,” Singh added.After having worked in Dubai as a hotel frontline staff for nearly nine years, Navasu (Rudraprayag) resident Ramesh Singh Rauthan decided to return to his village and start his own work. He joined hands with his friends Ramesh Singh and Nitin Rauthan, who had returned from Mumbai, and Brijesh Kumar and Pravin Kumar, who had come back from Haridwar.With almost little or no knowledge in the agriculture and horticulture sector, the five friends decided to take training from a government centre. After acquiring training, they started cultivation of oyster mushrooms and the business picked up within five months. “After its success, we have tried our hands at button mushrooms and we will know about its outcome in the next few weeks. Our profits have touched Rs 18,000 per month,” Ramesh said, adding that they are now planning to open their poultry farm and a dairy centre in the village. “Rather than working for hours for a paltry amount in other cities or even abroad, it is better to work in our villages and among our own people,” he added.It is a similar story for Mahendra Kumar Singh, who gave up his job in the automobile sector in Delhi-NCR. Mahendra was disappointed as in the last few years around 70 of the 150 families of his village had migrated. He identified an agricultural land in Jaitha area, which is around seven km from his village, and took it on lease. Thereafter, he approached the district administration, which provided him training as well as seeds. He has now set up four poly houses and employed 50 people from his village and adjoining areas. “It is still too early to quote any figure, but the total earning would be around Rs 3 lakh. I am also planning integrated farming methods and want to set up a dairy in the near future,” he added.In yet another instance, four friends — Ajay Shankar Rana, Sunil Rana, Rajesh Rana and Bhupendra Rana — who had migrated from their native Palakurali village in Rudraprayag district in search of job and better opportunities, returned to their village sometime back and decided to work as tourist guides for visitors coming to Rudraprayag, which houses Kedarnath and dozens of other prominent temples. In addition, they have converted 10 houses into homestays. They also apprise visitors of the rich heritage of the region.Environmentalist Udit Ghidiyal, who has been working on promoting the agricultural sector in Pauri district since the start of the pandemic, said that step farming and delay in consolidation of land were the two biggest problems faced by farmers in the hills. “The agri sector has a big scope but the problem is consolidation of land. The fields are situated at huge distances and due to step farming it becomes difficult to plough the fields,” he said. “With fields being scattered, the problems faced by farmers are immense and it has been a major factor for people migrating from the villages. Hopefully, people who have now returned due to the pandemic will stay on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-youth-returning-home-during-lockdown-now-prefer-start-ups-agri-sector-over-returning-to-big-cities-for-blue-collar-jobs/articleshow/78560765.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC allows Bar test without resigning||Ahmedabad: In a special case of a working woman who wants to become a lawyer, the Gujarat high court has ordered the Bar Council of Gujarat to allow her to sit in the All India Bar Examination, which is now a must to clear to practice law, without resigning from her present job. The Advocates Act warrants resignation from current employment even to take the test to become a lawyer. The petitioner here, Twinkle Mangaonkar was facing difficulties in provisional enrolment and to take the test to start her career as an advocate only because she is employed. Mangaonkar had graduated in 1996. It was the demise of her husband in 2009 that made her the sole bread earner of her family. She became a law graduate in 2019 and applied with the BCG for enrolment and to appear in the All India Bar Examination. In her application, she mentioned that she is employed in some other profession. The Bar asked her to resign first from her job to be able to qualify for provisional enrolment and to take the test. Her application was not accepted. Without this enrolment certificate with the Bar, she cannot practice law. She moved the high court and submitted that the process of giving up her current job and taking up law as a full-time profession has to be a gradual process. She can give up her current job and take up the profession of law only when her circumstances permit her to do so. She declared that she would not carry out two professions simultaneously. After hearing her case, the bench of Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala permitted Mangaonkar to take the test without giving up her current job. But the HC made it clear that the interim order would not permit her to continue with two professions in future, once she becomes a lawyer. The HC ordered the Bar Council to accept her application and not to insist on her resignation. It will issue provisional enrolment certificate to her by October 15 so that she can register for the test before October 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-allows-bar-test-without-resigning/articleshow/78562084.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Physio goes atmanirbhar, treats relatives at home to end stigma, fear about Covid-19||Nagpur: City physiotherapist Dr Ashish Agrawal treated his Covid positive parents and sister-in-law at his home. All of them are Gondia residents and were tested there. When doctors in Gondia referred them to Nagpur, Dr Agrawal brought them to his place. With shortage of beds in hospitals, he decided to treat them at home as all three of them were having mild symptoms.Dr Agrawal bought oxygen cylinder, pulse oxymeter and blood pressure (BP) machine to create an in-house isolation hospital for his relatives. “Now, after 14 days, they are all doing fine,” said Dr Agrawal. “It’s not advisable for any non-medico to treat Covid-19 patients at home. I chose to go for it only because I am a medical professional. Secondly, I used this as an opportunity to give a message regarding the stigma and fear about Covid-19 in common people,” said Dr Agrawal. “I kept on monitoring the vital parameters of all the three patients at home. We strictly followed physical distancing. But that doesn’t mean you should treat them like untouchables. I never used PPE kit. We all used masks and covered our nose and mouth which was enough,” he said. According to him, PPE kits are required at hospitals where risk of infection is very high. “At homes, if your nose and mouth are covered, you are safe. I used to conduct check-ups daily and give medicines to my parents. Neither I, nor anyone else in my family got infected,” he said. His parents and sister-in-law left for Gondia on Thursday afternoon after being Covid-19 free. They said, treatment at home helped them a lot. Dr Agrawal also appealed people not to treat Covid patients at home without supervision of qualified doctors. “I was constantly in touch with a physician. Common people can check oxygen levels, BP and temperature, but applying oxygen cylinder is a clinical job. Moreover, it’s difficult for a non-medico to understand that the condition of patient is deteriorating and patient needs hospitalization,” he said. Physician Dr Sandeep Gadhwe, who has been treating Covid patients in one of the dedicated Covid hospitals in Nagpur said that senior citizens should be treated at hospitals only. “If you are asymptomatic, doctors will ask you to stay at home. But, doctors take no chances in case of senior citizens and co-morbid patients. Nothing should be done without doctor’s advise,” he said.Not for all Being a medical professional, Dr Agrawal decided to treat his parents at homeKept gadgets like pulse oxymeter, thermometer, BP checking machine handy Also kept oxygen cylinder ready, was trained in using them in case neededPatients stayed away from all family members, maintained distancing No one of them shared bathroom with each other neither with any member of family Staying home makes recovery faster, but medical supervision is must, stressed Dr Agrawal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/physio-goes-atmanirbhar-treats-relatives-at-home-to-end-stigma-fear-about-covid-19/articleshow/78562055.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Former ED official knocks HC door, urges to quash CBI bribe case||Hyderabad: B Srinivasa Gandhi, superintendent in GST commissionerate at Medchal, booked in a CBI case for demanding Rs 5 crore bribe to help a trader avail input tax credit, approached Telangana HC, urging it to quash CBI FIR against him. He questioned the Union finance ministry’s permission to file an FIR against him based on a complaint. Justice K Lakshman is likely to hear the case on Friday. Citing his earlier stint with the ED where he worked as an assistant director and played an instrumental role in filing chargesheets in cases against AP CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Gandhi claimed, in his petition, that he had pointed out certain lapses committed by the investigation officer in one of the 11 chargesheets the CBI filed in the same case. Chargesheet pertains to illegal allotment of housing board land in city to Indu Projects and since then, the CBI officer, who was in charge of this particular chargesheet, bore a grudge against him, Gandhi argued. He alleged that Infinity Metal Products, Bharani Commodities, Hindustan Ispat Company, Hyderabad Steels, EBC Bearings India Ltd and BRS Enterprises have unlawfully availed Rs 246 crore as input tax credit and that there are big political hands behind them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-ed-official-knocks-hc-door-urges-to-quash-cbi-bribe-case/articleshow/78563270.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Bars in Maha allowed to serve till 10pm||Nagpur: Maharashtra excise commissioner Kantilal Umap has permitted bars to remain open till 10pm. However, this order is applicable to only those districts where collector has not already decided the closure time for bars.In Nagpur district, collector Ravindra Thakare had issued an order directing the bars to close at 9pm.Earlier, tourism department had permitted bars and restaurants to remain open till 10pm.Thakare’s order has caused lot of heartburn among bar owners as they say most people come to their establishments after 8pm. Bar owners have urged the collector to allow them to operate till 11.30pm, the pre-lockdown timings.Sources in the excise department said Thakare may amend his order on Friday.“Many businessmen close their shops at 8pm and then visit bars. If we close down at 9pm, who will come to our place? Besides, wine shops are allowed to operate till 9pm,” said Sameer Sharma, a bar owner.Hotel owner Tejinder Singh Renu said the collector’s order was impractical and would lead to corruption. “Bar owners will pay police personnel to look the other way so that they can keep their establishments open till late hours,” he added.Piyush Rathi, a hotelier from Khamgaon, said condition of bar owners in Buldhana district is even worse. “The collector has asked us to close down at 7pm. Our business begins after 8pm. This is the reason why only 30% bars have opened shutters. The rest are still closed because they know they can’t do business with such timings. It is the staffers who are suffering the most as they are not getting salaries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bars-in-maha-allowed-to-serve-till-10pm/articleshow/78562088.cms||Ashish Roy
October 9, 2020||Goa||Over 50 Covid deaths in Goa in October first week||PANAJI: The state crossed half century mark of Covid-related mortalities within the first seven days of October with 52 deaths. On Thursday, this figure went up to 55 with seven more succumbing to the virus, taking the cumulative deaths to 485. Of the seven deaths reported, four took place at Goa Medical College (GMC), two at the ESI-Covid Hospital, Margao, and one at Hospicio Hospital, Margao. Two expired in the casualty of the ESI and Hospicio hospital and two did not have any comorbidities. CM Pramod Sawant attributed the deaths to patients seeking admission late and comorbid conditions. He said not a single patient had died due to shortage of supply of oxygen. He said it was not true that beds at GMC were full. The problem arises because everybody wants to be admitted at GMC and refuse to be admitted to other Covid hospitals in South Goa. A 38-year-old man from Dona Paula, with no comorbid condition, succumbed within a day of admission. He developed acute kidney injury and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and died of Covid pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Two women aged 60 and 50 from Taleigao and Ajuna, respectively, were among the deceased. One had diabetes and hypertension and the other diabetes. Among the men who succumbed were a 50-year-old from Porvorim, 65-year-old from Candolim, 84-year-old from Canacona and 72-year-old from Nuvem. Meanwhile, former North Goa MP Harish Zantye was discharged from Manipal Hospital after 14 days of treatment. “At 85 years and bedridden, he still managed to pull through. His being a non-smoker is a big advantage,” clinical head at Manipal Hospital, Dr Shekhar Salkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-50-covid-deaths-in-goa-in-oct-1st-week/articleshow/78563816.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC takes loan after govt backs out of decision to provide Rs 1,800 crore||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has been left to fend for itself with the state government withdrawing its decision to give Rs 1,839 crore to GHMC for restoring and maintaining 709.49 km of the city’s main roads. These roads were handed over to private agencies for five years under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP). After the state government backed out, the GHMC has availed a loan for Rs 1,809 crore this month from SBI Capital Markets (SBICAP). The loan amount will be released in installments and used for restoring and maintaining 401 stretches, said officials. According to GHMC sources, the flow of funds from the state has been slow for the last three years. Records show that the civic body had requested for Rs 4,000 crore, but was sanctioned only Rs 520 crore, during this period . In 2020-21 GHMC asked for Rs 1,300 crore but has been able to get only Rs 17 crore till date. But despite the civic body resorting to loans to engage private agencies, the roads under CRMP are ridden with several engineering defects. For instance on Road No. 1, Banjara Hills, there is heavy waterlogging after every spell of rain while parts of the stretch connecting Jubilee Hills Road No. 36 to Madhapur is badly damaged. When TOI questioned GHMC officials regarding the latter they claimed that restoration of the road was not yet taken up. Officials insisted that the private agencies were doing a good job. “At Banjara Hills Road No. 1, works related to drain have to be taken up and we are working on it,” said Ziauddin Mohammed, chief engineer (GHMC). He emphasised that the civic body will not spend even a paisa on roads handed over to private agencies. “If there is a pothole or a layer of bitumen has eroded, the private agencies will fix it. Non-performing agencies will be penalised,” he said. A total of 99.51 km of internal roads (non-CRMP stretches) are also being restored at a cost of Rs 52.17 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-takes-loan-after-govt-backs-out-of-decision-to-provide-rs-1-8k-cr/articleshow/78563274.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 9, 2020||Noida||UP: Three more arrested in Bike Bot fraud, 9 still absconding||NOIDA: After a long hiatus, the special task force and the economic offenses wing of UP Police have nabbed three more persons in connection with the Bike Bot scam, taking the total arrests in the case to 14. Those arrested have been identified as Pawan Bhati and Sachin Bhati — brothers of the main accused, Sachin Bhati and Pawan Bhati — and Karanpal Singh, the managing director of Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited. Sachin, too, has served as one of the directors in the company. Sachin and Karanpal, who carried rewards of Rs 50,000 on their heads, were arrested by the Noida unit of the STF from their village Cheeti on Tuesday. Karanpal, who has as many as 56 FIRs lodged against him, was arrested by the Meerut unit of the STF from Hapur Chungi area of Ghaziabad the same night. Karanpal Singh, who retired from the Indian Army in 2009, was behind luring thousands of former and serving defence personnel into investing in the scheme. Post retirement, he worked in an investment company in Dehradun after which he came in contact with Sanjay Bhati in 2016 and in 2018, he was made the MD and signing authority of the company, police said. Munna Baliyan, who has been sitting on a protest outside the Bike Bot office in Cheeti village, told TOI that Karanpal targeted the ex-servicemen into investing in the scheme and would use his good offices to keep a track on those officers who have recently retired and would motivate them to invest in the schemes of the company. With these arrests, the total number of arrests in the case have touched 14, but nine others still remain absconding. They include Sanjay’s wife Deepti Bahl, Lalit Kumar, Ravindra Kumar, Rekha Rani, Bhudev Chaudhary, BN Tiwari and Vijendra Hooda, who have a reward of Rs 50,000 declared against them. SP (EOW), Meerut, Ram Suresh Yadav said that since all his bail pleas have been rejected by the lower courts, the main accused, Sanjay Bhati, has approached the Allahabad HC. “The court has formed a separate division bench for the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/3-more-arrested-in-bike-bot-fraud-9-still-absconding/articleshow/78553129.cms||Shikha Salaria
October 9, 2020||Surat||Online mapping of Surat’s flora-fauna starts||Surat: For the first time, environmentalists and enthusiasts have started an online biodiversity mapping project to conserve the natural heritage of the city. They will be detailing the species of plants, animals, insects, birds and flora and fauna in and around the Diamond City. The biodiversity mapping has been started jointly by the city-based NGO, Wilderness India and the Ahmedabad-based Paryavaran Santri Trust for preparing a visual resource of the city’s biodiversity and natural heritage. Surat, the city of diamonds and textiles, is inhabited by the dwellers known for their happy go lucky community living and food frenzy nature. Apart from this, the city is blessed with rich biodiversity and fascinating landscape thriving on the banks of Tapi river that creates estuary due to proximity to the Arabian Sea. The team from Surat and Ahmedabad have taken up the campaign for conservation of local biodiversity, which essentially is the sum of all the different species of animals, plants, fungi and microbial organisms and the variety of habitats in which they live. Viral Prajapati of Wilderness India told TOI, “The idea for biodiversity mapping of Surat clicked us during the lockdown. We want to engage the local citizen in biodiversity conservation and highlight the benefits and the often hidden values imparted by natural diversity for the larger human welfare.” Prajapati added, “The project will help in documentation of flora and fauna and understand changes in biodiversity, adaptation by animals and birds as well as conservation practices.” Those participating in the online mapping process will be honoured with e-certificates. The nature lovers will have to drop a message on a dedicated number for getting the online forms to fill up their observations regarding the flora and fauna in their surroundings. “We will collate the observations submitted by the enthusiasts and will prepare a biodiversity map, ” said Prajapati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/online-mapping-of-surats-flora-fauna-starts/articleshow/78560799.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Open more tourist destinations, say Mussoorie traders, but locals strike cautionary note||Mussoorie: With the Covid-19 infection yet to abate in the state, hoteliers and business owners in Mussoorie are demanding the administration to open more places for tourists in and around the town, even though the residents are striking a cautious note saying "too much influx of tourists, if unregulated, can lead to the rise in infections". The heavy tourist influx last weekend, wherein Mussoorie hotels witnessed 80 to 90% occupancy, had led to a spurt in business. However, since some of the prominent tourist spots like Municipal Gardens, Ropeway and Mussoorie Lake are still closed, the people having business establishments at these spots are complaining of huge losses. “We have been closed since March due to which we are suffering huge losses. Since tourists are being allowed to come, therefore, the state government should also allow opening of the prominent tourist spots so that we may also resume business,” said S S Rana, president of Municipal Gardens Welfare Association. He said 80 shopkeepers at the Municipal Garden were finding it difficult to support their families. Rakesh, a shopkeeper near Mussoorie Lake, added,“We demand that the government open up the closed tourist spots soon. It is a question of survival for the shopkeepers who operate at these tourist spots.” Responding to the requests, Manish Kumar, sub-divisional magistrate of Mussoorie, told TOI, “We have not received any instructions regarding opening of tourists spots in Mussoorie. As soon as we receive instructions, we would facilitate their opening after ensuring that proper safety protocols are in place.” Meanwhile, heavy rush of tourists has also led to several local residents getting worried about the spread of the infection in the hill town. “Tourism is good for the local economy, but it is important that the tourists take adequate precautions for their safety as well as for the safety of local residents,” said Sachin Aggarwal, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/open-more-tourist-destinations-say-mussoorie-traders-but-locals-strike-cautionary-note/articleshow/78560773.cms||Anmol Jain
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three-year delay in crop insurance payouts irks court||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has said that it is troubled to see that farmers in Surendranagar district who suffered crop losses in floods have not received insurance under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna(PMFBY) even after three years. The HC has ordered the insurer, the government and the claimants to resolve the issue in next three months and report back to the court. The HC requested the state government to carry out an exercise and ensure as to whether farmers, not only the petitioners but others too who are covered under PMFBY, have not been paid their due compensation. While hearing a plea filed by farmers demanding crop insurance for 2017 crop losses, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice A S Shastri said, “On one hand, the State has paid huge premium to the insurance company and has signed Memorandum of Understanding with the insurance company and on the other hand, the farmers despite claiming to have suffered crop losses being covered under PMFBY are not paid compensation and their representations are not heeded to and replied.” Ten farmers had approached the HC in 2018 complaining that they did receive insurance amount. The insurance company – SBI General Insurance Ltd – issued demand draft in the name of four petitioners, found discrepancy in claims in four other cases and did not find names of two other farmers in the list of the insured. The insurer submitted that a substantial amount has been paid to farmers in Surendranagar district due to crop damage in 2017 monsoon. Upon hearing the insurance company, the judges said, “We are not saying that all the petitioners are entitled but what troubles us is that compensation to be paid to a farmer who has suffered crop losses in 2017 and is covered under the PMFBY, is not paid even after about 3 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-year-delay-in-crop-insurance-payouts-irks-court/articleshow/78562089.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Boozers block traffic in Moosapet||Hyderabad: Residents of localities in and around Green Hills Road in Moosapet are up in arms against a liquor shop, as its patrons are blocking traffic movements. Hundreds gather in the open grounds at the liqour store on Green Hills Road. Traffic jams and road blockades are a common sight in the area and residents’ pleas to authorities to take action on the tipplers have fallen on deaf ears. Retired additional SP Peddireddy Tirupathi Reddy, who lives in an apartment nearby, said: “The area is always crowded and many vehicles are parked near the wine shop. We have asked police to initiate action againstthe boozers, but in vain.” Locals also complained against streetfood joints operating near IDL lake and blocking the traffic flow.  “The limited pedestrian space is taken away by these shops. Municipal authorities knowingly allowed these food kiosks which enjoy patronage of politicians,” said Tirupathi Reddy.  Traffic jams are a common sight in the area and the residents’ pleas for action against tipplers have fallen on deaf ears||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boozers-block-traffic-in-moosapet/articleshow/78563267.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||3 cause nuisance at cable bridge||Hyderabad: Three miscreants were arrested by Madhapur police for causing nuisance at Durgam Cheruvu cable bridge on Thursday. The video of the incident shared on social media, showed one of the miscreants lying in the middle of the road posing for photos, when the police patrolling vehicle stopped and caught them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-cause-nuisance-at-cable-bridge/articleshow/78563275.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Allahabad||Munna Bajrangi murder case in CBI court on Allahabad HC order||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the district judge, Baghpat, to transfer a criminal trial relating to murder of dreaded mafia don Munna Bajrangi pending before him to the special judge, CBI court at Ghaziabad with complete record. The order was passed on October 5. Allowing a transfer application filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Justice Suneet Kumar observed, “As per direction of high court, the CBI has taken over the investigation of Munna Bajrangi murder case. Accordingly, present application has been filed seeking transfer of the case to the competent court having jurisdiction. Hence, it is allowed.” In its application, the CBI had sought transfer of the session trial no. 525 of 2018, State of U.P. vs. Sunil Rathi (case crime no. 377 of 2018) under Section 302 (murder) IPC, police station Khekra, district Baghpat, UP, pending in the court of district judge, Baghpat, to special judge, CBI court at Ghaziabad along with all case record. Earlier, a division bench of Allahabad High Court, while allowing a petition filed by Seema Singh, wife of Munna Bajrangi, had on February 25, 2020, directed a CBI probe into the murder of Munna Bajrangi inside Baghpat district jail. Munna Bajrangi was brought from Jhansi jail to Baghpat jail, where he was shot dead by a prisoner, Sunil Rathi on July 9, 2018. He was shot 10 times in the head within the jail premises itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/munna-bajrangi-murder-case-in-cbi-court-on-hc-order/articleshow/78561398.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 9, 2020||Noida||Census reveals 50% rise in Sarus chick count||NOIDA: The Sarus cranes of Gautam Budh Nagar have turned “baby boomers”, with the district forest department having counted at least 41 chicks — almost a 50% increase over the past year — in a random census conducted across six hinterlands of the UP’s state bird in Noida in September. Last year, the department had counted only 28 chicks. And going by the official figures, the state bird of Uttar Pradesh has been showing a steady rise in the overall count in the district. From 113 in 2018, their numbers rose to 146 in 2019 and 166 this year. “We counted the birds in Khodna Khurd, Ishapur, Dhanauri, Rawani Bujurg, Parsaul and Nagla Bhatona. The total number of birds we counted was 166, of which 41 were chicks,” district forest officer PK Srivastava said. However, experts claimed the real numbers of Sarus cranes — the tallest flying bird in the world — would be much more and GB Nagar could easily be a host to around 200 cranes, including chicks. “September is not the right time for the count as the birds are roosting now. Most of the adults who build nests in September, scatter far and wide during this time, so it is difficult to get the exact count now. In March 2017, we had countered 148 cranes in the district, of which most of the birds were at Dhanauri, but the official count was only 88,” said Anand Arya, a birder. “So a proper count would have revealed over 200 in the district.” Dhanauri is the largest habitat for the Sarus crane in the district, and it has shown a steady rise in the population of the birds — from 88 in 2017 to 72 in 2018, 84 in 2019 to 84 this year. While the total number of cranes at Dhanauri has been 84 for two years in a row, there has been a change in the adult and chick ratio. Last year the wetland had 70 adults and 14 chicks. This year, there are 68 adults and 16 chicks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/census-reveals-50-rise-in-sarus-chick-count/articleshow/78553114.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Schools, parents differ on reopening norms||DEHRADUN: In a meeting with senior officials of the state education department on Thursday, the private school owners put forward their conditions for reopening which were tagged as “unreasonable” by the parents’ associations. The private schools said that online education will continue for a week after the school reopens on October 15 and then later, there will be no online classes. They also said that the penalty for late fees will be charged if the parents fail to make payments once the school reopens. One of the demands was to get a signed declaration from the parents that the school won’t be responsible if a child catches the virus. The parents bodies termed these conditions as “unreasonable”. The National Association for Parents and Students Rights have said that the private schools are dictating terms selfishly and if they continue to do so, then we will have no choice but to intensify the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-parents-differ-on-reopening-norms/articleshow/78560807.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 9, 2020||Noida||Noida: After renovations, DLF mall set to reopen next week||NOIDA: DLF Mall of India, which has remained largely shut since the lockdown began in March, is set to open next week after internal renovations. Only stores dealing with essential items, like Big Bazaar, had been operational during the past six months. However, those, too, had shut after a part of the mall’s ceiling collapsed in July. “It did not make sense for us to open only for the weekends, so we used this time to renovate, paint and complete some interior work. We will open full-time from next week. The date will be declared soon,” a mall spokesperson said. On July 8, a two-member team of Noida Authority inspected the premises of DLF Mall of India after a 35-second video, purportedly showing a section of a roof inside the mall collapsing and smoke rising from the rooftop, surfaced. Some pictures of ‘construction debris’ were also circulated on social media, following which DLF had clarified that the video was old and they had themselves brought down a damaged portion of the roof. A DLF spokesperson had then said that the mall was undertaking planned enhancement work when the lockdown was suddenly announced. Extreme weather conditions in June had adversely impacted a portion of the roof and it had been decided to bring it down and rebuild it completely, he had added. Shibly Khan, GM operations, DLF Mall of India, told TOI that the mall is now ‘looking better than before’. “We have renovated the interiors, upgraded technology and sanitisation requirements to prepare ourselves for the post-Covid experience. All of this has taken time,” he said. Watch Noida's DLF mall set to reopen next week after renovations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/after-renovations-dlf-mall-set-to-reopen-next-week/articleshow/78553152.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ex-MP acquitted in pipeline scam||Ahmedabad: A magisterial court in Surendranagar town on Thursday acquitted former Rajya Sabha MP Shankar Vegad and 14 others of charges of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy over a pipeline scam alleged in 1998. Vegad was a municipal councillor then. An FIR was lodged at Surendranagar police station against Vegad, the then chief officer of the municipality and others after a scam was busted regarded the compromised quality of water pipelines in the city. After the trial, an additional chief judicial magistrate acquitted all the accused, said advocate P M Lakhani, who was a defence lawyer. The court delivered its verdict in the two-decade-old case after the Gujarat high court’s diktat to expedite proceedings in criminal cases pending against MPs and MLAs. After the HC orders, a court in Gandhinagar passed an order in a cheque return case and convicted a former parliamentarian, Devji Fatepara, sentencing him to two years in jail. The HC has not only ordered expeditious proceedings, but has also sought reports from the courts concerned over each adjournment granted in cases involving legislators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-mp-acquitted-in-pipeline-scam/articleshow/78562092.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Man fined Rs 25,000 for chopping tree||Hyderabad: An individual in Vanasthalipuram ward was penalised for Rs 25,000 on Thursday for chopping a tree in front of his house. A denizen posted a video of the tree getting axed and tagged the TRS MP Santosh Kumar with the #Green India Challenge following which the issue escalated. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-fined-rs-25000-for-chopping-tree/articleshow/78563278.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Rlys install vending machines for city trio’s eco-friendly spittoons||Nagpur: With Covid-19 pandemic at its peak in the country, an innovative technology developed by three city youngsters is solving the ‘great Indian spitting problem’ where it is needed the most — railway stations.In April 2018, TOI had reported about the first-of-its-kind mobile spittoon ‘Ezy Spit’ developed by engineer trio Prateek Malhotra, Ritu Malhotra and Pratik Harde. The spittoon absorbs multiple spits and converts it into biodegradable waste.The invention aims at curbing diseases caused due to spitting. Now, the youngsters have collaborated with the Indian Railways to install over 100 EzySpit spittoon vending machines at major railway stations across the country.The first such vending machine has been installed at Nagpur railway station. “The automated vending machine provides a unique solution to public spitting problem, it shall provide railway commuters freedom to carry the EzySpit containers, pouches and vomit bags,” said Ritu.The pouches and glasses in the vending machine cost around Rs10 to 20. “This unique solution is being implemented for the first time in any railway station. A biggest reason for the spread of Covid-19 virus is human-to-human spread of the coronavirus, happening through either close contact with an infected person or by inhaling droplets. These products will help control the virus spread through human saliva,” said Malhotra.EzySpit spittoon has macromolecule pulp technology and is equipped with a material which freezes the bacteria and virus present in saliva, making it safe to dispose after usage. “The first vending machine installed at Nagpur railway station is getting a great response. Even though footfall is less due to the ongoing pandemic, around 100 pouches and glasses are being sold per day. Apart from this, 30-35 vomit bags are being used,” said Malhotra.The trio came together in 2017 and set up a start-up which produced innovations like digital aquarium and digital pots that can automatically provide water to plants. Today, they are running a company having showrooms in several states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rlys-install-vending-machines-for-city-trios-eco-friendly-spittoons/articleshow/78562091.cms||Manka Behl
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||80-yr-old murder convict acquitted||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Wednesday acquitted an 80-year-old man arrested in 2016 on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.The deceased, Limbaji Waghmare, also an elderly man, was hit brutally with sticks and wooden logs by the convict — Ramchandra Yalappa Dhotre — for not sharing a ‘bidi’ on December 31, 2015.Waghmare was treated by a doctor at home who had stitched his wounds and gave medicine. However, on January 4, 2016, Waghmare requested his wife Vimalbai (60) that he should be taken to a hospital at Aashti in Partur. But when he reached the hospital he was declared brought dead.Following a complaint by Vimalbai on January 5, 2016, the police had arrested Dhotre. After considering the evidence on record, the trial judge had held the Dhotre guilty of committing offence punishable under section 304 Part II of Indian Penal Code and sentenced him to five-year rigorous imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 5,000. The trial court had acquitted the accused of the offence punishable under Section 302 and 504 of Indian Penal Code and section 3 (2) (v) of the Atrocities Act.Dhotre approached the high court through lawyers V D Solanke and S G Bobade, challenging the trial court verdict and the matter came up for hearing before justice Vibha Kankanwadi.While allowing the appeal Justice Kankanwadi observed: “The conclusion drawn by the learned additional sessions judge that, the case is covered under 304 Part II of the Indian Penal Code i.e. culpable homicide not amount to murder, is totally wrong. The judge has totally misinterpreted and has not appreciated the evidence in proper perspective. The evidence adduced by the prosecution was not sufficient to prove the charge levelled against accused, much less culpable homicide not amounting to murder, beyond reasonable doubt. The conviction awarded to the appellant therefore deserves to be set aside. He deserves to be acquitted.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/80-yr-old-murder-convict-acquitted/articleshow/78559525.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 9, 2020||Noida||Now, SEBI asks govt to act in Bike Bot scam||Noida: Market regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has asked the UP government to take necessary action in the Rs 42,000 crore Bike Bot scam, in the wake of multiple complaints from investors in the Ponzi scheme. The investors had sent multiple complaints via emails and in physical form to SEBI alleging that the massive fraud by against the Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited comes under the purview of the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Bill, 2019, under which the amount collected from public by undue methods should be refunded to them within 180 days. The letters were sent by the investors in bulk to SEBI over the past two months, following which the local office of the market regulator in Lucknow wrote to the UP chief secretary on September 24, TOI has learnt. “It appears prima facie that the company is involved in money mobilisation through multi-level marketing/pyramid marketing schemes which may be in violation of the provisions of the Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. In view of the above, the complaints in this matter are forwarded to your office for further needful,” read the letter. Manoj Singh, one of the investors who is from Noida’s Challera, who has also received a copy of letter from SEBI, said that during the months of August and September, investors from across the country, including Kota, Noida, Delhi and Pathankot, had written to the SEBI against the company. In his letter to SEBI, her wrote: “Under the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019, which has a provision that those companies/organisations/groups or networks which accept unregulated deposit schemes or defraud any person by claiming to double the amount misleading him/her, the state will lodge an FIR against the accused and ensure that the money along with fine in 180 days.” “Apart from this, the act also bans the advertisement of any illegal investment scheme and the advertisers too are liable for action. Despite a year having passed after the enactment of the act, the centre and the state governments have made no effort for implementation of the act,” he added. Hundreds of such letters have been sent to the SEBI demanding action against Garvit Innovative in which investors had threatened to gherao the Parliament on September 30. With the response from the SEBI, investors have intensified their demand for action against the accused and speedy disbursal of the money they had invested in the company. So far, scores of FIRs have been lodged against the company whose key directors have been arrested by Gautam Budh Nagar police and the economic offences wing, Meerut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/now-sebi-asks-govt-to-act-in-bike-bot-scam/articleshow/78553141.cms||Shikha Salaria
October 9, 2020||Surat||45 VNSGU posts vacant even a year after approval||Surat: While the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) authorities are dragging their feet in recruiting teachers to the sanction 45 posts, its students will have to forgo quality studies or benefit from a better academic infrastructure.The 45 posts of teachers out of 47 vacant grant-in-aid posts had been approved by the state government in the beginning of 2019. The varsity has total 137 sanctioned teaching positions in grant-in-aid basis, of which 47 are lying vacant. Top university officials formed a committee to finalise the recruitment criteria, but is yet to submit its report. Due to the delay in the recruitment process, the various departments may not get full time teachers for another academic or even more, thus harming academic growth at various levels. “Some other universities who got similar approval from the government in 2019 filled up the vacant posts immediately unlike VNSGU. I fear that post Covid-19, the government may even stop recruitment on a few posts,” said a temporary lecturer at a college. Besides delaying recruitment on approved posts, the university top officials also extended probation period of 14 teachers who had been appointed in 2017 initiating various inquiries on them and thereby not giving them permanent appointment. These teachers, whose probation period was supposed to end in two years of recruitment, have approached the court against the university’s stand of extending their probation multiple times. “University got approval for 45 posts and a committee has been set up in 2019 to examine various aspects of recruitment. The committee is yet to submit its report. The university will try to speed up the process,” said Hemali Desai, in-charge vice-chancellor, VNSGU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/45-vnsgu-posts-vacant-even-a-year-after-approval/articleshow/78560815.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Punish the accused in Hathras case: JIH||Aurangabad: Members of Jamat-e-Islami (JIH) on Thursday staged a demonstration in front of the district collectorate asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that the accused involved in the alleged rape and murder of a Dalit woman in Hathras are hanged till death.  They have submitted a memorandum to the PM through the district collector drawing his attention to the need for exemplary punishment to the accused in the Hathras case. The representation signed by Fahimunnisa, the city unit JIH women’s wing president, demanded immediate arrest of the culprits, financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh to the victim’s family and stern action against the superintendent of police and the district magistrate who have played a doubtful role in the case.  The women’s wing demanded the withdrawal of cases registered against people who were booked under stringent laws for raising voice against the atrocities on a Dalit woman. The JIH also demanded protection for the victim’s family. The JIH alleged that names of four accused have surfaced but the authorities were seen to pressurising the victim’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/punish-the-accused-in-hathras-case-jih/articleshow/78559537.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Drive to de-seal 1,356 residential units kicked off||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has initiated a drive to de-seal 1,356 residential properties on the directions of the Supreme Court. On Thursday, the process to de-seal the properties began in Todapur village in the presence of Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and mayor Jai Prakash. The owners have been given 15 days to demolish any illegal structure. The residential properties were sealed last year after the SC-appointed monitoring committee found illegal extensions, such as guard cabins in the stilt parking area, made by the owners. “But these properties were later found to be sealed wrongly. The court in its August 14 ruling clarified that the matter of illegal construction in residential properties didn’t fall in the jurisdiction of the monitoring committee. All the 1,356 such properties falling in our areas will be de-sealed without charging any amount,” said Jai Prakash. “There are around 3,000 such properties in Delhi. We aim to open them all before Diwali. We have asked officials to check the status,” said Gupta later in a joint press conference with mayors of the north and south corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drive-to-de-seal-1356-residential-units-kicked-off/articleshow/78563281.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Curb overcharging for Covid tests, NPPA tells state DCA||HYDERABAD: The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, under the director general of health services, has directed the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) to prevent overcharging for Covid-19 tests. The NPPA, in turn, directed the Telangana drugs control administration to take necessary action. Following a complaint against a Kukatpally-based diagnostic centre by city-based activist Sai Teja, these directions were issued. Teja also alleged that they are not providing the GST bill to patients and are fleecing them. He attached a bill alleging the diagnostic centre had charged Rs 2,700 for a test at the centre. Speaking to TOI, Teja said, “As per GO issued by the state, a person can be charged Rs 2,200 for Covid-19 test when he goes to the diagnostic centre and Rs 2,800 if the sample is collected from home.” Covid-19 tests have been charged above the cap across the city. Rajesh Kumar, who lives in Himayathnagar and got a test done recently for himself, said: “I was charged Rs 3,200 for the test when the sample was collected from home. I did not know what the charge was and since I was desperate to finish with the test, I just paid up.” Sharing a similar grouse, Shanti A from Kukatpally said she was charged Rs 3,000. “The sample was collected at home, since the extra amount charged over the cap was minimal, I did not think too much about it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/curb-overcharging-for-covid-tests-nppa-tells-state-dca/articleshow/78563322.cms||Uttara Varma
October 9, 2020||Noida||Most city 5-stars see occupancy at one-fifth level||Noida: Several luxury hotels in the city have seen their business dip after the Covid-induced lockdown grounded international flights. Even after their reopening, guests at these hotels, which are dependent to a large extent on inbound travellers, have been a rare sight. At most hotels, occupancy has shrunk to about 15-20%. While a few hotels, including budget ones, had opened in June, the five-stars started opening only after September. Radisson Blu in Sector 18, one of Noida’s top hotels, threw its doors open on October 1. Its management said occupancy is only 23%. “Noida’s hotels are dependent on international business travellers, but now we are catering mostly to domestic tourists. Our occupancy is about 20%, which is actually slightly higher than some Delhi hotels, which are clocking 15%,” said Sonica Malhotra Kandhari, joint MD, MBD Group. The group, which has three hotels in the city, said it is following safety protocols, including thermal scanning, masks and sanitisation, and keeping a 24-hour gap between two occupants. Radisson Blu in Sector 55 has also seen occupancy of 20%. Similar is the situation in Greater Noida’s Crowne Plaza, which has been operational since July. “We are maintaining an occupancy of 30%. We hope the situation will improve,” the hotel’s reservation office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/most-city-5-stars-see-occupancy-at-one-fifth-level/articleshow/78553162.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth booked for forging papers||Aurangabad: The city police have booked a youth on the charges of cheating and forgery after he allegedly submitted forged documents during an army recruitment drive at the Aurangabad cantonment.The accused has been identified as Atulsingh Solunke of Kannad tehsil. He has been remanded in four-day police custody. Colonel Tarunsingh Jamwal (40), an officer with Army Cantonment, lodged a complaint. The colonel said in his complaint that Solunke, while participating in the recruitment drive, falsely claimed that he was born in 1999, and he was recruited. On verification, it was found that he was born in 1994 and had allegedly forged the documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-booked-for-forging-papers/articleshow/78559576.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Ex- MP moves HC highlighting alarming Covid-19 situation in Chandrapur||Nagpur: A former MP knocked Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s doors highlighting alarming situation of Covid patients in Chandrapur due to neglect by respondents.A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala issued notices to respondents, including the union and state governments. Secretary of drugs and food quality control section of Union ministry of health and family welfare, state health department principal secretary, Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) commissioner and collector, ICMR and others are made respondents in the PIL.Petitioner Naresh Pugaliya, through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, contended that due to complete mismanagement of respondents, there’s acute shortage of beds for Covid patients and also of life saving drugs. Even testing facilities are highly inadequate, unreliable and variable in nature.“The patients, who are quarantined, aren’t taken care of and not treated in a proper manner. Even at quarantine facilities, they were not fed on time and compelled to stay with other patients, making a complete mockery of social distancing norms,” he said.Pugaliya added that the Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) lacked adequate staff to ensure proper care of patients, while non-Covid patients were also suffering and there’s no procedure for treating persons testing positive.“All these factors are leading to a spike in death rates in district. Suitable isolation wards are also inadequate to house patients. There are no sufficient Covid care centres (CCC) and existing ones aren’t functioning at full strength,” the petitioner contended.According to him, there there’s no policy for treating the poor patients who can’t afford costly treatment by private hospitals. “The social distancing norms aren’t followed at public places and in hospitals. There is a shortage of personal protection equipment (PPE) for the front-line warriors. Even the number of deaths due to Covid and other diseases are not on record. There is complete lack of facilities for children and old age patients’ suffering from the infectious disease,” he said, while praying for having a facility for the public to know on the number of beds and their vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-mp-moves-hc-highlighting-alarming-covid-19-situation-in-chandrapur/articleshow/78562096.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||Toxic gas from drainage triggers blast, two hurt||Vadodara: Two persons suffered burns when toxic gas accumulated in the bathroom of a house in Wadi caused a blast when a bulb was switched on. The blast in Madhukunj Society near Mohammedtalav on Wednesday late evening shook many houses in the neighbourhood. Fire officials said that they had received information that a cylinder blast had taken place as a few of them even saw a ball of fire in the house for a moment. But when the firemen reached the house, they did not find a cylinder nor a gas pipeline. Amit Chaudhari, fire officer of Panigate fire station said that the poisonous gas emanating from the drainage pipe was accumulated as there was no proper ventilation in the bathroom and the house. “When one of the occupants switched on the bulb of the bathroom, a minor spark must have happened and the gas acted as the fuel,” he said. The two tenants identified as Ramesh Uttamchand and Bhavani Maheshwari were injured due to the blast and the glass from the shattered windows. The duo was taken to SSG Hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/toxic-gas-from-drainage-triggers-blast-two-hurt/articleshow/78560986.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Allahabad||Illegal confinement: Allahabad HC dismisses girl’s kin plea||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court on Thursday dismissed a petition by family members of the Hathras girl, who was allegedly raped and murdered, seeking release from illegal confinement purportedly clamped by the district administration. “The apex court is seized of the matter, which has taken it up as a public interest litigation. Further, the state of Uttar Pradesh has been directed to file an affidavit, clarifying its stand. Hence, judicial propriety demands it won’t be proper to entertain the petition, particularly when security has been provided to petitioners on directives of the apex court and Lucknow bench of this court on October 1,” the judge stated. “If petitioners have any grievance, they are at liberty to file an appropriate petition or application before the apex court,” the court stated. While dismissing the habeas corpus writ filed by father and family members of the Hathras girl, a division bench comprising Justice Pritinkar Diwaker and Justice Prakash Padia said, “Without entering into merits of the case and with above observations, petition is dismissed.” On October 7, the girl’s family members filed a petition before the Allahabad High Court, alleging the district administration had illegally confined them in their house since September 29. Hence, the court was requested to direct the district administration to “release them from illegal confinement and allow them to move out and meet people”. Though few people were later allowed to meet them, the district administration was still not allowing them to move out of their house, it was alleged. The petitioners said their right to freedom of speech and expression and right to receive information was being violated. A habeas corpus writ petition is filed before the high court when persons are illegally detained. During court proceedings, the court can order their release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-confinement-hc-dismisses-girls-kin-plea/articleshow/78564184.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Wife sends man to jail, seeks his release||AHMEDABAD: After having her husband sent to jail for 1,500 days for defaulting on maintenance payments to her, Arti Khatik along with her two minor children knocked at the Gujarat high court’s door for his release. The HC accepted the wife’s request and quashed her husband Dipak Khatik’s punishment awarded by the city’s family court in March 2019. The HC set aside the husband’s punishment so he can live happily with his wife and children. In this case, the wife had filed for maintenance after leaving her matrimonial home in 2014. Dipak, who used to rent auto rickshaws, was allegedly not treated well in his joint family and this led her to decide to live separately with her children. The family court had ordered the husband to pay monthly maintenance of Rs 5,000 to them. However, he failed to pay any money till January 2019. The wife approached the family court for recovery of the dues for five years. The husband expressed his inability to pay the arrears and this invited the court’s wrath. He was sentenced to 1,500 days in jail, as the maximum punishment is 30 days for one month’s default in paying maintenance upon a court order. According to Arti’s advocate, Nikhilesh Shah, after the husband went to jail, her well-wishers advised the woman not to be so harsh towards her husband. She realized that her matrimonial dispute was mainly because they lived in a joint family. She had no other grievance against her husband. As she had already separated from her in-laws, she should bring her husband back to live with his two children. The wife and her two children filed an application in the HC requesting it to quash the punishment imposed based on their complaint. It was submitted that the couple have reached a compromise and want to live together for the good of their children. Justice R M Sareen quashed the punishment and asked the family court to pass an appropriate order for Dipak’s release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-sends-man-to-jail-seeks-his-release/articleshow/78562102.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||History’s vultures spurn open door, bide their time||BIR SHIKAR GAH (PINJORE): Eight critically-endangered vultures, of which six had never known anything more than a life in a large aviary, chose discretion as the better part of valour to delay their tryst with freedom. The great scavengers kept well away from their prison door which was opened on Thursday noon at the Jatayu Conservation Breeding Centre (JCBC) here. As a large contingent of VIPs, led by forest minister Kanwarpal, and forest / wildlife officers and media persons waited with baited breath for the white-rumped vultures to leave their aviary and feed on fresh goat carcasses placed so temptingly outside, the vultures instead shrank back into the comforting presence of their prison. Refusing to oblige the onlookers and bring to fruit a grand, planned moment, the reluctant birds underlined the complexities inherent in captive breeding and releasing vultures into the skies from where they had virtually vanished since the 1990s. The moment was historic as it constituted the first release ever of critically-endangered Gyps vulture species in India. But the presence of gaping humans had evidently unnerved the satellite and GSM-tagged birds who will wait for an undisturbed moment in coming days to venture out and give wing to an iconic wildlife conservation project that has taken 20 years to reach launch stage. “Vultures come down to feed only when they feel everything is perfectly safe and undisturbed. Earlier, in Buxa, West Bengal, when we were releasing Himalayan vultures, which were not captive bred, they also took a long time to shed the comfort of the aviary. We get 50-60 wild vultures coming to feed outside the aviary regularly and eventually our captive vultures, too, will join them,” JCBC head and pioneering vulture scientist Dr Vibhu Prakash told the TOI. The door of the aviary will remain open after the eight vultures come out to feed so that the birds can go back to their comfort zone till such time as they are fully acclimated to freedom. The JCBC, a joint project of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and the Haryana forest department, is the model centre after which seven such vulture centres were opened in the rest of the country. These eight centres hold 766 vultures currently of which the JCBC houses 370. Of the 600 pairs of three critically-endangered Gyps vulture species that are slated for release in the next 10 years under the government of India’s plan, the JCBC alone will feed 30-40 pairs each year. It takes Rs 6 crore per year to run the JCBC. “Keeping in mind the success of the venture and the need for government support for this complex project, the Haryana forest department has renewed its memorandum of understanding with the BNHS till 2034. The state government has led the way right from the start in protecting and breeding vultures and whatever support the JCBC needs in future years, including funds, will be provided,” Haryana PCCF (HOFF) Amarinder Kaur told the TOI. A 100-km diclofenac-free zone has been created around the JCBC to give the released vultures the best chance of survival. This area has a large number of carcass dumps. The released vultures can also keep feeding from the JCBC. “From now, one year will be very tense for us as the vultures adjust to the open environment. The challenge will be to get the drug control authorities and the animal husbandry department to regulate veterinary drugs harmful to vultures and ensure that farmers do not administer over-dosage of drugs to their livestock. However, complications can arise from the use of other drugs on cattle, which are not banned such as nimesulide, and that can kill vultures like diclofenac. We are promoting use of veterinary drugs like meloxicam which are safe for vultures,” added Dr Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/historys-vultures-spurn-open-door-bide-their-time/articleshow/78562098.cms||VIKRAM JIT SINGH
October 9, 2020||Delhi||To cut red tape, DJB will not issue tenders for projects below Rs 10 lakh||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Thursday gave the nod for setting up an innovation and research centre with an advanced laboratory that would be capable of detecting viruses and emerging pollutants. Several procedural changes aimed at cutting short the processing time for awarding new projects were also approved. A senior DJB official said that the project allocation process would be divided into two categories. Tenders won’t be issued for maintenance projects costing up to Rs 10 lakh and a “rate contract system” would be followed. A panel of contractors would also be set up for awarding projects costing between Rs 10 crore to Rs 500 crore. It’s being claimed that both these steps would reduce project execution time by 70-80%. “The rate contact system will be followed for civil work of repetitive nature. Contractors will be empanelled till March 2022. Work will be awarded without tenders on the basis of approved item rates. This will save time as tendering delays providing services to consumers,” DJB stated. For projects costing between Rs 10 crore and Rs 500 crore, contractors would be enlisted on the pattern of CPWD after checking their experience and competency. “Currently, each tender requires technical evaluation and financial bids, which are repetitive and time consuming. We will set up a panel of competent firms, which will be able to participate in the tender process directly at the financial bid level,” the official said. The panel would be divided under various categories, like treatment plants, pumping stations, water or sewer lines. Learning from the pandemic, DJB has approved the creation of an advanced lab with the ability to detect viruses, new types of pollutants, heavy metals and antibiotics. The Innovation, Design and Research Centre proposed at Chandrawal water treatment plant would carry out activities necessary for execution of non-conventional projects, studies and allied works, like pilot testing, surveys and micro analysis. The utility also approved laying of sewer networks in Kirari and Mundka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/to-cut-red-tape-djb-will-not-issue-tenders-for-projects-below-rs-10-lakh/articleshow/78563310.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Flipkart Wholesale launches fashion segment in Nagpur||Nagpur: Flipkart Wholesale, which had a presence in 15 cities, has now also expanded its market to Nagpur, making it the 16th centre. This is a B2B platform where retailers can buy goods from wholesalers across the country using Flipkart’s platform Sandeep Karwa, vice-president of Flipkart Wholesale, said the model has been launched for the fashion segment at present. There are plans to come up with a similar platform for grocery segment in the future. Karwa said the platform will link local traders through wholesale dealers for a whole gamut of fashion items across the country. Covid is preventing travel by the retailers for purchases of stock. “As the conventional method of dealing through phone by the traders is not so smooth, Flipkart is eyeing the market with the online platform,” he said The retailers who buy these goods on the online platform can in turn sell the goods through their stores or any other mode. Karwa said it is expected that around 2,500 retail traders will be using the model in Nagpur. Flipkart plans to eventually take the model to 22 cities across the country. Flipkart has launched the platform in the fashion model considering the forthcoming festive season. Retailers must be looking forward to be ready with fresh stock for the season for which the online method may be used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flipkart-wholesale-launches-fashion-segment-in-nagpur/articleshow/78563316.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Pocso case against unidentified suspect for uploading child porn||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad city police have registered a case against an unidentified man for allegedly uploading pornographic content involving children on a social networking site. The cyber crime branch took note of the violations after the uploaded content was widely viewed. Technical analysis of the uploaded content revealed that it had origination from the limits of Osmanpura police station in the city. Accordingly, an offence has been registered in the respective police station. Osmanpura police inspector Dilip Tare said that the suspect has been booked in a case of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. This is in addition to some other offences registered earlier for uploading of child pornography content on social networking sites. Highly-placed authorities said the registration of offences is a result of a memorandum of understanding between National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) of India and the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), USA. As per pact signed in the first quarter of 2019, United States will help India in receiving Tipline reports on online child pornography and child sexual exploitation content from NCMEC. A cybercrime official maintained that after a citizen anonymously alerts about such content to law enforcement agencies through given helpline number or website, the tip automatically gets converted into a report for action and it is called ‘Tipline report’. There is a unique identity number generated for each of the Tipline report and its status can be checked by punching the said number. The agreement enables law enforcement agencies to remove child pornography and child sexual abuse material from cyber space, and initiate action against those uploading such content. Watch Pocso case against unidentified suspect for uploading child porn in Maharashtra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pocso-case-against-unidentified-suspect-for-uploading-child-porn/articleshow/78559551.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Cops seize gangster Ram Singh Yadav’s Rs 84 crore assets||LUCKNOW: Police attached assets worth over Rs 84 crore of gangster and land grabber Ram Singh Yadav of Chiraiyya Bagh under SGPGI police station area on Thursday. ADCP, east, Amit Kumar, said police seized grabbed government land worth over Rs 18 crore and Rs 22 crore in Vrindavan Yojana, besides land, houses, flats, bank accounts and SUVs of the family. Police also seized land worth Rs 13 crore in name of his son Dipankar, another land worth Rs 3 crore and 11 flats worth Rs 5 crore in his wife Tara’s name. Land worth Rs 10 crore in Mohanlalganj was also attached. A club in Chiraiyabagh worth Rs 1 crore, land near SGPGI Trauma Centre in Vrindavan Yojana worth Rs 3 crore and SUVs including two Fortuners, four Scorpios worths Rs 1.32 crore were also seized. “Yadav became a history-sheeter in 1997 for grabbing government land and land of people of SC/ST community by forging documents. Cases of murder, drug smuggling, extortion, loot are registered against him,” said Kumar. He shot Ram Kumar Rawat on August 3, 2000. As many as 14 cases are registered against him at Mohanlalganj police station and 10 at PGI police station, the ADCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-seize-gangster-yadavs-rs-84cr-assets/articleshow/78563873.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM: Won’t allow rerun of Kairana, Muzaffarnagar communal conflicts||LUCKNOW: After launching a ballistic attack on the Opposition and accusing it of fanning caste conflicts over alleged gang rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday vowed never to allow a rerun of 2013 Muzaffarnagar-like communal conflagration, which pushed western UP into a communally polarised cauldron ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Yogi also cited Kairana and Kandhla, where riots triggered an exodus of people in 2014. “We will not allow caste and communal fires to rage again,” he said. “Everyone knows what happened in Muzaffarnagar and who sparked violence. The same people are determined to light a caste and communal inferno in western UP, Yogi told BJP functionaries through virtual conference in bypoll-bound Bulandshahr assembly constituency. The seat fell vacant, following the death of BJP MLA Virendra Singh Sirohi. “Inke rag rag mein danga basa hai (they violence in their veins),” Yogi said, while tearing into the Opposition. “Inke mansubon ko katai kamyab nahi hone denge (Won’t allow their evil designs to succeed),” he said, maintaining that investigation agencies were in the process of identifying every rioter and conspirator in the Hathras case. “Action would be initiated against each one of them,” the chief minister said. Yogi also invoked the legacy of Jat leader Chaudhary Charan Singh, calling him a messiah of farmers. Now, Opposition parties don’t consider farmers more than a vote-bank, he said. Launching a scathing attack on SP and BSP, Yogi said if previous state governments were serious about welfare of farmers, they would have made Ramala sugar mills operational. Located in Baghpat, the cooperative sector mill saw capacity expansion last year. “Similarly, Moinuddinpur sugar mill in Meerut would have also undergone expansion. It was also done by the BJP government,” he said, in an apparent bid to reach out to farmers, essentially cane growers. Yogi said, his government decided to appoint Suresh Rana as cane minister as he came from the cane belt of Uttar Pradesh and understood problems of farmers. Rana is an MLA from Shamli’s Thana Bhawan assembly seat. “In last 3.5 years, the state government paid Rs 1.06 lakh crore compensation to cane farmers,” Yogi claimed. He said, the country’s longest expressway, Ganga expressway, would pass through Bulandshahr. Likewise, Asia’s biggest international airport, Jewar airport, is being constructed close to Bulandshahr, said Yogi. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, the opposition was disturbed by the all-round development of the state and was conspiring to spread rumours and defame the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-wont-allow-rerun-of-kairana-muzaffarnagar-communal-conflicts/articleshow/78564186.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 9, 2020||Goa||RS MP: New farm laws will benefit ryots||Poinguinim: Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar on Thursday said that the three farm bills passed by the central government would benefit farmers and that they should not fall prey to false propaganda being spread by the opposition, who are critical of farm reforms. At a meeting held at deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes’ office at Chaudi, Canacona Tendulkar told farmers that the state government always protected the interests of farmers and had recently provided relief of Rs6,000 to each of the 17,000 farmers in Goa. While highlighting the benefits of the three new bills, Tendulkar asked farmers to bring to his notice any difficulties they faced and that he will take them up with the state as well as the central government to resolve these. Farmers at the meeting spoke about assistance with adequate support rates for their farm produce, de-silting of rivers, enhancing government financial assistance and timely disbursement of government subsidy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rs-mp-new-farm-laws-will-benefit-ryots/articleshow/78563311.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Puta polls: 80% turnout, row over proxy voting in Panjab university||CHANDIGARH: After various delays, Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections were finally held at the varsity on Thursday. Pandemic norms were followed at the polls held at two venues, English and Evening auditoriums, from 8.30am to 5pm. There was 80% voter turnout on Day One as 400 out of 500 exercised their franchise. On Friday, from 9am to 1pm, 122 teachers of three departments will vote. Counting will start at 1.30pm and teachers who could not vote on the first day during their scheduled time slots can vote on Friday, subject to the permission from the returning officer. The annual general body meeting will be held at 3.30pm after the declaration of results. Professor Vijay Nagpal, returning officer, said, “Polls were peaceful. We conducted voting in slots to avoid overcrowding, and there was a big turnout.” However, a row erupted after Sidhu-Khalid group alleged that Mritunjay-Naura group was enabling proxy voting. “They took the ballot paper out of the election premises and attempted a gross misconduct,” they stated. However, Nagpal said, “There was some misunderstanding and the matter was resolved after talking to both the parties.” Both the venues were sanitised after polling. The contestants The Sidhu-Khalid group will be contesting against the Mritunjay-Naura group, which is backed by the syndicate’s Goyal group. Mohammed Khalid of the department of evening studies will be contesting for the post of president against Mritunjay Kumar, who was the vice-president of PUTA for 2019-2020. For the post of vice-president, Amit Chauhan of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) has been fielded by the Khalid group against Supinder Kaur of the Mritunjay group. Result of semester examResults of bachelor of business administration (sixth semester) and BSc (bio-informatics-sixth semester) have been declared. The students have been advised to see their result on their respective department’s, college’s or university’s website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/80-turnout-at-puta-polls-row-over-proxy-voting/articleshow/78562104.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Varanasi||UP CM launches 175 roads in Gorakhpur & Sahjanwa||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath laid the foundation of 175 road work worth Rs 122 crore in Gorakhpur and Sahjanwa on Thursday. Launching the projects online from Lucknow, CM Yogi told divisional commissioner Jayant Narlirkar to appoint nodal officers for each work to ensure the construction of 175 roads is completed in three to four months. He said development must reach and be visible in every lane and locality of Gorakhpur and issued instructions for underground cabling of electric wires and construction of proper drainage channels along the roads. “The image of Gorakhpur is changing, as it is increasingly getting industrialised. The Pipraich sugar mill is already running now, the international airport will start next month and the fertilizer plant will be functional next year. The biofuel plant is also coming up,” said CM Yogi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-launches-175-roads-in-gorakhpur-sahjanwa/articleshow/78561568.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Degree of doubt: ‘Universities’ without classrooms, teachers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In old Delhi’s Daryaganj, a stone’s throw from the now defunct Golcha Cinema, is a tiny university — or so it claims to be. Its address houses the All India Commercial Association, apparently established in 1934, though TOI found only a single employee sitting in front of a computer. Commercial University Ltd has been a regular entrant in the University Grants Commission’s annual list of fake universities for many years. P V Sharma, the man at the computer, said, “Yes, there used to be a university here. It shut down a few years ago. It provided education in a few subjects and trained students in vocational courses. Nothing has survived.” He claimed to come to the empty office with several vacant cabins “only to pay the bills and nothing else”. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+. CLICK HERE||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/degree-of-doubt-universities-without-classrooms-teachers/articleshow/78563339.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||‘Daan Utsav has connected people in Lucknow’||LUCKNOW: Hundreds of underprivileged children and people in need benefited from the week-long celebration of Daan Utsav, popularly known as the ‘joy of giving week’ which culminated on Thursday with several educational and virtual activities. In view of the pandemic, followers became a part of online sessions hosted by HASNAA Foundation on oral hygiene and a virtual awareness programme by Prithvi Foundation on LGBT community and learned how acceptance is the key to living as a close-knit community. Children living in slum areas of Indiranagar and Alambagh, among others, were able to continue their online studies with the help of Sarthak Foundation whose team members collected and distributed spare smartphones among the students. They also distributed stationery and sanitary napkins. Vegetable vendors, sanitary workers, underprivileged kids and those in need appreciated the efforts of Robinhood Army, which distributed essential items, masks, and sanitizers. The people also learned how they can protect themselves from Covid-19 and about emergency helplines. Kids of Nirvan Rehab Centre affected by cerebral palsy had a fun-filled week with USB Foundation NGO working towards their welfare, where they hosted painting and drawing competitions and distributed t-shirts. Appreciating the efforts of doctors and nurses, Unity College in collaboration with Eeshwar Child Welfare foundation distributed handmade cards made by school students at KGMU. HIV positive patients looking for job opportunities were connected with various organisations. “Daan Utsav week has connected people from across the country and beyond, showing that the human spirit is inherently kind,” said Jyotsana Kaur Habibullah, a volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/daan-utsav-has-connected-people/articleshow/78563887.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Surat||Two on looting spree from Ahmedabad to Daman nabbed||SURAT: Two persons, who had audaciously looted an Ankleshwar family at a knife-point on Daman’s famed Devka beach, were nabbed by the Navsari local crime branch (LCB) on Wednesday. The arrested persons, Mohammad Hussain Abdul Khalik Pathan (21) and Mohommad Ilyas Sallauddin Ansari (24), are both residents of Dani Limda area in Ahmedabad from where they were picked up. Investigation revealed that the duo had carried out at least 10 loots at knife-point at several places on the way from Ahmedabad to Devka beach. They had taken away cash and valuables, mostly mobile phones, total worth Rs 2.80 lakh from all the victims, including the Ankleshwar businessman’s family that was targeted in the broad daylight. The video of the Devka loot had gone viral and created quite a stir as it was the first such crime on this beach. They first stole a scooter, which was used in all the crimes, from a man in Dani Limda at around 1am on October 4. They damaged its vehicle registration plate to avoid getting caught. Later, they looted cash and mobile phone from a motorcycle rider in Odhav area of Ahmedabad at around 4 am. Leaving Ahmedabad, early morning, they allegedly looted a few persons near toll plazas at Kheda and Karjan toll plaza on the national highway. They reached Silvassa in the union territory on Dadra and Nagar Haveli (D&NH) and again looted a mobile phone from a motorcycle rider. The duo stayed in a hotel and the next morning, they reached Devka beach where they robbed cash and valuables worth Rs 1.65 lakh from the Ankleshwar businessman and his wife by holding them at a knife-point. While escaping, they again looted a mobile phone and cash from a person near the beach. On their way back to Ahmedabad, they carried out three loots in the limits of Chikhli, Bilimora and Gandevi police stations in Navsari. They later abandoned the scooter on the highway near Swaminarayan Temple in Bharuch. LCB sources said that the duo was identified from their accent which was not that of South Gujarat. The video of loot on Devka beach also helped in identification. “With electronic surveillance and human intelligence, they were caught from Dani Limda in Ahmedabad,” said Rishikesh Upadhyay, superintendent of police, Navsari. A local court remanded them to police custody till October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-on-looting-spree-from-abad-to-daman-nabbed/articleshow/78560837.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: September two-wheeler registrations fell 47%||AHMEDABAD: With incomes of the lower and upper middle class declining, demand for two-wheelers appears to have taken a hit. Continuing its slowing down in September, two-wheeler registrations declined by 47% against the same month in 2019. According to data from the Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA), just 36,403 two-wheeler registrations took place in September this year, against 68,572 last year. Industry players said that due to migration from the state coupled with the deferred admissions season and education going online, demand for two-wheelers has fallen. “Most two-wheeler buyers are from the lower middle class and upper middle class, which saw incomes fall during the lockdown. As incomes are yet to revive, many have deferred purchases. This is one of the major reasons for the decline in vehicle registration in Gujarat,” said Pranav Shah, chairman, FADA, Gujarat region. “Students and migrant workers make up a huge section of the market. As education has gone online and the incomes of many parents have fallen, two-wheeler purchases have been deferred. Migrant workers in cities like Surat, Ahmedabad and Vadodara have fled back to their home states and potential sales from this section has gone missing, due to which two-wheeler sales have declined,” Shah said. The increase in vehicle prices after BS-VI variants were introduced and more stringent lending norms of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) are key reasons for the poor demand for two-wheelers, according to industry players. At least 60% of those purchasing two-wheelers are buying them through financing options. The car market has revived fairly well, with small contraction of 2.9% for the same period. FADA data suggests that 14,842 cars were sold this September against 15,276 last September. “Footfalls and inquiries have improved and we are looking forward to a buoyant festive season. Even original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) have ramped up production in the past few months and as the festive sentiment will be fuelled by pent-up demand from the past few months,” said Rajnish Arora, CEO of a car dealership in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sept-two-wheeler-registrations-fell-47/articleshow/78562116.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Waste-to-action: Kids’ park to be built from shipping containers||New Delhi: After Waste-to-Wonder Park at Sarai Kale Khan and Nandan Van at GK-I, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is planning a unique recreational facility for children where everything will be built out of discarded shipping containers. An existing two-acre park, on the main road between Ishwar Nagar and New Friends Colony, will be redeveloped as Concor-Nandan Park, and opened for public in two months. “We basically aims to take the concept of ‘waste to art’ ahead and create some intriguing play options, entirely different from conventional ones,” said SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti. “Our parks for children usually have nothing more than swings. Today’s kids are so fascinated by mobile or virtual games that these conventional playing equipment don’t excite them any more. So we took the challenge to create engaging and challenging facilities for them,” Bharti added. The civic agency has taken 12 discarded shipping containers from Container Corporation of India Limited, a public sector undertaking (PSU) under the railways ministry. The PSU will also bear the cost of the project under its corporate social responsibility head. “There will be equipment, which will excite and engage a child and at the same time check his/her physical strength and capability to solve puzzles,” said an SDMC official. “For example, the colourful structure of double wall-holla will inspire children of various age groups to discover different ways of exploring its undulating maze, full of colourful strips, twists and turns. The zigzag climbing ladder on artificial mountains will be another challenge.” Each equipment will be designed to easily engage children for 10-15 minutes, so that they can spend two-three hours here. “For safety, the entire play area will be rubberised, covered with net and double-coated with paint,” said the official. The height of each container is 8.5 feet and the width 8 feet. “This will give ample space inside to utilise each and every corner as well as top areas after retrofitting and modification. We will also take cues from missing points at Nandan Park,” said SDMC mayor Anamika Mithlesh. SDMC plans to create slides, lounge net, suspended swing, climbing tunnel, crawling maze, zigzag climbing ladder, banging ropes and mini hammocks. “I have asked officials to look for possibilities to develop such facilities at other places too. We don’t have funds to create them on our own, but there is always a scope for getting these projects funded,” said Nikita Sharma, SDMC parks and garden committee chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-to-action-kids-park-to-be-built-from-shipping-containers/articleshow/78583013.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: No demolition in airport vicinity during pandemic||MOHALI: The pandemic has brought respite to the people facing demolition in airport vicinity, as the Mohali administration has deferred action against illegal structures falling within the 100-metre radius along the boundary wall of the Air Force station. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We have deferred the demolition drive till the Covid-19 situation improves. It is not advisable on humanitarian grounds to demolish structures and render people homeless.” Most of these structures fall in the Bhabat area of Zirakpur. Residents, Ranjana Devi, Shakuntla, Raj Bala, Neena Devi, Amrik Singh, Charandas, Harpreet Singh, Jasdev Singh, were of the mind that pandemic came as a respite for them as they would get some more time to secure themselves before being rendered homeless after razing of their ancestral properties. On February 20, the Mohali administration had demolished 17 illegal structures, primarily godowns situated in Bhabat. In total, the administration is to raze 83 structures. Notices were issued to 98 owners under the Works of Defence Act, 1903, on September 18 following orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court to carry out demolition of structures constructed after March 9, 2011, in Bhabat village and after March 11, 2011, in Jagatpura village in the vicinity of the Air Force station, Chandigarh, following the due course of law. Of the 98 who were issued notices earlier, 65 have not disputed the position that their structures were raised after the public notice of March 9, 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-demolition-in-airport-vicinity-during-pandemic/articleshow/78562112.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 9, 2020||Goa||Check power theft, Cong tells Cabral||Panaji: Power minister Nilesh Cabral’s remark asking those who oppose the transmission project in the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary to stop using electricity proves the BJP’s arrogance and insensitivity, said the Congress party here on Thursday. State Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said that instead of berating people, Goa electricity department should list out the steps taken to curb power theft and recover unpaid dues. “Power minister should first come out with a detailed report on actual power consumption requirement in the state with a breakup of domestic, commercial and industrial consumption. People also need to know what action the government has taken to stop power thefts,” he said. Panjikar said the state government has turned a blind eye to non-payment of bills by big industrialists, but harasses the common man for delay in bill payments. “The government knows fully well that the Covid pandemic has resulted in collapse of household budgets. It is now their responsibility to compensate the people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/check-power-theft-cong-tells-cabral/articleshow/78563326.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||1.8k Covid cases, 12 deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Wednesday reported 1,896 new Covid-19 positive cases and 12 deaths as the caseload reached 2,06,644 since the pandemic started in March this year. The death toll escalated to 1,201, whereas 2,067 people recovered from the infection on Wednesday with the recovery rate standing at nearly 87%. With a total of 1,79,075 people recovering from the infection so far, the state’s recovery rate is slightly higher then the national recovery rate projected at 85%. GHMC reported 294 cases, followed by Rangareddy (211) and Medchal Malkajgiri (154). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-8k-covid-cases-12-deaths-in-t/articleshow/78563329.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||100 still on lips, fingertips of many in Mohali||MOHALI: Many people are still not aware about new police helpline ‘112’, continuing to dial ‘100’ in an emergency. Rajinder Singh of Sector 71 Mohali while crossing the airport road a few days back spotted two groups fighting with each other. He dialled 100 but got no response. “I later realised it is now 112. However, it still took around 15 minutes to get connected and call for police assistance,” he said. Similarly, Gursharan Kaur of Mohali alleged she kept on dialling 100 after her phone was snatched in Phase X but to no avail for 20 minutes. “When I could not get through to cops, I dropped the idea of calling them. Later I was told police assistance number is 112,” she said. However, police claimed that both the numbers were operational but 112 was widely used. Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh said, “We have advertised 112 widely but it seems that it needs more awareness. We have not received any complaints regarding the new number.” The new number was introduced when people started complaining that their calls to 100 get misdirected to police station control room of other districts, wasting golden time of victims. WRONG NUMBER Many people have complained that when they dialled 100 from Chandigarh, their calls were answered by cops in Jagraon police control room and sometimes NawanshahrCalling PCR from Panchkula connects to either Ambala, or even Mohali on some occasions One has to dial 100 repeatedly to speak to cops in Mohali, wasting crucial time Tricity police are making efforts to work in tandem by transferring the information reached at wrong police control room||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/100-still-on-lips-fingertips-of-many-in-mohali/articleshow/78562123.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Safe festivities in Panchkula: Navaratra prayers amid norms, tests||PANCHKULA: The district health department will conduct RT-PCR test of all workers at the Mata Mansa Devi and Kali Mata temples for the safety of devotees before the start of Navaratra. A special team will also take random samples for rapid antigen test (RAT) of the devotees coming to these temples. Devotees will be allowed to enter on appointment basis. No prasad and holy water distribution or its sprinkling will be allowed. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said ahead of Navaratra, a special team has started conducting RT-PCR test of all priests, security guards and other workers at Mata Mansa Devi and Kali Mata temples. “Taking RT-PCR samples of all the devotees is a time-consuming process, so we are planning to take their samples for random rapid antigen testing.” The Panchkula district administration and Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board have advised the public to avoid congregations in and around the complex and maintain social distancing. The board has been facilitating darshan through online registration from June 8, and the step has remained successful so far. During the Navaratra too, devotees will have to obtain an e-token from mansadevi.org.in website and no cultural events will be organised. As per the administration orders, maintaining six feet distance was mandatory and the entrance would have sanitisers and thermal screening provision. All devotees will have to wear masks and leave footwear inside their vehicles. Arrangements will be made for crowd management and all shops outside and inside the premises will have to follow social distancing norms. Live darshan For the live darshan of the Mata, a mobile application on Google Playstore with name ‘IVMS-4500' can be downloaded. If anyone wants to give donation, it can be done on the shrine board’s official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/safe-festivities-navaratra-prayers-amid-norms-tests/articleshow/78562129.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
October 9, 2020||Gurgaon||MG Road freed of squatters, 20 illegal structures razed||GURUGRAM: The enforcement team of MCG on Thursday demolished illegal structures that had encroached upon MG Road in the presence of Gurugram police. “We demolished around 20 illegal structures — mostly temporary shops — that had encroached the main road. We plan to make the prominent roads encroachment-free by demolishing these illegal temporary shops. One prominent road — like Golf Course road, road outside Galleria — will be covered every week,” said Hariom Attri, MCG joint commissioner-3. In a similar drive, three under-construction residential buildings were demolished in Lajpat Nagar and Mianwali Colony. A team led by the joint commissioner-1 and 2, Jitender Kumar, along with an assistant engineer Naresh Kumar demolished the under-construction houses.“As soon as we receive a complaint of an illegal structure being constructed in our zone, our teams first verify it and then we demolish the structure. We had recently received a complaint of an illegal temporary structure in the restricted zone of the ammunition depot, which we demolished on Thursday,” said Jitender. According to the norms, a building plan must be approved before any construction work is started. “Any work without an approved building plan is deemed to be illegal and is demolished by the MCG. There are enforcement teams for each zone to carry out demolition drives. Moreover, police also accompany our teams during the demolition drives,” an official said. The teams are also continuing drive against illegal farmhouses and structures in Bandhwari. Eight illegal structures in Bandhwari were razed on September 25. These included four farmhouses, two five-storeyed buildings and two under-construction buildings. After issuing the owners of these properties show-cause notices, MCG had given them time to vacate before carrying out the demolition. Moreover, a survey of the area to identify illegal structures is still going on to identify more such illegal farmhouses and structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mg-road-freed-of-squatters-20-illegal-structures-razed/articleshow/78563332.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Goa||Cunchelim ground: Mapusa municipality issues stop work order to comunidade||Saligao: The chief officer of Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) has issued a stop work order directing the administrator of the administration of comunidades, north zone, to immediately stop the ongoing construction work on the open playground at Cunchelim for failing to submit a ‘valid conversion sanad’ and also for violating two other conditions laid down in the provisional no objection certificate (NOC) issued. The stop work order which was issued by MMC chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar on October 6 has also asked the administration of comunidade to show cause within 15 days as to why the provisional NOC granted should not be revoked, “failing which further necessary action will be initiated against you as per provisions contained under the Goa Municipalities Act, 1968, and conditions laid under the provisional NOC no. 41” dated January 7, 2020. The provisional NOC was issued to the Cunchelim comunidade on condition that a conversion sanad is submitted within 15 days. However, despite two reminders dated July 15, 2020, and September 24, 2020, the comunidade failed to submit the conversion sanad to the MMC. Shirgaonkar, on Thursday, conveyed this to the agitating sports enthusiasts from Cunchelim who had assembled at the municipality to protest against the allegedly illegal development of plots carried out by the comunidade at the ground which was used for sports activities. The delegation of sports enthusiastslater went to the residence of Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza and shouted slogans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cunchelim-ground-mapusa-municipality-issues-stop-work-order-to-comunidade/articleshow/78563323.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Goa||46% clear Class X supplementary examination||Panaji: The Class X supplementary exam of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education was cleared by 45.9% students. Other than those, who failed in one or two subjects, this year, the supplementary exam was also answered by students who were stranded during the board exam due to the pandemic and therefore could not sit for the main Class X exam.  Altogether, 1,342 students appeared for the supplementary test and 617 cleared it. The test, which was held from September 15 to 22, was cleared by 325 or 43.3% boys and 292 or 49.4% girls. The number of exam centres were increased this year from two to 11 to be able to maintain social distancing norms. Cent per cent students who appeared for the exam from Sanguem and Vasco centres cleared the exam. The pass percentage was also high at 81.8% from the Bicholim exam centre. Mapusa saw the least percentage of students clearing the exam from its centre at 26.6%. Those students who could not answer the May-June Class X exam due to being stranded outside Goa, were given an opportunity to appear for this year’s supplementary exam as a one-time measure. The exam was also held in two shifts on some days this year. Only 12 students were seated in each exam hall to be able to maintain sufficient distance between the students. Goa Board had also set up helpline numbers for students to get any of their queries regarding the exam answered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/46-clear-class-x-supplementary-examination/articleshow/78563325.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||5,418 secure pharma admissions in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The first round of admissions for degree and diploma pharmacy courses has seen 5,418 candidates securing seats in various colleges. In all, 10,841 candidates had successfully registered themselves for the first round. The colleges have been allotted to the students on the basis of the choice filling made by them in the first round. “Out of 5,660 seats to be filled by the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC), 5,418 students have been allotted colleges,” said a member of the admission committee. Last year, seats had gone vacant despite registration by over 12,000 candidates, said sources while indicating that these year too seats were likely to go vacant. In the case of degree pharmacy programme, there are 463 seats across six government colleges and 4,108 seats across 67 self-financed colleges for the first round of admission. For diploma courses in pharmacy, there are 686 seats in eight government colleges and 403 seats in eight self-financed colleges. In the first phase of admission, 10, 841 candidates had registered themselves out of which 8,596 students had participated in the choice filling round. A total of 5,418 students have been allotted colleges on the basis of choice filling and final merit list for the round one. Hence, 242 seats are lying vacant in the first round. Close to 463 students have enrolled themselves in the government colleges in degree pharmacy, and 4,069 students in self-financed colleges. Similarly, 639 students have enrolled themselves in diploma government colleges, and 247 students in self-financed colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5418-secure-pharma-admissions-in-state/articleshow/78562131.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Victim needs justice not slander: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||LUCKNOW: Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday said that the Hathras girl deserves justice and not slander. Taking to Twitter, Priyanka accused the BJP saying, “Creating a narrative that defames a woman’s character and holding her somehow responsible for crimes committed against her is revolting and regressive.” Priyanka said that a heinous crime had been committed in Hathras, leaving a 19-year-old Dalit girl dead while her body was burned without the participation or consent of her family. Other Congress leaders also expressed dismay over the incident and the actions of the state government. “It is like adding insult to injury. The stories being cooked up around the victim speak for the real intention of the BJP and RSS,” said Aradhana Mishra, Congress legislative party leader in UP. On Wednesday, party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate expressed anguish over the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the incident in Hathras. “He is an MP from UP, but he does not have words to express his sorrow over the incident. It is shameful that not even women and child development minister Smriti Irani has condemned the horror committed in Hathras,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgv-victim-needs-justice-not-slander/articleshow/78564187.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 9, 2020||India||BJP: Will keep fighting Didi's dictatorial rule||NEW DELHI: Protesting over police action against party workers in Kolkata, BJP president JP Nadda on Thursday said the cadre will continue their fight against the "corrupt, violent and dictatorial rule" of West Bengal chief minister Mamta Banerjee to restore Bengal's lost glory and pride. Nadda said Mamata Banerjee's party workers and the government machinery unleashed brute force on BJP 'karyakartas' in an attempt to prevent them from holding protests against her "tyrannical and bloody" misrule in the state. "Such misuse of power is totally unacceptable and condemnable," Nadda said and added that beating up peaceful protestors, hurling country-made bombs and using water cannons on their protest march show Mamata Banerjee's frustration. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said anti-social and lumpen elements who had patronage of the Trinamool Congress government and West Bengal police targeted BJP workers who were peacefully holding protests. "More than 1500 BJP workers were seriously injured in the planned attack by the West Bengal police," Prasad said. Clashes broke out between BJP workers and the West Bengal Police in Kolkata on Thursday as BJP workers marched towards the state secretariat 'Nabanna'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-will-keep-fighting-didis-dictatorial-rule/articleshow/78564467.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM unveils new Gorakhpur plan with 177 development projects||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s home turf Gorakhpur is now set to witness a major revamp in its road and drainage network. On Thursday, the CM laid the foundation of 177 development projects of Rs 122 crore. The projects are linked to construction and improvement of roads and drains in Sadar rural and Sahjanwa assembly constituencies. The CM directed the district magistrate to appoint a nodal officer to monitor the road and drainage projects and ensure deadlines are met. Speaking at the virtual ceremony, Yogi said every desire for development in Gorakhpur, which is the centre of art, culture and spirituality, will be fulfilled. “Every small lane will be illuminated by development in the plan which the government has taken up for a new Gorakhpur. After a modern health facility like AIIMS, the city will get a zoo this year and by the start of the next year, a fertiliser factory will be started in the city,” he said. Asking people to recall what Gorakhpur’s image was 20-25 years back, when anarchy and chaos marked the area, he said the area had undergone a sea change over years due to participation of the public. He added that a biofuel plant, water sports park, an Ayush university, wellness centre, veterinary hospital, police training college and a battalion of women PAC would add to the district’s development. The CM announced that Ramgarh Tal would be developed into an international level tourist spot. He said that Gorakhpur is part of the Buddha Circuit and that visitors headed for Kushinagar, Kapilavatsu and Lumbini pass through Gorakhpur. “To ensure that they stop in Gorakhpur as well, Ramgarh Tal has to be developed as a tourist attraction,” he said. The CM also directed officials to ensure that the work of transferring overhead wires underground is completed at the earliest. He said that overhead wires not only spoil the look of the city but also inconvenience people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-unveils-new-gorakhpur-plan-with-177-development-projects/articleshow/78564196.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||L&T seeks financial aid from T govt||Hyderabad: As it incurred losses to the tune of Rs 45 crore a month after suspension of Metro due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, Larsen & Toubro (L&T) has sought financial assistance from Telangana government. Prior to the lockdown, L&T, which built and operates Hyderabad Metro Rail project, was carrying around 4.5 lakh passengers a day. According to official sources, the financial aid from the state government will help Hyderabad Metro rail overcome the loses. “Things were looking bright for Hyderabad Metro before the pandemic hit the state. We achieved a break-even operationally within a short period. Financial assistance from the government will definitely help but even then, looking at the massive loss incurred during the last five months, it could take nearly two years for the project breaks even,” an official said. Currently, Metro services are being operated with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lt-seeks-financial-aid-from-t-govt/articleshow/78563356.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula to dial different control room number soon||PANCHKULA: The police will soon launch a dedicated emergency control room number for residents to put an end to complaints of calls to ‘100’ and ‘112’ landing in other districts. Besides, the beat boxes across the city are also going to be revived to keep a tab on the movement of criminals. After failing to find a solution to the issues associated with the emergency numbers, the Panchkula top cops have decided to launch an altogether new number — most probably a landline number — for residents to connect with the control room during emergencies. Currently, the calls go either to Chandigarh Police or Mohali cops or even to Himachal Pradesh Police. The residents made many complaints to the city’s top brass, but to no avail. The issue was finally raised by local MLA and Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta at a law and order review meeting. Gupta asked commissioner of police (CP) Saurabh Singh to prepare a plan together with BSNL (Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd) officials to end the problem. Hailing the decision, Citizen Welfare Association (CWA) president S K Nayar said, “A new emergency number needs to be launched at the earliest and Panchkula residents should be informed about it beforehand.” Chandigarh and Mohali residents are also dependent on ‘100’ or ‘112’ emergency numbers. Calls from these places also sometimes land at neighboring police control rooms. Senior cops said after the start of ‘112’, officers have been given training to connect victims’ calls to the state/UT police concerned but the system is not yet effective in the Tricity. Besides, issues like consumption of liquor at public places, sale/ purchase of drugs in sector areas and movement of criminals in the city also cropped up at the meeting. Gupta told cops to revive the beat box system in every sector, as it helps in having the ground-level knowledge of a particular area. Traffic police officials were instructed to focus on vehicles hiding their number plates or using ‘jugaad’ vehicles, which should be impounded immediately. DCP Mohit Handa, ACP Satish Kumar and ACP Noopur Bishnoi were also present at the meeting Dial 100 or 112: DSP DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, PRO, Chandigarh Police, said, “Both 100 and 112 emergency numbers are operational in the city. Residents can dial both the numbers during any emergency to get police assistance.” ENDING CROSS CONNECTION Move to end complaints of calls to ‘100’ and ‘112’ landing in other districts Panchkula top cops decide to launch new number A plan is being prepared with BSNL||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panchkula-to-dial-different-control-room-number-soon/articleshow/78562159.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body cuts off sewage connection of Hotel Shivalikview||CHANDIGARH: The engineering wing of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has disconnected the sewage connection of Hotel Shivalikview, a Citco-run hotel in Sector 17, as their sewage was flowing into the N-Choe. The civic body’s move came following the failure of the Citco officials and the hotel management to stop the discharge of large amounts of sewage into the storm line despite reminders. A field team of the engineering department had noticed the flow of sewage into the N-Choe a few days back and after a hectic exercise of days, they had traced the source to Hotel Shivalikview. “After we found that the hotel sewage was being discharged into the storm line, through which it was going to the N-Choe, it was brought to the notice of the engineering staff of Citco, hotel management and the officials concerned, but they turned a blind eye to this serious problem. Left with no other option, we had to disconnect their sewage connection,” said an MC official. In a similar instance a few days back, the MC engineering department had detected sewage from the LIC building in Sector 17 going into the N-Choe, after which the outflow had been sealed and connected with the sewage line of the building. The civic body officials said they would inspect all key buildings of Sector 17 in the coming days to check if any of those is discharging sewage into the storm drainage. Surprisingly though, deputy general manager (DGM) of Hotel Shivalikview Bikram Virk expressed his ignorance about the development, saying, “I am not aware of this matter at all.” Virk is unaware of the disconnection of sewage link even though the MC team has dug out a large area just outside the entry gate of the hotel to locate the faulty sewage pipe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-cuts-off-sewage-connection-of-hotel-shivalikview/articleshow/78562141.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 9, 2020||Goa||GST collections improving, econ on recovery path: Mauvin Godinho||PANAJI: Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections have shown improvement in Goa, indicating that Goa’s economy is recovering, said panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho on Thursday. However, Godinho expects Goa’s fiscal situation and the economy to remain subdued till the state’s crucial mining sector restarts. Goa accounted for Rs 240 crore GST in September, a 23% drop from the Rs 311 crore collected for the same period in 2019-20. The Centre disbursed Rs 119 crore as compensation for the shortfall for this financial year but continues to owe Goa close to Rs 900 crore as GST compensation dues for the current financial year. Godinho cited national GST figures and said that data for the last quarter shows that India is on the path of recovery and is close to pre-Covid levels. “Even in Goa, it is picking up slowly and though we still continue to suffer because mining is not fully restarted, tourists have just started to come,” said Godinho. Mining was a major economic driver and contributed significantly to the state exchequer followed by tourism, and though Goa is open for tourism, it is a Catch-22 situation for Goa, said Godinho. He said that though resumption of tourism was not ideal, it was also unavoidable. “It is not an ideal situation because we are afraid that when they come they may come as Covid cases. So it is a catch-22 situation. When they come they may give revenue to the hotels but they will be patients. If they don’t come, what will the hotels do, what will taxis do?” said Godinho. Godinho, who represents Goa on the GST Council, defended the Centre for the delay in compensating states for the shortfall in GST collections. “The opposition ruled states say that they are not bothered whether there is a pandemic or not. They say as per the Constitution, the Centre has to give the compensation. The Centre has no money in the treasury as the pandemic affected the Centre too and not just the states,” said the BJP minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gst-collections-improving-econ-on-recovery-path-mauvin/articleshow/78563338.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Goa||‘Oppn should not politicise crimes against women’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s wife and outgoing state BJP mahila morcha president Sulakshana Sawant on Thursday said that opposition parties should not politicise issues of crime against women and that the government will take necessary steps to control such crimes.Sulakshana was replying to a question on why BJP’s mahila morcha did not take up issues of crime against women when recently one rape case was reported at Vasco and another case, less than a month ago where a girl’s body was found at Siridao. She said, “Right now the BJP government which is in power in the state, instead of politicising such issues, is trying to solve it. When such incidents take place, opposition will make it big. If such incidents take place in the state, the state should take strong decision and the government should control such incidents. The BJP government will definitely do those things.”She said that some parties, to increase their television ratings, politicise few incidents, and not to politicise such issues since, “Man or woman, a victim is a victim and rape happens in case of men as well as women.” She added, “We should keep our differences aside and on a humanitarian ground we should come together and fight for the right thing, rather than just politicise the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-should-not-politicise-crimes-against-women/articleshow/78563355.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||33k on paramedical merit list||Ahmedabad: After extending the deadline for registration thrice this year, the admission committee on Thursday announced the merit list for paramedical courses including physiotherapy and nursing. As many as 33,612 students have been included on the merit list. There are some 22,800 paramedical seats at 515 colleges in the state. The admission schedule is expected next week. The results of NEET 2020 by the National Testing Agency (NTA) will be announced soon after which a decision on the admission process is expected, said sources. The candidates who made it to the merit list include 32,318 students from GSHSEB. The registration process was earlier scheduled to be held from August 24 to September 1 for admissions to physiotherapy, nursing and other paramedical courses. Due to heavy rainfall, the admission committee for professional courses (ACPC) had decided to extend the registration process till September 4. This deadline was again extended twice due to the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/33k-on-paramedical-merit-list/articleshow/78562156.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow university to mint revenue from its YouTube channel||LUCKNOW: The YouTube channel of Lucknow University is set to generate revenue for the instituion. After fulfilling all required criteria, the channel can now be monetised on the video platform. The university had launched its official channel six months ago to present research, education output and performance of students in cultural and literary events on a global platform to promote LU as a brand. The university has uploaded 70 videos so far which have been seen across the country. Monetisation will help get commercial benefits through ads. The eligibility criterion for the purpose set by YouTube is that the creator must have tallied 4,000 hours of overall watch time on their channel within 12 months and have at least 1,000 subscribers. “We are happy and proud to announce that the LU YouTube channel has qualified for monetisation and received communication to this effect from YouTube. The channel got over 69 lakh impressions, 6,200 subscribers, more than 1 lakh views and about 4,100 viewing hours in the past six months,” said vice-chancellor Prof Alok Rai. “We posted the first video on March 31 and in a short duration, achieved the required eligibility. Now, we will monetise the channel and make it financially self-sufficient,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-mint-revenue-from-its-youtube-channel/articleshow/78563909.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP government in firefighting mode after 33 crop burning cases||LUCKNOW: A satellite data imagery has depicted 33 instances of stubble burning in Uttar Pradesh between October 1 and 4, thereby raising major environmental concerns for the state which often records high pollution levels. Swinging into action, chief secretary RK Tewari has sought explanation from 25 districts from where the instances of stubble burning leading to air pollution have been reported. In a letter dashed off to all district magistrates on October 7, Tewari cited the satellite imagery data which shows at least two instances of burning of crop residue in eight districts: Bulandshahr, Sant Kabir Nagar, Rampur, Pilibhit, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Bareilly and Aligarh. The other 17 districts from where at least one instance of stubble burning has been reported are Barabanki, Basti, Gautam Budh Nagar, Gorakhpur, Hapur, Etah, Fatehpur, Jaunpur, Kanpur Dehat, Maharajganj, Mainpuri, Mathura, Moradabad, Sambhal, Shahjahanpur, Shamli and Sitapur. The instances took place despite the ban on stubble burning by the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal. Tewari said most of the incidents were of burning of cane or paddy residue which is a violation of the SC order and a serious environmental concern too. He has directed the officials of 25 districts to send a team comprising police and officials of the revenue and agriculture department to inspect the sites and submit a report. Tewari has ordered strict action against the owner of the agricultural fields where the residue was burned. He has also asked the officials to examine if the villages concerned had adequate machinery to dispose of crop residue. The officials have been asked to find why the crop residue were not sent to the cow shelter homes. The chief secretary said the district administration would be held responsible if another incident of stubble burning takes place. The incidents of crop burning are being continuously monitored by the SC and the NGT, the letter pointed out. As per guidelines issued by the state government on August 26, farmers will be provided special farm equipment to dispose of crop residues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-in-firefighting-mode-after-33-crop-burning-cases/articleshow/78564214.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Irked over slow paddy procurement in US Nagar, farmers warn protest from October 11||RUDRAPUR : Farmers of Udham Singh Nagar district, which is known to be the food bowl of Uttarakhand, have expressed displeasure over “undue delay” in the procurement of paddy crops. They are alleging that a “lack of coordination” between the government departments and the procurement agencies is causing the delay. Farmers in Sitarganj have been protesting for the last five days and they have been now joined hands with the farmer organisations who have warned to intensify their agitation from October 11. Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, said, “Farmers have been waiting to sell their crops for the past five days. The government should make proper arrangement for farmers and ensure that the crop is procured as soon as the produce reaches the grain market.” Block president of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Gursahab Singh, said: “The district administration is not serious on paddy procurement. The active procurement has not been initiated and farmers are compelled to play in the hands of middlemen who are paying them only Rs 1200 for a quintal against the minimum support price of Rs 1880 per quintal. They are not clear about the moisture content and are really unaware how many days they will have to wait till competent authorities come into action.” A majority of mandis (paddy procurement centres) in several blocks are expressing their inability to purchase paddy from farmers due to non-lifting by the rice millers. “Paddy laden trucks, tractors and bullock carts are waiting for days near the mandis to avoid the burden of extra transportation costs. In any case they have to shell out more towards transportation as they have to pay the vehicle halting charges,” said Ganesh Upadhyay, Congress leader and member of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha.Virk further said they apprised the situation to the administration and urged the DM to take appropriate measures for smooth lifting of paddy. "We will be agitating against the administration at DM office on October 11 if the procurement is not embarked", he added. “This is happening in all mandis. We have warned the ADM that the farmers will be forced to hit the streets if such poor treatment will continue,” Navtej Pal Singh, another farmer, said. The farmers suggested the administration to issue token to farmers before the procurement of paddy by clearly mentioning the quantity of paddy each of the farmers have to bring to the mandis. This way the farmers will be save from paying extra transportation cost. Farmers also alleged that the few paddy procurement agencies who are working have not been paying the full cost of the paddy to the farmers. The agencies are keeping the cost of 4-5 kg of paddy on the pretext that the grains are not meeting the standard of fair average quality. Meanwhile, the vice-chairman of the Farmers Commission, Rajpal Singh, has assured the farmers that the procurement of paddy will come into full swing in another couple of days and the farmers' demands will also be met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/irked-over-slow-paddy-procurement-in-us-nagar-farmers-warn-protest-from-october-11/articleshow/78560896.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 9, 2020||Surat||Industries, transporters in UT get digitally connected||Surat: The administration of union territory (UT) of Daman, Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) has launched a digital platform ‘Parivahan Suvidha’ for the industries and transporters under the ease of doing business initiative. The platform, managed by the Omnibus Industrial Development Corporation (OIDC) and the transport department of the UT, will act as a bridge between the service seekers (industries) and the transporters in the territory. The transporters can offer their services through website or mobile application to the industries for the transport of industrial goods from one destination to other.Administrator of Daman, Diu and DNH, Praful Patel said, “The main objective of Parivahan Suvidha is bring the transporters, truck owners, drivers and industries on the single digital platform. This will be helpful for the truck owners and drivers to get more job opportunities and industries will easily get the transport services.”Patel added, “Earlier, there was a cartel in the transport sector in the territory and it was controlled by the anti-social elements. Now, it is mandatory for the transporters and industries to transport goods through Parivahan Suvidha application. The industries will easily get the transporters, truck owners and drivers and can transport goods on time. This will lead to increased opportunities in the transport business.”According to Patel, there are about 8,900 industrial units in the entire union territory, majority in Daman and DNH. About 2,500 transporters are registered with the transport department. The industries will get competitive rates for transporting their product out of the territory. Patel said, “We have also launched an online web portal Suraksha Setu in order to facilitate and streamline the process of providing private security services within the UT and to ensure ease of doing business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/industries-transporters-in-ut-get-digitally-connected/articleshow/78560911.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||‘Centre didn’t buy crop from Delhi farmers after 2015’||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha on Thursday claimed that BJP-led central government did not purchase any crop produce at minimum support price (MSP) from the farmers of Delhi in the last five years. “After 2015, the central government has not purchased even a single crop from the farmers of Delhi, let alone be it on the MSP. The farmers of Delhi were left to get plundered by the private players. The year 2015 was the last year when the centre purchased wheat produce from the farmers in Delhi,” Chadha said at a press conference. “BJP does not want to implement the MSP in the country. And that the BJP government has not purchased the crop produce from the farmers of Delhi worth even a single rupee, proves that they are opposed to the idea of implementing MSP,” he said. “In the last few years, our officials, mandi presidents and ministers have consistently written letters to the Centre. They have written that it is the responsibility of the government to purchase the crop produce on MSP from our farmers. But they got no response,” Chadha said adding that the Modi government does not care about the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-didnt-buy-crop-from-delhi-farmers-after-2015/articleshow/78563563.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi fills leadership vacuum, grassroots cadre eludes UP Congress||LUCKNOW: Going by the buzz the Congress has been able to create in Hathras case and Sonbhadra mass killing of tribals last year, it seems the arrival of Priyanka Gandhi as the state in charge has filled the leadership vacuum up to some extent. But the crisis of dedicated grassroots cadre that started after the beginning of its downfall in the late 80s refuses to end. By staging a sit-in and refusing to retreat without meeting tribal families whose kin were massacred over a land dispute with non-tribals in Sonbhadra had made it clear that she had leadership qualities. The Sonbhadra administration, which initially remained adamant on not allowing her to console the tribal families personally, finally had to surrender before her. In Hathras too, Priyanka and her brother Rahul were not allowed by district authorities to meet family members of a Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped and murdered. Priyanka, who challenged arm-twisting tactics by the district authorities was even manhandled, but finally district officers had to make way for her to embrace the grieving family. From Sonbhadra to Hathras, Priyanka’s aggressive postures have energised the moribund cadres and rank and file of the party who now hope for some revival in the 2022 Assembly elections. What the Congress leadership needs is to avoid repeat of 2012 experiment when leading the Congress charge in the Assembly elections Rahul had attacked then Mayawati government on the multi-crore NRHM scandal with his remarks that 'Kendra se chala paisa yahan baitha haathi kha jaata hai' (the funds sanctioned by Centre are gobbled by an elephant in UP). Rahul was succeeded in making a dent on the image of the Mayawati government over the NRHM issue and had also generated an anti-BSP atmosphere in 2012 elections. But due to weak local leadership, the Congress failed to make any impact and had to contend with just 29 seats in 2012 and . The Samajwadi Party with a strong leadership, well oiled organisational machinery and a vast network of workers gained from it formed its government in 2012 with a comfortable majority. In the next polls in 2017, the Congress's seats tally was reduced to just seven in a House of 403 members. However, in the last few months the Congress under Priyanka has successfully activated the party’s rank and file and has also offered some resistance to the BJP government. But to regain its old strength of being a formidable player in the state’s political map, the Congress will have to raise an army of grassroots workers. Since 2017, when the Congress posted its lowest tally in single digit in its electoral history, it had adequate time to project its assembly constituency-level leaders. With the 2022 Assembly polls coming closer, the party is yet to overcome its same age-old dilemma of lacking credible faces at the hustings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/priyanka-fills-leadership-vacuum-grassroots-cadre-eludes-up-cong/articleshow/78564224.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 9, 2020||Goa||SWR’s 2nd track will destroy Goa: Saldanha to CM||Panaji: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha on Thursday during a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant over South Western Railway’s double tracking project, said that the second track will proved destructive for Goa. Saldanha said that the chief minister has asked for information on the ground reality and that, as per what they have learnt following their investigation, is that the project is basically to facilitate transportation of coal. “Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had said that the doubling of track is a MPT fraud and we have the press cutting,” she said. “Basically, doubling is being done for coal. Where is this coal being taken? To Karnataka. Does Karnataka have ports to handle it? Yes. We have asked the railway authority to examine other routes and alternatives because Karnataka can sustain this type of development,” she said. Saldanha said that Karnataka is 52 times bigger then Goa. “What you do in Karnataka can be considered as development. Goa is already crowded, our houses are there, the track is almost at our doorsteps. Now you want to lay a second track. That cannot be allowed unless they want to destroy us and the state, and the chief minister will not allow such to happen,” she said. Asked if she would resign as MLA to protest against the double tracking, she said that she has hope in the government and people and that the project has not been given permission as yet. The Cortalim MLA reiterated the destruction that would be wrecked in the double tracking was allowed by saying that people would become prisoners on their own land and would suffer coal dust and noise pollution. Their situation would only worsen with time because, eventually, the number of trains on the route would increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swrs-2nd-track-will-destroy-goa-saldanha-to-cm/articleshow/78563357.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Goa||Goa CM has agreed not to penalise road tax defaults: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday agreed to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1974 to waive off penalties on the annual road tax for passenger vehicles, and reimburse any vehicle owners if they have paid penalties while paying the road tax, said waste management minister Michael Lobo. Lobo had demanded with Sawant to amend the law so that no fines should be imposed on taxi owners and public transport owners when they pay road tax, and said that anyone who has paid the penalty should be reimbursed. “The chief minister has agreed to bring an amendment and to reimburse the fines,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Lobo said, “The transport department moved a file for the amendment in the law which went up to the law and the finance departments, and the chief secretary. Now it is with the chief minister. The transport department says that the finance department is not agreeing to the amendment. The chief minister has assured to clear the proposal and orders would be issued to reimburse the fine.” He added, “We have urged the chief minister to hold a meeting with the finance department and the chief secretary to introduce a proposal at the next cabinet meeting about this amendment.” He also said that a circular was issued by the Union government stating that there was no need to pay the registration fee and road tax in view of the lockdown. “Our demand to the chief minister is that, as soon as possible they should refund the fines imposed on public transport owners and for those who have not paid this penalty, the department should not make them pay any fines,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-cm-has-agreed-not-to-penalise-road-tax-defaults/articleshow/78563362.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Surat||Surat, Rajkot take up walker friendly space challenge||Surat/Rajkot: Surat and Rajkot have called upon citizens to support the civic body in the 'Streets for People Challenge,’ an initiative under the Smart Cities Mission of the central government. They are among the 113 cities to have registered for the initiative that aims at promoting pedestrian-friendly market spaces. The registered cities will implement quick, innovative and low-cost interventions to make their cities walkable, with a focus on place making and liveability. “Citizen participation and collaboration are key metrics in the evaluation of proposals submitted by the cities. An online portal has been launched for the challenge and features a page exclusively for this purpose titled ‘Support your city’. By filling the form on this page, interested citizens, students, consultants, and corporates can participate,” SMC said in a statement. “The challenge comprises two stages. In stage one, cities will have to identify and test at least one flagship walking project and enhance liveability in one neighbourhood. The potential locations for this may include streets and public spaces around transit hubs, heritage zones, commercial streets, market areas, recreational corridors, or any zone with high footfall,” official said.Rajkot has proposed cycling and walkability projects under this initiative. Deputy municipal commissioner CK Nandani said, “This project aims at promoting non-motorized transportation. We have to submit the proposal by December with details on our plan to create such infrastructure and promote cycling. The proposal for walkability has to be submitted by by February 2021.”Once the projects selected, the union urban affairs and housing ministry will provide funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-rajkot-take-up-walker-friendly-space-challenge/articleshow/78541177.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||No Covid death, more recoveries in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: The district breathed a sigh of relief on Thursday as no Covid death was reported in the last 24 hours. The toll remains at 287. While 52 new Covid patients were detected on Thursday, 63 persons were discharged from the hospitals. According to ZP health department sources, at present there are 789 patients in Covid-19 Care Centres across the district. As on date, total 8,920 Covid patients were recorded in the district of whom 7,673 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-covid-death-more-recoveries-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78563374.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Goa||Schools must admit disabled students: Goa govt||PANAJI: After coming across educational institutions denying admissions and facilities to students with disabilities, the directorate of social welfare in a circular stated that the institutions should not indulge in such discrimination. According to Section 16 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, it is mandatory for educational institutions to provide inclusive education to children with disabilities, the circular stated. Educational institutions found violating the provisions of Section 16 are liable to be penalised and punished with a fine of up to Rs 10,000 for the first contravention and not less than Rs 50,000 and up to Rs 5 lakh for any subsequent contravention, the circular reads. Education institutions are bound to admit students with disabilities without discrimination and provide education and opportunities for sports and recreation activities equally with others and make their buildings, campus and various facilities accessible, it states.  Institutions should detect specific learning disabilities in children and take measures to overcome them, director Umeshchandra Joshi stated in the circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-must-admit-disabled-students-govt/articleshow/78563369.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolhapur||91% of villages in Kolhapur reported coronavirus cases||KOLHAPUR: Indicating a strong presence of the coronavirus, 91% of the villages in Kolhapur district have reported Covid-19 patients.  According to the official data, 938 of the 1,025 villages in the district have Covid patients. The administration zeroed in on 360 villages where the number of Covid cases is less than five, said the officials. Shirol tehsil is the worst affected as all the 52 villages in the tehsil have reported Covid cases. Also, Shirol Municipal Council has a considerable number of patients. The tehsil has 2,376 cases and 89 deaths until Wednesday. Hatkanangale tehsil reported 5, 046 cases and 202 deaths. Of the 60 villages in the tehsil, 59 have covid cases. Official data show that 94% of villages in Karveer tehsil has reported coronavirus. The infection has been traced in 112 villages out of the 118. The tehsil recorded 5,331 patients and 158 deaths till Wednesday night.  Kagal tehsil, which had curtailed the virus in the initial stage, now has Covid cases in 73 of its 78 villages. Radhanagari tehsil has patients in 88 villages out of the 98 while Chandgad has cases in 98 villages of the 109.  Gaganbawda has the lowest number of cases-131, in the district. Rural parts of Kolhapur district has reported almost half of the Covid patients while the remaining half are traced in Kolhapur Municipal Corporation limits and other urban areas governed by municipal councils. Till Wednesday night, the rural areas have 23,065 cases while the municipal corporation has 13,967 patients and the urban areas have 7,111 patients. The rural areas also have reported more than half of the Covid deaths as 730 casualties were reported out of the 1,514 deaths. The KMC has reported 342 deaths while other urban areas have reported 326 deaths till Wednesday night. Ichalkaranji town, known for its powerloom industries, has 3,963 Covid cases and has reported 220 Covid deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/91-of-villages-in-kolhapur-reported-coronavirus-cases/articleshow/78559678.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||New wife, 2 others cheat labourer of Rs 1L||Vadodara: A labourer working at Amul Dairy’s plant in Anand was conned by three women including his newly wedded wife. The three women took Rs 1.1 lakh from the victim and fled to never return within 10 days of his marriage. The victim, Jaimin Parmar, was cheated by Afsanabanu Saiyed, who ran a marriage bureau, his newly wedded wife Usha Patil and her aunt Shobha Jadav in August. Parmar said that after divorcing his first wife, he wanted to marry again so he got in touch with Saiyed through a relative. In February, Saiyed introduced many women to Parmar but he did not like any. After the lockdown, Parmar was introduced to Patil and as they agreed to marry each other, their marriage was fixed for July 31. On the day of the wedding, Parmar paid Saiyed Rs 50,000 as her commission. On August 9, Jadav went to meet the couple at their home on New Sama Road. She told Parmar that she would take Patil for a few days to their native place Aurangabad for a ceremony. While they were leaving, Parmar gave Rs 60,000 to Jadav for wedding expenses. Two days later when Parmar called Patil, she did not talk properly with him and hung up the phone. When Parmar called again, Patil switched her phone off. “The victim had married the woman within a fortnight and they had not spent many days together. Hence, he does not know much about her background and where she hails from,” said a police official. Parmar had even contacted Saiyed as she had taken the responsibility, but she too did not respond to him. An offence of cheating was registered based on Parmar’s complaint at Fatehgunj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-wife-2-others-cheat-labourer-of-rs-1l/articleshow/78560995.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Ballot boxes arrive for GHMC polls||Hyderabad: State Election Commission (SEC) has procured 17,366 ballot boxes ahead of GHMC elections. These boxes are kept at the Victory Play Ground, Chaderghat and cops are deployed to guard them. As per SEC estimates, 30,000 ballot boxes are required to conduct elections for 150 wards. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ballot-boxes-arrive-for-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78563368.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||All 14,000 gram panchayats to be digitally linked: Gujarat CM||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Thursday that all the 14,000 gram panchayats of the state will be connected with the Digital Seva Setu programme and all government services will be provided online at the village level by 2021. At an event organized in Gandhinagar, the CM inaugurated the Digital Seva Setu programme for rural areas to provide several documentation-related services at the village panchayat level. In the first phase of the programme, the state government’s science and technology department, in association with BharatNet, will deliver 27 government services and schemes to more than 3,000 gram panchayats of the state. The digital Seva Setu services will be available in 8,000 villages by December this year, Rupani said. The CM said that through the project, people residing in villages will not be required to visit taluka or district headquarters to get required documents and certificates, as these will now be available at the gram panchayat level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-14k-gram-panchayats-to-be-digitally-linked-cm/articleshow/78562181.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras rape case: SIT to take girl’s brother, mom to crime scene||LUCKNOW: The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the alleged gang rape and murder of a 19-year-old dalit girl in Hathras is all set to reconstruct the crime scene in her village. The SIT, formed by the state government after the girl died at a Delhi hospital and there was outrage when her body was cremated hastily post-midnight, has also drawn a list of at least 40 people whose statements will be recorded in connection with the sequence of the events. They will also be asked about the circumstances which led to the cremation, which the victim’s family claimed was done without its consent. Sources privy to the probe further revealed the victim’s mother and brother would also be taken to the crime scene — a farm field in their village — and asked to recall the events which unfolded on the morning of September 14. The three-member panel, headed by UP home secretary Bhagwan Swaroop and comprising DIG Chandra Prakash and PAC commandant Poonam, was constituted on September 30 and was supposed to submit its report within seven days. However, on Wednesday, it was given an extension of 10 days. All those who were present on the spot will be asked to narrate what exactly happened as soon as the ambulance carrying the body of the victim entered the village on the night of September 29. UP police has claimed in its affidavit before the Supreme Court that the body was cremated because of intelligence inputs about a cast conflagration and riots next morning over the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-to-take-girls-bro-mom-to-crime-scene/articleshow/78564228.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||5 Covid deaths, more recoveries than new cases in Wardha||WARDHA: The district saw five deaths due to coronavirus, 72 new patients and 93 recoveries on Thursday. The total cases in the district reached 5,228 and the number of patients under treatment was reduced to 1,988. Two men (70 and 76), a 75-year-old woman from Wardha, two men (45 and 45) from Selu died due to coronavirus infection during treatment on Thursday, taking the toll to 154. On Thursday, 453 test reports were received of which 72, including 24 women, were Covid positive. The cases reported today are Wardha 49, Hinganghat 8, Karanja 6, Deoli and Selu 3 each, Arvi 2 and Samudrapur 1. After 93 got discharge on Thursday, total number of recovered patients has reached 3,086.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-covid-deaths-more-recoveries-than-new-cases-in-wardha/articleshow/78563433.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Poor internet connectivity hurting online study: Report||Ahmedabad: Poor Internet connectivity is hampering online education the most, believe 56% of teachers whereas 44% believe that it is lack of attention paid by students. This was found in a survey by Extramarks Education, an online education technology firm. The survey was conducted among 2,200 teachers to analyze the pros and cons of online education. The fear of getting infected with novel coronavirus is the reason 45% of the teachers who were surveyed did not prefer to resume school duties till there was access to a vaccine for the deadly virus, the study found. “Covid-19 has drastically changed the lives around us and the education sector has been affected the most. To gauge the interest and challenges while teaching the students online, we had conducted a survey amongst 2,200 teachers of Gujarat. The results of the survey were surprising and it demands drastic changes in our present education system,” stated Shaishav Kayastha, General Manager – West India, Extramarks Education. About 2,200 of 2,500 teachers who were invited, participated in the survey. As ‘Work From Home’ has become a new norm and children have adjusted themselves to online education, poor internet connectivity is hampering student-teacher engagement, according to 56% of the teachers surveyed. Many a time teachers had to cancel classes due to technical issues. Students also had to miss classes or found it hard to connect to the internet for study. On the other hand, many teachers seemed unhappy about discipline. About 44% of the teachers opined that students are not paying attention during online classes. Sleeping, going to washrooms frequently, eating, or drinking during online classes are a few common behaviours that highlight student distraction.On the bright side, about 75% of teachers stated that their teaching techniques changed a lot due to adopting digital platforms. Learning from educational videos on YouTube, speaking confidently in front of a camera, converting a document to an image, or download just an audio file from a video were mammoth tasks for them earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/poor-internet-connectivity-hurting-online-study-report/articleshow/78562231.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolhapur||CM to inaugurate jumbo hospital in Satara today||Kolhapur: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate Satara district’s jumbo hospital on Friday through an online programme.  The new jumbo hospital, lacated in the Chhatrapati Shivaji museum in the city, will have 234 beds with oxygen and 52 ICU beds. It will also have four beds, which will have a dialysis facility. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will also be present at the programme. Satara reports 411 cases The district reported 411 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 patients succumbed to the infection on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, Satra tehsil reported 169 patients, including 93 from Satara town, said the officials.  Karad tehsil added 72 cases of the fresh cases which also includes 27 from Karad town. Phaltan tehsil had 56 new cases while Wai reported three cases. Mahabaleshwar recorded five cases while Jawli reported seven patients. Maan tehsil registered 13 new patients, of which five are from Dahiwadi village. Khatav tehsil identified 16 new patients. Of the deceased, 15 were elderly. Officials said 12 of the deceased were men while seven were women. Satara and Karad tehsils reported five deaths each, Koregaon tehsil reported three deaths while Maan and Khatav tehsil recorded two deaths each. The district has a total of 40, 636 cases which includes 1,319 deaths and 7,577 active cases. As many as 31,740 patients have recovered from the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cm-to-inaugurate-jumbo-hospital-in-satara-today/articleshow/78559706.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Air quality back to poor, likely to worsen in winter||LUCKNOW: The city’s air quality has become “poor” in October after witnessing “clean” environment with pollution levels lowest in decades during the lockdown in March and April, followed by “satisfactory” conditions during the monsoon. With winter round the corner, the situation is expected to deteriorate in coming days when fog coupled with smoke will form smog and envelope the city, as it has been happening in the past few years. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the pollution graph started rising towards the end of September. The Air Quality Index (AQI) was 66 on September 25. It rose to 250 on Thursday, making Lucknow the 10th most polluted city monitored in India by the CPCB. Data also showed that within the city, Talkatora was the most polluted location in the morning at 9 pm, followed by Lalbagh, Gomtinagar and Aliganj. Experts said that pollution levels rise in winter because foggy weather does not allow particulate matter generated through emission by vehicles, industries, construction sites and stubble burning to escape into the atmosphere. “The situation aggravates because norms laid by the National Green Tribunal to check pollution are not followed. This is the reason why in December-January AQI goes above 400 (hazardous levels). Last year, Lucknow’s air quality was the poorest in the country for a few days,” said a scientist, while advocating strict preventive measures to avoid a similar situation this year. Experts also said that air was clean during lockdown because there was no vehicular traffic and all industrial and construction activities were stopped. Pollution levels increased gradually after unlocking began in June, but strong winds and rain in the monsoon swept away pollutants. But, now wind speed and temperatures are lower and weather is dry — a perfect recipe for high pollution levels if emissions are not controlled, they added. Director of Indian Institute of Toxicology Research Prof Alok Dhawan said that people are avoiding public transport these days due to pandemic, resulting in more vehicles on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/air-quality-back-to-poor-likely-to-worsen-in-winter/articleshow/78563980.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Tejas Eye Hospital feted for welfare work||SURAT: On the occasion of World Sight Day on Thursday, Mandvi-based Divyajyoti trust which runs Tejas Eye Hospital was feliciated for its good work in refractive error correction and also for providing spectacles to rural masses in interior areas. It was awarded the inaugural ‘Dr Jordan Kassalow Visionspring award’ in an online programme in the category of medium sized hospitals. The award comprises a cheque of Rs 50,000 and 3,000 pairs of spectacles for free distribution to poor patients. It will also allow use of training centre of Visionspring for one year for free. The award citation was handed over by Dr GN Rao, founder of LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad. Dr Uday Gajiwala, superintendent of the hospital said it runs 11 vision centres in remote villages in Gujarat and in Maharashtra and also uses telemedicines and eye care services in remote places. The 100-bed hospital conducts more than 13,000 eye surgeries every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tejas-eye-hospital-feted-for-welfare-work/articleshow/78560932.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Police arrest four criminals after encounter in outer Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Special Cell shot at four criminals during a fierce exchange of fire in outer Delhi’s Rohini area on Thursday morning. The criminals belong to the “Kala Jhateri-Lawrence Bishnoi gang” operating in Haryana and Delhi. While two of them, identified as Rohit and Amit, were hit in both their legs, the third suspect, Sunil Mitraun, suffered bullet injuries on his left hand and both legs. The fourth, Ravinder Yadav, sustained a gunshot on one leg. Sources said that the gang had joined hands with jailed gangster, Jitender Gogi, and was to bump off a rival on Thursday, which has been averted with their arrest post the encounter. Gogi’s associates are learnt to have bumped off one Shakti in Jhajjar on Wednesday evening in retaliation to last week’s attack on a sanitary inspector in outer Delhi in which a policeman was also injured. The four men in police net were wanted in over dozen cases of murder, extortion, robbery and attempted murders, said DCP Sanjeev Yadav. “The cops recovered three high quality bullet proof jackets and equal number of protective headgear from them apart from six pistols and 56 live cartridges,” DCP Yadav said. A team under ACP Sanjay Dutt and inspector Man Singh had been tracking the gang members for two months. In the last few days, raids were conducted in several areas of Haryana during which they got to know about their trip from Sonipat to Mitraun, Najafgarh via Rohini. A trap was laid and a Polo car was flagged down around 3.30am. They were signalled to stop but they instead stepped on the gas and tried to flee while firing at the cops. A chase ensued and the cops fired back. Inspector Man Singh had a narrow escape as a bullet hit his bulletproof jacket and he got hit near his biceps. More than 50 rounds were exchanged in which the cops fired around 28 rounds. The injured were taken to a hospital and arrested upon discharge. The gang had become notorious of late as they stepped up their activities around Delhi. The gang was behind a triple murder committed in Gurugram wherein three men were gunned down. They also killed a bookie in September in Yamunanagar. These hits were ordered by their handler, Hariom, lodged in Bhondsi jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-arrest-four-criminals-after-encounter-in-outer-delhi/articleshow/78563419.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Five Covid deaths and 151 new cases in Amravati||AMRAVATI: Five Covid deaths and a spike of 151 cases took the district’s toll to 324 and caseload to 14,524 on Thursday. A report from civil surgeon’s office said five patients, two each from the city and Chandur Railway tehsil, and one from Achalpur tehsil lost the battle to coronavirus during treatment in the last 24 hours. The report further said 137 patients were discharged today, taking the total recoveries to 12,338 for a rate of 84.95%. This left 1,862 patients under treatment, including 673 at Covid Hospital, nine in Nagpur and 1,180 in home isolation, the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/five-covid-deaths-and-151-new-cases-in-amravati/articleshow/78563400.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Kadambari Balkawde is new KMC chief||Kolhapur: Kadambari Balkawde has been appointed the new municipal commissioner for Kolhapur city. She took over from outgoing Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti on Thursday evening. Kalshetti is yet to be assigned a new posting. Kadambari Balkawde is an IAS officer of 2010 batch and she had previously held various posts in Nagpur and Gondiya. She was also posted in Nagaland in 2015-16. She was the Gondiya district collector before her posting to Kolhapur. The new civic chief’s husband, district superintendent Shailesh Balkawde, had taken charge of his post last week. Balkawde said the administration would work in a transparent manner and within the framework of the law. She said development works would accelerate during her tenure. Kalshetti, who is yet to get a new posting, has been known for his cleanliness drives, which he implemented every Sunday with the help of voluntary organisations. Last Sunday was the 75th such drive. He will also be remembered for his work during the 2019 floods in Kolhapur city.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kadambari-balkawde-is-new-kmc-chief/articleshow/78559719.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Office deals in Hyderabad pick up pace in Q3||HYDERABAD: From zero deals between April and June, Hyderabad’s Covid-hit realty market saw increased activity during July to September, 2020 with 0.5 million square feet (sft) of office space being transacted in this period. Residential sales too improved by 40% — 974 (April to June) to 1,609 (July to September) units, revealed the India Real Estate Report (for Q3) released by Knight Frank on Thursday. In 2019, Hyderabad sold 4,067 homes, on an average every quarter, while office transactions was pegged at 3.2 million sft (per quarter). Though the city’s performance in the last quarter, despite an upward revision in numbers, remained poor in comparison to other metros, analysts explained that it was because most cities across India recorded zero or negligible sales in Q2 (April to June) of 2020, whereas Hyderabad recorded sales activity even then. “Accordingly, other cities are seeing a jump now because of the pent up demand from Q2, which is not applicable in Hyderabad since it recorded sales in that quarter,” said Samson Arthur, branch director of Knight Frank - Hyderabad. Other bright spots for Hyderabad: year-on-year growth in price of residential properties and commercial rentals. In both these segments the city remained at the top (along with Bengaluru) with a 4% and 2% growth respectively. “These are the only markets that saw prices grow on Y-o-Y basis as developers in these predominantly end-user markets sustained pricing power in a favourable demand-supply scenario,” read the report. Suggesting that the residential sector — across eight major cities of India — displayed a better than expected recovery in Q3 of 2020 the report underlined that the festival season in the next quarter will be crucial for developers. “It should provide some fillip to sales,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/office-deals-in-city-pick-up-pace-in-q3/articleshow/78563415.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Plea against need to settle all challans before availing service||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday sought responses from the Centre, the AAP government and police on a plea challenging the provisions that require closure of all pending challans involving a vehicle for availing any service, including fitness or no objection certificates. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to all the authorities seeking their stand on the plea by a taxi owner, whose application for renewal of fitness certificate for his vehicle was ignored due to several pending challans connected to it. The petitioner has sought an ending of the provisions under the standard operating procedure issued by the Union ministry in 2018, which mandates closure of all pending challans to be eligible to avail services like no objection or fitness certificates. It contended that such provisions under the rules were in violation of the Motor Vehicles Act. The petition argued that the SOP provisions “infer that no work will be done even if a challan is under contest, throwing the principle of presumption of innocence out of the window.” The plea added that challans alleged to be pending against the petitioner’s vehicle were offences for which the driver, and not the vehicle, was responsible. “The pendency of challans does not prevent the vehicle from being used in a lawful manner by any driver holding a valid licence. This is amply clear from a reading of Rule 22 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, which provides for endorsement of the driving licence, that, too, after conviction by the court. In other words, the entire process of prosecution is with regard to the driving licence. It has no effect on or connection to the vehicle,” the petition claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-against-need-to-settle-all-challans-before-availing-service/articleshow/78563458.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Schools holding classes flouting Covid safety norms, say activists||Madurai: Though the state government has declared that schools will not reopen for any classes even on voluntary basis, activists in Madurai have alleged that schools are taking advantage of parents’ fears and holding special classes for Class X and XII students who are set to appear for board exams. On Thursday morning, a private matriculation school at Balarengapuram was found holding classes for Class X and XII. The students and teachers were not wearing face masks or maintaining social distancing. A complaint was then subsequently given by members of Students’ Federation of India (SFI) and Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) to the district chief educational officer (CEO) with proof of videos and photos. “Attendance is being taken for the classes which are being held from 8.30 am to 4 pm like regular school. We are forced to send our children for classes as we don’t want our child to be treated badly. Teachers also tell us it is the decision of the management and they can’t do anything,” said one of the parents. SFI district secretary S Vel Deva said it was not just one school. “Parents of at least five schools, including popular private schools in the city, had reached out to us about this. We have complained earlier also to the CEO but no solid action has been taken. In Madurai, around 100 Covid-19 cases are continuing to be reported every day but schools are playing with the lives of children. Parents, with many going to work now, are also inclined to send their children when pressured by schools,” he said adding that a state-wide protest will be held if the classes continue. Madurai district CEO R Swaminathan said though the authorities of the school in Balarengapuram were contacted, they denied the claims. “The authorities said that the students were only called to be given textbooks and were then immediately sent home by 12 . However, we are taking this complaint seriously. We have strictly warned the school that students must not be asked to come for any purpose. A circular will also be issued to all schools warning of strict action if they are found holding special classes,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-holding-classes-flouting-covid-safety-norms-say-activists/articleshow/78563432.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Green corridor helps Kanyakumari man get kidney from Madurai||Madurai: A green corridor was created to transport a kidney from Madurai to Nagercoil, for transplantation in a 42-year-old farmer. The green corridor helped the kidney reach a private hospital in Nagercoil in just three-and-a-half hours to be transplanted in the patient. Doctors said that while the patient is showing improvement, it will take up to 10 days before the transplant can be termed a success.“The patient has been on haemodialysis for five years now. Since there were no suitable donors from family members, we enrolled him for cadaveric kidney transplant. On Tuesday night, we received a call from Velammal Medical College Hospital in Madurai after a potential donor was identified. Organs were harvested from a 27-year-old man who died in a road accident,” said Dr Devaprasath Jeyasekharan, managing trustee and consultant urologist at Dr Jeyasekharan Hospital in Nagercoil.A team was then subsequently sent for cross matching and retrieval of the kidney to Madurai.It usually takes more than four hours for travel between Madurai and Kanyakumari. However, ambulance drivers - Senthil Kumar and Anand managed to help deliver the kidney within three-and-a-half hours with support from police who created a green corridor. “Though kidney lasts for a longer time, there is always a chance of damage to the organ if there is more delay. With the support of Kanyakumari SP V Badri Narayanan and police, our team was able to move quickly,” said Jeyasekharan.A team of doctors, including urologists, nephrologist and anaesthesiologists successfully carried out the transplantation. “The patient had 2-3 litres of urine output today and is recovering well,” said Jeyasekharan. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/green-corridor-helps-kanyakumari-man-get-kidney-from-madurai/articleshow/78563439.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||People with more than two children can now contest GHMC elections||HYDERABAD: Persons having more than two children can contest in the upcoming GHMC elections. The municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department is making relevant amendments to the GHMC Act by removing such clauses in a special assembly session, which is likely to be held on October 12 and 13. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is planning to urge the governor and speaker to call for a special session of assembly for two days mainly to amend the GHMC Act and some other Acts. “A final call be taken on this on Friday,” CMO officials said. Officials sources said apart from the two children norm, the government is also amending the law for continuing BC voters’ reservations this time without any fresh enumeration and also 50% women reservations in the wards (which is being implemented through a GO). Four GHMC corporators were earlier disqualified after they were found having more than two children after getting elected. The new Municipalities Act, which was approved by the state assembly in 2019, and the new Panchayat Raj Act in 2018 had already removed the clauses and the government has decided to remove clause 21-B of the GHMC Act, 2009, in the special session. The government is also likely to bring amendment to the Act incorporating unified services rules for the GHMC employees. As of now, GHMC or HMDA staff cannot be transferred to other bodies or other civic bodies’ jurisdictions. CMO officials said the government is also bringing some changes in CrPC as suggested by the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-with-more-than-two-children-can-now-contest-ghmc-elections/articleshow/78563459.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP gets largest liquid oxygen plant, 200 hospitals to benefit||LUCKNOW: At a time when demand for medical oxygen has skyrocketed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, UP got its largest liquid oxygen facility that will be able to cater to about 200 hospitals and medical institutes. Inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday, the plant is located in Ghaziabad’s Modinagar and has an oxygen capacity of 150 tonnes per day and a storage capacity of 1,000 tons. The ultra-high purity cryogenic oxygen plant is the largest gas manufacturing unit in UP. Its air separation plant with a capacity of 200 tons per day will produce liquid oxygen, liquid nitrogen and liquid argon. Yogi said that with the new plant functional, supply of oxygen in the state, especially when the country is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, will not be a hindrance in the treatment of patients. “It will now be a thing of the past when the state was struggling for availability of oxygen. After the installation of High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC), demand for oxygen for Covid patients has gone up in hospitals. The new facility will bridge the gap between demand and supply,” he said. The company, INOX Air Products, which commissioned this plant has another plant in the state which was set up around 1990, is now producing 265 tons per day of oxygen, more than the state’s current demand of about 150 tons per day. What is not used in hospitals will be provided to industrial units, many of which have been diverting their stocks to hospitals to meet the Covid demand.  INOX also announced its plan to set up another plant in Lucknow or Kanpur at an investment of about Rs 150 crore. Siddharth Jain, director of INOX, said the new plant should be ready to roll out within the next two years. “Earlier, it was importing oxygen from other states but with this plant, UP will now become Atmanirbhar. We had signed an MoU for this plant with the government during the 2018 Investors’ Summit and its foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 29, 2018. Work was definitely disrupted during the lockdown but our workers and associates put in a Herculean effort to finish this plant during the lockdown constraints,” Jain said. The plant has a fleet of 15 specialized cryogenic tankers having a total capacity of 2.3 lakh litres of oxygen. Commissioned with a project outlay of Rs 135 crore, the new plant will generate 150 direct and indirect employment opportunities in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-gets-largest-liquid-oxygen-plant-200-hospitals-to-benefit/articleshow/78564233.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Drive to curb pollution in Lucknow from Sunday||LUCKNOW: Given the poor air quality in city, district administration will begin a special campaign to curb air pollution from Sunday. It will include strict compliance of vehicle pollution check, land filling sites for industrial area, and spraying of water. DM Abhishek Prakash presided over a meeting of district administration on Thursday where a programme was drawn to curb ait pollution.  and attended by various stake holders including municipal corporation commissioner, Lucknow development authority, forest department, agriculture department, transport, traffic police, housing development, NHAI, public works department, Setu Nigam, UPSRTC, industrial department, pollution control board, construction Agencies, industrial organizations was held at collectorate based Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Auditorium. He directed for immediate compliance of Green Net, anti-smoke gun, self-dust control audit, spraying of water and PTZ camera at construction sites. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi, said the sprinkling of treated water from STP is to be done at the construction sites, and all the construction units should contact the control room operated by the civic authority to get the treated water. Under no circumstances ground water be used for spraying to control dust. All departments have mandated to provide details of the action taken on air pollution till date and submit progress information through regional officer pollution control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drive-to-curb-pollution-from-sunday/articleshow/78564015.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||HC orders re-postmortem on body of man in suspicious death case||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday directed to conduct a re-postmortem on a man who was found dead in a suspicious manner at Anaikaraipatti village in Madurai district.Justice G R Swaminathan, who was hearing a petition filed by K Santhosh, observed that the autopsy in this case was not done by a regular forensic team, and directed Dr Selvamurgan, head of the forensic medicine department and Dr P Prasanna, associate professor of the department from Tirunelveli Medical College to do the second postmortem at the burial site at Anaikaraipatti and videograph the same.Santhosh stated that his elder brother Idayakani was married to one of their relatives. Based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s parents against his brother, the Saptur police officials allegedly harassed his family members asking them to come for inquiry.On September 16, police officials came to inquire about Idayakani and took his younger brother Ramesh in custody, but he did not return home. The next day, Ramesh was found hanging in a tree in a hillock near his house. Santhosh alleged that the police officials had tortured Ramesh and hanged him in a tree to cover up the custodial torture.Since the postmortem was conducted in a hurried manner, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench seeking to conduct re-postmortem.The judge observed that the autopsy in this case was not done by a regular forensic team. In the case on hand, the allegation of custodial death was made in the very first instance and the FIR itself refers to that. The authorities ought to have taken the body either to Theni Medical College or Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai which are not far away.The judge observed that he failed to understand as to why the postmortem was done in a hurried manner in Usilampatti government hospital. Though it is stated that the postmortem was done for one hour and it was videographed, video clippings for only seven minutes were available.Observing that what was done cannot be called a forensic autopsy, the judge said that the court is of the view that a clear case for ordering exhumation and re-postmortem has been made out by the petitioner. The case was adjourned to October 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-re-postmortem-on-body-of-man-in-suspicious-death-case/articleshow/78563455.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Scholarships delayed: Cong||Ahmedabad: The state government is yet to initiate the process of granting scholarship amount to the students under the Mukhya Mantri Yuva Swavlamban Yojana and Girl Child Education Scheme, the Congress alleged on Thursday. “This is at a time when the government is busy ensuring that parents pay the college fees for the first and second semester,” said Manish Doshi, a spokesperson for the Congress in Gujarat. “Every year, the scholarship amount for the entire year is given two months ahead of the deadline to pay the second semester fees. The government should wake up from its slumber,” Doshi said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scholarships-delayed-cong/articleshow/78562243.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolhapur||No new Covid-19 fatality reported in Kolhapur city||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur district recorded 196 new cases of Covid-19, including 86 in the city, on Thursday. The district also registered 11 deaths, but none of them were in Kolhapur city. According to the official information, rural parts of the district identified 87 new patients. Karveer taluka recorded 17 cases, while Hatkanangale taluka added 16 new patients. Shirol, considered the most affected taluka, registered nine cases. Gaganbawda did not have any new cases. Nine of 11 patients, who succumbed to Covid-19, are senior citizens. Six of them are male and five are females. Kolhapur city did not have any death on Thursday but it has registered 343 deaths. The other urban areas in the district have reported 7,133 patients and 328 deaths so far. Ichalkaranji town alone has 221 deaths. Rural areas in the district had total 25,191 positive cases. As many 737 deaths have been reported from rural areas. Karveer taluka continues to have the highest number of patients – 5,368 with 160 deaths. Hatkanangale taluka has recorded the highest number of deaths – 203 but has 5,061 positive cases. Kolhapur district has now 46,377 positive case and 38,522 have been discharged. Kolhapur city has 14,053 cases while other urban areas had registered 7,133 cases. The district has recorded 1,525 deaths so far, which included 343 from the city. Urban and rural areas have reported 328 and 737 deaths, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-new-covid-19-fatality-reported-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/78559773.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Since March, 331 Covid-positive women gave birth at LNJP Hospital||NEW DELHI: In the past seven months, 331 women suffering from Covid-19 delivered babies at Lok Nayak Hospital. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital, told TOI that 182 (55%) of the deliveries were normal, while 149 involved caesarean section. “Seven newborns tested Covid-positive, but didn’t have severe symptoms and recovered well,” the doctor said. The hospital, which has 2,000 beds for Covid-19, admitted 11,425 positive and suspected patients since March — the highest in a single healthcare facility in the country. Kumar said that because of the threat of spreading of infection, many private nursing homes and hospitals weren’t performing child deliveries. “We made special arrangements to ensure this essential service was not neglected. A special neonatal ICU and critical care facility was readied for the newborns of Covid-positive mothers. Also, a dedicated labour room and a separate emergency operation theatre for caesarean section were prepared,” the doctor added. Child delivery in the time of Covid has become a major operation, requiring the same protocols adopted in the case of mothers suffering from Hepatitis B & C or HIV to avoid the risk of transmission, said another doctor. “We wear protective aprons, masks, eye shields and vinyl gloves to protect ourselves from contracting the infection during the delivery. All personal protective equipment are then discarded,” said a senior doctor. Also, general anaesthesia is avoided for caesarean section as it involves intubation. Spinal anaesthesia is preferred, she added. The novel coronavirus can spread through respiratory droplets suspended in the air when an infected person coughs or sneezes. It may also spread when someone touches a surface or an object that has the virus and then holds his mouth, inside the nose, or eyes. Last month, a special Covid ward for children, the first-of-its-kind facility in Delhi, was set up at Lok Nayak Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/since-march-331-covidve-women-gave-birth-at-lnjp/articleshow/78563464.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||GPO Hazratganj drive about postal services’ role||LUCKNOW: General Post Office (GPO) Hazratganj will spread awareness about the role of postal sector in the lives of people and its contribution to the society Friday onwards as part of its celebrations for the National Postal Week. The office would not be organising any workshops, competitions or visits for school children like previous years due to Covid-19. The inauguration of celebrations on Friday will be followed by Saving Banks Day on October 10, Postal Life Insurance day on October 12, Philately Day on October 13, Business Development Day on October 14, and Mail Day on October 15. The day is celebrated to commemorate the establishment of the Universal Postal Union in 1874 in Berne ,Switzerland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gpo-drive-about-postal-services-role/articleshow/78564026.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hall built illegally on school terrace razed||Ahmedabad: AMC’s drive against illegal encroachments continued on Thursday, and illegal construction on the terrace of a school near Sardar Patel Stadium was razed. AMC officials said that in Nava Vadaj, in the Sardar Patel Stadium ward, a video learning hall was constructed on the terrace of DP School. An AMC team demolished the 550 square foot hall as it was built without permission. In the Ramnagar area of Sabarmati, encroachments along a footpath were removed near AM School. In Bapunagar, a reserved floor was being used for residential use and 800 square metres of illegal construction was carried out. This was removed by the AMC. In the Bapunagar ward, kutcha sheds along 1km of road near Maleksaheban stadium were also removed. In Saijpur Bogha ward, a compound wall, three commercial constructions and two residential units were demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hall-built-illegally-on-school-terrace-razed/articleshow/78562287.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Shetti warns sugar mills against cane crushing||Kolhapur: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) leader Raju Shetti has warned sugar mills against starting sugar cane crushing before his outfit announces the demands for this year’s crushing season, which will formally begin on October 15. Shetti has asked the functionaries of his outfit to undertake mass contact campaigns in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, where around 30 sugar mills are expected to start crushing this year. Shetti hinted that the SSS would call a rally of cane farmers in the first week of November. Shetti’s warning assumes significance as his outfit has been conducting such rallies to put forth farmers’ demands for the past 18 years. Previously, such meetings were conducted a few days before the onset of the crushing season. This year, the meeting has not yet been held due to the restrictions in place due to the pandemic. Shetti alleged that sugar mill operators were forcing farmers to sign certain documents that allowed the factories to divide the payment of fair and remunerative price in three installments. He asked the workers to send individual letters to the government demanding FRP payment in one instalment. Sources in the sugar industry said a majority of the sugar mills were not likely to start crushing on October 15. Many mills in the state are yet to complete healthcare arrangements for cane cutting workers as has been stipulated by the sugar commissioner. Sources said other two issues — increase in payment to cane-cutting workers and truck-tractor operators — are yet to be settled. They said a meeting between representatives of mill operators and workers, which was held in Pune on Wednesday, could not arrive at a conclusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/shetti-warns-sugar-mills-against-cane-crushing/articleshow/78559790.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bareilly||Girl, 15, ‘kidnapped’ by Delhi youth||Pilibhit: A 22-year-old youth was booked for allegedly kidnapping a girl, 15, in Jahanabad area of Pilibhit. According to a complaint filed by the girl’s mother, the accused, Rahul, a resident of Delhi, reached her home on October 3 and lured away her daughter. Some cash and jewellery were also missing, she claimed.Station house officer Harish Vardhan said, “Rahul was booked under section 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping or abduction of a woman to compel her to marry a person against her will) of IPC and under sections of the POCSO Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-15-kidnapped-by-delhi-youth/articleshow/78559779.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bareilly||Girl, 5, raped in Pilibhit, serious||PILIBHIT: A five-year-old girl was allegedly raped in Pilibhit’s Deuria area by an 18-year-old youth on Thursday afternoon. The child was admitted to the district women hospital of Pilibhit where doctors described her condition as serious. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav visited the hospital to take stock of the victim’s condition. According to police, the girl told them that the accused dragged her into a sugarcane field when she went out to attend nature’s call. Her father said that he found the child in the sugarcane field, in a pool of blood. The accused, Babu Ram, has been booked under section 376 (rape) of IPC and under POCSO Act. He was arrested and sent to jail, SHO Sanjiv Upadhyay said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-5-raped-in-pilibhit-serious/articleshow/78559775.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian regulator turns down direct Phase III trials of Sputnik V||Hyderabad: The Indian drug regulator has turned down Dr Reddy’s Laboratories proposal to directly conduct Phase III trials of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V and has asked the Hyderabad-based company to first conduct Phase II human trials on a smaller population before graduating to Phase III trials. The expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which met earlier this week, shot down Dr Reddy’s proposal stating that the “safety and immunogenicity data in overseas Phase I/II trials of Sputnik is too small and no data is available on Indian subjects”. “After detailed deliberation the committee recommended that the company should follow the regulatory requirements and conduct Phase II/III clinical trial in the country with proper monitoring for humoral & cell mediated immune response,” the committee said. The committee has now asked Dr Reddy’s to submit a revised proposal with a detailed protocol for conducting Phase II and III studies. When contacted, company officials refused to comment on the development. It was only last month that Dr Reddy’s had entered into a tie-up with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for conducting Phase III human trials of Sputnik V and distributing 100 million doses of the vaccine in the country. Developed by Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and RDIF, Sputnik V uses two adenovirus vectors — rAd26 and rAd5 — against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Sputnik V became the first Covid-19 vaccine to be registered in the world on August 11 but sparked concerns about its safety and efficacy among researchers and medical experts after Russia gave it regulatory approvals before the completion of large-scale trials. However, in early September, medical journal Lancet said Phase I and II trials of the vaccine in June and July involving 76 participants showed that all the participants developed antibodies to the novel coronavirus without any serious side effects. Currently studies involving 40,000 volunteers are currently underway, with the first results of the trials expected to be published in October-November 2020, RDIF had said last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-regulator-turns-down-direct-phase-iii-trials-of-sputnik-v/articleshow/78563469.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Our right to charge eateries for health licence, say corporations||NEW DELHI: Opposing Delhi government’s plan to do away with health and trade licences that need to be obtained by restaurants from the municipal corporations, the deliberative wing of the three civic bodies on Thursday said that charging licensing fees was their right according to Delhi Municipal Corporation (DMC) Act and such announcements would lead to confusion among people. The issue was raised in the House meeting of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC). Leader of the House Narendra Chawla said that abolishing trade and health licensing fees wasn’t within the purview of the state government. “We have been granted the right under the Constitution and DMC Act. Making changes in or abolishing the trade licences would need an amendment in the Constitution and DMC Act by Parliament. We request Delhi government and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal not to make such statements as it will only lead to confusion,” said Chawla. BJP councillors have requested SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti to look into the matter. “Licences are granted to restaurants, tea shops, coffee houses, refreshment rooms and eating houses after taking into consideration more than 20 parameters to ensure public health and safety and sanitation conservancy,” said Chawla. Jai Prakash, mayor of north corporation, said the purpose behind involving the civic bodies in granting licences was to check illegal construction or extension. “Delhi government made the announcement with the intention to stop giving our share of revenue. The idea is to financially cripple the municipalities. The government’s decision, if implemented, will lead to an increase in the number of accidents. Who will be responsible for that? We have asked our chief legal officer to look into the matter,” he added. “For the convenience of restaurant owners, we have made issuing of licences online. We are also planning to allow open-air dining and serving food on rooftops just like SDMC. Efforts are being made to bring more people under the ambit of the licensing policy,” said Prakash. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said they would approach the central government in this matter, if required. “Public health, sanitation and primary education are responsibilities of the corporations and can’t be taken over by the state government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-our-right-to-charge-eateries-for-health-licence/articleshow/78563497.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 9, 2020||Patna||Upendra Kushwaha, Asaduddin Owaisi float political front in Bihar||PATNA: A group of smaller parties, including RLSP, BSP and AIMIM, on Thursday floated a new political combination — Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) — to take on RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) and NDA in the state assembly elections. The leaders of the newly created front unanimously declared former Union minister and RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha as their CM face. Former Union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav was appointed convener of the new front. “We will fight together and give a formidable alternative to the people in the upcoming elections,” AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owasi said at a joint press conference of the GDSF leaders. While AIMIM has its influence in border districts like Kishanganj, Purnia, Araria and Katihar in Seemanchal, BSP is considered a force to reckon with in the districts like Gopalganj, Rohtas, Kaimur, Aurangabad and Buxar, which are close to the UP border. Kushawaha’s projection as CM candidate may dent the EBC votes. EBC constitutes around 29-30% of the state’s population and Muslims 16%. The scheduled castes constitute around 17%. If combined together, they all constitute around 63% of state’s population. However, NDA claims to have a lion’s share in the EBC votes. Koeris, the caste Kushwaha belongs to, constitute around 4-5%. “If Pappu Yadav led political group joins the GDSA, it will certainly give a befitting answer to the two political combinations,” a political observer said, adding Yadavs alone constitute around 14% of state’s population. He, however, added there were chances of Hindu voters getting disenchanted with the GDSF due to the Owaisi factor. He said under such a situation, polarisation of Hindu votes cannot be ruled out, which will ultimately benefit the ruling NDA. The Hyderabad MP, whose party had opened its account in Bihar by winning the Kishanganj seat in byelection last year, alleged that 15-year rule of JD(U)-BJP and another 15 years of RJD-Congress didn’t benefit the people of the state. “The state is lagging behind on social-economic and education integrators,” he said. Elaborating the purpose behind forming a new political combination in the state, Owaisi said, “We have formed an alliance for the betterment of the state. We hope we will succeed and people will shower their blessings on us.” RLSP chief Kushwaha said Bihar has been pushed back as far education is concerned. “Youths are forced to migrate from the state in search of work. In Bihar, both the NDA and the GA have failed to stand to people’s expectations,” he added. Samajwadi Dal (Democratic) and Jantantrik Party (Socialist) have also joined the GDSF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kushwaha-owaisi-float-political-front/articleshow/78566111.cms||Ramashankar
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Need solid grounds, SC to CBI; shot in the arm for CM||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the CBI to come up with very strong grounds against the discharge of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and two others in the SNC Lavalin graft case, as the high court as well as the lower court have held that they should not be tried in the matter. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, said it was a cross appeals matter filed in 2017 and it will file a comprehensive note on the factual aspect of the matter. He said the trial court had initially discharged some accused in the case and the Kerala high court had upheld the decision. A bench of justices U U Lalit, Vineet Saran and S Ravindra Bhat said since two courts have concurrently held that certain accused should not be tried in the case, the CBI has to come up with very strong grounds to shake that finding in the matter. Mehta said initially a PIL was filed in the Kerala high court on which it ordered a CBI probe in the case. He said CBI filed the chargesheet in the case in 2009 but some of the accused were discharged by the trial court in 2013, a decision which was later upheld by the high court in 2017. The bench, summarising Mehta’s arguments, said the CBI has filed the appeal against discharge of the accused, while some other accused who were not discharged have filed the appeal in the top court against the high court order for their discharge. As per the CBI chargesheet, there were 11 accused in the case. The trial court discharged six of them but the high court upheld the discharge of only three accused. The three accused have moved the top court seeking their discharge, while five others are facing the trial. Mehta said that since the matter is old, he would like to file a detailed note giving the timeline of the events and factual aspect of the matter. The bench, while giving him permission to do so, listed the matter for further hearing on October 16. On August 23, 2017, the Kerala high court had upheld the discharge of Vijayan in the SNC Lavalin graft case, saying the CBI had ‘wrongly picked’ him as prima facie there was no case against him. The high court had also upheld the discharge of two others in the Rs 374.5-crore graft case while rejecting the CBI’s plea that their full-fledged trial was necessary to prove the conspiracy. The high court’s verdict had come in a revision petition filed by the CBI in 2014 challenging the discharge of Vijayan and five others in the case by a special CBI court in Thiruvananthapuram. The CBI special court, Thiruvananthapuram, had in November 2013 discharged Vijayan and others in the case of alleged corruption in awarding a contract to the Canadian firm SNC-Lavalin when Vijayan was power minister in 1996 that allegedly caused a loss of Rs 374.5 crore to the state exchequer. The CBI, which had filed the chargesheet in the case, had argued that there was sufficient evidence to prove the charges against the accused. The discharge by the special court was ‘illegal’, CBI had stated in its revision petition. The special judge had ruled that the CBI had failed to prove the charges of conspiracy and corruption levelled against Vijayan and other accused. The CBI had argued before the high court that a trial was must to prove the conspiracy in giving the contract to revamp the power projects to the Canadian firm when Vijayan was power minister in 1996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/need-solid-grounds-sc-to-cbi-shot-in-the-arm-for-cm/articleshow/78561009.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Mysuru||Hathras incident: UP govt’s handling of the ccase draws flak||Shivamogga: The Shivamogga district Congress under its president H S Sundaresh held a dharna in the city’s Gandhi Park on Thursday, to condemn the “tyranny and atrocities” committed by the Uttar Pradesh police. “BJP-ruled states are enacting anti-people laws which have ruined the happiness of people. It is a shame that the BJP in Uttar Pradesh is trying to cover up a rape incident. The police detained our leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi on their way to the victim’s home. What kind of government is there in UP?” Sundaresh questioned BJP leaders. Dalit forum to stage protestVividh Dalit Sangha-Sansthegala Okkuta(R) have decided to stage a protest in Hubballi on Monday, seeking stern action against the accused in the Hathras gang-rape incident. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Gurunath Ullikahi, state president, Samata Sena and M Aravind, state president Dalit Sena, in a joint press conference, said that to condemn the Hathras gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl, the okkuta will hold a protest rally and submit a memorandum to the President and the Prime minister. The protest rally will start from Ambedakar Circle in Hubballi. More than 100 organisations including pro-Kannada, Dalit and progressive organisations have extended their support to the rally. The protest will continue till the accused are given the death sentence, said Ullikashi. He expressed his ire against the deputy commissioner and other officials, including the police, who have allegedly threatened the family members of the gang-rape victim. We demand for action to be taken against the DC and police involved in the case, and the accused should be hanged to death, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hathras-incident-up-govts-handling-of-the-ccase-draws-flak/articleshow/78563255.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur reports 314 new cases, 382 people recover||Kolhapur: Solapur district, comprising Solapur city and rural parts, has reported 314 fresh Covid-19 patients while 382 patients have been discharged till Thursday evening. The district has also recorded seven deaths. Officials said of the 77 fresh cases in Solapur city, 45 are men and 32 are women. As many as 10 men and six women were discharged after recovering from Covid-19. The city also recorded the death of a 56-year-old man due to Covid-19. The city has 8,862 Covid cases, including 5,208 men and 3,654 women. Officials said there are 820 active cases which include 505 male and 315 females. Solapur rural reported 237 new cases of the fresh cases. This includes 160 men and 77 women. As many as 336 patients, 220 men and 116 women, were discharged by Thursday evening. Out of the six deaths in Solapur rural, four are men and two are women. Five of them are elderly. Malshiras tehsil recorded the highest number of fresh cases – 67 and two Covid deaths, Pandharpur added 60 new cases and two deaths were reported. Barshi added 24 patients on Thursday. Pandharur tehsil reported 5,333 positive cases and 130 deaths while Barshi tehsil reported 4,990 cases and 157 deaths. Malshiras recorded 4,569 Covid cases and 90 deaths. Solapur rural has a total of 27,177 Covid patients which include 16,787 men and 10,390 women. Solapur rural recorded 747 deaths including 531 men and 216 women. As many as 4,919 cases are active, of which 3,498 are men and 1,421 are women. Officials said 21,511 people have been discharged so far, including 12,576 men and 8,755 women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-reports-314-new-cases-382-people-recover/articleshow/78559831.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Surat||Angadia delivery man looted by two in Surat||Surat: An angadiya firm’s delivery man was looted of valuables worth lakhs of rupees by two unidentified persons after spraying pepper spray in his eyes in Varachha area on Thursday.Satish Patel, delivery man Natwar Chinu Angadia firm lodged the complaint with Varachha police. Police registered the value of the looted material at Rs 30,000 based on insurace taken on the goods. However police officials informed that it is possible that the insurance was purchased for lesser amount and the actual value of the consignments could be much higher. The bag contained parcels of diamond firms from Mumbai and Navsari, said police.According to Patel’s complaint, the robbers intercepted him on an internal road near Gayatri Farsan and one of them sprayed pepper spray in his eyes. Before Patel could react, the robbers escaped with the bag. “It is possible that the value of the consignments was much higher since it contained diamonds but the sender did not declare its actual value. After questioning the exact amount can be known,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/angadia-delivery-man-looted-by-two-in-surat/articleshow/78561007.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Bars’ licences extended by a month||Hyderabad: In what comes as a temporary relief for bars, clubs and restaurants in Hyderabad, the Telangana government has extended the date for payment of their liquor licence fee by a month. This was communicated through a government order issued recently. As per the rulebook, these outlets had to renew their licences before October 1 — by paying anywhere between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 56 lakh — to continue serving alcohol to their guests. “In the interim, we will decide what the final extension of the licence period will be,” said V Srinivas Goud, state excise minister. “While we are grateful for this extension, we hope that the government agrees to a six-month extension eventually,” said the owner of a bar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bars-licences-extended-by-a-month/articleshow/78563474.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Four BJP turncoats in LJP’s first list||PATNA: Four heavyweight turncoats of BJP figured in the first list of 42 candidates of NDA ‘rebel’ LJP released on Thursday. LJP functionaries claimed that a majority of the 42 seats in the first list are those where JD (U) has fielded its candidates, making the contest tougher for the ruling JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar. Releasing the list, LJP chief Chirag Paswan again gave a call that even a single vote for JD (U) will lead to “devastation” of Bihar. “You all need to win for a better future of Bihar. Giving votes to JD (U) means destroying Bihar. I am not able to be with you due to Papa’s (Ram Vilas Paswan) health. I will be there with you all as soon as his health improves,” Chirag tweeted. His father passed away later in the evening on Thursday. LJP insiders claimed that Chirag, the 37-year-old national president of LJP, gave his nod to the first list of party’s candidates late on Wednesday evening, after returning to his New Delhi residence from AIIMS-Delhi, where his father and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has been admitted for nearly two months due to cardiac ailments. The four BJP heavyweights, who have been given tickets by LJP, include two-state vice-presidents of the saffron party—Rajendra Singh and Usha Vidyarthi. Vidyarthi is also a member of the Bihar State Women Commission. While Singh will contest the elections from Dinara assembly segment in Rohtas district, Vidyarthi has been fielded from Paliganj assembly segment, which she has represented twice in the past. Both Paliganj and Dinara have gone to JD (U) under the seat-sharing arrangement between BJP, JD (U), HAM (S) and Mukesh Sahni-led Vikassheel Insaan Party. The other two BJP turncoats, who figured in LJP’s first list are former Naukha MLA Rameshwar Chaurasiya and Jhajha MLA Ravindra Yadav. While Chaurasiya has been fielded from Sasaram, Yadav has been fielded from his sitting Jhajha seat. All the 42 seats in LJP’s first list are among the 71 assembly segments going to polls in the first phase, for which the last date of filing nominations was Thursday. In an official statement, LJP stated that party gave preference to upper caste as well as Dalit candidates in its list. It also claimed that altogether nine women have been given tickets, making 20% of the first list. LJP national spokesperson Sanjay Saraf, on the other hand, claimed that majority of the candidates are party’s district presidents. “Though few heavyweights from other parties have been accommodated in our list we have given preference to district presidents and other workers, who have worked hard on the ground to expand the party. Also, caste combination has been given due consideration but development and our agenda of Bihar First, Bihari First was the benchmark in the selection of nominees,” Saraf said. LJP also reiterated that it would form the next government in Bihar under the leadership of BJP. “We all believe in the charismatic leadership of PM Narendra Modi and we are certain that there will be a post-poll alliance with BJP to form the next government,” Saraf said. BJP, on the other hand, has been maintaining that those who don’t accept the leadership of Nitish, cannot be part of NDA and such parties should not use either name or photograph of PM Modi in electioneering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-bjp-turncoats-in-ljps-first-list/articleshow/78562326.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s son joins JD(U)||PATNA: Veteran socialist leader and former parliamentarian Raghuvansh Prasad Singh’s son Satya Prakash on Thursday joined JD (U) and lashed out at RJD for ignoring his father’s demands and not treating him with respect. Satya Prakash’s entry into JD (U) came a day after former LJP parliamentarian Rama Singh managed to get a ticket from RJD for his wife to contest from Mehnar. Raghuvansh was against Rama’s entry into the party and had even resigned from the post of party’s vice-president in June this year, just a day after Rama met Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “I had no intention of coming into politics but did so to fulfil my father’s wishes for Vaishali.” Satya Prakash told TOI. He further said even though his father was RJD national vice president his suggestions were ignored even by those below his rank in the party. He cited how RJD had removed its manifesto quota for the economically weaker section for upper caste and even though his father discussed it with Lalu Prasad, nothing was done in this regard. He said his father was against the entry of people into the party with a criminal background and alleged distribution of tickets with money. “People who were not even a primary member were made MLC and Rajya Sabha member,” said Satya Prakash naming RJD’s Rajya Sabha member Amrendra Dhari Singh and MLC Farooq Sheikh, adding, “No one knew them in the party.” He said his father believed only one person from a family should be in politics at a time. He said he got his father’s hint from the letters he wrote to CM Nitish Kumar for development of Vaishali. When asked what role he will play in JD (U), he replied, “As of now, I am not going to contest any election. However, I will do whatever party decides for me.” JD (U)’s state president Vashishtha Narayan Singh, who administered membership to Satya Prakash welcomed his move. Recalling the work done by Raghuvansh in his political career, Vashishtha said, “His contribution was big, but he stayed like a ground-level worker. Even on his deathbed, he was thinking of the social development of Vaishali. It is a great honour for us that his (Raghuvansh) son has joined our party.” He hit out at RJD saying Raghuvansh Babu felt ignored and left out and was not keeping happy with RJD for a long time and mentioned the letters he had written to chief minister Nitish Kumar. In his last days, he seemed unhappy with RJD and had on September 10 written a letter to RJD chief Lalu, saying he will no longer stand by him. He had also written letters to chief minister Nitish Kumar the same day but were uploaded later, asking him for various development work in Vaishali. Raghuvansh breathed his last on September 13 at AIIMS-Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raghuvanshs-son-joins-jdu/articleshow/78562284.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 9, 2020||---||Upendra Kushwaha, Asaduddin Owaisi float political front in Bihar||PATNA: A group of smaller parties, including RLSP, BSP and AIMIM, on Thursday floated a new political combination — Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) — to take on RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) and NDA in the state assembly elections. The leaders of the newly created front unanimously declared former Union minister and RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha as their CM face. Former Union minister Devendra Prasad Yadav was appointed convener of the new front. “We will fight together and give a formidable alternative to the people in the upcoming elections,” AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owasi said at a joint press conference of the GDSF leaders. While AIMIM has its influence in border districts like Kishanganj, Purnia, Araria and Katihar in Seemanchal, BSP is considered a force to reckon with in the districts like Gopalganj, Rohtas, Kaimur, Aurangabad and Buxar, which are close to the UP border. Kushawaha’s projection as CM candidate may dent the EBC votes. EBC constitutes around 29-30% of the state’s population and Muslims 16%. The scheduled castes constitute around 17%. If combined together, they all constitute around 63% of state’s population. However, NDA claims to have a lion’s share in the EBC votes. Koeris, the caste Kushwaha belongs to, constitute around 4-5%. “If Pappu Yadav led political group joins the GDSA, it will certainly give a befitting answer to the two political combinations,” a political observer said, adding Yadavs alone constitute around 14% of state’s population. He, however, added there were chances of Hindu voters getting disenchanted with the GDSF due to the Owaisi factor. He said under such a situation, polarisation of Hindu votes cannot be ruled out, which will ultimately benefit the ruling NDA. The Hyderabad MP, whose party had opened its account in Bihar by winning the Kishanganj seat in byelection last year, alleged that 15-year rule of JD(U)-BJP and another 15 years of RJD-Congress didn’t benefit the people of the state. “The state is lagging behind on social-economic and education integrators,” he said. Elaborating the purpose behind forming a new political combination in the state, Owaisi said, “We have formed an alliance for the betterment of the state. We hope we will succeed and people will shower their blessings on us.” RLSP chief Kushwaha said Bihar has been pushed back as far education is concerned. “Youths are forced to migrate from the state in search of work. In Bihar, both the NDA and the GA have failed to stand to people’s expectations,” he added. Samajwadi Dal (Democratic) and Jantantrik Party (Socialist) have also joined the GDSF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/kushwaha-owaisi-float-political-front/articleshow/78562337.cms||Ramashankar
October 9, 2020||Hubballi||Cops recover stolen cash dumped on roadside in Chitradurga||Chitradurga: Challakere taluk police on Thursday recovered stolen money to the tune of Rs 16 lakh dumped near bushes along a road near Buklarlahalli gate, adjoining to NH 150 (A). The money belonged to Dilip Build Com (DBAL), a construction firm tasked with road widening works near the Buklarlahalli gate. The company had erected sheds for thousands of workers engaged by the company for the works. The company officials had kept Rs 36,62,045 cash in their administrative office room adjacent to the construction company sheds, to pay the salaries of workers. But to their surprise, the cash was stolen from their office room in the intervening night of October 2 and October 3. In this connection, a theft case was lodged at Talaku police station on October 4, police said. Immediately, a special team led by inspector Nalavagalu Manjunath along with PSI Satish Naik was formed to bust the theft case. Besides combing operations, dogs squad and finger print experts were pressed into action. During the operation, the police detected bundles of currency notes from a bush near the company sheds, said SP G Radhika. “We think the culprits may have dumped the money after the search team intensified their combing operation fearing they would be caught in red hand if the cash is found in their sheds,” the SP said Further, the team has tightened the movement of the workers outside their sheds without permission from the police, the SP added. The real culprits will be arrested soon after an intensified frisking and combing operation, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cops-recover-stolen-cash-dumped-on-roadside-in-chitradurga/articleshow/78563830.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||Govt deliberately delaying municipal election issue: Cong||Vadodara: A petition filed by Gujarat Congress spokesperson Narendra Ravat challenging the present system of municipal corporation elections came up for hearing on Thursday. Ravat claimed that the state government was deliberately buying time to delay the issue that was first challenged by Samantsinh Parmar and three others in 2015. Parmar, an aide of Ravat, had challenged the present system of electing four persons from a ward and appealed that each municipal corporation constituency should have only one elected representative. According to Ravat, the 2015 petition had argued that the present system of minicipal elections led to a situation where the caste reservation on seats was violated. Ravat said that the petition also pleaded that the system was being used by the government to ensure that the BJP won the polls.When the process of reorganisation of wards and deciding reservations on the seats in them was started, Ravat had raised objection and pointed out that the 2015 petition was still pending in the court. Ravat said that he also filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court in August seeking hearing of the previous petition.Ravat alleged that the government did not furnish a reply and sought time from the court to drag the matter. “They did the same thing in the previous petition too,” Ravat alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govt-deliberately-delaying-municipal-election-issue-cong/articleshow/78561008.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 17 smart bins in 3 localities by October-end||LUCKNOW: The city will get as many as 17 semi-underground smart dustbins by the end of October. Being implemented by Lucknow Municipal Corporation, these smart dustbins will be installed in three localities: Kaiserbagh, Lalbagh and Hazaratganj. The cost of the project is Rs 2 crore. If successful, the municipal corporation will purchase around 170 such dustbins for all wards of the city. Underground waste bins have storage tanks underneath them. They have a capacity of one tonne. As soon as the bins are filled to capacity, the sensor installed in the bin sends an alert to the command and control centre to empty the bins. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The project is being implemented under Smart Cities Mission. Payment to the private firm will be made next week and we are expecting to receive the smart bins by October 27.” Lucknow will become the seventh city in the country to use smart dustbins. The technology has already been introduced in cities like Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, Nagpur and Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/17-smart-bins-in-3-localities-by-oct-end/articleshow/78564035.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Knew nothing about MoU: Jose||Thiruvananthapuram: Vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) officials recorded the statements of Life Mission CEO U V Jose in connection with the probe into the irregularities and corruption in Wadakkancherry housing project on Thursday. The investigators, who visited Life Mission headquarters, examined more files related to the project. It is reliably learnt that Jose told VACB sleuths that he had no previous knowledge about the MoU with UAE Red Crescent and he had seen it only on the day of signing. He is also learnt to have told that M Sivasankar asked him to provide all assistance to Unitac builders. He was interrogated from Thursday morning till late in the evening, his statement was also taken. As per the preliminary findings, Unitac builders and Sane Ventures obtained funds from the account of UAE consulate for the project. As per VACB’s FIR both firms, officials of Life Mission and some private persons hatched a conspiracy and obtained pecuniary advantage. Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that Habitat Technology Group was excluded from Wadakkancherry project because Life Mission knew that commission cannot be sought from the firm. He said that as mission authorities wanted to remove Habitat, it cooked up stories that the sponsor had withdrawn. Habitat – who was originally involved in Life Mission and had prepared detailed project report – had later withdrawn from the project. Habitat chairman G Shankar was summoned by CBI to record his statements about the mission and the involvement of his firm in the housing project. Later, Shankar told news channels that the relation with Life Mission was terminated on the basis of a mutual understanding. Shankar said that in April last year, he received a letter saying that a foreign agency will be the sponsor. In the subsequent discussions, the mission asked Habitat to rework the design and reduce budget. He said that it was at this point that they chose to withdraw. He said that while Habitat was only a consultant, he was not aware of Unitac builders which was the firm hired for construction work. Meanwhile, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said government sped up the vigilance probe to stonewall CBI investigation. He said the CM is scared that if CBI probes the matter, the truth will come out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/knew-nothing-about-mou-jose/articleshow/78561029.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Notify polls to 6 Rajasthan municipal corporations in a week, SC directs EC||JAIPUR: The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to interfere with a plea to extend the election dates for six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur and directed the Election Commission to notify the poll schedule within a week. The state government had moved the apex court challenging the Rajasthan High Court order dismissing its plea to extend the poll dates from October 31 to March 20, 2021. A bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar, observed that it would not interfere with the high court order but asked the government to convince it. “We have no hesitation in observing that the high court has been indulgent in extending the election concerning the civic bodies in question,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notify-polls-to6-raj-municipalcorps-in-a-weeksc-directs-ec/articleshow/78563517.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||FRC writes to govt over fee cut||Ahmedabad: The fee regulatory committee (FRC) in Gujarat has started hearing representations from various colleges for reduction in tuition fees due to the Covid-19 situation. However, no such step has been taken for self-financed medical colleges where students have time and again demanded that the authorities consider cutting their fees. The FRC has, based on representations from medical college students, written to the department of health about the matter, said government sources. A decision on this is expected soon, they added. “There are no vacant seats at medical colleges. There is no representation from medical colleges before the FRC for reduction in fees,” said an official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/frc-writes-to-govt-over-fee-cut/articleshow/78562328.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chennai||Hit by Covid, Smart City projects back on track with new deadlines||CHENNAI: The Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza was thrown open to the public in November 2019, but connected projects — the multi-level car parking facility, smart parking system and pedestrianized streets — skipped their deadlines by six months due to Covid-19. They have now been allotted a new deadline of December 2020. The lockdown had a huge setback on the Smart City mission, stalling 15 of the 45 projects taken up. By February 2020, Greater Chennai Corporation had completed 25 projects at `420 crore. The entire mission has been allocated `946 crore. Raj Cherubal, chief executive officer (CEO) of Chennai Smart Cities Limited, said equipment for the multi-level car parking facility was supposed to come from Wuhan in China. But the lockdown was imposed in the Chinese city a day before a representative of the company responsible was to visit Chennai to complete the installation. “Other reasons include lack of manpower. In most projects, inter-department coordination couldn’t be done as everyone was busy fighting the pandemic,” he said. The redevelopment of North Usman Road, Burkit Road and 14 other stretches, which were to be feeders to the pedestrian plaza on Pondy Bazaar, was progressing apace since May 2019 and will now be completed only in November, said an engineer. The Villivakkam lake restoration project was revised and a suspension bridge added in February. But tenders couldn’t be called. “We have completed the detailed project report and will call for tenders this month. Other work is progressing at a faster pace now with workers slowly coming in. About 78% is complete,” said another engineer. About 80% of work on a 5-tonne biogas plant using water hyacinth at Manali and the restoration of 22 water bodies was completed when the pandemic struck. Ahead of the festive season and onset of the northeast monsoon, the pace of work has picked up, a senior corporation official said, adding that several projects were done even at the peak of the lockdown. “We could easily cut roads to lay utility lines and concentrate on better. Some contractors paid flight tickets to get workers when flights resumed,” he said. Management consultants are now working to execute eight special projects including mega streets, off-street parking, vacant land development at Uthamar Gandhi Salai and Broadway bus stand. Ashwathy Dilip of Institute of Transportation and Development Policy said the focus now is on reviving the cycle sharing system that was completely stalled after the pandemic struck. “Apart from this, the mega streets projects is progressing at a fast pace,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hit-by-covid-smart-city-projects-back-on-track-with-new-deadlines/articleshow/78562320.cms||Komal Gautham
October 9, 2020||Mumbai||Publication of Aarey reserved forest notification soon||MUMBAI: The state forest department has approved a proposal to notify 822 acres of Aarey Colony as reserved forest. Forest minister Sanjay Rathod said, “The preliminary notification under section 4 of Indian Forest Act, 1927, to declare 288.43 hectares (721 acres) owned by Dairy Development Department and 40.46 hectares (101 acres) by forest department as reserved forest has been approved.” A formal notification inviting objections/suggestions from eople will be issued in few days, said an official. The department also approved the appointment of a forest land settlement officer, Konkan, to settle claims. The claims are to be submitted within three months of the notification being published. Staying work on line 3 Metro car-shed at Aarey Colony was among the first major decisions taken by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Shiv Sena, in its 2017 civic election manifesto, had promised not to allow the car-shed at Aarey colony. As ruling party in BMC, Sena, while approving Mumbai’s Development Plan 2034 had approved declaring all of Aarey as a green zone. But though being in government, it did not oppose then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s decision to carve out 83 acres for the car-shed and later 413 acres of Aarey Colony from the eco-sensitive zone around Sanjay Gandhi National Park. Within months of assuming chief ministership, Thackeray announced 600 acres of Aarey would be declared as reserved forest. After a joint ground survey by forest department and dairy development department, it was increased to 823 acres. The car-shed is also being moved out to Pahadi-Goregaon. G Mallikarjuna, chief conservator of forests, Sanjay Gandhi National Park, said the park had earlier been given 101 acres for setting up a zoo. This is now being included in the reserved forest. The department, he said, took care to ensure no settlements are inside the area that is to be declared as a reserved forest “though there may be some Adivasi padas”. Sunil Limaye, additional principal conservator of forests, said protecting the newly declared reserved forest from encroachment would be a challenge as it is accessible to all now. The park is using drones to deter encroachment and to identify areas being encroached. “We shall have to work with locals and create awareness even before we plan to build a boundary around the reserved forest,” he said. D Stalin, director, NGO Vanashakti, said they had written to the environment minister and secretary to carry out a drone surveillance and video-shooting of the entire area before the notification so that slums do not crop up overnight claiming settlement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/publication-of-aarey-reserved-forest-notification-soon/articleshow/78562317.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Stampede scare at the gate of Karbala Talkatora on Chehellum||LUCKNOW: A stampede-like situation occurred at the rear entrance of Karbala Talkatora on Thursday afternoon when a massive crowd of people forced its way inside despite restrictions on entry. The chaos ensued while two bodies were brought there for burial. While the main entrance to Karbala Talkatora was shut, a side entrance was left open for a limited number of mourners on Chehellum as decided in advance. Movement on Victoria Street was otherwise restricted, even for those on foot, especially before and around the time majlis was held at Imambara Nazim Sahab. No more than 100 people were allowed to take part in the majlis. The Chehellum juloos remained cancelled in view of Covid-19 and heavy state and central police forces, anti-terrorism squad of the state government, CRPF, PAC and RAF held fort on Victoria Street. “Mourners were coming in batches of no more than 20 at a given time. Around afternoon though, two bodies were brought to Karbala for burial and it was then that a large number of people thronged the premises in a wave of passion,” said mutawwali waqf Karbala Talkatora Syed Faizi. Until last year, a large procession was taken out from Imambara Nazim Sahab after the majlis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stampede-scare-at-the-gate-of-karbala-talkatora-on-chehellum/articleshow/78564049.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Bright night rises: 24x7 eateries to give Delhi licence to thrill||NEW DELHI: Most vibrant tourist destinations around the world usually have a happening nightlife consisting not just of night clubs, but also open-air dining zones, all-night cafes and no threat to personal safety, noted international and domestic destination representative Ankush Nijhawan. Delhi establishments being permitted to operate round the clock, as announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday, will change the domestic and international tourism dynamics for the city, Nijhawan added. The loosening of the permit raj and the decision to allow 24-hour operations have filled an industry that was almost on ventilator support after the Covid lockdown with a lot of hope. Zorawar Kalra of Massive Restaurants said these were positive moves that would help the beleaguered industry. “Ease of doing business will ensure more people opening restaurants and, so, create employment. Keeping in mind the safety of our patrons and our team, we will assess the conditions of our various locations and choose where this new opportunity can be implemented,” Kalra said. For some years now, TOI has been regularly writing about how a vibrant nightlife was essential for Delhi to fulfil its aspirations as a world-class city. Priyank Sukhija of First Fiddle Restaurants said being able to run his eateries 24/7 was the best he could have asked for at the moment. “We have always admired the nightlife culture of other countries because of their free-spirited rules. Getting the time restrictions eased in our own Delhi will surely boost industry morale and we restaurateurs can conceptualise more experiences,” said a happy Sukhija. The leeway in staying open 24 hours is not attractive simply to bar and pub visitors. Good family restaurants open till late will also give ample options to families to step out at night. The mandatory closing times meant depriving many who desired a late meal or wanted to enjoy some more after a party, noted Amit Bagga, founder of Daryaganj. If he were to stay open till 2am, it would allow people to enjoy dal makhni and butter chicken at leisure, he said. Akshay Anand of Ophelia too was enthusiastic about the longer hours because it means more diners and, therefore, more revenue generation. “The longer hours will add to the city’s nightlife,” he said. “Plus, this will require more people to be hired too.” While bar icon Yangdup Lama of Sidecar said the easing of licences and relaxed operating hours brought hope at a dire time to an industry that employs people from all walks of life, restaurateur Dinesh Arora of La Roca and Unplugged Courtyard said the onus of writing a success story now lay with the restaurateurs. Arora cautioned that restaurateurs had to be on their toes over the coming months to ensure health and security of their staff as well as the safety of diners, while coordinating with cab services on availability of transport late into the night. The new regime is likely to offset the restaurants’ despondency over the low consumer confidence. Deepak Tandon of Wok in the Clouds says even if most establishments may not avail the permission to operate round the clock, everyone hopes these decisions are unanimously cleared. “Under the present rules, 90% of the city’s restaurants are unfit to operate. If the rules, excise policies and multiple permissions and paperwork are eased, entrepreneurs will actually start enjoying opening and running eateries,” Tandon said with optimism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bright-night-rises-24x7-eateries-to-give-delhi-licence-to-thrill/articleshow/78563526.cms||Amin Ali
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Sivasankar hijacked Life MoU, says CBI||Kochi: The hearing on Life Mission CEO’s petition before the HC challenging CBI’s FIR was completed on Thursday and the court reserved the case for pronouncing its judgment. While the state government’s counsel questioned CBI’s jurisdiction to conduct an investigation, CBI told the court that a full-fledged investigation was required in the case due to involvement of large-scale corruption. The agency submitted that the project was not given to Unitac through a tender. Details of the project, originally for 97 apartments and a health centre, were discussed with Unitac and a commission of 30% of the project amount was fixed by Swapna Suresh and other accused even prior to signing of the MoU, said th CBI’s counsel. Drawings and plans submitted by government agency named Habitat for the project was given to Unitac, which was in turn submitted by Unitac to Life Mission. Of the commission, 20% was to go to UAE consul general and 10% to Swapna and other accused for obtaining statutory approvals, the counsel said. Consul official Khalid contacted consul general over phone and agreed to pay 40% of the funds for constructing 100 flats. They demanded commission of 3 million AED (about Rs5.98 crore). Habitat had originally laid a plan to construct 203 apartments but Unitac MD Santhosh Eappen wanted the number of apartments to be 100 as only if the number is low can the kickback be paid, the counsel submitted. After negotiation with Life Mission officials, the number was increased from 100 to 140. Subsequently, commission was reduced to 26%. Revised plans were filed and the agreements were signed with Unitac and Sane Ventures after payment of commission, the counsel said, adding that the project was the result of a very intelligent game and not a tender process. Regarding the role of M Sivasankar, who was principal secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the CBI counsel relied on Santhosh Eappen’s statement to the agency to see how contact was established. “Swapna told them that she will arrange a meeting with Sivasankar,” he said, adding that Eappen and Vinod P V were introduced to Life Mission officials and Sivasankar asked them to extend all help to them. “Under the guise of this foreign contribution act, the MoU was hijacked by Sivasankar with the aid of notorious smugglers and money was transferred with the aid and assistance of Santhosh Eappen. Therefore, Section 35 (of FCRA) as well as Section 120B (conspiracy under IPC) apply. There is clear conspiracy amounting to crores,” the CBI counsel submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-hijacked-life-mou-says-cbi/articleshow/78561142.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Teachers demand Diwali vacation dates||MUMBAI: A teachers’ body here demanded that the education department announce dates for Diwali vacations for schools in the state to allow for a break to e-learning that began in March. The group also demanded exam-related guidelines. Shikshak Parishad, a teachers’ group, claimed teachers and students have been conducting and attending online classes since physical classes were suspended in March. “Teachers have worked through the summer vacation months and shorter Ganeshostsav break too. Even if we aren’t going to school, learning has continued and stakeholders teachers, students and parents are stressed. There is a need for a break,” said Shivnath Darade, a group member. They demanded that the education department announce Diwali vacations from November 1 to 21. They also sought examination guidelines for uniformity. “Many schools have organised semester exams online. Some schools told students to write papers, take photos and send it to teachers. Teachers have to print them out and assess papers. This is very tedious. The government must think of a solution adaptable for all schools,” said Darade. The group wrote to education minister Varsha Gaikwad and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The government has decided to consider reopening schools only after Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teachers-demand-diwali-vacation-dates/articleshow/78562332.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||With over 9.2k active cases, Jaipur accounts for 43% of Rajasthan’s total||JAIPUR: Covid-19 deaths crossed the 1,600 mark after 15 more people lost their lives to the virus on Thursday, taking the toll to 1,605 in the state. Besides, 2,138 persons were found infected with the virus on the day, bringing the overall tally to 1,52,605. In Jaipur, the pandemic situation has worsened and the city now accounts for 43% of active cases in the state. Such cases have been increasing significantly for over a month and is now inching closer to the 10,000 mark. Currently, Jaipur has 9,241 active cases, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (5,147) and Kota (793). After reporting 423 new infections, Jaipur's cumulative cases are all set to touch the grim milestone of 25,000. It is six short of 25,000 and has an overall tally of 24,994. A health department official said that they have launched a campaign in the city appealing to the people to wear face masks, follow social distancing norms and hand hygiene. “People should take precautions and avoid gathering at crowded places. They shouldn't leave houses unless it is necessary and wear masks to prevent being infected by the virus,” said a senior health department official. While new cases are constantly rising, 393 persons have recovered and been discharged in Jaipur, taking the number of recovered cases to 15,422.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-9-2k-active-cases-jaipur-accounts-for-43-of-states-total/articleshow/78563531.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chennai||Sale of vehicles up in Tamil Nadu, more than September 2019||CHENNAI: Sales of two-wheelers and cars have increased in Tamil Nadu with more than 1.7 lakh new vehicles hitting the road last month a 17.8% increase compared to September 2019. Stakeholders primarily attributed this to lack of adequate public transport such as buses and trains even after relaxation of Covid lockdown norms and reopening of offices and industries. “Chennai carries 36 lakh people on buses every day. Without any public transport these people had to look for other modes of travel and hence the steep increase in private vehicle growth,” said J Sivasubramaniam from Institute of Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP). “It’s important for the city now to bounce back with improved public transport services to gain back these riders.” S Rajvel, state chairperson of Federation of Automobile Dealers Association, said though sales almost came to a standstill in March and April, almost all dealers in Tamil Nadu except those in Chennai have achieved similar half-yearly turnovers (till September) because of the increased sales in the last eight weeks. In Chennai, many are working from home. But those who vacated the capital city and moved to their native places needed bikes for their daily commute. This is why dealers in the districts recorded a 20%-25% increase in sales, he said. The demand for two-wheelers was so high in the state that the price of second-hand vehicles almost doubled in smaller towns. “For instance, one of my customers, who was confused about buying a new bike, sold his old one for Rs 20,000 and used the same as down payment for his new two-wheeler loan,” said Muthu Mani, a showroom owner in Madurai. While private vehicle registration growth was less than 20%, tractor sales recorded a 92.52% increase. As many as 3,731 new tractors got registered in September. While the government attributed this to growth in the agriculture sector by referring to cultivation data, some farmers in Tamil Nadu don’t agree. B Tulsi Narayanan, Tiruvallur district secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, said most of the new tractors were used as trailers for industries rather than as tillers for cultivation. “However, some youngsters, who returned to their native place, bought a tractor hoping that they can not only plough their own field and reduce expenses but also outsource it. They saw it is a substitute trade,” he said. Also, around 20,000 Bharat Stage-IV (BS-IV) vehicles, which were purchased last year, got registered only now, according to official data. Union road ministry had barred the registry of BS-IV engines after March 31 due to reduce pollution. But the Supreme Court relaxed this rule later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sale-of-vehicles-up-in-tn-more-than-sept-2019/articleshow/78562334.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Honour killing: Man, aide kill sister’s boyfriend||NAGPUR: In a suspected case of honour killing, a youth was brutally murdered by his girlfriend’s brother and his accomplice on Tuesday. The accused killed Bunty Chidam (24) with sharp edged weapons and later tied him to a two-wheeler before dumping him in a well in Sukdi village, Hingna police said. The accused had slit the victim’s throat, sources said. Police said Bunty was in relationship with sister of one of the accused. This had not gone down well with the girl’s family and there used to be frequent quarrels between the girl’s brother and Bunty. The accused decided to eliminate Bunty and on Tuesday they called him for discussion when the assault took place. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning after some locals spotted a body in the well and alerted police. Soon, Hingna police team reached the spot and fished out the body and sent it for autopsy. Cops have rounded up one of the accused Dhiraj Zilpe in this connection while another accused Rohit Madavi is still at large. Police said Bunty had shared his evening location with his younger brother. However, after killing Bunty at an isolated location, Zilpe and Madavi dumped his body into the well. On Tuesday evening, Bunty’s family members tried to locate him, but in vain. They had also lodged a missing complaint with Hingna police. Further investigations are being carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/honour-killing-man-aide-kill-sisters-boyfriend/articleshow/78542541.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 9, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues Covid SOPs for tourism||MUMBAI: The state tourism department has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for tour operators and tourism service providers. With the government opening several sectors, tourism has been given a push by opening restaurants, bars and stay-in facilities at hotels and resorts. The SOP issued for tour operators mentions that city tours and heritage walks should be during weekends when there is less crowd. There should be not more than 10 tourists per guide too. Locations with less pedestrians should be shortlisted for tours. No coach tours or tours in enclosed spaces will be allowed. “Tours will not have restrictions on number of participants but they must be divided into sub-groups of not more than 10,” said the circular. Maximum three passengers, excluding driver, will be allowed in any vehicle used to ferry tourists. “The rules will be applicable only to places where district authorities have not issued prohibitory orders. In those situations, tourists will not be allowed,” said an official. Besides, there will be protocols around screening of tourists, maintaining social distancing and consent by tourists to share details with authorities for contact-tracing. Use of microphones for giving details or conducting the tour should be encouraged to help maintain social distancing. Training should be imparted to guides to ensure health-related protocols are followed. too||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-issues-covid-sops-for-tourism/articleshow/78562350.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: No e-verification, banks ask pensioners for papers||CHENNAI: Thousands of pensioners are struggling to furnish life certificates as nationalised banks are demanding additional documents to prove their bona fides. Senior citizens told TOI that banks are harassing them and putting them at a risk of contracting Covid-19 since they need to make multiple visits. While some banks are keeping biometric devices away after the outbreak of coronavius, pensioners are being directed to the Employees Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) office to prove the bona fide of the Aadhaar-linked pension accounts. Banks where pensioners hold account facilitate life certificates for pensioners. But a section of senior citizens who had furnished Jeevan Pramaan, a biometric-enabled digital life certificate, last year are also put through hardships. V Chandrasekar, president of Senior Citizens’ Group of Besant Nagar, said Jeevan Pramaan can complete verification in five minutes. “But when I visited the bank on Wednesday, I was informed that the biometric device was not operational. I was asked to be fill up a form or visit the EPFO office at Royapettah,” he said. Chandrasekar said at least 10 pensioners holding accounts in different nationalised bank faced a similar situation. B Gajapathi, general secretary of Ordinance Factories and Allied Establishment Pensioners Welfare Association, said: “It is just a harassment and putting our lives in danger. When the account has details, what is the requirement to furnish such documents that were not required last year?” State Bank of India sources said a pension payment order letter is being sought as a proof because life certificates could not be generated as biometric devices for Aadhaar verification are not in use due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-e-verification-banks-ask-pensioners-for-papers/articleshow/78562351.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
October 9, 2020||Delhi||In Covid era, going viral saves day for this dhaba in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Thursday was the most memorable day in the three decades that Kanta Prasad, 62, and his wife, Badami Devi, 60, have been running Baba Ka Dhaba in Malviya Nagar in south Delhi. After the video of the elderly couple driven to tears at not getting customers went viral on social media, scores turned up at their eatery on Thursday, so much so the couple ran out of food to serve at 1pm. An elated Prasad told TOI, “I’ve never had such a wonderful day in my life. When I was returning home on Wednesday evening, some people informed me about a video on us having gone viral. I didn’t understand much until someone later explained what it was all about.” On Thursday, people started queuing up soon as the couple opened at 6.30am, mostly to savour their famous matar paneer. “It was a busy day and I have a backache after the hard work,” smiled Devi. “We ran out of food but I can’t cook now. I am thankful to everyone who came to help us.” Assistance in other forms also poured in. The couple earned up to Rs 1,300 a day until Covid-19 reached Delhi. “After this, hardly any customers came and our daily income fell to around Rs 250,” narrated Prasad, a father of three. “We spent most of this money on commuting and buying stocks. Though I purchased disposable plates and followed all safety and hygiene norms, people stopped eating at the dhaba. My eldest son who was working as an office boy lost his job during the Covid lockdown and we were struggling to make ends meet.” Gaurav Wasan, who had recorded the video on the couple’s woes and posted it on social media, said it was priceless to see their smiles on Thursday. “I was moved by their condition and wanted to help them,” he said of why he had posted the video online. “I am so happy they received financial assistance of over Rs 1.5 lakh by Thursday noon. I request people to eat at the dhaba instead of donating money.” AAP MLA Somnath Bharti was one of those who saw the video. “I went to the dhaba in the morning and promised to return for lunch too. When I returned later, they had run out of food. I will eat there again on Friday,” he smiled. Later Zomato, the food delivery company, listed Baba Ka Dhaba on its site and said, “Our team is working with the elderly couple to enable food deliveries.” Zomato also said there were many other “Baba Ka Dhabas out there that need help”, and if anyone knew of one, he or she could share details with Zomato.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-covid-era-going-viral-saves-day-for-this-dhaba/articleshow/78563560.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 9, 2020||World||Plot to kidnap Michigan governor thwarted, militia members arrested||Thirteen people, including seven men associated with the Wolverine Watchmen militia group, have been arrested in a sweeping takedown of plots to kidnap the Michigan governor, attack the state capitol building and incite violence. The group aimed to kidnap Governor Gretchen Whitmer, a Democrat who has traded barbs with Republican President Donald Trump over her response to the coronavirus pandemic, ahead of the Nov. 3 presidential election, according to a criminal complaint. At one point, the alleged plotters discussed recruiting a force of 200 to storm the state capitol in Lansing and take hostages, but later abandoned the plan in favor of surveiling and kidnapping Whitmer at her vacation home, the complaint said. At a news conference, Whitmer accused Trump of encouraging extremist groups like the "sick and depraved men" that targeted her, citing his failure to condemn white supremacists at the recent US presidential debate against Joe Biden as an example. "When our leaders meet with, encourage and fraternize with domestic terrorists they legitimize their actions, and they are complicit," Whitmer said. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany pushed back at her remarks, saying Trump has condemned all forms of hate. "Governor Whitmer is sowing division by making these outlandish allegations," McEnany said in a statement. Internal US security memos in recent months have warned that violent domestic extremists could pose a threat to election-related targets, a concern exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic, political tensions, civil unrest and foreign disinformation campaigns. FBI director Christopher Wray said during congressional hearings in September that his agency was conducting investigations into violent domestic extremists, including white supremacists and anti-fascist groups. Wray said the largest "chunk" of investigations were into white supremacist groups. The FBI became aware through social media in early 2020 that a group of people were discussing the "violent overthrow" of multiple state governments and used confidential sources to track their movements, according to the complaint. The group of six facing federal charges- Adam Fox, Barry Croft, Ty Garbin, Kaleb Franks, Daniel Harris and Brandon Caserta- could be sentenced to life in prison if convicted on charges of attempting to kidnap Whitmer. "Fox and Croft in particular... discussed detonating explosive devices to divert police from the area of the home and Fox even inspected the underside of a Michigan highway bridge for places to seat an explosive," Andrew Birge, US attorney for the western district of Michigan, told a briefing. ACTION TIMED BEFORE ELECTION Michigan attorney general Dana Nessel disclosed additional state charges against seven men affiliated with the Wolverine Watchmen for allegedly violating the state's anti-terrorism act by conspiring to kidnap the governor and propagate violence. The Wolverine Watchmen has used Facebook since November 2019 to recruit members, according to affidavits in support of the state charges. The group, which is anti-law enforcement, trained with firearms to prepare for an uprising against the government and what they believe is an "impending politically motivated civil war," according to the affidavits. Nessel said the suspects sought to identify the home addresses of law enforcement officers with the aim of threatening them with violence and inciting unrest. She said a total of 19 state felony charges were filed against the seven individuals, including counts for gang membership and for providing support for terrorist acts. According to the FBI's criminal complaint, Fox indicated that he wanted to kidnap Whitmer before the national election on Nov. 3. In one June phone call, Fox said he would try Whitmer for "treason" after taking her hostage, the complaint said. Michigan is a key swing state in the 2020 presidential race, and Trump and his supporters demanded the governor relax social-distancing rules. Militia members were among those that took to the streets in April to protest the various rules. Trump encouraged the demonstrators, tweeting in April, "LIBERATE MICHIGAN." On one June video livestreamed to a private Facebook group, Fox called Whitmer a "tyrant bitch" as he complained about restrictions against gym openings. "I don’t know, boys, we gotta do something. You guys link with me on our other location system, give me some ideas of what we can do," Fox said on the video, according to the complaint. Facebook said that it cooperated with the investigation. The militia movement in the United States became prominent in the mid-1990s and surged again a little more than a decade ago with the arrival of social media and election of former President Barack Obama, according to the Anti-Defamation League. Mark Pitcavage, a senior research fellow with the organization, said militia movements generally support Trump and therefore have shifted their "anti-government anger" away from the federal government, where it has been traditionally aimed, and toward state leaders. "In that sense, it's not necessarily surprising that a militia cell might decide to target a high-profile Democratic governor," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/plot-to-kidnap-michigan-governor-thwarted-militia-members-arrested/articleshow/78564585.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Trichy||Rs 13L fine collected in Trichy for violating Covid safety norms||Trichy: A coordinated effort by the public health department, police, revenue department and local bodies including Trichy corporation has seen a total of 5,251 people being penalised under the sections of Tamil Nadu public health (TNPH) Act for violating Covid-19 safety norms. A total fine of Rs 13,31,900 was collected from September 14 to October 7. The offences ranged from violation of quarantine measures, non-wearing of face masks, spitting at public places, violation of social distancing norms, violation of standard operating procedures by salons, spas, gyms, commercial establishments and other public places as well as non-adherence of guidelines in containment zones by individuals and commercial establishments. Non-wearing of face masks topped the list with 4,822 cases. Police registered the highest number of 2,766 cases while local body administrations and public health department also booked a considerable number of cases. Deputy director of health services (DDHS) in Trichy Dr A Subramani, who is the nodal officer for imposition of fines, told TOI, “The objective is to regulate the practice of wearing masks and following social distance and other measures. Comparatively, urban people are following the measures than rural people.” Official source said that contact tracing turned out to be a tough task for the health department following the relaxation of the lockdown as the movement of people increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-13l-fine-collected-in-trichy-for-violating-covid-safety-norms/articleshow/78563539.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Customs to question Sivasankar again||Kochi: Customs will once again interrogate former principal secretary to Kerala chief minister M Sivasankar in connection with his links with the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case accused. He was given a notice by the customs to appear in the Kochi office on Friday. Meanwhile, the customs will also question gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith PS in the jail . Sivasankar was earlier questioned by the customs twice and the decision to question him again is in the wake of more evidences regarding his suspected involvement in the case. Sources said that the interrogation would be based on his phone calls and chats. Sivasankar is expected to arrive at the customs office on Friday morning. The enforcement directorate (ED) had earlier found that Sivasankar has intervened in the financial transactions made by Swapna by helping her open a bank account and locker facility. Moreover, the chats between Sivasankar and his chartered accountant P Venugopal were referred by ED in the chargesheet. The customs is likely to probe all these angles on Friday to check whether Swapna has misused her relationship with Sivasankar for smuggling gold. Meanwhile, the remand period of 21 accused persons in the gold smuggling case has been extended till Monday. The NIA-I court will consider the bail petitions and anticipatory bail petitions in the case on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-to-question-sivasankar-again/articleshow/78561154.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||GSFC to reduce import dependence||Vadodara: Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals (GSFC) Ltd on Thursday launched two new products — calcium nitrate and boronated Calcium Nitrate —for the first time in the country. India was entirely dependent on imports in these water soluble fertilizers. Launching the products virtually, union MoS for chemicals and fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya said, “Until now, these products were imported. Now, GSFC is manufacturing these import substitutes which is an important step towards fulfilling the dream of a self-reliant India.” Chairman and managing director of GSFC Ltd Arvind Agarwal said that the trend was slowly shifting towards usage of complex fertilizers and water-soluble fertilizers. “There is a growing demand for speciality fertilizers at a very fast rate. India’s annual requirement of calcium nitrate is 1,23,000 metric tonnes (MT) which is entirely imported. Around 76% is imported from China while the rest is sourced from Norway and Israel,” he said. Agarwal said the total cost of importing these products was about Rs 225 crore in 2019-20. Currently, GSFC Ltd has a capacity 10,000 MT per year for these products. In three months, production will increase to 15,000 metric tons per year and later to 30,000 metric tons in about a year. The two fertilizers are available in double nutrient combination in powder or granular form. They can be used for fertigation and foliar application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gsfc-to-reduce-import-dependence/articleshow/78561030.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Faculty awaits ratification even after being qualified||Hyderabad: With Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) not ratifying professors and associate professors for the past three years, thousands of faculty members have been forced to work at assistant professor’s rank. The faculty members said that despite having necessary qualification, college managements are not willing to give them associate professor or professor’s pay scale due to not being ratified. “I have over 21 years of experience as a faculty. Despite having a PhD, I am forced to work as assistant professor,” said a faculty member, who is part of the computer science branch at a college in Kompally. He said that while he was confirmed as professor in 2017 by the JNTU, he had to get ratified again as he briefly moved out to work under a college affiliated to Osmania University. “As per rules, when I joined a college affiliated to JNTU again, I had to get ratified. But, the varsity is ratifying only assistant professors,” he added. Members of the Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association (TTIEA) said that about 4,000-5,000 faculty members are forced to work for an assistant professor’s salary because of varsity’s failure. “Although, colleges are showing faculty as associate professors and professors at the time of affiliation or accreditation, they are paying salaries by considering faculty as assistant professors citing their ratification. Varsity, meanwhile, is not ratifying so as to restrict faculty working in affiliated colleges from applying for posts at JNTUH,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president of TTIEA. M Manzoor Hussain, registrar of JNTUH, said that they couldn’t ratify associate professors and professors due to lack of regular vice-chancellor in past two years. “But that’s not going to harm faculty as college managements can promote them from assistant professors to associate professors to professors considering their experience through Career Advancement Scheme,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/faculty-awaits-ratification-even-after-being-qualified/articleshow/78563565.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 9, 2020||Mysuru||Panel recommends no exam year for students||Mysore: The Karnataka Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (KCPCR) has recommended to the department of public instruction (DPI) to declare the academic year 2020-21 as no examination year and only learning year. In a three-page recommendation made to the department, KCPCR has also recommended to the DPI to appoint counsellors to infuse confidence among children as they are out of school for the last few months. The commission recommended Covid-19 tests for students, teachers and mid-day meal workers before the start of the school. The commission recommended early start of lower primary schools. Presently many private schools are holding mid-term examinations. In government schools Vidyagama scheme has been implemented to keep students engaged in the learning activities. “In the Vidyagama scheme also there is a provision to hold examination,” said a BEO from Mysuru. KCPCR chairman Antony Sebastian informed that these recommendations have been made based on the commission’s field experience and the provisions of Right to Education (RTE). “Many schools don’t have proper toilets and drinking water arrangements. In such circumstances students will be exposed to the risk of contracting the virus. Keeping all these in mind, we made these recommendations,” he said. The highlights of the recommendations include starting schools with less than 30 students to begin with, with half-day classes, separate SoPs for primary and secondary schools, shift system in those schools with more students, mandatory school sanitisation before school reopening, consultation meeting with School Development and Monitoring Committee (SDMC) members and parents before school reopening, mandatory hand washing facility in all the schools with soaps, masks for all the children especially for children above 11 years old, regular health check-ups, medical support if any student develops symptoms and hot drinking water. The commission also stressed the importance of nutritious food, milk and mandatory social distancing in the classroom activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/panel-recommends-no-exam-year-for-students/articleshow/78563950.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 9, 2020||Mumbai||Shirdi-Nagpur stretch of super e-way by May: MSRDC||MUMBAI: From May 2021, motorists will be able to drive on a major portion of Maharashtra’s Balasaheb Thackeray Mumbai-Nagpur super expressway, also known as prosperity corridor, to cut short travel time between the state’s first and second capital in record time, MSRDC, the state’s infrastructure arm, announced on Thursday. A 520km Shirdi-Nagpur stretch of the upcoming 701km super-communication highway will be operational from May 2021, MSRDC MD Radheshyam Mopalwar told the media. A 153km stretch between Amravati-Aurangabad out of 520km is ready, he added, pointing out that a 50km stretch on the route between Washim-Buldhana may be delayed a bit. Over 20,000 labourers are working, as against 18,000 in pre-Covid times, on the Rs 55,000 crore project. Mopalwar said by December 2021, the stretch up to Igatpuri (total 623km between Nagpur-Igatpuri) will be operational. By May 2022, the entire corridor will be operational, cutting short 16-hour travel time to eight hours. He said though Covid had delayed the project by three months, there was no cost escalation as it was being built on a fixed-cost basis. Joint MDs Anilkumar Gaikwad and Dr Chandrakant Pulkundwar said of the proposed 19 planned townships along the corridor, development plans for eight were ready and land acquisition for six will be completed by June 2021. The industrial and logistical townships will accommodate one lakh people each. MSRDC will seek its board’s approval to lease out land parcels at Bandra, Nepean Sea Road, Pune Expressway in Pune city and Kolhapur to earn around Rs 15,000 crore. The earnings will help MSRDC reduce the financial burden for its multi-crore projects. CHARGING STNS FOR E-VEHICLES TOO * After every 40-50km, the super expressway will have wayside amenities with facilities like charging stations for electric vehicles * The corridor will have an integrated traffic management system to track speed of vehicles, lane-cutting and vehicle breakdowns to ensure motorists’ safety * The expressway has eight tunnels, viaducts, railway overbridges and bridges over rivers * At prominent reserved forests, the project will set up animal underpasses or overpasses * It will connect 10 districts, 26 taluka places, 392 villages, 11 major tourist spots, besides building agro-prosperity townships to strengthen trade along with transport COST FACTOR | Of the Rs 55,332 crore project, the actual engineering cost comes to Rs 40,000 crore||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shirdi-nagpur-stretch-of-super-e-way-by-may-msrdc/articleshow/78562386.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
October 9, 2020||Trichy||Encroachments by shops back on arterial roads in Trichy city||Trichy: Post-lockdown relaxations, shopkeepers have returned to business in Trichy, so are encroachments, which have started disrupting public mobility in the city. All the arterial roads in the city are again facing encroachments by shopkeepers since periodical eviction drive has not resumed by the authorities.East Boulevard (EB) Road continues to be the hotbed of encroachments as scrap dealers and shops including workshops are utilising the four lanes of the spacious road for business. As two of the four lanes available for vehicular movement between Chathiram bus stand, Trichy town railway station and Gandhi market were encroached, traffic congestion has become a routine affair. Local people said that scrap dealers are casually occupying the road near Murugan Theatre to stock their inventories including used furniture.The situation is no different on Palakkarai and Heber Road that connects Cantonment and Central bus stand with the old Trichy city. Although eviction drives were conducted on the roads last year and in early 2020, after the Covid-19 outbreak, the absence of eviction measures has resulted in the traders and street vendors occupying the arterial roads. “Encroachments are one of the reasons why EB Road remains underdeveloped. The district administration should restart the eviction drive,” M Sekaran, member, district road safety council, said.The inaction of the encroachment monitoring committee that convenes periodical meeting with the stakeholders was said to be the major reason for the encroachments. Pedestrian platforms in Pattabiraman Street were completely encroached by shops that sell used two-wheelers. Previously, the city saw an eviction drive at Teppakulam on January and at the war memorial near Gandhi market in February. The officials concerned said they were focusing on the Covid-19 relief measures. A senior corporation official said that other issues are being focused and complaints on encroachments will be inspected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/encroachments-by-shops-back-on-arterial-roads-in-trichy-city/articleshow/78563551.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Five-year high: Early spurt in Punjab farm fires||NEW DELHI: Not only has stubble burning in Punjab started early this year, with Nasa’s satellite imagery showing it starting in the first week of September, but there have been more fire counts than what was recorded at the same time in the last five years.  Track the pollution level in your cityVIIRS satellite data from 2016 onward showed a spike in farm fires in the last week of September and first week of October, with 50-100 counts being recorded daily in 2017. However, this year the average count per day touched over 150 in the last week of September and ranged between 150 and 200 in the first week of October. Pawan Gupta, senior scientist at Universities Space Research Association, Nasa, who analysed the data, said, “Data shows that farm fires are limited to a few districts in north Punjab, mostly concentrated in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts. However, other districts are gradually picking up.” “Satellite analysis through GEOS forecasts shows that while air quality in the eastern states is expected to improve over the next three days, cities in the Indo-Gangetic plain could record a spike in the PM2.5 concentration during this period,” added Gupta. LS Kurinji, research analyst at Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, “Though we saw a marginal rise in fires in early October this year compared with the same period over the last few years, it is important to look at the data for the entire season to draw year-on-year comparisons. Early fires observed in districts like Amritsar and Tarn Taran in Punjab could be attributed to multiple factors, including sowing of early maturing paddy varieties or adoption of direct seeding technique.” System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), a body under Union ministry of earth sciences, stated that PM2.5 was the lead pollutant at present and air quality would worsen. “A gradual increase in stubble burning was observed on Wednesday in Punjab, Haryana and bordering regions. The fire count was 399 on Wednesday. Currently, the boundary layer, wind direction and speed are favourable for the transport of pollutants towards Delhi. However, a shift in wind direction is forecast, which is likely to extend the moderate air quality condition for a few more days,” SAFAR stated on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-yr-high-early-spurt-in-punjab-farm-fires/articleshow/78563584.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 9, 2020||Trichy||Two kids fall into canal, search under way||TRICHY: Two siblings hailing from Samayapuram near Trichy fell into an irrigation canal on Thursday evening and a rescue operation by fire service rescue personnel and local people is under way. The missing siblings have been identified as Dharsi (6) and Naraine (4). Their father Ravichandran is hailing from Pallividai in Lalgudi taluk. The kids were playing near the Peruvalai canal near their house around 4.30 pm. While returning home, the kids accidentally fell into the canal. On seeing this, local people alerted Samayapuram fire station. Fire official said that the rescue operation launched around 5 pm is still underway late in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-kids-fall-into-canal-search-under-way/articleshow/78563562.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Ecologists raise concern over proposed Koz-Wayanad tunnel rd||KOZHIKODE: ‘Project launch’ of the proposed 6.8km-long tunnel road connecting Kozhikode and Wayanad, which is billed as the third longest tunnel road in the country, has raised concerns of possible adverse ecological impact in one of the most ecologically fragile areas of the Western Ghats which also is highly susceptible to landslides. The proposed Anakkampoyil-Kalladi-Meppadi road, which is estimated to cost more than Rs.900 crore, will have a subterranean tunnel from Swargamkunnu in Kozhikode to Kalladi in Wayanad beneath the Vellarimala mountain stretch which is part Camel’s Hump Mountains. As with other parts of Western Ghats, the Camel’s Hump Mountains are characterized by rugged hills with long steep-sided slopes with soil and earth materials resting over Precambrian crystalline rock formations formed around 150 million years ago. Environmentalists said they are bewildered by the way by which the chief minister announced the project on Monday and even declared the project completion timeline without submitting an application for the mandatory clearances from MoEFCC and without conducting an environmental impact assessment study or even technical or alignment studies. Ecologists said the particular stretch is one of the most vulnerable in the 1,600-km-long Western Ghats mountain range and the area has been historically witnessing landslides. The district disaster management plan, 2019, for Wayanad says the ‘Wayanad- Kozhikode border has been identified by CESS as one of the most landslide prone areas in the state’. Also, the natural hazard zonation of the district has put the entire village of Vellarimala as high risk for landslide with special attention required at Mundakkai, Puttumala and Vellarimala. Forest officials said the project will necessitate clearance from MoEFCC as well as a thorough environmental impact assessment study. “As of now we have received an application to conduct a preliminary survey and have asked the Konkan railway corporation authorities to furnish more details,” a state forest department official said. “The Camel’s Hump mountain stretch of which Vellarimala is a part has very steep vertical drop at many places often extending up to one km. Carrying out tunneling work through the rocks could affect the stability of the mountains. Also, it could have an impact on the binding of the outer layer of soil with the rocks beneath. The first thing any responsible government would have done before announcing the launch of the project is a proper geological study,” C K Vishnudas, executive director of Hume Centre for Ecology and Wildlife Biology, said. Wayanad Paristhiti Samrakshana Samithi president N Badusha said areas around Kalladi is also a high intensity rainfall zone and receives up to five times the normal rainfall in Wayanad. “The area was earmarked as Zone I in Gadgil committee report and ‘natural landscape’ in the Kasturirangan commission report. Government should clarify whether it would be able to secure Centre’s nod. We suspect it to be an election gimmick and the project is not likely to take off,” Badusha added. Meanwhile, Sajin Kumar K S from the department of Geology, Kerala University, said the precambrian rock formations in Western Ghats are typically very hard and tunnelling work is feasible without much complications. “However, there needs a detailed geological study and environmental issues associated with the work should be properly addressed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ecologists-raise-concern-over-proposed-koz-wayanad-tunnel-rd/articleshow/78561168.cms||K R Rajeev
October 9, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn saves Rs 3.8crore annually||Trichy: Conversion of conventional streetlights in Trichy city to energy-efficient LED lights has helped Trichy Corporation save Rs 3.8 crore from their 2019-2020 annual electricity expense. Even as the number of streetlights has gone up after the project, the overall electricity consumption by the streetlights has dropped by 65%.Trichy Corporation started converting the conventional fluorescent tube lights (FTL), sodium vapour and metal-halide lamps to LED streetlights in 2018 at an estimated cost of Rs 23 crore. There were more than 36,000 conventional streetlights in 2018, all of them were converted into LED lights of equivalent luminescence. Similarly, more than 3,000 new LED streetlights were also added since then. The project was officially completed in August 2020.Prior to the conversion, the urban local body had carried out an Investment-Grade Energy Audit (IGA) to check the changes required for ensuring better luminescence and energy conservation. LED lights having various watts ranging from 20 to 200 were used to replace the conventional street lights without compromising the luminescence. While the project was underway, the civic bod noticed a significant dip in electricity consumption.Before the conversion, the 35,000 lamps across the 65 wards were consuming 142 lakh units of electricity per year. After the conversion, the electricity consumption of 39,000 streetlights has dropped to 49 lakh units per year, around 65% fall. “Our data estimates that we saved Rs 3.78 crore in 2019-20. While the number of street lamps increased, electricity consumption declined,” a senior official with Trichy Corporation said. Apart from conserving the energy, the conversion drive has ensured uniform lighting atmosphere for Trichy city.Complaints on street lamps malfunctioning can be registered over the helpline: 85085-00000. The civic body promised to rectify any grievances in a day. “The numbers of complaints and our maintenance cost have also declined after the conversion,” the official added. It is to be noted that operation and maintenance expense account for 32% of the expenditure of the corporation’s annual spending, which is estimated at Rs1,335 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-saves-rs-3-8crore-annually/articleshow/78563558.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||316 Nagpur University final year students miss online exam over OTP glitch||NAGPUR: The Day 1 of first-ever online exams of Nagpur University saw many final year students complaining about technical snags that forced them to skip the papers. It has came to fore that actually 316 out of 1,584 students couldn’t appear online on Thursday due to OTP-related issues. Earlier in the day, the university received a plethora of complaints from several aggrieved students after they failed to receive one-time password (OTP) on their mobiles for accessing question papers. Those poured in from all four districts — Wardha, Bhandara, Gondia besides Nagpur. “After enquiring we came to know that only 18.74% of examinees couldn’t appear in exams due to technical snags, primarily related to OTP. It included 249 of BSc microbiology and 47 of BSc statistics subjects,” Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. Officials from Promarc Software Limited that developed Pariksha App came under fire after Thursday’s fiasco. They said the firm was unnecessarily dragged into controversy as neither its app nor its server had crashed. “Only 10% of our server was used on Thursday. As the test was conducted on mobiles, there was absolutely no load on it. In fact, we did much better than other universities like Mumbai, Solapur and Gondwana, whose servers crashed on the very first day.” Endorsing them, Sable informed that their server received a whopping 8,000 SMSs from 1.26pm to 1.38pm from the students regarding OTP. “We never faced this problem during mock tests, else we would have fixed it that time only. After receiving hundreds of complaints, we apprehended that over 50% of the examinees missed exams, but after collecting data, their numbers were found to be very less. We kept less papers on the first three days anticipating such difficulties.” The aggrieved students, however, aren’t convinced by NU’s explanations. They said they would keep fingers crossed till all papers are completed. “I had my microbiology exam and started login 10 minutes before using the link sent on e-mail id. I keyed in the user id and password as per the hall ticket. But it was showing invalid for some time. Later, I didn’t receive the OTP,” a student said, adding that NU shouldn’t use them for trials and put their careers at stake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/316-nu-final-year-students-miss-online-exam-over-otp-glitch/articleshow/78563521.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 100kg ganja, hashish seized||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In yet another major narcotic catch in the district, the state excise enforcement Squad on Thursday seized 100kg ganja and 3kg hashish that was being smuggled into the district from Andhra Pradesh. The squad arrested four men who were allegedly smuggling the contraband. Two vehicles were also seized. The vehicles carrying the contraband were intercepted on the national highway at Vellamkolli between Nagaroor and Alamcode. Among the arrested, two hail from Nagaroor here. They were identified as Riyas and Jaseem. The others are Faisal of Pavaratty in Thrissur and Niyas of Konni in Pathanamthitta district. The accused told excise officials that they procured the ganja and hashish oil from Andhra Pradesh. They brought it to Coimbatore from where they loaded it on a pickup van transporting poultry and entered the state through national highway. Enforcement squad leader inspector T Anikumar said that a truck driver, hailing from Nagaroor, procured ganja and hashish for the gang from Andhra Pradesh. He brought it till Coimbatore. From there, Faisal and Niyas smuggled it into the state in their pickup van. The excise officials caught them when they met Riyas and Jaseem to handover the stuff. The seizure was based on a tip off provided by the intelligence wing of the excise. The inspector added that all accused involved in the case are drivers by profession. They formed a network and decided to use their work, which required them to cross state borders frequently, as a cover for their illegal activities. The squad has also identified the truck that transported the contraband from Andhra Pradesh to Coimbatore. The driver would be arrested soon, the inspector said. On September 22, the same squad had made a seizure of 203kg ganja at Balaramapuram. On September 6, they made a catch of 502kg ganja that was being smuggled in a container truck. This was the biggest ganja catch made in the state by the excise till date. The source of all the ganja seized recently is traced to Narsipattinam in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/100kg-ganja-hashish-seized/articleshow/78561180.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Dastango’s tribute to Khusrau at Harvard University platform||LUCKNOW: The city’s first modern dastango Himanshu Bajpai did Lucknow proud on Thursday when through a performance he gave a virtual tribute to Sufi saint Amir Khusrau at the platform of Harvard University. Bajpai, who was representing India at the US-based university’s first-of-its-kind virtual event 24 Hours of Harvard (24hH), was joined by international artist of Pakistani origin Ali Sethi. The session was moderated by Ali Asani, professor of middle eastern studies and Indo-Muslim and Islamic religion and cultures at Harvard University. Wearing the Lakhnawi chikan angrakha and ‘dopalli’ topi, Bajpai performed an exclusive dastangoi on Khusrau which was interspersed with the rendition of Sufi poetry by Sethi and commentary by Asani. Following the performance was a live question and answer session with the two artistes. Audiences from around the world interacted with them with curiosity on the subject. Replying to a question, Bajpai said, “I was drawn to Khusrau as he holds a shared identity of inclusivity. Hailing from Lucknow—a hub of composite culture—I identified with that appeal.” “Khusrau has praised India for having one of the oldest traditions of oral storytelling as the Panchtantra. Even in this digital age, oral storytelling has evolved since it corresponds to the basic human instinct of talking and listening. The written-readable word comes in later,” he replied to another question. The 33-year-old dastango, whose first public performance of the medieval oral storytelling art form was in 2014, has a number of national and international events to his credit. He has also received the President’s Award in February 2020 at Rashtrapati Bhavan where he performed live for President Ram Nath Kovind. “Poetry is inclusive, it has no ‘other’ unlike politics. Khusravi poetry has the same effect on people no matter where it is heard or performed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dastangos-tribute-to-khusrau-at-harvard-university-platform/articleshow/78564094.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Trichy||Farmers protest against land acquisition for bypass road||Thanjavur: Opposing the acquisition of around 100 acres of agriculture land in and around Thiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur district to lay the Perambalur-Manamadurai national highways road, farmers from six villages staged a protest standing on a paddy field. They refused to forgo their fields saying that farming is their livelihood. Officials said the road cuts through Thanjavur district according to the project and it has already been developed from Perambalur to Thanjavur. The next phase of work is from Thanjavur to Manamadurai. For this, officials earmarked around 100 acres of farmland to lay a bypass road near Thiruvaiyaru.However, farmers from six villages including Kandiyur, Arasoor, Thirupoonthiruthi in Thiruvaiyaru taluk opposed the survey that took place in 2019. When the highways authorities resumed their survey work to acquire land, farmers from these villages protested standing on a paddy field in Kandiyur carrying pots and a black flag and raised slogans.Around 100 farmers, mostly women affiliated to Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association headed by P Sugumaran, participated in the protest. “Around 45 feet of vacant land is there on both sides of the existing road. Highways authorities can utilize this stretch. However, officials are keen on snatching fertile land which is the livelihood of small and marginal farmers”, Sugumaran said.Highways authorities said the existing road crosses the town. The very purpose of laying a bypass road was to avoid traffic congestion. Hence, they are forced to use available agriculture land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-protest-against-land-acquisition-for-bypass-road/articleshow/78563568.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Meet to restore road access at Edamalakudy||Idukki: The report submitted by Munnar special tehsildar Binu Joseph to Idukki collector H Dineshan stated that proper road and communication facility must be ensured in the tribal panchayat at Edamalakudy. The report was prepared as per the directive of the district collector. “A road connecting Pettimudy and Societykudy is our main priority. Forest department had raised some issues and the construction works of the road was stalled. I have called a virtual meeting to discuss the issue. I will issue an order to construct road under DDMA Act in the wake of Pettimudy landslide,” said the collector. Officials said that the report pointed out that mobile network and proper communication facilities were not available in the panchayat and that the government should take steps to assure proper communication facilities in the village. “Proper road transport channel is not available. In the present situation, it can plan to construct a ropeway system from the hills of Edamalakudy to Pettimudy and connect the village to mainland,” said the report. The report added that proper treatment facilities must be made available here. “As part of our inspection, we found that there were no facilities to house the doctors and paramedical staff in the area. To assure proper treatment and medical assistance, staff quarters are needed with appointment of more staff,” said the report. Another salient point was the need of a panchayat and village office at Edamalakudy. Starting both offices here will help resolve issues of tribesmen and thus ensure timely assistance, said the report. The report also recommended a vigilance probe in the home construction at Edamalakudy. “Residents said that the contractor did not complete construction works of homes in the region under various schemes and hence a vigilance probe is needed to bring out the truth. A proper monitoring mechanism is necessary for the implementation of various projects here. It is doubtful whether integrated tribal development project office is helping much in this matter,” said the report. Edamalakudy tribal grama panchayat was cut off from the outside world after the road connecting Pettimudy with Societykudy was washed away in heavy rain and landslides over 60 days ago. The power connection has not been restored in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/meet-to-restore-road-access-at-edamalakudy/articleshow/78561188.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 9, 2020||Mumbai||Monsoon exit delayed by 8-10 days in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The city's southwest monsoon this year may be extended as Mumbai misses its normal withdrawal date of October 8. With a fresh low pressure likely to form over north Andaman sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal, the withdrawal could happen only after 8-10 days. This year, Indian Meteorological Department revised monsoon onset and withdrawal dates. For Mumbai, the new date was June 11 against the earlier June 10, and the new withdrawal date was October 8, against the earlier September 29. In 2020, the monsoon onset over Mumbai was declared on June 14, three days after the normal date. But withdrawal is expected to be delayed. K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD, said, “With the prevailing situation it may take 8-10 days for withdrawal to be declared from Maharashtra and Mumbai.” Officials said plus or minus seven days of the normal date is standard deviation. As a result of low pressure, IMD forecast rain over parts of Marathwada, Vidarbha and parts of central Maharashtra and south Konkan. A yellow alert has been issued for several locations. A green alert (very light to light rain) has been issued for Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar for the rest of the week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/monsoon-withdrawal-may-get-delayed-by-8-10-days/articleshow/78562401.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
October 9, 2020||Trichy||500 bags of ration rice seized, 1 held||Thanjavur: Police recovered 500 bags of ration rice which were smuggled and stocked in a house near Papanasam here on Thursday and arrested a 60-year-old man in connection with the incident.According to officials from the district supply office, a team headed by the district supply officer (DSO) Kamalakannan, Papanasam thasildar Kannan, taluk supply officer Ilamparuthi and revenue officials raided the house of Karuppaiyan of Sarabojirajapuram in Thanjavur and found 500 bags of ration rice meant to be disbursed through the public distribution system.Based on an information from the revenue officials, DSP (Civil Supplies CID wing) Nallu and his team rushed there and recovered the rice bags along with a mini truck. They registered a case against Karuppaiyan and arrested him. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/500-bags-of-ration-rice-seized-1-held/articleshow/78563564.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||School fee tussle reaches police station||Hyderabad: A parent lodged a police complaint on Thursday against the management of Glendale Academy, alleging that the school is violating fee regulation norms and is pressurising parents to clear the dues. Seema Agarwal, the vice-president of Hyderabad School Parents Association, said she was forced to lodge the complaint as her daughter, who is in Class IX, was blocked from online classes over non-payment of the fee. “Access to online classes for my daughter has been disconnected since September 19. Only after clearing the dues on October 3, she was allowed to write midterm exams,” said Seema, adding that her daughter was humiliated by the school. Minu Salooja, assistant director of the Glendale Education Group, brushed aside these allegation. “There was disruption in online classes for one day due to some technical glitches,” she said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-fee-tussle-reaches-police-station/articleshow/78563574.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Commuter woes continue at Ashram Chowk||NEW DELHI: The construction of the underpass at Ashram Chowk has disrupted traffic. Adding to the chaos now is the Delhi Jal Board pipe-laying work on the Bhogal Road. The traffic police have permitted DJB to carry out its work from 10pm to 6.30am till Saturday on the Ashram-to-Bhogal carriageway and till October 12 on the opposite carriageway. To put this into effect, traffic officials announced that commercial vehicles and buses would be diverted from CRRI to Modi Mill flyover, from where they can take a U-turn below Kalkaji Mandir flyover to access Captain Gaur Marg and then Ring Road towards Ashram flyover. A traffic official said that the state government suggested closing the stretch completely for a week, but this was turned down because it wasn’t a viable traffic management option. “In case DJB is unable to complete its work in the stipulated time and seeks an extension, we might consider it but we insist the agency wrap up the work quickly,” said an official. “The Bhogal flyover requires repairs and PWD is having a hard time because of the DJB project.” According to traffic department estimates, around 20% of the estimated five lakh vehicles crossing Ashram either come from or head to Bhogal. The stretch is also used by people accessing the Nizamuddin railway station from south Delhi. As it is, the construction of the Ashram underpass is already hampering smooth traffic movement either way. A 175-metre access ramp is being built on either side of the intersection, and the roughly 20-metre-wide section in the direction of Bhogal has reduced the existing road to a third of its width. Commuters are continuing to suffer the traffic hassle at Ashram, with some of them telling TOI of their reluctance to use Delhi Metro for fear of Covid-19 infection. “The traffic situation is horrible here and we still run late no matter how much extra travel time we budget for,” said Karan Awasthi, a regular on the route. “The traffic police have suggested another route, but since half the vehicles are already headed to Barapullah side, it’s not like the situation is any better on that route.” Ravinder Yadav remonstrated, “Why start a project at such a congested point? I leave home one hour earlier than what I used to, but with so much traffic and air and noise pollution, I am stressed out by the time I reach my office. This project has made life miserable for commuters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/commuter-woes-continue-at-ashram-chowk/articleshow/78563577.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Smart cop solves 24-year-old land dispute within 5hrs||Coimbatore: An inspector of police amicably solved a 24-year-old legal battle within a family over a parcel of disputed land by holding talks with the family members for over five hours at Kunnathur near Avinashi on Wednesday. VP Azhagesan from Gobichettipalayam in Erode district petitioned Tirupur district superintendent of police Disha Mittal on September 15 seeking his intervention to solve an issue over a disputed land at Kunnathur near Avinashi. The SP instructed Kunnathur police inspector Masutha Begam to conduct a detailed inquiry on the issue.Masutha Begam said Azhagesan, 57, and four other family members jointly own 19.5 acres at Kunnathur. For the past 33 years, there has been a dispute among them on partitioning the land. “While some portion of the land is agricultural land, the rest lies near main road. The family members didn’t speak with each other after the land dispute cropped up. However, one of the family members approached Perundurai munsif court in 1996,” the inspector said. During the bifurcation, Kunnathur came under Tirupur district and the case was transferred to Avinashi munsif court.The case is still pending before the court for the last 24 years. Meanwhile, inspector Masutha Begam met the five family members on Wednesday and held an inquiry with them. She explained about the family values and importance of family and relatives. After five hours of talk, the five family members assured that they would divide the land among themselves and withdraw the case from the court soon.“The land dispute is over, and the family is reunited after 33 years,” Masutha Begam said.Azhagesan said the land will be divided into five and work to divide the land will commence on Sunday. “Our family members agreed to withdraw the case from the court and we will complete the land registration work soon. We are reunited after 33 years,” Azhagesan said.“I appreciated the police inspector for her effort to solve the dispute,” Disha Mittal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/smart-cop-solves-24-year-old-land-dispute-within-5hrs/articleshow/78562404.cms||A Subburaj
October 9, 2020||Trichy||Wall posters in Thanjavur allege sale of DMK posts||Thanjavur: Wall posters have sprung up at Thiruvaiyaru in the district against the Budalur DMK union secretary accusing him of allegedly ‘selling’ branch secretary posts. The posters, which created a flutter among party cadre and functionaries, were claimed to have been put up by “affected and poor DMK cadre” at various places of the Budalur south union and north district. When contacted, Thiruvaiyaru MLA and south district secretary of the party, Durai Chandrasekaran, rubbished the allegations. “A person approached the union functionaries asking for party posts for those who worked against the party, which was turned down. That is the reason behind the posters. However, everything will be amicably settled. We wish that all should work together for the forthcoming assembly elections,” the MLA told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/wall-posters-in-thanjavur-allege-sale-of-dmk-posts/articleshow/78563579.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Caseload and death toll see a dip in dist||Coimbatore: The district recorded 448 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 35,933. The number of fresh cases fell below 450-mark after almost 23 days. With 628 patients getting discharged, the number of active cases fell to 4,764. The number of people recovered rose to 30,690 to 85.4%. The district also recorded three deaths taking the toll to 479.The deaths include a 31-year-old woman, who had obesity, hypothyroidism and down syndrome. She tested positive on October 2 and died on Wednesday. A 66-year-old man who tested positive on September 20, with diabetes, hypertension and cardiac problems, admitted on September 18, died on Wednesday, and a 75-year-old man who tested positive on September 29 died on Wednesday.The people who tested positive on Wednesday include a 27-year-old doctor at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, another 55-year-old man and a 24-year-old CMCH staff who stay at the staff quarters. The remaining cases were spread across the corporation limits including R S Puram, Ponnairajapuram, R S Puram, Selvapuram and cases were spread across blocks in rural areas too. Sources said there was a huge industrial cluster of Covid-19 cases from a mill at Appanaickenpatti in Sulur. “We have had 10 cases on Wednesday and more than 10 cases on Thursday,” a source said.In a bid to make Covid-19 testing safer and simpler, Royal Care Super Specialty Hospital in the city has introduced drive-through Covid-19 screening. The nasal swabs will be taken by trained professionals and processed at the NABL-approved laboratory in the hospital. This way people don't have to enter the hospital or a laboratory to give the test or even get down from their cars, reducing risk of exposure or transmission. In view of the growing protests in Covid care centres, especially after home isolation was banned, and to address multiple psychological issues faced by Covid-19 patients, NG Chandran charities invited any Covid patients or their family members suffering from fear, anxiety, loneliness or depression to contact their ND Prana lifeline—which is a helpline. People may call 1800-121-203040 anytime between 9.30am and 6pm for free tele counselling or just to talk about how they feel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caseload-and-death-toll-see-a-dip-in-dist/articleshow/78562412.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Trichy||Moderate rain in delta dists, will help samba crop: Farmers||Trichy: Delta districts witnessed moderate to heavy rain late on Wednesday and early on Thursday, while the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Chennai has forecast heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Trichy, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts on Friday and Saturday as well.Marungapuri taluk in Trichy district recorded 32mm rain, Manalmedu in Nagapattinam district 89mm and Needamangalam in Tiruvarur district 36mm rainfall. Among districts, Nagapattinam received a total of 207mm rain, Tiruvarur recorded 141mm and Trichy 170mm.Heavy rain during night hours inundated paddy fields, which are ready for kuruvai harvest, and most of the crops are either bent or have completely fallen, farmers from Thanjavur lamented.Kuruvai harvest is still pending in around 20,000 acres in Thanjavur district in Thiruppananthal, Thirilogi areas in Thiruvidaimaruthur taluk and also in parts of Papanasam, Orathanadu and Ganapathiagraharam in Thanjavur town. In Tiruvarur, around 15,000 acres of kuruvai crops are waiting for harvesting in Tiruvarur, Kottur and Needamangalam blocks, officials said.Though parts of kuruvai crop has been affected, the downpour has come as a boon for the recently transplanted samba paddy crop, said the Tiruvarur district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, P S Masilamani.In Trichy district, farmers said that they have raised samba paddy crop in around 75,000 acres this year, and the rain will benefit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/moderate-rain-in-delta-dists-will-help-samba-crop-farmers/articleshow/78563576.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Controversial vlogger gets anticipatory bail||Thiruvananthapuram: Controversial YouTuber Vijay P Nair– who was arrested on multiple charges – was granted anticipatory bail by the district sessions court in the case related to physically harassing women’s rights activists. However, he continues to be in the prison as his bail plea in the ‘cyber case’ was rejected a day ago. Nair was arrested by the Museum police on September 26, hours after there was a confrontation between him and three women activists namely Bhagyalakshmi, Sreelakshmi Arackal and Diya Sana. He was arrested by invoking relevant sections of IT Act for posting derogatory content against women. The case was later taken over by state cyber police. Meanwhile, the court will pronounce verdict on the anticipatory bail plea filed by the three women on Friday. The incidents pertaining to these cases took place on September 26, when the three women visited Nair’s lodge at Gandhari Amman Kovil road in the capital. They wanted to know why he had posted regressive and abusive content on his YouTube account targeting women, especially strong proponents of feminist movement, including poet Sugathakumari. The confrontation turned into manhandling and the women poured black ink over him and made him apologise to women. The women also livestreamed the entire incident through their social media page. The three women had visited Nair after forwarding their complaint to the city police cyber cell. An hour after the livestream went viral, the police registered a case at Museum station and arrested him. On the same day, both parties had filed their complaint before Thampanoor police against each other accusing physical harassment. The police are yet to make arrests in this regard as both parties approached the court seeking anticipatory bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/controversial-vlogger-gets-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/78561204.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris’s tally crosses 5,000-mark||Udhagamandalam: The Covid-19 tally of the Nilgiris touched 5,032 with 92 new cases on Thursday.As many as 4,190 Covid patients have recovered in the district so far, including 92 patients who were discharged from health facilities. The district showed an improvement in recovery rate at 83.2%.As many as 813 patients are still being treated at various health facilities. While 17 patients are being treated at ESI hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 176 are kept in home quarantine. The rest are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur hospitals, besides six Covid care centres in the district, a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiriss-tally-crosses-5000-mark/articleshow/78562414.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||6 men detained under Goondas Act||Coimbatore: City police commissioner Sumit Sharan has detained six people, who were arrested for murdering a Hindu Munnani supporter in full public view at Gokhale Street on September 20, under the Goondas Act.Police identified them as R Vivek Prabhu, 28, M Aravind, 26, S Karthik, 34, S Arun Prasath, 23, Arumugam, 56 and Arunkumar, 30. According to the Kattoor police, a gang had hacked C Biju,40, a resident of Dhanalakshmi Nagar near Avarampalayam, using sickles. The gang members escaped on three motorcycles. Biju, who was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), died without responding to treatment.The Kattoor (law & order) police arrested eight people in connection with the case, prepared a detailed report against six of them and requested the commissioner to detain them under the Goondas Act.Sharan detained Vivek Prabhu, Aravind, Karthik and Arun Prasath on Wednesday, and Arumugam and Arunkumar on Thursday. The order copies were served to them at the Coimbatore Central Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/6-men-detained-under-goondas-act/articleshow/78562415.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Devotees observe Arbaeen complying with Covid norms||Hyderabad: Thousands of people in Old City mourned the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussain, the grandson of prophet Muhammad, as they observed Arbaeen in compliance with all Covid-19 precautionary norms on Thursday. Arbaeen marks the 40th day of martyrdom of Imam Hussain and his followers in the battle of Karbala around 1,400 years ago. Imam Hussain was martyred on Yaum-e-Ashoora or the 10th day of Muharram, first month of Islamic calendar. Shia Muslims observed the mourning by taking part in a procession that started from Kotla Alijah at around 1 pm. Matami Anjum (mourning groups) from several parts of the state were present in the procession. Syed Hamed Hussain Jaffery, the president of Shia Youth Conference, told TOI that all necessary precautionary steps were taken in view of Covid-19. “The mourning procession passed through Etebar Chowk, Mandi Mir Alam and concluded at Alawa-e-Sartauq, Darul Shifa,” said Jaffery. “All possible arrangements were made for the procession to be peaceful and safe. Sanitisers were placed at several places. Volunteers were also deployed to assist the participants,” he added. Mir Firasat Ali Baqri, the spokesperson of BJP Minority Morcha said that the procession culminated peacefully without any trouble and adequate preparations were made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/devotees-observe-arbaeen-complying-with-covid-norms/articleshow/78563581.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kochi||CU faces row over appointment process||Kozhikode: The Calicut University’s faculty appointment process has sparked off yet another row with a syndicate member raising the charge that the varsity is not maintaining transparency in the process. In a letter to the vice-chancellor M K Jayaraj, UDF affiliated syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P said that the varsity has not issued any order regarding the indexing criteria and the cut off marks followed in the preparation of the shortlist of candidates till date even as the varsity has started publishing the shortlist of candidates to be called for the interview. “Also, it is to be suspected whether the departments have maintained uniformity in giving the index marks,” the letter said. He said that the first shortlist of the candidates to be called for the interview for the post of assistant professors in the department of Arabic was released by CU on September 28 and the list had carried application numbers and names of the shortlisted candidates. But the shortlists released on October 7 for faculty appointments in departments of Russian, Philosophy, English, etc did not include the names of shortlisted candidates and have only displayed their application numbers. Meanwhile, the varsity authorities refuted the charges and said that the recruitment process was being carried out in a transparent manner and complying with the norms laid out by the UGC and the orders issued by the varsity in this regard. “We had included the names and application number of candidates in the first shortlist released but decided not to include the names in subsequent lists as the Kerala Public Service Commission has been including just the application number in the shortlists,” varsity registrar C L Joshy said. He also added that the varsity was strictly following the indexing criteria laid out by the UGC .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cu-faces-row-over-appointment-process/articleshow/78561197.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Mumbai||Rs 25,000 crore MSC Bank scam: ED to challenge EOW closure report||MUMBAI: The ED has filed an intervention application in a sessions court after Mumbai police EOW filed a closure report in the Rs 25,000 crore Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank embezzlement case. When the court takes up the matter for hearing, the ED will oppose the police decision to close the case. While EOW said no criminal offence had been found, the ED submitted that its investigation suggested money laundering. So, the ED will challenge the closure report. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar and several other politicians headed the bank at different points of time, and are all under investigation in the ED case. The ED case rests on EOW’s FIR as the Prevention of Money Laundering Act mandates an offence to be registered to start probe. If the court accepts EOW’s report, the ED case will collapse. The ED has submitted to the court its findings from the past one year probe. The ED has also sought a copy of the closure report. The EOW has been directed to submit its response to the ED’s plea on October 16. The Bombay HC has, in August 2019, directed the EOW to register an FIR in the case, in which the accused who granted loans to cooperative sugar factories were allegedly complicit in causing losses to the bank. The scam was allegedly perpetrated from 2002 to 2017. The HC order was based on a petition filed by activist Surinder Arora. Police recorded the statements of the then directors of the MSC Bank--officers and ministers, which include the current deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. While the EOW had not mentioned any names in the FIR, the ED is probing named NCP chief Sharad Pawar and his nephew Ajit Pawar in its case. In its investigation, the ED found that MSC Bank had allegedly sanctioned loans to sugar factories despite their negative worth. It claimed that many of these factories became sick and were auctioned at below market rates to those associated with the politicians. One of the sick factories was sold through auction to Baramati Agro, which was owned by NCP MLA Rohit Pawar, nephew of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. However, the EOW in its C Summary report had stated that no cheating or siphoning of funds was found. A 'C' summary indicates that the case is filed due to "mistake of facts", or it finds that it amounts to a civil case. There were allegations in the FIR that some sugar factories were sold to the relatives of the directors of the bank. Investigators found that while selling the factories, provisions under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest (SARFAESI) Act were followed properly. The police had probed 63 sugar factories and mills in this case. The police investigation found that the MSC Bank had obtained all the required sanctions before granting loans to the co-operative sector applicants, mainly sugar factories, and that the NABARD directions and government resolutions were followed as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-25k-cr-msc-bk-scam-ed-to-challenge-eow-closure-report/articleshow/78564100.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: RTI activists sits on protest as MC plumber caught taking bribe||LUDHIANA: A city-based RTI activist, Rohit Sabharwal, sat on a protest outside MC commissioner’s office in zone D on Thursday while alleging rampant charges of corruption among the officials of the civic body. He even threatened to commit suicide at the MC office by consuming phenyl. Earlier in the morning he claimed to have caught a registered plumber of the MC while taking Rs 1,000 bribe for clearing files of water supply connection of his plots. He claimed that there was a nexus between lower and higher-level officials and if employees were demanding bribe from an activist then the condition of a common man could be well imagined. Describing the issue, Sabharwal said, “I had applied for water supply connections for two plots and also paid around Rs 20,000 to the civic body as fee for those connections. But my driver received a call from a plumber of the MC who asked him to pay Rs 1,000 more for preparing the file.” He said he also talked to that plumber and told him that he was an RTI activist. He said on Thursday, he was first called at zone D office and then he was asked to reach Kitchlu Nagar by that plumber for paying the money. Sabharwal claimed that he took Rs 1,000 from his driver by saying that it was the fee for preparing the files. Sabharwal also went live at Facebook to show things going on in the civic body. He asked the plumber to explain why he was asking for Rs 1,000 more when they had cleared all charges for the connection. On this, the plumber apologised to the activist and also returned the money he had taken from the driver of the activist. Sabharwal shared that he also moved the MC zone D office for filing a complaint against the plumber. First he met the superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell Ravinder Garg and then he sat on protest outside the commissioner officer. He alleged that there was rampant corruption in the MC and officials from bottom to top were involved in all this because without knowledge of employees one could not do such things. Later on, Garg and MTP SS Bindra asked him to end his protest, saying that suitable action would be taken against the employee. Garg said, “As soon as the matter came to light I have already recommended action against the plumber so that his registration with MC could be cancelled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rti-activists-sits-on-protest-as-mc-plumber-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/78561195.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Agra||After 17 years of wait for a degree, Delhi man dares PM Narendra Modi to get it from Agra university ‘without bribe’||AGRA: Amit Kumar was 23 when he cleared the B.Ed exam, with flying colours. While stepping out of its sprawling campus as a beaming young man in 2003, Kumar had thought that his association with the Agra university’s RBS College was over. It wasn’t. Now, at 40, a graying Kumar still visits the campus, quite often, to get his degree. In the last 17 years, he got married and fathered three children. But he didn’t lose the hope and was “adamant on getting the degree without greasing the palm” of varsity officials. As part of his efforts, Kumar, a resident of Haiderpur area of Delhi, has now written a letter to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. He has dared the PM to get his Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) degree from the varsity “without paying any bribe”. With patience running thin, he has also threatened to kill himself if he doesn’t get the degree. Kumar also claimed that he has sent a complaint letter to Uttar Pradesh’s governor Anandiben Patel -- the chancellor of the university-- and also to chief minister Yogi Adityanath. “I am yet to get a response,” he said. “It has been 17 years now. After exhausting all the options, I have written a letter to the Prime Minister in the hope of justice. I cannot afford to pay Rs 20,000 bride which the employees at the varsity had been demanding to issue my degree certificate,” Kumar said. “Somehow I am bearing the expenses of the family by giving tuitions. I couldn’t land any job in the absence of the degree.” When contacted, vice-chancellor Ashok Mittal said, “I know about the case of Amit Kumar. We are now upgrading the system to issue degrees on time. Kumar will also get his degree soon.” According to sources, over 50,000 students of the previous session are yet to get their degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-17-years-of-wait-for-a-degree-delhi-man-dares-pm-to-get-it-from-agra-university-without-bribe/articleshow/78560095.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP dismisses clean chit to Dharamsot, seeks CBI probe||LUDHIANA: The BJP SC morcha is upset with the clean chit given to cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the alleged SC scholarship scheme case. The BJP SC Morcha, Punjab, president, Raj Kumar Atwal, claimed that the minister had been given a clean chit by the state government and not by the SC society. He said a CBI probe should take place in this case and strict action should be taken against the erring persons. He said they would continue their protest demanding removal of Dharamsot from Punjab cabinet. Atwal was here in the city to address a press conference on Thursday. While giving further information, he said under the central post-matric scholarship scheme a scam worth Rs 63.91 crore had come to light and allegations were raised against cabinet minister Dharamsot. He said Punjab government had given a clean chit to Dharamsot but the SC morcha of the BJP was not happy over this decision. He declared that the BJP SC morcha would do a chakka jam in the entire state on October 10. Rajkumar Atwal said Dharamsot was sitting on a responsible seat and the kind of allegations raised against him were shameful. He said under this scheme they were trying to provide every possible help to SC students. He said Dharamsot should have resigned on moral grounds. He said Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar should break his silence and should tell what action was being taken against Dharamsot. He said this scam had proved to be a major loss for SC students and colleges were not issuing even certificates to the students. The colleges are pressurising the students that after paying the money they would get the certificates, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-dismisses-clean-chit-to-dharamsot-seeks-cbi-probe/articleshow/78561221.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for selling ganja from home||Vadodara: A history-sheeter living in Somatalav area was arrested by the detection of crime branch (DCB) on Wednesday night for selling marijuana from his home. DCB sleuths raided the house of Dhansukh Prajapati at Hanuman Tekri on receiving information about his illegal business. Police said that Prajapati has been arrested in the past too under prohibition law but has now switched to selling marijuana. On checking his house, cops found small parcels of different quantities in which Prajapati had stored marijuana. In all 1.2 kg of marijuana worth Rs 12,230 was found from his house. “We also called the forensic officials too at his home and their on-spot tests confirmed that the substance found in the accused’s home was marijuana,” said a police official. When asked about the source of marijuana, Prajapati told cops that he had bought from an unknown man in Ashwanikumar area of Surat. “The accused does not know the man, but he told us that the man in Surat buys it from Odisha, so we have booked him as well,” the police official added. An offence under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at Panigate police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-selling-ganja-from-home/articleshow/78561055.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||BU PhD scholars protest fee hike||Coimbatore: PhD scholars of the Bharathiar University staged a protest on the campus on Thursday demanding that the university revoke the recent hike in thesis submission and synopsis submission fees.The university, in a communication on October 6, had said from the academic year 2021-2022, the fee to submit synopsis was revised to Rs 6,000, that for submitting, revision and resubmission of PhD thesis was revised to Rs 18,000 each, and that for provisional certificate was revised to Rs 3,000. The decision was taken at a syndicate meeting, and would be implemented in all departments of the university, and colleges and research institutions affiliated to it. Protesting scholars said earlier the fee for submission and revision of thesis was Rs 7,000 and it has been more than doubled. The synopsis submission fee has also been doubled from Rs 3,000. The fee for provisional certificate was raised from Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000, they said. “In today’s economic situation, the hike will deter a lot of students from taking up PhD. This is like denying higher education for underprivileged students in an indirect way,” a protester said.Following the demonstration, vice-chancellor P Kaliraj met them. He said the university revised the fee to cover expenses such as foreign examiner fee and mail expenses. “One foreign examiner demands $150. If we have two examiners, the total expenditure comes to around Rs 24,000. However, we have revised the fee only for those who register for PhD from the academic year 2021-2022. Those registered already, even if they submit their thesis in the coming years, can pay the old fee. We clarified this to the protesters,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-phd-scholars-protest-fee-hike/articleshow/78562420.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hubballi||Rank holders, parents upset over RCU cancelling gold medals||Belagavi: Rank holders in Rani Chennamma University are seemingly upset over the varsity cancelling distribution of gold medals during the convocation ceremony owing to lack of funds. The ceremony, attended by governor Vajubhai R Vala, was held on October 5. About 99 graduates, both from UG and PG courses, were qualified to receive the medals sponsored by donors. However, RCU gave away cash prize of Rs 1,070 to each of these students. This has irked students as well as their parents, who have sought the real reason behind cancelling medals. The ceremony was a low-key affair with just over 100 attendees due to the prevailing pandemic. It is a matter of pride for parents to see their children getting the award. Many parents had informed their friends and relatives about their wards winning the medals and RCU’s move has left them embarrassed. Guru Gyani, the father of a rank holder in the department criminology, said, “Gold medals were awarded to students in all the previous. So why not this year? and why not this year? My daughter is pursing MSc in criminology and forensic science in Ahmebabad. She came all the way from there and even got Covid test done to appear for the convocation. “Now she has returned empty-handed and embarrassed. I am moving the court against the RCU for this flaw,” he said. RCU vice-chancellor Ramachandra Gowda said that in every department only Rs 1-2 lakh has been set aside as donors are not keen on depositing more money for purchasing gold medals whereas the price of gold has shot up. The syndicate hence decided to go for cash prize due to non-availability of funds. None of the varsities award medals to students. If parents want to approach the court over this, they are free to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rank-holders-parents-upset-over-rcu-cancelling-gold-medals/articleshow/78563894.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Street vendors looking for loans from PM’s scheme||Coimbatore: Street vendors in the district who had applied for collateral-free working capital loans up to Rs 10,000 from the Prime Minister Street Vendor's AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) said they are made to run from pillar to post.President of the Coimbatore District Roadside and Pavement Vendors Welfare Association P Mani said, 6,169 street vendors have the ID cards issued by the municipal corporation. “After the lockdown, we lost our livelihoods. When the Prime Minister announced the scheme for small vendors, 5,000 of us applied. As many as 1,500 applications were rejected. Of the remaining, 90% have not been given loans,” he said. “Banks refused to engage us. We are being made to run from pillar to post.”The expired ID cards should be renewed and the corporation and the district administration should guide them and facilitate to get the loan from banks, Mani said. “The corporation should declare the number of beneficiaries who have been given loans under the scheme. If the situation continues, we would have no option but to stage protests in front of banks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/street-vendors-looking-for-loans-from-pms-scheme/articleshow/78562422.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Minorities to get free civil service classes||Hyderabad: The state minority welfare department on Thursday announced a unique scheme for civil service aspirants from minority communities in Telangana. Under the scheme, the state will select 100 candidates from across the state through a screening test. “The selected candidates will be sponsored to the institutes of their choice from empaneled institutions. The entire fee will be paid by the government and a stipend given to the candidate,” said AK Khan, the minorities welfare advisor of state government and TMREIS president. All the candidates willing to be admitted for the first time in Telangana state minorities study circle will have to appear for the entrance test and the admission will be done on merit basis. The aspirants whose parents’ annual income does not exceed Rs 2 lakh per annum will be able to avail the scheme. Online applications are invited on www.tmreis.telangana.gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minorities-to-get-free-civil-service-classes/articleshow/78563610.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: French experts visit slums, interact with residents||CHANDIGARH: A team of the French experts interacted with different stakeholders on Thursday, including residents of the slums and rehabilitation colonies, by visiting their places and examining the current water supply and water billing system in their respective areas. They also held a detailed conversation with NGO members, members of the resident welfare associations (RWAs) and municipal councillors. A technical session was held with the officials concerned over the grant and other related aspects at the Chandigarh Smart City office in the evening. Starting their day early, the team of the French experts along with the MNC officials visited the slum Colony Number 4 at Industrial Area, Phase-I, and examined the water supply system. Since water supply in the area is being given through stand posts, they asked about the source of supply and other related questions. Further, they visited the EWS colony in Sector 32 and the rehabilitation colony in Maloya and asked residents about frequency of water supply in their respective places. They also checked the billing system of water supply and asked residents about the issues being faced by them. The team also visited the Smart City office at Sector 17, and interacted with the NGO members, members of the resident welfare associations (RWAs) and municipal councillors. During the discussion, water tariff was the main point of the discussion. The members of the French team also asked about the view over the 24X7 water supply to know whether citizens wanted this facility or not. During the discussion, members of the RWAs, councillors, NGO showed their keenness for the project, but also showed concern that the water tariff should not be exorbitant and must be under the limit of the paying capacity of each segment of society. Later in the evening, during the technical session, issues related to financial grant and conditions of the grant were discussed in detail. Before summarising the matter, each financial aspect of the project was discussed and the MC officials asked queries and other related questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/french-experts-visit-slums-interact-with-residents/articleshow/78562443.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cable operators instructed to not hang wires on poles||CHANDIGARH: Joint municipal commissioner held a meeting with the cable operators and instructed them that no cable wires will be hanged on the poles on the municipal land across the city and no cable wires will be allowed to pass through parks, green belts and from above the institutional buildings. He also instructed that the cable wires should not be hanged on trees. It was also decided that the cable wires should be laid at a height of 12-feet from ground level and 6-feet away from the road edge. Cable operators will not provide internet services through their overhead cable network lines. It was also discussed and decided that all the cable wires should be provided with identification tags showing the name of the cable operator at a distance of 50 metre. It was also decided that Rs 10,000 penalty will be imposed on the operator for violation. The cable operators, who fail to comply with the directions issued by the MCC, will face strict action as per the law. During the meeting, the joint commissioner directed all the executive engineers to take action against defaulters, who are not paying their dues timely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cable-operators-instructed-to-not-hang-wires-on-poles/articleshow/78562459.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali MC resumes dog sterilisation after a month||MOHALI: The Mohali municipal corporation has resumed its dog sterilisation programme after it was non-operational for a month. The officials have once again allotted the tender to Dr Dinesh for one year, who was also allotted the previous tender. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the work of dog sterilisation came to a halt after March 22, 2020 and it then resumed operations on June 22, 2020 after three months. Sources in the MC department revealed that they applied for a new resolution on September 5, which was approved and the work was allotted through the bidding process. It will cost Rs 895 per dog to the civic body for sterilisation of both male and female dogs. “Earlier too, the prices were same,” added the source. Officials claimed that the fee includes catching the dog, sterilisation, post-operative care as well as feeding. In the first three months of 2020, 1,060 dogs were sterilised and when they resumed operations on June 22, they sterilised 564 dogs till July end. “We still have to compile the data for August,” said chief sanitary inspector Sham Lal. He said the MC will be providing only one van for catching stray dogs from different areas of the city. The officials said the sterilisation done by the doctor takes place at the MC’s dog shelter which is situated in Phase VI. Mohali has reported 2,560 dog bite cases till August this year. Municipal corporation commissioner, Kamal Garg said, “This will help in population control. This time, we will be doing sector-wise efforts as we will target one sector first, complete it and then move on to the next sector.” (With inputs from Piyush Sarna)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-mc-resumes-dog-sterilisation-after-a-month/articleshow/78562452.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Mysuru||3 mega drug bulk parks to be set up across India: Sadananda||Mysuru: Union minister of chemicals and fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said that the Union government has decided to set up three mega drug bulk parks in different states of the country at a total cost of Rs 13,600 crore, to counter China’s monopoly in the pharmaceuticals sector. He was speaking after inaugurating the platinum jubilee celebrations of Sarada Vilas Educational Institutions and launching the skill development training courses at a function held at its centenary hall here. He said that presently the country had been importing 70% of the pharmaceuticals ingredients. “To counter this dominance, the Narendra Modi-led government has initiated to set up such parks under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme aimed at making India self-reliant, generate jobs and train local talents. The Centre will contribute Rs 1,500 crore and state government must spend Rs 2,000 crore to set up such a park,” he said.  As many as 92 lakh youths had been trained under the Union government’s flagship ambitious Skill India and Koushalya Bharath scheme. Of this, 80% of them were employed. The Centre has targeted the creation of 3 crore jobs, and to hone their skills at 25,000 skill development training centres across the nation. In Karnataka, as many as 3,68,419 youths had been trained against the 3,85,534 registered under the scheme so far, and 50,151 youths were employed. Over 5 lakh PPE Kits and N-95 masks have been produced under the Atma Nirbhar scheme. The Union minister also highlighted the contributions of Sarada Vilas educational institutions, in which former chief minister Siddaramaiah, MP V Sreenivasa Prasad, and Infosys mentor N R Narayana Murthy studied. District minister S T Somashekhar promised to sanction civic amenities for the institution to continue its educational promotion activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-mega-drug-bulk-parks-to-be-set-up-across-india-sadananda/articleshow/78561226.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP, AIADMK try to woo farmers in dist||Coimbatore: BJP and AIADMK leaders made an attempt to woo farmers in the district on Thursday.While the BJP held a discussion on the three new farm laws brought by the Union government to allay the farmers’ fears, local administration minister S P Velumani joined the farm workers in transplanting paddy saplings.“Amma’s (the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa) government has been taking a lot of effort to improve the livelihood of farmers and bring about the second green revolution,” the minister told reporters after transplanting saplings at Chadivayalpathi.He said the state government had been ensuring adequate supply of fertilisers and seeds for farmers for short-term cultivation. “We are also providing technological assistance to them for better yield and enabling mechanisation to address labour shortage.”The farmers wing of the Coimbatore south district BJP, meanwhile, organized the discussion at Pollachi that was attended by more than 300 farmers belonging to various farmers’ associations. The party’s TN farmers’ wing secretary G K Nagaraj and state vice-president G Kanagasabapathy explained about the three new farm laws and their highlights.Kanagasabapathy said the opposition parties’ allegations that the farmers’ laws facilitate corporates to control farmers and render them landless were baseless. “In fact, the laws protect farmers from the buyers.” Removal of commodities like onion from the Essential Commodities Act would help the farmers sell their produces as they like, he said.Kanagasabapathy said the minimum support price (MSP) would be intact and that the Union government has increased the MSP to 150% above the cost of production, which the farmers incur. The laws, he said, also facilitate the district collector to handle all disputes and complaints against buyers.The BJP leaders also clarified the doubts raised by the participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-aiadmk-try-to-woo-farmers-in-dist/articleshow/78562441.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||2 bodies recovered from canal||Coimbatore: Two days after three members of a family washed away in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) canal near Palladam in Tirupur district, fire and rescue services personnel retrieved the remaining two dead bodies, which were found floating some 15km away from the accident spot, on Thursday. An official confirmed that the bodies of Sethupathi, 23, of 15 Velampalayam, and his sister-in-law Saranya, 12, of Pulliampatti village near Dharapuram, were retrieved on the day.On Wednesday afternoon, fire and rescue services personnel had retrieved the body of Sethupathi’s 18-year-old wife Devi.The official said it was Saranya’s birthday on Tuesday and the trio had gone to a temple near the PAP canal at Kattoor to celebrate the occasion in the evening.“After offering prayers, Sethupathi entered the canal to take a dip. Meanwhile, Saranya accidentally fell into the canal and washed away. Devi jumped in to rescue her sister, but she couldn’t withstand the strong water current. The fate that awaited Sethupathi wasn’t any different as he tried to rescue the duo,” the official said.Fire and rescue services personnel at Palladam were alerted about the incident at 7pm and they reached the spot around 8pm. They searched the canal for the trio for a 5km stretch, but in vain.On Wednesday afternoon, Devi’s body was found floating on the water at least 1.5km away from the accident spot.On Thursday morning, fire and rescue services personnel found the remaining two dead bodies, which were sent to the Palladam government hospital for postmortem.Deputy superintendent of police (Palladam sub-division) K C Ramachandran and the Kamanaickenpalalayam police visited the spot. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-bodies-recovered-from-canal/articleshow/78562454.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||V P Singh Badnore launches online system for Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: UT administrator V P Singh Badnore on Thursday launched the online building plan approval system (OBPAS) for the citizens of Chandigarh. Manoj Kumar Parida, adviser to the administrator, and K K Yadav, municipal commissioner, were also present at the launch at Raj Bhawan. K K Yadav, commissioner MC, said, “There are 29 municipal services, of which, 15 are citizen-centric and 14 are related to the MC for smooth functioning. Important citizen related services include online building plan approval system (OBPAS), online grievance complaint services, water supply and sewerage connections, booking of banquet hall or community centers, property tax etc. Main internal services include financial management, works management, apni mandi and day market branch etc.” He said the main objective of the project is to facilitate the citizens by providing online delivery of services, minimise manual intervention, faster application submission, tracking, monitoring, 24X7 access to online citizen services, timely resolution of issues and increased transparency. He said the implementing agency PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Private Limited started the work on this project on October 16, 2019, and till date seven services have already been made live. He said the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) as part of the smart city mission endeavours to improve ease of doing business and enhance citizen services through OBPAS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/badnore-launches-online-system/articleshow/78562468.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Finish digitisation work by June 2021 in Chandigarh’||CHANDIGARH: In a major step towards using Information Technology (IT) in public dealing departments in Chandigarh, the UT estate office has initiated the process of digitisation of its record and services. UT deputy commissioner Mandip Brar has asked the officials to complete the project by June 2021. The project was recently started and the NIC has been made the nodal agency for the technological development of the software and its implementation. UT deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar had chaired a meeting recently to review the progress made in this regard. The meeting was attended by the officials of the NIC and the estate office. He highlighted that the project will provide transparent, hassle-free and time-bound services to citizens of the city beautiful. According to the plan, citizens will be able to track the movement of their files online and they will be intimated on their registered mobile numbers about every update in the record. Taking in view the importance of the project, he had directed the officials that the timelines should be followed strictly and the project should be made operational in a period of nine months and not later than June 2021. The NIC representatives said the software for capturing the data from the files has been made. The estate office has already started the work on entering the data in the software. The deputy commissioner further directed that a review meeting will be held fortnightly to monitor the progress of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/finish-digitisation-work-by-june-2021/articleshow/78562471.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras accused says victim was friend, but her kin deny||AGRA/LUCKNOW: The primary accused in the alleged gang rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras has claimed innocence in a letter to the Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal, saying that her family did not approve of their “friendship” and it was they who beat her up to a point where she became critical. The family dismissed the letter as a “tactic” to escape punishment. The letter carries thumb impressions of the main accused, Sandeep, who wrote the letter, and the three others — Lavkush, Ravi and Ramu. The girl, in her dying statement before a magistrate, had said she had been gang-raped by Sandeep and three others and had named them all.  “The jail administration received the letter, addressed to Hathras SP, on Thursday evening. It has been forwarded,” said Aligarh district prison’s jailer Pramod Kumar Singh. The superintendent of the jail, Ashok Singh, also confirmed the letter had been sent. “As far as (the girl) is concerned, she lived in my village and I was friendly with her. We would speak over the phone sometimes. Her family did not approve of this. I had met her on the day of the incident. Her mother and brother were with her...she asked me to leave and I came home,” the letter said. “Later, I got to know from other villagers that she had been beaten up badly by her mother and brother, leaving her severely injured,” it added. It also pleaded innocence on behalf of the three others and sought release. The victim’s father said the letter was a ploy: “We want justice for our daughter. None of it (what the letter says) is correct. We did not beat her up. How can the government ignore the ill-treatment we are being meted out? The PM and CM should look into this.” Later in the evening, the family’s legal counsel Seema Kushwaha, who had also fought on behalf of Nirbhaya’s family, visited Hathras to wrap up paperwork for filing an affidavit in the Supreme Court. “Those accused in a case give statements in court … They don’t write letters from jail. What narrative is being created?” she asked. About the purported call detail records that showed 100 calls between the main accused and the victim’s brother in five months, Kushwaha said, “Even if a person is known to you, it doesn’t mean they can be condoned for a crime … The accused can’t be declared innocent even if he was talking to the family. What is the logic here? Besides, I have not seen the CDR myself.” The family, she added, is scared: “They can’t trust anyone right now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-accused-says-victim-was-friend-but-her-kin-deny/articleshow/78564360.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt hosp sets up beds for visitors, attenders||Coimbatore: In a first of its kind initiative, the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has set up special cots at its Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology for the attenders of patients who come for surgeries or corrective procedures. They would serve two purposes - to seat the visitors and for the attender to sleep.The cots are 6ft long, 2ft wide and 1.5ft high. They could be pushed under the patient’s bed, where they would fit perfectly, and taken out only when necessary.In most government hospitals in the state, patient’s attenders are left with no other option but to sleep on the floor or sit on the patients’ beds.Dr Vetrivelchezhian, director, Institute of Orthopaedics and Traumatology at CMCH, said, “Without a place to sit or lie down, visitors and attenders often end up using the patients’ bed, causing disturbance to doctors and nurses when they come for check-up or to change drip or dressing. Especially post-surgery, we are weary of patients contracting infections from visitors.”However, attenders have to be near the patients to take decisions and take care of them. The cots that are specially designed for the visitors and attenders would bring them relief, while ensuring the safety of patients after the surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-hosp-sets-up-beds-for-visitors-attenders/articleshow/78562470.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Excise team seizes hooch, crude explosive goes off||Thiruvananthapuram: Excise officials, inspecting a crime scene from where they had confiscated large quantity of spurious liquor, had a close shave when a crude explosive found from the spot went off. The incident took place at Kulathoor behind the Technopark Phase III campus around 3:30 pm on Thursday. Thiruvananthapuram excise circle inspector C K Anilkumar said that they were inspecting an abandoned container from which the officials of Kazhakootam excise range had seized 80 litres of spurious liquor. The excise officials seized the contraband during a routine search on abandoned spots. “Kazhakootam range officials had seized the spurious liquor around 11am. Since it was a big catch, I went to the spot along with my team,” Anilkumar said. During the inspection, one team member found a package that weighed around 2kg neatly packed with brown paper and tightly sealed with insulation tapes. “Civil excise officer Sivan took the parcel in his hands and started inspecting. Another officer expressed a doubt that it could be an explosive and Sivan threw it away. It fell around 10 feet away from us and exploded,” the inspector said. The local police too have registered a case and launched a probe.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/excise-team-seizes-hooch-crude-explosive-goes-off/articleshow/78561245.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Nurses at dedicated Covid-19 hosp help 27-yr-old woman deliver baby||Coimbatore: Nurses at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, which is the district’s main Covid-19 treatment centre that receive only Covid-19 emergency cases with breathing difficulties, helped to bring a new life into the world on Thursday.The nurses were surprised when they received a woman in the throes of labour at 9.30am. Though the woman had not undergone Covid-19 test, the nurses took care of her and she delivered a healthy baby boy after eight minutes.The 27-year-old woman from Neelikonampalayam was in the final stages of her second pregnancy when she visited the private hospital she was consulting on Wednesday. After examining her, doctors there told her to come back after three days.However, on Thursday morning, the woman began suffering strong contraction and when it began to get severe, her family decided to take her to the private hospital. However, as pain became unbearable, they rushed her to the ESI Hospital, which was close to their home.“When nurses at emergency examined her, they realized she was fully dilated and that they could see the head. Her water also broke,” said hospital dean Dr Nirmala.Realizing that the baby was unlikely to stay inside until she reached the private hospital, the nurses decided to handle her delivery, knowing that she had not undergone Covid-19 test. The baby boy weighing 2.85 kilogram was born at 9.38am. “Both the baby, who was given to doctors in the paediatric for check-up, and the mother who was examined by the gynaecologist on duty, were declared healthy, but kept in an isolation ward because we are a Covid-19 hospital,” said the dean. “After a few hours, on the patient and her family’s request, the mother and baby were shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital,” she told TOI.The dean praised the nurses for timely intervention, not worrying about patient’s probable Covid-19 status or waiting for a doctor to arrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nurses-at-dedicated-covid-19-hosp-help-27-yr-old-woman-deliver-baby/articleshow/78562472.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||T releases Rs 10 cr grant for lawyers||Hyderabad: The Telangana government released the remaining Rs 10 crore funds for the welfare of poor advocates who were hit by Covid-19 pandemic. The state government had promised Rs 25 crore grant for advocates in need and had earlier released Rs 15 crore. The earlier amount was disbursed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan to as many as 14,531 advocates with each of them getting Rs 10,000. In addition to this, 1,054 advocate clerks too got Rs 5,000 each. “With the state releasing the remaining funds as well, it would be disbursed again by Chief Justice of Telangana high court, Raghvendra Singh Chauhan” said advocate general BS Prasad, who is also the chairman of advocates welfare trust. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-releases-rs-10-cr-grant-for-lawyers/articleshow/78563621.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Bengalis to miss Durga Puja this year||LUDHIANA: Though the Union government has issued certain guidelines for celebrations of festivals like Navaratras, Dussehra and Durga Puja, members of Bangia Samsad (a group of Bengali community) have decided to drop the plan to celebrate the one-week long festival on a large scale.  The community people are disappointed with the decision as for over 60 years they have been celebrating the festival in the city on a large scale. But this year due to the pandemic the community members would not be able to celebrate the festival on a large scale. The community members have planned to do a small puja for performing rituals on the club premises in the presence of a few club members. Also cultural function will be organised during the last three days. The community people who want to participate will send their recorded videos to organisers and these videos will be uploaded on FB page of Bangia Samsad. The president of Bangia Samsad, SK Chakkarbarthy, said, “We are not going to celebrate the festival on a large scale this time due to coronavirus as we are scared of its spread. In our club also a few members have tested positive, so they have decided to drop the idea.” He said there was no fun in risking the lives because if they would remain alive then celebrations could take place next year on a similar scale. He claimed that they would organise a small puja in the club so as to maintain the continuity of the Durga Puja, which they have been doing for a long time. Meanwhile, general secretary of the club Narayan Chattopadhyay said, “There will be an online cultural programme for the last few days so that members should not miss the opportunity to celebrate, but it will be a virtual programme.” He said most of the festivals had already passed without proper celebrations due to coronavirus but at this time safety was the most important thing for everybody, so they do not want to people to gather in large numbers. For almost five days celebrations used to remain on the peak, especially on Saptami, Ashtami, Navmi and Dashmi, when women had the tradition to play with vermilion and then idol of Goddess Durga used to be immersed in the water with a promise that she would again come next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bengalis-to-miss-durga-puja-this-year/articleshow/78561232.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Erode||Free Thadapalli-Kugalur canal from water hyacinth, farmers tell officials||Erode: Farmers from Gobichettipalayam on Thursday said the Thadapalli-Kugalur canal was filled with water hyacinth, which if not removed would bring down the water level in the canal.They said the water hyacinth would suck up water, which is widely used for irrigation purposes, and demanded the district administration to remove the same from the canal at the earliest. Nearly 2,000 acres benefit from the canal water.Since September 3, the district administration has been releasing water into the Thadapalli-Kugalur canal from the Kodiveri dam for irrigation purposes. Farmers from Pariyur, Kugalur, Thalaikombupudur and Sankarapalayam villages are totally dependent on the canal water for cultivation.V Manickam, a farmer, said, “Farming activities are going on. We will be affected if the water level in the canal comes down because of the water hyacinth.”Another source said the farmers at the tail end of the canal like Thalaikombupudur weren’t getting enough water for irrigation.The farmers also blamed the Public Works Department and the district administration officials for not taking any steps to address the issue, despite several representations. They said their crops would be affected if officials failed to remove the water hyacinth from the canal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/free-thadapalli-kugalur-canal-from-water-hyacinth-farmers-tell-officials/articleshow/78562474.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||High court pulls up advocate for filing 2 pleas in same case||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday directed advocate Chinnolla Naresh Reddy to appear before the court and explain why he had filed two cases in the land grabbing allegations at the outskirts of Nirmal town. Making it clear that the court will not tolerate any attempts to abuse its process, the bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said that it would impose exemplary fine of Rs 1 lakh on Naresh Reddy. The court also directed him to appear on the next date of hearing. The bench observed the discrepancy while hearing a PIL that challenged the inaction of revenue officials in preventing illegal constructions in the outskirts of Nirmal town. According to Naresh Reddy, the petitioner in the case, the officials have remained mute spectators even in the midst of land grabbers encroaching public spaces like parks and play grounds and raising constructions on them. The bench recalled that it heard a similar plea a few days ago. On further examination, it was noticed that another PIL was already filed with the same set of allegations involving the same plots of land. Naresh Reddy is the counsel in that case. In the current case, he is the petitioner. He had earier engaged a different lawyer to argue the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-pulls-up-advocate-for-filing-2-pleas-in-same-case/articleshow/78563639.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Son of murdered inspector seeks compassionate appointment||Madurai: Madras high court on Thursday directed the authorities to consider the representation and pass orders on merit in a plea by a youth seeking appointment on compassionate grounds as his father, who was a police sub-inspector, was murdered by a gang in Tirunelveli district in 2010.Justice Krishnan Ramasamy passed the order on the petition filed by V Ashok Kumar, a resident of Tenkasi district. The petitioner said his father R Vetrivel was SI at Alwarkuruchi police station in Tirunelveli. When he was traveling to the station, he was murdered by a gang at Kadanandhai bridge at Ambai on January 7, 2010.Following his demise, his mother submitted an application seeking compassionate appointment as an office assistant. Though a GO was passed granting appointment to his mother, she did not join as she had to take care of him and his sister who were studying in class VIII and IV respectively.Instead, she submitted a representation in 2010 seeking appointment for him on compassionate grounds when he attains majority. He stated that he had completed engineering in 2018 and submitted representations that year and this year seeking the appointment. As the representation was not considered, he moved HC Madurai bench. It is worth recalling that Vetrivel was a victim of mistaken identity as the gang was engaged to murder an SI of Kadayam named Sivasubramaniam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/son-of-murdered-inspector-seeks-compassionate-appointment/articleshow/78563617.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Farmers to protest non-procurement of green leaf tea||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Members of small tea growers’ associations in the district will hold a protest on Saturday seeking the intervention of the Tea Board of India in connection with non-procurement of green leaf tea by the bought leaf factories (BLFs) here. Recently, at least 109 BLFs were issued show-cause notices by the Tea Board for noncompliance of quality prescribed by the board. Hence, the BLFs in turn demand fine quality green leaf tea (two/three leaves and a bud) from the farmers. Ramanan, president, Nakkubetta Small Tea Growers Association said, “Now it is a season for tea crops as the hills receive good rain. Also, we have seen a high price of Rs 30/kg for green leaf tea.” He said, “In this situation, the BLFs are asking us to supply only fine leaf tea which is not possible at this juncture. At least they should give us a time of three weeks so that the current crop could be harvested and supplied to the factories”. In the forthcoming cycle of harvesting, we can concentrate on fine leaves. Otherwise, the current crop will go for a waste, he added. Ramesh Bhojraj, executive committee member, Nilgiris Bought Leaf Factories Association said, “The factories are sticking to the guidelines put forth by the Tea Board. Recently, 109 BLFs were issued show-cause notices for deviations including lack of quality green leaf procurement.” According to Tea Board guidelines, a BLF should procure 65% of fine leaf tea, 30% of soft leaf and remaining coarse leaf. The board issued show cause notices to 109 BLFs for deviations such as lack of quality leaf procurement, poor hygiene standards, non-maintenance of statutory records, default in online payment to tea growers, non-adherence to the licensed production limit, non-removal of iron filings, non-filing of monthly returns in the tea waste portal, non-payment of green leaf price as per the Price Sharing Formula to the farmers and beyond permissible level of tea waste accumulation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-to-protest-non-procurement-of-green-leaf-tea/articleshow/78562490.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Fest season: Ludh-Dhuri track to have CCTV cameras||LUDHIANA: In an attempt to counter the issues related to organising religious events around the railway tracks on the Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route in the upcoming festival season, the railway authorities, along with security forces, are preparing a plan to install CCTV cameras on Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route in the next few days to ensure the safety of passersby. The development has been taken to penalise the local people who indulge in activities of making effigies to burn on vacant railway land near crossings on Dussehra. Although last year local police officials had seized 9 to 10 unclaimed effigies of Ravana that had been erected in areas around the railway tracks of Dhuri for setting these on fire as part of celebration by some unknown persons. Giving information on this, Tarun Kumar, director of Ludhiana railway station, said, “In view of Dussehra festival, railway authorities are working on the development plan to install CCTV cameras on Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route to counter the issue of forming Ravana effigies around the railway tracks to ensure the safety of everyone.” “Railway authorities will soon identify the places on the same route to install cameras as festival season will kick off soon.” he said. Anil Kumar, in-charge of Railway Protection Force, here said, “We have already installed the notice boards around the railway crossing on the Ludhiana-Dhuri railway route to make people aware about the legal penalties for violating the norms of using the railway land for conducting such activities during festival season.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fest-season-ludh-dhuri-track-to-have-cctv-cameras/articleshow/78561247.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin temple gets nod to allow 8K people for Dussera fest||Madurai: The Tuticorindistrict administration has allowed 8,000 people to offer worship during Dussera at the Muthuramman temple at Kulasekharapattinam .Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri, who spoke to reporters after a meeting on festival arrangements, said that the festival will be held from October 17 to 28. Dussera one of the biggest festivals celebrated in the southern districts and usually draws lakhs of people. The collector said that on an average five lakh people participate in the festival every year. However, this year the participation would be restricted due to Covid-19 preventive measures.The collector said that devotees would not be allowed on October 17 when the flag is hoisted and on October 26 when the culmination event of the festival when Soorasamharam is performed and on October 27. Online registrations would start on October 14 and only 8,000 people including those who register online would be allowed into the temple during the festival days. Devotees would be allowed from 6am to 8pm from October 18 to 25. No ritual would be performed on the beach near the temple and would be performed only within the temple premises.All standard operating procedures laid down by the government for reopening of the temples would have to be followed. People coming to participate in the festival would also have to get their temperature checked, sanitize hands and strictly maintain physical distancing. He said that the decision to allow devotees had been taken after consultations with HR&CE officials, members of Hindu organisations and the temple festival committee. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-temple-gets-nod-to-allow-8k-people-for-dussera-fest/articleshow/78563627.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Only 10 more witnesses to be examined in Kodanad murder and burglary case||Udhagamandalam: The district magistrate court examined five witnesses, including police, in the Kodanad murder and burglary case here on Thursday and adjourned the hearing to October 12.Police had produced all the 10 accused in the case before the court for the hearing.The Madras high court has directed the district magistrate court to complete the hearings in the case before December 15. Hence, the court would hold at least two hearings a week.According to public prosecutor Bala Nandhakumar, 60 of the 103 witnesses, who were named in the chargesheet, have dispersed. Of the remaining 43 witnesses, 33 have been examined so far. Only 10 witnesses are to be examined in the coming hearings.After the hearing on the day, six accused were sent to the Coimbatore Central Prison. The remaining four are out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-10-more-witnesses-to-be-examined-in-kodanad-murder-and-burglary-case/articleshow/78562476.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Trending this season: Saris with matching masks||Madurai: Matching masks with saris is the trend these days as it is in demand among women this festive season. Shops in the city are crowded with shoppers as the festival is round the corner while Covid-19 precautions have been thrown to the winds without physical distancing or wearing masks. Many of the sari shops are showcasing sarees in hue of colours and matching masks. “Women are lured by the masks more than the sarees, because they see ordinary mask as a fashion spoiler while a beautiful mask would definitely stand out,” said K Senthil, a shopkeeper. Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association secretary Ashraf Tayub said, “Not only with sarees, but masks with shirts and churidhar sets is the innovation this season, which has helped the sales to some extent.” “People are becoming tired of ordinary masks, while a colourful matching mask would definitely make them wear it and also check the spread of the disease in a stylish manner,” he added. K Rubini of K K Nagar said she is now looking for the saree that has the best mask. “Since we are wearing it on our face, people will see the mask first and then the saree. It is an added attraction for the saree,” she said. A Hussain of Kabba Women’s Wear, said that they have eager customers who would like to try on the masks when they try the saree. “We tell them that trying the mask is out of the question as it is a safety wear and only worn by its owner.” “Sarees with matching blouses range from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000 or more. Designer sarees with designer masks are also being sought after. As only 30 % to 40% production is happening in the production centres of Surat and Mumbai, we expect newer varieties, when the festival comes closer,” the merchants added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trending-this-season-saris-with-matching-masks/articleshow/78563625.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Architecture rank list on Sunday||Thiruvananthapuram: Commissioner for entrance examinations has on Thursday published for verification the qualifying examination marks and NTA score of candidates seeking admission to architecture course, the rank list of which is yet to be published. Candidates were given two chances for submitting the NATA score and Plus Two mark list. The details thus received in the portal till 2 pm on October 7 has been published for cross checking. The mark details would be available on the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in till 10 am on October 11 for verification. The rank list of candidates eligible for admission to architecture course in colleges within the state would be prepared at 10am on October 11.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/architecture-rank-list-on-sunday/articleshow/78561262.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Salem||Drunk man tries to swim across lake, drowns||Salem: Police and fire and rescue services personnel are yet to retrieve the body of a 40-year-old man who drowned in the Kannankurichi lake in the city on Wednesday evening.Police identified the deceased as K Nagaraj, of Chinnatirupathi area near Kannankurichi. He was an autorickshaw driver.A police officer said Nagaraj, along with his friend V Ravi, 38, had gone to the lake on Wednesday evening and consumed alcohol from there. “They then decided to swim across the lake and placed a bet that the one who reaches the other side second had to buy liquor for the winner. Spread across 100 acres in Kannankurichi area, the lake has 30ft of water currently,” the officer said.When they started swimming, Nagaraj, who was in an inebriated state, started to drown. “On seeing him struggling for life, Ravi cried for help. But he drowned completely before other people reached the spot,” the officer said.When alerted, Kannankurichi police inspector M Nithya and fire and rescue services personnel started searching for him around 6.30pm and they stopped the operation at 10.30pm due to bad light.They resumed the search operation at 6am on Thursday. “We could not retrieve the body till evening. We will continue the search on Friday if we fail to retrieve the body by night,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/drunk-man-tries-to-swim-across-lake-drowns/articleshow/78562499.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Soaring veggie prices burn holes in people’s pockets||VIJAYAWADA: Soaring vegetable prices have become a major concern for people, who are already reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The prices have almost doubled and wholesale traders from the city anticipate that it will touch an all-time high in the next 10 days. Even as nutritionists and doctors are stressing on nutritious food, people are minimizing their spending on vegetables because of the exorbitant price. Potatoes, which were Rs 24 per kg in September second week, have now reached Rs 60 per kg. Similarly, the cost of tomatoes, brinjal, and other vegetables have touched an all-time high of Rs 50 per kg in the retail market. “The lockdown days were far better than now as 7 kgs of onions were sold for Rs 100 until July. Now, onions cost Rs 50 per kg. Though we didn’t get a salary during the lockdown period, we managed to live happily as the cost of vegetables was very cheap then. But we are now spending Rs 600 per week to get vegetables for a family of four,” said K Ratna Prabha, a home-maker from Patamata. Continuous rains had affected crops in Krishna and Guntur districts and this led to a spike in the price of vegetables, said wholesale traders from Rajiv Gandhi wholesale market in the city. “Local production of vegetables had come down because of incessant rains. We are importing tomatoes, carrots, brinjal, and onions from Maharashtra and Karnataka. It will take three more weeks to boost local crop production. Till then there is a chance of a further rise in the price of vegetables,” said K Raghunath Reddy, a wholesale vegetable trader from the city. Though Rythu Bazaars in the city were supplying vegetables at a cheaper prices, people are unhappy with the quality of vegetables available there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/soaring-veggie-prices-burn-holes-in-peoples-pockets/articleshow/78561499.cms||Venu Lanka
October 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Dasara gift: Govt nod to DA for employees||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to grant one dearness allowance (DA) from the five pending instalments to state government employees. The pending DA is likely to be paid before Dasara festival. During a discussion with senior officials, the chief minister directed them to pay one DA immediately with a promise to clear the pending DAs soon after revenues of the state improved. The CM also asked the officials to clear the partially deferred wages during March and April after the state’s revenues were severely hit due to lockdown following the outbreak of Covid-19. However, the salaries which were deducted for two months would be released in five equal installments. The state government had imposed a pay cut on all the employees above the rank of attenders for two months. The pay cut was also enforced proportionate to their basic pay where the senior officials faced 60 percent pay cut while the junior officials faced a minimum of 10 percent deduction. The state government started paying full salaries to the employees from May. The contract and out-sourcing employees did not face any pay cut during the pandemic. K Venkataramireddy, president, state government employees’ federation, said that they would shortly meet the chief minister and request for release of at least two installments of DAs for the festival. Employees are also gearing up to request the chief minister to look into the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommendations. PRC chairman Ashutosh Mishra submitted his report to chief secretary two days ago. PRC was appointed in 2018 with a mandate to submit its report by 2019. After extension of term by nearly two years, PRC submitted a report to chief secretary. APSRTC employees are also coming under PRC purview for the first time as the corporation was merged into government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dasara-gift-govt-nod-to-da-for-employees/articleshow/78561424.cms||Samdani MN
October 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Chicken prices across AP soar as production dips||VISAKHAPATNAM: Chicken prices in the state are soaring with the cost of skinless chicken reaching Rs 270 a kilo and country chicken being sold at Rs 700 per kg. The prices are likely to touch Rs 300 in a week or two as there was no production in the poultry sector to meet the demand. Hundreds of farmers had sold their birds in March and April after rumours ran high that Covid-19 could spread through the birds. The prices of chicken dropped to Rs 100 per kg and retailers had reduced the prices of live bird to Rs 50 a kg. However, prices, except in Karthika Masam, are likely to remain high till the New Year as consumption of chicken and eggs have gone up on doctors’ advice and also because people believe that proteins in chicken help improve immunity level. Retail outlets in the city are doing brisk business even on weekdays. Generally, chicken prices come down in the winter season. But this winter season, the prices have gone up because of the shortage in production. The state requires four crore kilos of chicken per month. The north Andhra districts - Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam - alone consume 80 lakh kilos of chicken per month. Janardhan, a farmer, told TOI many farmers suspended breeding chicks as many firms supplying birds, were closed in April and May. “It takes 45 days for a bird to grow to 2.5 kgs with proper intake,” a member of broiler chicken association of Vizag said. According to them, AP has around 1,500 commercial poultry farms, over 2,500 integrated farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/chicken-prices-across-state-soar-as-production-dips/articleshow/78561509.cms||Siva G
October 9, 2020||Hubballi||Commissioner says DCP made unsavoury allegation of graft against subordinates||Hubballi: The war of words between police commissioner R Dileep and deputy commissioner (law and order) P Krishnakant refuses to die. Two days after DCP Krishnakant penned a letter to the higher ups and commissioner R Dileep alleging that the latter declined to give him appointment to discuss a sensitive case multiple times, now it’s the commissioner’s turn. This comes even as district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar offered to intervene and resolve the feud between the officers which is causing serious embarrassment to the police department. The commissioner issued a memo to the DCP on October 4, regarding a wild allegation of corruption that the latter made against his subordinate, deputy commissioner (crime and traffic). The memo came to light on Thursday. In the memo issued to the DCP, the commissioner said: “On October 3 at 10.30 pm you called me on my home office landline, and made unsavoury allegation of corruption against DCP (crime and traffic) and other officers whom you did not name.” “This is a very serious matter, you are instructed to submit a report immediately with clear actionable facts and officer concerned for further necessary action,” he stated. “You made similar complaints in the past orally, or over telephone or mobile, but when specifically asked to submit a report in writing on the issue, you had taken a ‘U’ turn and refuted to have made such complaints,” read the memo. “You may please note that such wild allegations and subsequent somersaults will have a negative reflection on your credibility and it would also weaken the team spirit within the unit, leading to adverse repercussions on law and order and other functional process for which you would be squarely responsible,” the memo concludes. “It’s not right to speak on the issue now. It’s an internal matter,” said DCP (crime and traffic) RB Basaragi who was also mentioned in the memo. Despite multiple attempts by TOI, DCP and commissioner refused to comment on the memo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/commissioner-says-dcp-made-unsavoury-allegation-of-graft-against-subordinates/articleshow/78564024.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||Amid pandemic, other diseases spare city||Vadodara: Even as the administration and citizens remain focussed on Covid-19, it seems that the city that has been grappling with the pandemic has been spared by other seasonal maladies. Data available with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) clearly reveals that ever since the pandemic began, the number of other diseases closely monitored by the civic body went down significantly. While diseases like dengue, chikungunya, malaria, typhoid and jaundice showed a declining trend, there were hardly any cases of swine flu or cholera in the city. The trend has come as a major respite for health officials. It has ensured that the health department of the civic body can focus on Covid-19 and its attention does not get diverted. Also, people sick from other diseases have not occupied beds in hospitals. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that the lower number of mosquito-borne diseases was less as, so far the mosquito menace was under control. “Last year, the situation was different around this time due to large number of mosquitoes,” said Patel. Sources said that he numbers of respiratory illnesses and flu cases excluding Covid-19 were also lower. “Despite the change in season, these have not surfaced so far,” Patel said. A major reason for this is believed to be people observing social distancing, hand hygiene and wearing masks. Doctors believe that an overall healthy lifestyle followed by people during the pandemic has contributed to the situation. “People are preferring a healthy life style and the environment conditions have also improved significantly,” said Patel. The alertness of health officials and workers is also believed to be a major contributor. When they go door-to-door they also ensure that other things that they may observe are also taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amid-pandemic-other-diseases-spare-city/articleshow/78561102.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Habeas corpus pleas: Govt disagrees with inquiry report||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has to open an office in Amaravati if all cases before the court have to be probed with an independent agency. Hearing a batch of habeas corpus petitions, the high court bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi said that even after the director-general of police (DGP) gave an assurance to the court, petitions against police continue to come before court. Arguing on behalf of the state government, senior counsel SS Prasad told the bench that the judicial inquiry report which found fault with the police did not take all aspects into consideration. He said that the report submitted by the judicial officer is the most shabbiest without having complete details. The report did not carry the police version in a proper manner, he said. Replying to the arguments of the government pleader, the bench said that if they were not happy with the judicial inquiry report, then it has to be done with an independent agency like CBI. Given the present situation of cases before the high court, if all the matters are to be given to CBI, then we may have to ask the CBI director to open an office in Amaravati, the bench said. The high court posted the matter for further hearing to Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/habeas-corpus-pleas-govt-disagrees-with-inquiry-report/articleshow/78561458.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||British historian says idli is boring, sparks Twitter debate||BENGALURU: In what is being viewed as a welcome break from updates on serious issues, Twitter timelines are flooded with opinions about a popular breakfast item — idli. It began when Edward Anderson, a UK-based professor of history with works on India-Britain studies, politics, migration & diasporas, tweeted: “Idli are the most boring things in the world.” in response to Zomato’s tweet reading “What’s that one dish you could never understand why people like soo much (sic).” Idli are the most boring things in the world. https://t.co/2RgHm6zpm4— Edward Anderson (@edanderson101) 1601984104000Within a few hours, the tweet divided food lovers on Twitter, opening floodgates for words of support from idli haters and disbelief from idli lovers. “Cannot understand this idli hate that’s going around. With large dollops of coconut chutney and a Katori of piping hot Bangalore sambar, I cannot think of more satisfying comfort food (sic),” tweeted Ajay Kamath Cannot understand this idli hate that’s going around. With large dollops of coconut chutney and a katori of piping… https://t.co/mQxCJWAdwY— Ajay Kamath (@ajay43) 1602127207000The banter soon reached Congress Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor. “Civilisation is hard to acquire: the taste & refinement to appreciate idlis, enjoy cricket, or watch ottamthullal is not given to every mortal. Take pity on this poor man, for he may never know what life can be,” he tweeted. Yes, my son, there are some who are truly challenged in this world. Civilisation is hard to acquire: the taste & re… https://t.co/lxmXqnjXA4— Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) 1602082228000Having invited the ‘wrath’ of many idli lovers, Anderson tried idlis for lunch only to stick to his opinion. “Having accidentally enraged the entirety of South India (and its omnipresent diaspora) on twitter, it was only right to order idlis for lunch. I’m very sorry to report that my unpopular — or “blasphemous”, as some have said — opinion remains unchanged. #sorrynotsorry (sic),” he tweeted with photos of a plate of idli with sambar and chutney. Having accidentally enraged the entirety of South India (and its omnipresent diaspora) on twitter, it was only righ… https://t.co/Uple3MLJUP— Edward Anderson (@edanderson101) 1602075178000He received ample support a section of Twitterati. “I don’t understand social media most times. Anything wrong in saying it when we don’t like something that too a food item? I don’t mind going to Italy and saying Pasta isn’t my favourite and it’s too boring. Really don’t get it. I hate idli, yes, I am a South Indian (sic),” tweeted Dilip. I don't understand social media most times. Anything wrong in saying it when we don't like something that too a foo… https://t.co/Rz6A74YOiz— Dilip (@DillysTweets) 1602131159000Another debate ensued on whether idli tastes better when dipped in sambar or separately. Some said they like it with meat curries. “In recent years, the idli-mutton chops combination has emerged an absolute winner in Karnataka. It elevates the idli experience in a fabulous way and has successfully decoupled the idli from sambar!” wrote Chandan Gowda. @tmkrishna @tmkrishna In recent years, the idli-mutton chops combination has emerged an absolute winner in Karnatak… https://t.co/bo6wZ0GN8A— Chandan Gowda (@Chandan_Gowda73) 1602137940000Food lover and artist Nandini A said taste is subjective, but what the idli debate does is unite people because of the nostalgia and familiarity they share for the food item. Subhash Sharma, partner at Brahmins’ Thatte Idli which has 12 outlets in the city, said: “Idli haters have probably not tasted a steaming plate of thatte idli or idli with coconut chutney that unites the whole of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/british-historian-says-idli-is-boring-sparks-twitter-debate/articleshow/78561304.cms||Farheen Hussain
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Was chosen to be on board: Doctor who delivered baby mid-air||BENGALURU: The 37-year-old gynaecologist and fetal medicine expert who delivered a baby boy mid-air believes she was meant to be aboard the aircraft from Delhi to Bengaluru on Wednesday evening. “I was there at the right time. Ideally, a senior crew member should be trained in handling emergencies. What if I hadn’t been there?” wondered Dr Sailaja Vallabhaneni, consultant, fetal medicine, Cloudnine Group of Hospitals, Old Airport Road. Read the full story on TOI+ How Delhi-Bengaluru flight added a passenger mid-air||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/was-chosen-to-be-on-board-doc-who-delivered-baby-mid-air/articleshow/78561337.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Series of protests planned to highlight inadequate health infrastructure in DK||Mangaluru: In a bid to highlight the inadequate healthcare infrastructure in Dakshina Kannada district, activists of the youth wing of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) will hold demonstrations in front of the offices of the local legislators. The activists of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) want vacant posts of doctors, nurses, paramedics and other personnel at government hospitals filled immediately, in addition to ensuring free treatment for people from the underprivileged sections of society at all private hospitals. DYFI also wants a government medical college established in the district. The series of protests will kick off on October 12, with a demonstration being held in front of the office of Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedvyas Kamath. President of DYFI’s Karnataka unit Muneer Katipalla pointed out that the number of health centres was not commensurate with the population of Dakshina Kannada district. Backing up his claims with government statistics, Katipalla said, “The district needs to house 120 primary health centres (PHCs), whereas there are only 80 PHCs, whereas there are only seven community health centres (CHCs) against the sanctioned number, which is 32 and there should be eight and not four taluk hospitals in Dakshina Kannada.” He pointed to the need for a dedicated cancer hospital in Dakshina Kannada, while also calling for upgrading the District Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru to a multispecialty institution. On poor patients being fleeced by private hospitals, Katipalla said, “The government guidelines stipulate that private hospitals are not to collect fees from Covid-19 patients referred to them by the district administration. Moreover, private laboratories have been directed to charge only Rs 1,600 for a Covid-19 test. But a medical college recently charged Rs 9,000 for the test. We have brought this to the notice of the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/series-of-protests-planned-to-highlight-inadequate-health-infrastructure-in-dk/articleshow/78563878.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Two new weather systems to bring more rain from Saturday in Maharashtra||PUNE: A fresh low pressure system may form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal by October 9, followed by another low pressure system belt which will bring rain to Maharashtra around October 11-12 that will further delay the monsoon’s withdrawal. On Thursday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated that the start of monsoon’s withdrawal from parts of Maharashtra , including Pune and Mumbai, may be further delayed till next week. Normally, the exit from the extreme north of Maharashtra starts before October 5. By October 10, the withdrawal covers most parts of Maharashtra, east Madhya Pradesh, north Chhattisgarh, east UP, most parts of Bihar and Jharkhand, and some parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal, and by October 15, it retreats from most parts of the country, including Maharashtra. This time, the monsoon’s withdrawal has not even started in Maharashtra, with possibility of to remain stalled till October 15 in parts of the state. IMD’s director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told TOI, “We have not predicted any further withdrawal for the time being. We expect some rain in parts of Maharashtra around October 11-12, after which we would be able to say something about when the withdrawal may start from here.” As of Thursday, withdrawal had stalled after the monsoon exited from locations like Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh, Vidyanagar and Porbandar. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune told TOI, “Isolated to scattered rains are expected over Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra during the next few days, with rains likely over Marathwada and Vidarbha after October 10. Mumbai can expect very light to light rain during the next four days, while Pune and Nashik are likely to get light to moderate rain on October 10, October 11 and October 12. The monsoon’s withdrawal thus does not seem likely in major parts of Maharashtra, including Pune and Mumbai during the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-new-weather-systems-to-bring-more-rain-to-city-from-saturday/articleshow/78564872.cms||Neha Madaan
October 9, 2020||Pune||Two new weather systems to bring more rain from Saturday in Maharashtra||PUNE: A fresh low pressure system may form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal by October 9, followed by another low pressure system belt which will bring rain to Maharashtra around October 11-12 that will further delay the monsoon’s withdrawal. On Thursday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated that the start of monsoon’s withdrawal from parts of Maharashtra , including Pune and Mumbai, may be further delayed till next week. Normally, the exit from the extreme north of Maharashtra starts before October 5. By October 10, the withdrawal covers most parts of Maharashtra, east Madhya Pradesh, north Chhattisgarh, east UP, most parts of Bihar and Jharkhand, and some parts of Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal, and by October 15, it retreats from most parts of the country, including Maharashtra. This time, the monsoon’s withdrawal has not even started in Maharashtra, with possibility of to remain stalled till October 15 in parts of the state. IMD’s director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told TOI, “We have not predicted any further withdrawal for the time being. We expect some rain in parts of Maharashtra around October 11-12, after which we would be able to say something about when the withdrawal may start from here.” As of Thursday, withdrawal had stalled after the monsoon exited from locations like Faizabad, Fatehpur, Nowgong, Rajgarh, Ratlam, Vallabh, Vidyanagar and Porbandar. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD Pune told TOI, “Isolated to scattered rains are expected over Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra during the next few days, with rains likely over Marathwada and Vidarbha after October 10. Mumbai can expect very light to light rain during the next four days, while Pune and Nashik are likely to get light to moderate rain on October 10, October 11 and October 12. The monsoon’s withdrawal thus does not seem likely in major parts of Maharashtra, including Pune and Mumbai during the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-new-weather-systems-to-bring-more-rain-to-city-from-saturday/articleshow/78563637.cms||Neha Madaan
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Doctors, pilot kept their cool in midair delivery||BENGALURU: A day after a woman gave birth to a premature baby boy mid-air and arrived to a rousing reception at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), the pilot took to social media to narrate the two-hour drama on board the aircraft. The mother and baby were wheeled down the aircraft (IndiGo 6E 122) to claps and cheers from the airline ground staff and rushed to a hospital near the airport. Read the full story on TOI+ How Delhi-Bengaluru flight added a passenger mid-air||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pilot-considered-emergency-landing-docs-said-alls-well/articleshow/78561513.cms||Petlee Peter
October 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt may allow reopening of religious sites in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Thursday asked district collectors to prepare an action plan for reopening of religious sites. Places of worship have been shut since March 20. The government recently extended the closure till October 31. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy on Thursday asked the collectors to hold consultations with stakeholders of religious sites — temples, churches, mosques and gurdwaras — and explore the feasibility of reopening them in compliance with Covid guidelines. The government also directed the administrations of the Jagannath Temple in Puri and other big shrines of the state, which function under the endowment board, to prepare a plan of action for the reopening. The collectors will submit reports within the following 10 days, the chief secretary tweeted. “The government asked the collectors to consider graded opening of places of worship. District collectors asked to consider the possibility of opening up places of worship for public of all religious faiths where compliance of Covid guidelines is feasible and report to the government. They may prefer graded opening in the interests of containing the disease,” Tripathy tweeted. The Centre had announced relaxations and allowed religious places to reopen from June 8 but the Odisha government has kept the sites closed in view of the alarming rise in Covid cases and deaths across the state. Responding to several PILs filed in the Orissa high court by individuals and outfits in favour of the reopening of places of worship, the government recently conveyed its refusal to support this move. The infection of around 420 servitors of the Jagannath Temple also concerned the government. The state’s change of stance came a day after servitors protested outside different temples by beating gongs and blowing conch shells. Some servitors of the Jagannath Temple had on Tuesday staged a demonstration to seek reopening of the shrine. Leaders of other religious faiths welcomed the government’s tweets. “If the government issues guidelines for reopening of religious places, we will abide by them,” Sayeed Faisal Ilahi, a maulvi said. Ayub Chinchani, a pastor of Union Church here, said the safety of the people should be accorded top priority. “We have no immediate plans to open the church this month. We will wait for the guidelines and keep a watch on the situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-may-allow-reopening-of-religious-sites-in-state/articleshow/78561291.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn saves Rs 22L a month with LED streetlights||Madurai corporation has been saving big on electricity every month, thanks to the conversion of street lights in 72 of the 100 wards in the city under the smart city scheme. Corporation officials say that not less than Rs 22 lakh is being saved on electricity charges paid towards street lights.“We recently calculated electricity saving and found that it ranged between Rs 22 lakh and Rs 25 lakh a month consistently in the last five months. This is expected to go up marginally with the installation of bulbs in a few more pockets soon,” said City Engineer S Arasu.There are around 53,000 street lights in the city, out of which 30,500 in 72 wards in the core city were replaced with LED bulbs under the project at a cost of Rs 25 crore. Tube lights in the remaining 28 newly added wards were converted into LED light four years ago under Integrated Urban Development Mission scheme. Sodium vapour and other lights were not converted.So far 29,939 LED lights have been fitted while the rest are being fixed. In all, 60% of the 29,939 bulbs were of 20 watts, 11% of 40 watts, 2% of 60 watts, 10% of 90 watts and 14% of 120 watts. Bulbs of 200 watts constituted 2%, which have been used only at a very few places where high intensity illumination is required, the officials said.“The tube lights which were in use before LED conversion were 40 watt bulbs. The electricity saving was achieved by replacing 18,126 such tubelights with 20 watts LED lights. Apart from this, LED lights also have longer durability and thereby result in lesser complaint from residents,” said an official. Only 5% of work is remaining, which will be completed soon. The LED conversion will also help to provide uniformity in city lighting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpn-saves-rs-22l-a-month-with-led-streetlights/articleshow/78563648.cms||V Devanathan
October 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: UCPMA under fire for hiking membership fee||LUDHIANA: The United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) has come under fire for hiking membership fee by more than double and also charging fee for the membership form. The association has fixed the rate of membership at Rs 11,800 as compared to the old rate of Rs. 5,100 while the membership form which was free till now has been made chargeable at Rs 1,000 each. In a statement issued here against the decision, Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association , said, “The decision to hike the membership fee by more than double is nothing else than conspiracy and it indicates that probably efforts are on to make it an organisation of corporates which can afford to pay such high fee. How it is possible for the small scale industrialists to pay such huge fee and become members of the association. This development will hurt only the small scale industrialists who had pinned their hopes on the association like the UCPMA to get their problems resolved. But now the big industrial houses will easily be able to use this association for pushing their agendas rather than this being an association of micro and small industry.” Thukral added that, “What is even worse that the decision to hike the fee to Rs 11,800 and charge businessmen for forms had been taken illegally as no general house meeting was called where such decisions could have been properly discussed and passed with majority. But in this case no such meeting took place and the fee was hiked without the consent of the committee. This is our warning to the present committee of the UCPMA that if this decision of hiking the fee and charging for form is not taken back we will do what so ever it takes to stand up against this decision. We are going to call a meeting of prominent members and businessmen to finalise our next step against this decision.” Meanwhile, president of the UCPMA could not be contacted for his comments on the issue of fee hike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ucpma-under-fire-for-hiking-membership-fee/articleshow/78561290.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police arrest five drug traffickers, seize 20kg MD||PUNE: The anti-narcotics cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police arrested five persons on Wednesday and seized 20kg Mephedrone (MD), a synthetic drug, estimated to cost Rs20 crore in the international market and Rs 10 crore in India. The police arrested Shirur residents Chetan Dandavate (28), Anandgir Gosavi (25) and Akshay Kale (25), besides Sanjivkumar Bansiraut (44) and Tausif Taslim (31) from Noida in Uttar Pradesh, on Chakan-Shikrapur Road while they were en route to Mumbai. All the five suspects were produced before a court on Thursday and remanded in police custody for 10 days. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said on Thursday, “This is one of the biggest seizures of any contraband substance by us. All the five suspects are involved in chemical distribution for the pharmaceutical industry. We are trying to trace from where they managed to procure such a large quantity of synthetic drug. We are also probing if they have any connections in Mumbai.” Inspector Shriram Paul received a tip-off that the drug was being smuggled in a blue hatchback car and that the vehicle would pass via Chakan-Shikrapur Road towards Mumbai. “Our team laid a trap near a dhaba in Shel Pimpalgaon village and forced the driver to stop after a brief chase,” he said. Paul said, “Dandavate, Gosavi and Kale are MBA, B Pharm and commerce graduates, respectively. We are probing the trio’s link with the duo from Noida.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-cuff-5-drug-traffickers-seize-20kg-md/articleshow/78563644.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civic body pulls up surveyors for cutting corners||Nashik: The civic administration has rapped some teams carrying out health surveys in the city for not adhering to the norms.The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has formed teams under the state government mission ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ to conduct door-to-door survey of people with comorbidities and Covid-19 symptoms. They are expected to visit each house and record the health details of all residents. However, some of the survey teams are not carrying out the task as per the guidelines. NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav said that he has received feedback that some of the teams are not visiting each floor of the apartments. “Rather, they are calling the residents downstairs to garner all the details about the residents. I have warned all the survey teams to undertake the survey properly,” he said.The first phase of the survey has been completed and the second phase will be done between October 14 and October 24. “We are imparting training to all the teams before starting the second phase of the survey,” said Jadhav. He added that a survey was conducted in the city before the state government launched its mission. The objective is to find people with Covid-19 symptoms and co-morbid patients.“I have also deployed additional staff from the NMC headquarters to make the survey more effective. Now, our focus will be to conduct an effective health survey. The second phase is to ensure that the health survey of every city resident is conducted,” Jadhav said.NMC has formed around 800 teams of officials to conduct the health survey of the city residents under the government mission. Nashik city is divided into six divisions with a total 4.50 lakh houses covering the total population of 19 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civic-body-pulls-up-surveyors-for-cutting-corners/articleshow/78563643.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 9, 2020||Pune||Finance firm official held in Rs 3.8L loan fraud case||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Wednesday arrested an official of a financial services company on the charge of cheating 30 people of Rs3.77 lakh. According to an FIR lodged by one of the victims, Raju Thorat (51), the suspect — Vishwaraj Jaideo Devar (40) — promised to help them secure a Rs2 lakh loan, took Rs13,000 from them and duped them. “We were in financial distress due to the lockdown and wanted a loan to start a business,” Raju Thorat told TOI. So far, 30 people have approached the police. “But we suspect that the number of victims to be higher,” senior inspector Krantisinh Patil said. Devar has been arrested under IPC Section 420 (cheating) and remanded in police custody till October 11.Devar hails from Madurai in Tamil Nadu. He opened two rented offices in Wanowrie in July. “He promised poor and needy people that he would help them secure loans,” Patil said. They all paid him, but none of them got the loan, police said. “We are checking Devar’s background as he is not a permanent resident of Pune. We questioned five of his employees, but they weren’t involved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/finance-firm-official-held-in-rs-3-8l-loan-fraud-case/articleshow/78563642.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||New parks to come up in five civic wards; existing ones in Sec’bad to see upgradation||Secunderabad: With elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) fast approaching, the civic body corporators are leaving no stone unturned to appease the voters. Pending and proposed works pertaining to city beautification and expansion of green cover are being expedited. Now, GHMC has sanctioned funds for new parks in five civic wards following representations from residential welfare associations (RWAs). Parks have bee proposed in Sitaphalmandi, Tarnaka, Mettuguda, Addagutta and Boudha Nagar in the Secunderabad zone. The urban biodiversity (UBD) wing of the civic body is expected to complete the work. Along with these, the civic body has proposed theme parks in the Malkajgiri GHMC circle as part of the urban Harithaharam programme. “Apart from greenery, basic facilities like walking tracks, benches, playing material for children will be provided at these parks. GHMC has also given financial clearance to remodel a few existing parks,” said a senior official from the urban biodiversity wing of GHMC. When contacted, A Malini, the deputy director of UBD, Secunderabad Zone, told TOI, “Works will commence soon and GHMC will spend nearly Rs 1 crore for new parks, upgrade the existing parks, develop centre medians and traffic islands in the Secunderabad Zone.” A corporator told TOI that they are expecting the works to be completed as soon as possible. “Apart from solving the water and drainage problems we are also focusing on developing parks near residential areas. At every general body meeting, we had raised this issue. Thankfully, the clearance has been given now.” Meanwhile, GHMC has reopened all parks in Secunderabad zone. However, there has been a lukewarm response as only a few walkers are turning up. “As expected,the response is not so good. We have given strict instructions regarding Covid-19 norms like wearing masks, maintaining social distances and using sanitisers etc,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-parks-to-come-up-in-five-civic-wards-existing-ones-in-secbad-to-see-upgradation/articleshow/78563645.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vigilance sleuths raid quarries||Thiruvananthapuram: The vigilance and anti-corruption bureau on Thursday conducted a state-wide search in granite quarries in which several irregularities were found. In the operation titled “operation stonewall”, 67 teams of vigilance sleuths inspected as many as 306 trucks that carried quarry products. It was found that 133 vehicles did not have the pass to transport quarry products, while another 157 vehicles were carrying more load more than permitted capacity, by altering the vehicle bodies. In 27 quarries, several types of irregularities were detected. The vehicles coming to the quarries for carrying quarry products should register in the Kerala Online Mining Permit Awarding Service portal and avail passes. But many of the vehicles did not have the required passes. Vehicles which carried overload were handed over to the motor vehicles department, while those without permits were handed over to the mining and geology department. Motor vehicles department slapped a fine of Rs 11 lakhs from the vehicles for overload. Vigilance director K Sudhesh Kumar said that the operation in the quarries will continue in the coming days, and a detailed report will be sent to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vigilance-sleuths-raid-quarries/articleshow/78561305.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Cuttack||Govt may allow reopening of religious sites in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Thursday asked district collectors to prepare an action plan for reopening of religious sites. Places of worship have been shut since March 20. The government recently extended the closure till October 31. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy on Thursday asked the collectors to hold consultations with stakeholders of religious sites — temples, churches, mosques and gurdwaras — and explore the feasibility of reopening them in compliance with Covid guidelines. The government also directed the administrations of the Jagannath Temple in Puri and other big shrines of the state, which function under the endowment board, to prepare a plan of action for the reopening. The collectors will submit reports within the following 10 days, the chief secretary tweeted. “The government asked the collectors to consider graded opening of places of worship. District collectors asked to consider the possibility of opening up places of worship for public of all religious faiths where compliance of Covid guidelines is feasible and report to the government. They may prefer graded opening in the interests of containing the disease,” Tripathy tweeted. The Centre had announced relaxations and allowed religious places to reopen from June 8 but the Odisha government has kept the sites closed in view of the alarming rise in Covid cases and deaths across the state. Responding to several PILs filed in the Orissa high court by individuals and outfits in favour of the reopening of places of worship, the government recently conveyed its refusal to support this move. The infection of around 420 servitors of the Jagannath Temple also concerned the government. The state’s change of stance came a day after servitors protested outside different temples by beating gongs and blowing conch shells. Some servitors of the Jagannath Temple had on Tuesday staged a demonstration to seek reopening of the shrine. Leaders of other religious faiths welcomed the government’s tweets. “If the government issues guidelines for reopening of religious places, we will abide by them,” Sayeed Faisal Ilahi, a maulvi said. Ayub Chinchani, a pastor of Union Church here, said the safety of the people should be accorded top priority. “We have no immediate plans to open the church this month. We will wait for the guidelines and keep a watch on the situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-may-allow-reopening-of-religious-sites-in-state/articleshow/78571541.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
October 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Rift in BJP over Mahila Morcha secy?||KOZHIKODE: Differences in the BJP over the presence of Smitha Menon, a public relations professional from Ernakulam, at an official meeting in UAE have become more evident, with the state president K Surendran asserting that the lady hails from a pro-Sangh Parivar family. BJP state general secretary M T Ramesh had maintained that he did not know Smitha before she was made the secretary of Mahila Morcha. Addressing a news conference here on Thursday, Surendran said Smitha is not a stranger to BJP as she hails from a pro-Sangh Parivar family. “There is no merit in saying that she is a stranger to the party,” he said.Making a voluntary statement, he denied allegations that it was Union minister of state V Muraleedharan who suggested Smitha’s name for the party post. “There is a well-orchestrated smear campaign against Muraleedharan from CPM cyber cadres. This is being done with the blessings of senior CPM leaders,” Surendran said. The BJP president said that Smitha was made secretary of Mahila Morcha as per his directions and Muraleedharan had nothing to do with it. “It is part of the decision to induct more professionals into the party and feeder organisations. Such appointments will continue in the future too,” he said. Surendran also denied the reports that the Prime Minister had sought report on the issue of Smitha’s presence at the conference. It was reported the PM’s office had inquired about the issue with the visa division of the ministry of external affairs. “There was no protocol violation from the part of the minister. Such reports are parts of the campaign to divert the attention from the gold smuggling case,” he said. Loktantrik Yuva Janata Dal national president Saleem Madavur had written a letter to the PM demanding an inquiry into the presence of Smitha Menon at the meeting of Indian Ocean Rim Association Council of Ministers at Abu Dhabi in November 2019 as it is a serious violation of protocol. Smitha’s participation in the meet and her elevation to the secretary post have created grumblings in the party. Surendran’s reaction is more directed towards the enemies within the party than those outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/rift-in-bjp-over-mahila-morcha-secy/articleshow/78561338.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Civic adminshelves plan to privatise New Bytco hospital||Nashik: The civic administration has shelved its plan of privatizing the 400-bed New Bytco hospital and is aiming to start post-graduate (PG) medical courses from the hospital at the earliest. Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Kailas Jadhav has made it clear that the civic body would not outsource the New Bytco hospital. “The NMC will soon apply to the state government to help in getting the approval from the National Medical Commission to start PG medical courses at the hospital. Starting PG courses will help NMC get more doctors to treat patients at the hospital,” said Jadhav. NMC is already increasing the number of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients upto 1,000. Earlier, the civic body had plans of privatising the New Bytco hospital following a manpower crunch at the hospital. Last year, the NMC had also floated an expression of interest (EoI) to outsource operations to private organizations or medical trusts for the New Bytco hospital. The NMC wanted to rope in an organisation to run super-speciality services at the hospital at a minimum cost as per it’s own terms and conditions. However, it did not get any response to the EoI floated in the last quarter of 2019. Thereafter, the NMC had also started preparations to float EoI for a second time in February this year but could not do so due to the outbreak of Covid-19.NMC officials said that the New Bytco hospital had been built with an aim to operate it as PG medical college-cum-hospital. The new building of the Bytco Hospital was constructed at a cost of over Rs 40 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-adminshelves-plan-to-privatise-new-bytco-hospital/articleshow/78563656.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Brazilian cartel part of Hyderabad cocaine trail||HYDERABAD: Excise sleuths of Telangana were baffled by the Brazilian cartel connection to cocaine supplied in Hyderabad via Mumbai. This was revealed in a confession report of one of the accused Nigerian drug peddlers operating on behalf of a gang in Hyderabad. In one of the cocaine peddling cases, a Brazilian supplier who goes by the name ‘Choose’ was categorised as A3 (accused). A native of Nigeria, Choose is currently in Brazil and operates from there, sleuths said. Excise sleuths have been tracking the drug network since July 2019 after two foreign nationals were arrested at Indiranagar in Khader Bagh. Divine Ebuka Suzee, a Nigerian shuttling between Hyderabad and Bengaluru, and Toure Aminata, an Ivory Coast citizen living in Hyderabad, were arrested by the excise enforcement sleuths for transporting cocaine. When the investigators were analysing the cellphone data of the accused, they stumbled upon Choose and the Brazilian connection. The confession report (a copy of which is available with TOI) said: “Divine Ebuka purchased cocaine from Choose and transferred money to Choose at the rate of Rs 2,000 per gram. Ebuka received the cocaine from Thaga, an agent of Choose, who was named as A4 in the case. Thaga lives in Mumbai. Ebuka sold each gram of cocaine at Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 to customers in Hyderabad and Bengaluru.” The case was then handed over to Golconda station house officer of the excise department for further investigation. An investigating official said: “The origin of the cocaine often leads to Mexican and Columbian drug cartels. But, we were surprised to chance upon the Brazilian link. At the state level, we do not have resources to take the investigation forward.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brazilian-cartel-part-of-hyd-cocaine-trail/articleshow/78563666.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Rain on consecutive days damages Madurai roads, poses threat to public||Madurai: Consecutive rain over the last two nights has exposed the vulnerability of roads in Madurai, especially in interior areas, with many of them badly damaged and existing potholes posing a grave danger as they have further deepened. Public said that the civic body should step in to repair all the roads. “It is understandable that major roads like the West Masi Street and South Masi Street, where UGD work is underway are beyond motorable or walkable, but even roads where the work has been completed like the Chinnakadai street, Manjanakara street long time ago, are slippery and slushy,” said C Kannan, a trader. The corporation must have used the lockdown time and repaired most of these roads, when traffic was almost nil. They are now damaged after the rain, said S Ganesan of Gomathipuram, which has many pothole-filled streets. Many residents say that they do not complain about potholes during summer, but the civic body should address the issue during the rainy season. Some of the badly-damaged roads are Aruppukottai Main Road, 80 feet road Anna Nagar, 80 feet road K K Nagar, Chinnakadai street, Poonthottam street and Bibikulam and major junctions like Melamadai junction, TPK road, South Masi Street junction, West Veli Street junction, Byepass road and Ellis Nagar junction. There is no respite for residents of Tahsildar nagar in ward number 30 as the mud road with huge pits, gets stagnated even after the smallest rain. Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that some of the bigger roads come under the highways department. He added that the inner roads are being assessed periodically and the potholes filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-on-consecutive-days-damages-madurai-roads-poses-threat-to-public/articleshow/78563658.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Man arrested for poisoning 2-yr-old daughter to death||Madurai: The Keelavalavu police arrested the father of a two-year-old girl child on charges of poisoning and murdering her.The accused was identified as Sathiya Prabu, 27, from A Kovilpatti village near Melur. Police said that Prabu, a driver with a drinking water supplying company used to pick frequent fights with his wife S Nivetha, 23, under the influence of alcohol, suspecting her fidelity. There was a quarrel between the couple on September 30, following which Nivetha left for her parents’ house leaving behind her daughter. As she reached her parents’ house, Nivetha received a call from Prabu threatening that he will murder their daughter and end his life. As she refused to return, the next day he fed her with rat poison. Learning about this, Nivetha came home and rushed the baby to a private hospital in Melur. Doctors there asked her to shift the baby to a government hospital as her health continued to deteriorate. The child was shifted to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Sunday. Meanwhile, doctors alerted the police in GRH police station, who registered a case under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder), based on a complaint from Nivetha. However, the girl died on Wednesday and the case was altered to 302 (punishment for murder) and Prabu was arrested. Though he initially claimed that he had also consumed poison to end his life, police found it to be untrue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-arrested-for-poisoning-2-yr-old-daughter-to-death/articleshow/78563652.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region recovery jumps 6% in a month to 86%||PUNE: Early case detection and timely treatment have propelled the Covid-19 recovery rate in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 86%, an increase of 6% in just a month. The recovery rate was around 80% in the first week of September and has been on the rise since then. As of Wednesday, more than 2.58 lakh patients had recovered in the region as against a total tally of 2.99 lakh. Data released by the district health office revealed that around 1.02 lakh patients were added in PMR between September 7 and October 7. During the same period, more than 1.01 lakh patients were discharged after successful recovery. In fact, the region recorded more recoveries than new cases after mid-September, with 58,930 people testing positive and 66,087 recoveries. Health officials said recoveries had gone up in both municipal as well as rural areas. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and rural areas have reported a significant rise in recoveries in the last one month, they said. On Wednesday, the overall recovery rate in the PCMC limits reached almost 93%, which was highest in PMR. A month ago, the discharge rate in the PCMC areas was around 83%. In the case of the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, the recovery rate has increased from around 82% a month ago to around 88% on Wednesday. In the rural areas, there has been a rise of almost 10% in the recovery rate from 65% a month ago to 75% now. “The early detection of patients, quick medical assistance and constant monitoring of heath played crucial role in ensuring better recoveries. The lower recovery rate in the rural areas was a worry but it has been improving since last month,” a health official said. A PMC official said the administration had been appealing to the people not to ignore symptoms and get the tests done at the earliest. Many asymptomatic patients are opting for home isolation, which has helped reduce the burden on medical infrastructure. Only those with serious symptoms are being treated at the hospitals, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recovery-jumps-6-in-a-month-to-86/articleshow/78563663.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 9, 2020||Pune||Retired CISF constable donates ambulance worth Rs 8 lakh||PUNE: A 52-year-old retired head constable of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Dattatray Temghire, on Tuesday donated an ambulance worth Rs8 lakh to the primary health centre of Karanjvihare, a tribal village in the western region of Khed thesil. “In February, my uncle Jijaba Kudekar, who was living in a remote hamlet in Karanjvihare village, had to travel in a bullock cart for a few kilometres before reaching the main square of the village. From there, he was taken to the hospital in Chakan in a tempo. In this process, we lost precious hours and he died. Doctors told us that he could have survived had he been admitted earlier,” he added. He said the incident shocked him.“Finally, I bought an ambulance from my retirement savings to resolve the crisis. Now, people from the surrounding five villages can use it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retired-cisf-constable-donates-ambulance-worth-rs-8l/articleshow/78563651.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||10-year-old girl from Andhra Pradesh creates record by cooking 33 dishes in an hour||VISAKHAPATNAM: Saanvi, a 10-year-old school girl, cooked her way into the record books by preparing 33 food items in one hour. The girl created the record on August 29 this year and the Asia Book of Records and India Book of Records recognised the feat. The girl, who was inspired by her reality cookery show finalist mother Manjma, is the daughter of wing commander Prajit Babu. She was always fascinated of working in the kitchen and started cooking at an early age along with her mother and grandparents. The Navy Children School girl Saanvi, who created the record for maximum number of food dishes by a child, was 10 years six months and 12 days old when she performed the feat. She cooked food dishes such as idli, waffle, corn fritters, mushroom tikka, uttappam, paneer tikka, egg bulls eye, sandwich, papdi chaat, fried rice, chicken roast, pancake and others. The girl has a Youtube channel showcasing her skills in cooking and tasty dishes. She is a also a trained Bharatanatyam dancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/10-year-old-girl-creates-record-by-cooking-33-dishes-in-an-hour/articleshow/78541599.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Dip in fresh cases in south, central TN||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases fell below 500 for the second time in three days on Thursday in the southern region of the state. With 474 cases and seven deaths, the Covid-19 tally in the ten districts has climbed to 1,15,901, which include 4,487 active cases. Meanwhile, the central region recorded a sharp decline in the number of cases as 559 people tested positive in the eight districts, 105 less than the Wednesday’s number. There was a drop in the number of cases in Tiruvarur, Pudukottai, Nagappattinam and Ariyalur. The number of active cases also came down to 4,428 from 4,626. Kanyakumari (89) recorded the most number of cases in the south, followed by Madurai (86) and Theni (67). All 10 districts reported less than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. With 828 active cases, Kanyakumari district continues to have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Tirunelveli (750) and Madurai (714). With 17,214 total cases, Madurai is the only district to cross 17,000 total Covid-19 cases in the southern region, while the only other district to cross 15,000 total cases is Theni. With two Covid-19 deaths recorded on Thursday, Madurai’s toll has climbed to 395. Dindigul (45), Virudhunagar (23), Sivaganga (19), Ramanathapuram (14) and Tenkasi (8) reported only less than 50 cases on Thursday. Tenkasi (239), Virudhunagar (222), Sivaganga (201) and Ramanathapuram (156) have less than 300 active cases. The deaths were reported in Kanyakumari (2), Madurai (2), and one death each in Dindigul, Theni, and Virudhunagar. The death rate in the southern region is 1.64%. The number of recovery is 1,09,511 and the death toll has climbed to 1,903. With nine deaths, the toll in the central region has climbed to 766. Among them, Thanjavur accounted for five deaths on Thursday. The district was once again on top with 239 cases taking the tally to 13,108. Trichy recorded 84 cases, the second highest in the region, taking the tally to 11,149. Except Thanjavur, the number of cases in all other central districts is below 100. Pudukottai reported 68 cases pushing the tally to 9,711. The casualties include a 37-year-old man from Ariyalur who have no comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dip-in-fresh-cases-in-south-central-tn/articleshow/78563664.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Customs seize smuggled gold valued at Rs25L, 1 held||Mangaluru: Customs officials at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) produced a person arrested on charges of smuggling gold valued at Rs 25.5 lakh, before the jurisdictional court. The accused , Sumesh from Kasaragod, had arrived at MIA on October 4. Officials had doubts about the heating element they found in an electric rice cooker, said Joannes George, joint commissioner of customs, Mangaluru customs commissionerate. Accordingly, the heating element of the electric cooker was seized and examined on Wednesday, and officials found that gold weighing 499.3g was concealed inside it. Sumesh had arrived from Dubai on an Air India Express flight. Customs officials subsequently arrested Sumesh on Wednesday. Officials on September 27 had seized gold valued at Rs 33.8 lakh that was concealed in a pipe below a seat on an aircraft. Cricket betting racket busted Mangaluru city police busted a cricket betting racket in the city on Thursday, by cracking four cases. Police seized Rs 2.7 lakh from the accused, seized 22 mobile phones and a car. City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash tweeted that the accused were using special apps to carry out this illegal activity. Police arrested 16 persons in connection with these four cases, Vikash Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/customs-seize-smuggled-gold-valued-at-rs25l-1-held/articleshow/78561326.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||Hospitals develop protocols to protect surgeons from infection||Madurai: The resumption of surgeries has put surgeons at high risk of contracting Covid-19 as they are now exposed to bodily fluids and aerosols. Hence, for more safety of doctors, many hospitals have come up with their own protocol and measures for surgeries other than wearing personal protective equipment (PPEs), depending on the type of patient.Often, a swab test and CT scan are taken to check for Covid-19 before elective surgeries, but in emergency cases, surgeons may not be able to wait for test results to return. In such cases, doctors said that CT scan is helpful to find any indication of Covid-19. “If the patient is Covid-19 positive or suspected to be, then emergency surgery is performed in a separate operation theatre. What is most challenging is aerosol exposure when intubating a patient for anaesthesia. To reduce risk, we have a chamber covering the head and chest of the patient and there is a window by which doctor can insert the endotracheal tube. We also have video laryngoscopy to help,” said Dr Sathish Devadoss, chief orthopaedic surgeon and medical director, Devadoss Hospital. Powered air purifying respirator (PAPRs) with HEPA filters are also used by hospitals to ensure there is no Covid-19 spread, he added. “In case of orthopaedic surgeries, in particular, there is a risk when using high speed instruments like drills, which can generate droplets,” he added.Doctors from across hospitals said there is no uniform protocol as such and they have to devise their own measures to stay safe. “Mortality for Covid-19 for doctors is much higher compared to other populations because of high viral load we face when being with patients. In our hospital, we have our own protocols, equipment and technology which minimises risk of Covid-19 spread. Often, Covid-19 patients may have to spend more on surgeries than those who are without Covid-19,” said Dr Ramesh Ardanari, medical director and surgical gastroenterology Head, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre. The doctor added that the hospital has performed up to 20 emergency surgeries in the last 3-4 months. Dr V Sridhar, chief cardio thoracic surgeon, Apollo Hospital, said that it is a challenge to definitively demarcate emergency cases in cardiac patients. “Only in few cases, we have had to perform surgeries for a Covid-19 patient since often when a patient has Covid-19, mortality is very high if surgery is done. We have had to modify a lot of our protocol to reduce aerosol exposure when intubating or ventilation. In addition to use of PPEs, in Intensive Care Units or isolation areas where Covid-19 patients are admitted, the air conditioning has to be modified, rate of change of air volume in the room is increased and negative pressure is also maintained,” said Dr Sridhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hospitals-develop-protocols-to-protect-surgeons-from-infection/articleshow/78563669.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 9, 2020||Pune||Tally crosses 3 lakh-mark in Pune metropolitan region as 2,000 test Covid positive||PUNE: The Covid-19 case tally exceeded 3 lakh-mark in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, with the addition of 2,039 new cases. Besides, 58 more casualties pushed up the toll count in PMR to 7,028 in the last 24 hours, The caseload in PMR now stands above 3.01 lakh. On the brighter side, the region continued to report more recoveries as against new cases even on Thursday, when 2707 patients were declared cured, taking the total recoveries up to 2.61 lakh. Data released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar showed that PMR’s positive case tally had crossed 2 lakh-mark on September 8 and it took exactly a month to add another 1 lakh cases. The data showed that 32 patients succumbed to the infection in the Pune municipal limits, nine in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 17 in the rural and Cantonment areas on Thursday. The region’s load of active patients reached 32,947 on Thursday, including 18,287 patients admitted in various hospitals and 14,660 patients in home isolation. The region conducted about 10,123 tests on Thursday, pushing the total sample testing beyond 12.54 lakh. As many as 4,932 tests were conducted in the PMC limits and 3,222 in the PCMC areas in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-crosses-3l-mark-as-2k-test-positive/articleshow/78563668.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Non-essential project costs to be curtailed by 30%||Nashik: With the Covid-19 outbreak taking a toll on the NMC’s financial health, the civic administration has taken some key decisions to generate revenue —most importantly curtailing the expenditure on non-essential projects by up to 30% in the current fiscal (2020-21). Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Kailas Jadhav said that the major focus would be on health, sanitation and water supply to the city. The expenditure on projects related to other departments will be reduced by 30% as the civic body is facing scarcity of funds. The revenue of NMC generated by the collection of various taxes—mainly property and water taxes—has reduced at large. “We are preparing the list of the projects those can be curtailed during the current financial year. However, we will ensure adequate funds for water supply, sanitation and health,” said Jadhav. “We have also deferred our plans about developing the new infrastructure in the city due to lack of funds. Our priority will be to maintain existing roads,” said the commissioner. “We have already started repairing the potholes on city roads. The new infrastructure projects. which we are deferring this year, will be implemented in an year or two,” said Jadhav. “We are also working on the possibility of raising funds either from the state government or through banks. We are also checking other options,” he said. The revenue of NMC through various taxes during the first half (April-September) of the current financial year has dropped by around 37%. Apart from GST compensation, the NMC gets revenue through property, water and various taxes of the town planning department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/non-essential-project-costs-to-be-curtailed-by-30/articleshow/78563665.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 9, 2020||Pune||Will follow govt norms for temples during festive season: Police chief||PUNE: The city police will strictly implement the state government’s guidelines for temples and Durga mandals during the Navaratra festival, which begins on October 17, police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said on Thursday. The festival season is a source of worry for the authorities in terms of enforcing social distancing norms and avoiding crowding to check the spread of Covid-19. Prominent temples, such as Chatushrungi temple on Senapati Bapat Road, some temples in the old parts of the city and the Mahalaxmi temple opposite Sarasbaug are known to attract large crowds during Navaratra and Gupta said regulating such movement would be a challenge. “The state’s Covid-19 guidelines will be implemented and gathering of crowds around the temples will not be allowed. We will soon have a meeting with the trustees and other office-bearers of temples on this matter,” said Gupta. The commissioner said the government guidelines do not allow temples to open, at the moment. “If the government issues fresh guidelines for the festival, we will implement those,” he said. There is always the chance of crowds gathering to offer prayers outside closed temples. “This may cause crowding in front of temples and on the roads. We will speak to temple authorities in this regard and make all attempts to avoid crowding in front of temples,” Gupta said. He further said other programmes organized during the festive period will not be allowed this year. “Large gatherings will facilitate the spread of the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/will-follow-govt-norms-for-temples-during-festive-season-police-chief/articleshow/78563673.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Four booked for abusing official||Hyderabad: A Hyderabad metropolitan water supply and sewerage board (HMWSSB) engineering manager lodged a complaint against four people who verbally abused him and damaged furniture of his office. The accused have been identified as N Rakesh Kumar, Y Ajay Kumar, Uma Kanth, and Dayakar. They visited the complainant T Sharath Kumar Reddy’s office at NTR Nagar in Doctors colony and manhandled him. A case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-booked-for-abusing-official/articleshow/78563676.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Trade associations seek extension in shop timing||PUNE: The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) has written to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar seeking an extension in shop timings during the upcoming festive season. While shops have been permitted to remain open until 7pm through the various phases of Unlock, traders have sought a two-hour extension to facilitate festive sales. FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka stated that the festive season begins on October 17 with Navratra, which will be followed by Diwali and then the wedding season. “Sales have picked up as wedding shopping has started. However, many working professionals get only an hour to make purchases after their office hours as the shops have to close at 7pm. The state government has allowed restaurants to remain open till 10pm. We appeal to the government to allow traders to keep shops open till 9pm from October 17,” he stated. Secretary of the federation Mahendra Pitaliya said, “The festive season sees good sales, which will also reflect in good revenue for the government. There is a need to extend shop timings. We have also sought time for an appointment with the deputy CM to deliberate further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trade-assocs-seek-extension-in-shop-timing/articleshow/78563675.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam admn seizes bottles of expired beer in pre-puja raids||BERHAMPUR: Ahead of the Dussehra festival, the Ganjam administration on Thursday seized huge quantities of expired beer from different foreign liquor shops in the Silk City. The liquor outlets were raided following complaints by locals that they were selling beer past the sell-by date. Excise personnel were involved in the raids that continued till the evening of Thursday, sources said. “During our raids, we seized several bottles of expired beer from the outlets. The beer had expired eight to nine months ago. On some bottle labels, we could not find the dates of manufacture and expiry,” said Sweta Kumar Dash, sub-divisional disaster management magistrate, who led the raids. He said they also seized blank labels at some outlets. The raids were conducted after Dash, pretending to be a customer, purchased beer from an outlet and found that it had expired four months ago. The government has allowed liquor vends to sell beer that is out of date by a maximum of three months, but only if the content is found fit for consumption after being chemically tested at the depot of the Odisha State Beverage Corporation. The government allowed this after liquor traders urged it to either buy back the beer stock that had expired during the lockdown or replace it with fresh stock. This was done to provide relief to the outlets that could not sell their stock during the first months of the lockdown. However, many outlets have taken advantage of this and are now getting rid of old beer without any chemical testing, Dash said. Since some liquor outlets were found to have blank labels, officials fear that the liquor traders may even be selling adulterated liquor. There are 65 liquor outlets in Berhampur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-admn-seizes-bottles-of-expired-beer-in-pre-puja-raids/articleshow/78561355.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
October 9, 2020||Madurai||World Sight Day: Webinar, retina screening camp held||Madurai: A diabetic retinopathy screening camp and a webinar on various eye disorders was held to observe World Sight Day in Madurai hospitals on Thursday. This day is an annually observed on the second Thursday of October every year, to draw global attention on blindness and vision impairment. At Velammal Medical College Hospital, a diabetic retinopathy screening camp was held at the eye department for benefit of all diabetic patients. Diabetic retinopathy is caused by damage to the blood vessels of the retina in the eye and can subsequently lead to loss of vision if bleeding continues. Screening of diabetic retinopathy for patients at the camp held on Thursday was done by dilating the pupil of patients and using advanced fundus imaging camera to take retina images. Patients were then counselled and follow-ups were advised. During the screening camp, Covid-19 prevention was also highlighted by distribution of masks to both patients and hospital staff . At a hospital dedicated only for eye care, Aravind Eye Hospital in Madurai, the day was observed with doctors from the hospital speaking at a webinar for the public to create awareness. The doctors spoke on various topics on eye care, including, children and eye care, common eye disorders, glaucoma, nutrition and eyes, etc., The webinar was held via video conferencing and was also live streamed on YouTube. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/world-sight-day-webinar-retina-screening-camp-held/articleshow/78563672.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Blood bank audit starts next week||PUNE: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will undertake an audit of blood banks next week, following overcharging complaints for grouping as well as cross mapping tests and plasma. Suresh Patil, joint commissioner, FDA, Pune division, told TOI, “The investigation drive for blood banks providing plasma will begin next week. It will include finding the plasma and test prices being charged to customers by various blood banks. As of now, there’s a good amount of plasma available for patients in the Pune division. A total of 4,939 units have been collected so far, out of which 4,606 have been used and 312 units are still remaining.” Patil said the government recently fixed the charges for convalescent plasma at Rs 5,500 per dose. “Prices of tests conducted by blood bank prior to the therapy are also fixed at Rs 1,200 for Nucleic Acid Testing (NAT) and Rs 500 for chemiluminescence test,” he said. However, patients TOI spoke to alleged that blood banks continued to charge arbitrary prices for both plasma and the tests done prior to providing the plasma. G Bhaskar, who is part of the National Societies for Clean Cities (NSCC) was in ICU for several days after he tested positive for Covid-19. “ I recently sought plasma from a blood bank. The bank promised to provide plasma even if my donor was not a match, as they claimed to have several donors in their data bank. They conducted the grouping and cross matching tests but my donor was not a match. The bank collected a fee of Rs 800 for the tests and ultimately did not find a donor for me.” The daughter of a critical patient in the city said, “I have been talking to several blood banks in the city to get plasma for my father, who is ‘O+’. One blood bank was quoting a price of Rs 11,000 while another Rs 9,000.” FDA said citizens could find the availability of plasma at www.mahasbtc.com, the official website of the Maharashtra State Blood Transfusion Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blood-bank-audit-starts-next-week/articleshow/78563677.cms||Neha Madaan
October 9, 2020||Pune||Errors hit mock tests before non-proctored SPPU exams||PUNE: Technical issues and manual errors were reported in the first mock test for the non-proctored online examination for final year students conducted by the Savitribai Phule Pune University on Thursday. About 42,000 students appeared for the mock tests which were conducted between 3pm and 6pm. For the next two days, students can appear for the tests between 10am and 6pm, subject to a maximum of 5% students appearing for them. Director of the board of examination and evaluation at SPPU, Mahesh Kakade said they were dealing with the issues along with the officials from the private platform which is conducting the examination. “We have got many calls from students. Most are about failure to login to the website. There are students who have forgotten their email id or password and hence are unable to login. Then there are students who are copy pasting these two on to the site but the site accepts the login only if you type it in the relevant space and rejects the copy-pasted id and password,” he said. Kakade said students are not reading the instruction manual provided to them which is also creating avoidable problems. “The instruction manual gives the students all the information on how to appear for the exam and what to do if a problem crops up. We are in the control room with the private team conducting the examination so that all these issues are dealt with before the actual examination begins,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/errors-hit-mock-tests-before-non-proctored-sppu-exams/articleshow/78562579.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 9, 2020||Kochi||700g tumour removed from stray dog’s neck||Kottayam: In a two-hour long surgery, tumour weighing 700grams was removed from the neck of a stray dog here on Thursday. According to Dr P Biju, the tumour which was hanging on the ventral side of the neck was a life threatening one as the animal could not consume food. The surgery was successful and it may take a few days for the wound to heal. The dog will be released after that, said Biju, who is the senior veterinary surgeon at the Government veterinary hospital in Changanassery. The stray dog which was wandering with the big tumor hanging in Kurichy area was spotted by some youths two weeks ago. A local resident Lijo clicked a photograph of the suffering dog and sent it to his friend through WhatsApp. This picture got widely circulated and finally the photograph and message reached Dr Biju. Biju spoke to Lijo and located the area where the dog was found. Soon animal lovers reached the area and caught the dog and it was taken to the hospital. The six-year-old female dog weighs 15kgs. According to Biju, the dog will be released in the same place from where it was caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/700g-tumour-removed-from-stray-dogs-neck/articleshow/78561370.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation to increase number of antigen tests||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to increase the number of rapid antigen tests. The civic body has decided to procure 50,000 antigen kits to be used at Covid treatment centres, jumbo hospitals as well as municipal hospitals. Around 2 lakh test kits have already been bought and used by the PMC to detect positive patients. “Large number of testing is a must for early detection of Covid-19 cases. PMC has set up a number of centres for conducting the tests. Many citizens are coming forward to get themselves tested at these centres. Due to high demand for the tests, the civic body is considering increasing the number of antigen tests,” said a senior official of PMC. The official added that order for the test kits will be placed after seeking approval from the standing committee. The test kits are expected to be bought this month. As per PMC officials, around 1 lakh test kits were bought in June. The number of tests increased from August and testing was carried out extensively in the containment zones and densely populated areas. The PMC had carried out special campaigns to trace the contacts of positive patients and identify comorbid patients and senior citizens. The rapid antigen tests were used to check if any of them have been infected. The civic administration is using antigen test kits for testing high-risk contacts. They include family members of positive patients as well as neighbours who might have come in direct contact with infected persons. As per the PMC data, around 6.5 lakh tests have been conducted in the PMC areas. They include tests conducted by the PMC, Covid care centres, private labs and hospitals. On an average, around 6,000 tests are conducted across the Pune Metropolitan region daily, out of which around 4,500 tests are carried out in PMC areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-increase-number-of-antigen-tests/articleshow/78563685.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Graft-tainted doctor is now NMC health dept top boss||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has given Dr Pravin Gantawar additional charge of medical officer health (MOH) despite him facing anti-corruption bureau probe on graft charges. Sources said the additional charge is akin to virtually promoting him to the top most post in NMC health department. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B signed the proposal of giving additional charge to Dr Gantawar who is posted in the NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalay as assistant health officer (general surgeon). Sources in the NMC’s general administration department said Dr Yogendra Savai, who was transferred from the state government, was holding the charge. However, after he tested coronavirus positive, the post was handed over to NMC’s assistant health officer Dr Narendra Bahirwar who also proceeded on medical leave after contracting Covid-19. Later, Dr Sanjay Chilkar from state government’s health department was given the charge of MOH. Sources, however, said Dr Chilkar recently informed the municipal commissioner to relieve him from the post of MOH. Subsequently, the administration started the process to give the additional charge to Dr Gantawar. On June 26, during the concluding day of the historic five-day marathon general body meeting, mayor Sandip Joshi had suspended Dr Gantawar and his wife Dr Sheelu, also a doctor practicing in IGR, for their alleged role in attendance irregularities with immediate effect. On July 2, the Nagpur unit of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had booked Gantawar couple in a disproportionate assets case. The ACB investigation had revealed the duo had amassed properties much higher than their known sources of income. Dr Gantawar during his service with the NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalay from 2007 to December 2015 had acquired assets worth Rs2.52 crore more than his known sources of income. Preliminary investigation revealed that Dr Gantawar and Dr Sheelu had property that was 43.06% more than their income. Sources said these developments were concealed from the new commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/graft-tainted-doctor-is-now-nmc-health-dept-top-boss/articleshow/78562577.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||Croc kills 50-yr-old in Orsang River||Vadodara: In a brutal incident, a 50-year-old man from Fulwadi village in Dabhoi taluka was killed by a crocodile when he went for a swim in Orsang River on Wednesday evening at around 4pm. The man identified as Kanti Vasava who works as a labourer was attacked by the crocodile which dragged him to the opposite bank of the river for a distance of nearly 400m, even as he kept fighting for his life. When villagers heard Vasava screaming, a couple of them rushed to his help. While one kept hitting the crocodile in a bid to set the man’s hand free, the reptile kept it jaws tightly closed and even kept pulling Vasava back in the river despite others trying to pull him out of the water. Amid the struggle that lasted for nearly an hour, the reptile snapped off Vasava’s left hand. Vasava died from losing excessive blood from the severed hand as well from the other bite marks on the body. Despite this, the villagers could not take Vasava’s body away from the spot as the reptile thereafter kept guard near the body for three long hours and did not budge. “Later the villagers went in a canoe and brought the body back after scaring the crocodile away,” a police official said. The post-mortem on Vasava’s body was conducted on Thursday morning. A case of accidental death was registered at Chandod police station. Vllagers have demanded the forest department to move the crocodiles out of the river. They claim that around four to five crocodiles thrive in the river waters, making it unsafe for the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/croc-kills-50-yr-old-in-orsang-river/articleshow/78561136.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Labourer nabbed for dowry death||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old daily wage labourer was nabbed by Cyberabad police on dowry death and harassment charges. The accused was identified as Chekka Satish from KPHB colony and native of Kakinada mandal of East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/labourer-nabbed-for-dowry-death/articleshow/78563694.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||25,000 PMC schoolchildren away from online classes||PUNE: The education department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has accepted that it was able to reach only 46,395 of the 71,148 students in civic schools for online classes. Though schools are closed in the state, online education started in June. There are 269 primary schools under the Pune Municipal Corporation’s ambit. The schools are in the city limits and mostly cater to children from financially disadvantaged sections. On the number of students the school authorities have not been able to reach with learning, PMC education officer Meenakshi Raut said many parents have migrated to their hometowns, some within the state and some outside. She said, “A complete survey would be possible only after the pandemic situation is under control because the teachers would need to visit the houses of these children. Surveys on a phone call will not be reliable as they can always mislead about their whereabouts. We are using all our means to ensure that students are learning.” A few parents whose children are studying in Pune Municipal Corporation-run schools said their wards were not getting online education as the teachers are busy on Covid duty. A protest raising the issue was held near the PMC on Wednesday. Matin Mujawar, an activist of the Shikshan Hakka Manch, said, “Parents approached me with this problem that neither have they received information about online classes nor any worksheets. When they contacted the teachers, they told these parents that they were on Covid-19 survey duty and hence unable to teach. Already students belonging to economically disadvantaged sections are suffering and on the top of it, if they are unable to get access to education too, it is a major failing on the part of the administration. If this is not rectified, it will lead to students dropping out of schools.” Raut said out of 2,500 teachers employed in various civic schools, only 400 or so are called at a time for Covid duty for a month and the rotation of teachers ensures that students are not affected for a long time. “Moreover, we relieved many teachers last week and they have returned to teaching. Hence, this will not affect online education,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25k-pmc-schoolchildren-away-from-online-classes/articleshow/78562612.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 9, 2020||Pune||Bhor to get rustproof electric poles||Pune: Bhor will soon get rustproof electric poles, as per a statement by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). The decision was taken as Bhor gets a substantial volume of rainfall. The statement said as many as 258 rusted electric poles had been replaced with new ones in Bhor taluka in the last few months, as many as 350 have been refurbished and 150 new ones would be made available soon. The MSEDCL has set up 83,000 new electricity connections in the Pune division in the past three months after the Unlock started in June. In the last four months, Pune district has got 44,000 new connections — Pune city accounts for 16,350 of them, while Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural got 10,374 and 12,082 connections respectively. Satara, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur districts received 8,128, 10,973, 8,316 and 10,872 connections each, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhor-to-get-rustproof-electric-poles/articleshow/78562617.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Crowd wisdom: A story in search of authors||Kochi: Attempting a social experiment through comics, Sanid Asif Ali, a comic artist in Ernakulam, has started an interactive web-comic series on Instagram that allows readers to tell the story. Apart from the intro scenes created by Ali, the rest of the story is told by readers. The story, titled Escape Mouse, begins with a mouse waking up from sleep wondering where he is. The story then runs on tracks suggested by the readers. Ali creates comic-panels based on selected ideas given by readers to take forward the story every next day. Though web comics and series are popular, an attempt in digital interactive comics is rare. Ali’s aim is to continue the series for one year and publish a comic book based on the completed story. The series started a month and half ago and around 25 comic panels were created based on the prompts made by the readers developing the storyline. “It is a year-long interactive comic, where the readers can participate in storytelling. Based on the existing comic panels the readers can take forward the story, one panel at a time. It is a social experiment, where the storyteller and the illustrator are active readers of an evolving story. Both have no clue on how the story will turn out. And in these pandemic times, I believe strangers banding together to create an art form together is a really positive thing,” said Ali. For the mouse that wakes up in a strange place without any idea where he is, help is now at hand with readers introducing another character, a pig named Piggor. Together, they decide to go to a mountain where the mouse can find answers for all his questions. On their way, their car meets with an accident. In comes another mouse, a time-travelling alien. “The readers are coming with really innovative story ideas and I make a choice based on the flow. Initially, the response from readers was poor as they were new to interactive comics. Now, there is an atmosphere of suspense and even I am curious, like the readers, about how it will proceed. I feel there is an immense appeal to such a comic, where no one has a clue how the story will end. The series will conclude on 20 August 2021, exactly one year from its launch. The book will have the names of all the readers who prompted as the authors,” said Ali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/crowd-wisdom-a-story-in-search-of-authors/articleshow/78561405.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Court declines bail to three in narcotics peddling cases||Nagpur: The special court for narcotics cases, and also handling cases under Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), has refused one anticipatory bail and two regular bail pleas in the last few days on the grounds of social interest and national cause. Special judge SJ Bharuka, while denying bail to Abdul Wahid alias Khoka, stated in the order on October 5 that ‘drug trafficking is on the rise in Nagpur and young generations, including school going children, are under the influence of the drugs’. Khoka, partner of Shaikh Afsar, was booked under MCOCA after he was arrested in a case of hoarding ganja in February this year. He had moved for regular bail citing no narcotics was seized from his possession and also pleaded ill health. The court found no substance in such arguments, stating his involvement was evident in the fact that he had been booked under MCOCA and his health was being monitored at Government Medical College and Hospital. On September 24, the special court had denied bail to Shaikh Salim in a case in which more than 20kg ganja was recovered. On September 23, the anticipatory bail application of Ashish Gayaki too was refused by the special court citing ‘the demand of an individual’s liberty has to be balanced with the larger interest of public at large and state’. Gayaki was co-accused in a case where gangster Santosh Ambekar’s kin Sunny Verma had been arrested along with two others after 182 gms of MD drugs were found in their possession. It was Verma who had named Gayaki. The counsel of Gayaki had argued that he was the informer of the police department whose timely tip-off had led to successful raids and seizures in the past. Meanwhile, city police are now gearing up to oppose the bail application of gangster Feroze Khan alias Abu in a case of MD drugs before the high court. In the past, Abu’s bail by the additional district court had raised a furore in the police and judiciary, following which the order had been recalled and he was asked to surrender. Abu, instead of surrendering, approached the high court during the time granted to him to surrender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/court-declines-bail-to-three-in-narcotics-peddling-cases/articleshow/78562654.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 9, 2020||Pune||Pune surgeon survives rare neural strike by Covid-19||PUNE: Paediatric surgeon Dasmit Singh calls his survival a miracle; the result of his doctors' efforts. "A patient in the United States had what I had. He was a super-healthy 19-year-old. He died." Singh, attached to Jehangir Hospital, was on duty early September when he started to experience sore throat and fatigue. Within just two days, he started to show serious neurological complications. "My legs started to lose power. I had to pick my legs with my hands and place them in the car. My wife drove me to the hospital after I tested positive for Covid-19," Singh said. But the virus pulled an extremely rare move in the 58-year-old doctor. Instead of attacking his respiratory systems, it went straight for his peripheral nervous systems - mainly the nerves that branch out from the spinal cord. It took a battery of tests for Singh's physicians to arrive at the real problem: the coronavirus had triggered what's known as the Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) or demyelinating radiculoneuropathy - a rarely reported neurological strike by Covid-19. Singh had become a one-in-a-million case. The syndrome has been observed in swine flu patients as well. It's also completely treatable, but if not dealt with in time, severe GBS can cause prolonged paralysis of the breathing muscles. Jehangir Hospital's infectious diseases specialist Piyush Chaudhary did not waste any time when Singh was brought in on September 18. Chaudhary immediately roped in neurologist Sandeep Borse. "All the tests were done quickly as GBS is known to worsen rapidly within hours. It can cause paralysis of limbs and muscles in the neck, face and even respiratory muscles. Patients will require ventilator support," Borse said. Singh was started with intravenous immunoglobulin injections for five days, which prevents or blocks antibodies triggered by Sars-CoV-2 virus that can damage nerves. On the second day of injections, Singh's leg paralysis started to ease. By the fourth day, he was standing and by the 10th day, he had regained strength in the limbs. "I don't fear anything, not even death. And being a Sikh helps in that," said Singh. "I had already started planning for a life in a wheelchair. I even thought up a transfer system to get out of bed and into the chair. But these doctors left no stone unturned. They gave me timely and the best treatment possible." The doctor is set to resume work soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-doctor-survives-rare-neural-attack-by-virus/articleshow/78563690.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 9, 2020||Pune||Purandar airport land acquisition meeting next week||PUNE: The state government is expected to discuss the land acquisition process for the proposed Purandar airport next week in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy, Ajit Pawar. A source in the government said the feasibility of the alternative site proposed by Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap could be discussed in the meeting. Ahead of the weekly review meeting of the deputy chief minister in Pune, another source in the state government said the land acquisition process scenario for the new airport could be clear after it. MLA Jagtap, when contacted by TOI, was unavailable for comments on the meeting. The source in the government said a presentation was on the anvil to assess the feasibility of the alternative location, about 20km away from the present site for the proposed airport in Purandar. According to the existing plan, land has to be acquired from seven villages — Pargaon, Kumbharvalan, Ekhatpur, Munjwadi, Khanvadi, Vanpuri and Udachiwadi. There has been severe opposition to it. Nearly 500 farmers have expressed their reservations about it to the local representative. In August, MLA Jagtap, proposed land acquisition for the airport from three other villages — Pandeshwar, Rise and Pise. The barren land of these areas is not irrigated. The land acquisition process would be easier there, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/purandar-airport-land-acquisition-meeting-next-week/articleshow/78562647.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 9, 2020||Pune||Man accused of duping 4 job-seekers of Rs 1.8 lakh||Pune: A placement agency operator was booked on Wednesday in a cheating case after a 29-year-resident of Koregaon Park accused the former of duping him and his three friends of Rs1.8 lakh on the pretext of providing them jobs in a hotel in Poland. The Chandannagar police said the suspect, a resident of Vadgaon Sheri, had accepted the money from the four men in 2018, but failed to provide them with the promised jobs. Police said the operator cited pending immigration process for the delay. “The four men had approached the operator after coming across the latter’s advertisement that promised jobs in the hospitality industry across European countries. The operator promised the four men, all working in hospitality industry, jobs in a hotel in Poland. The complainant and his friends were happy with the offer and paid an advance amount ranging from Rs30,000 to Rs40,000 each to the suspect,” sub-inspector Pravin Kulkarni of the Chandannagar police station said. The officer said the complainant and his three friends work in hospitality and housekeeping industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-accused-of-duping-4-job-seekers-of-rs-1-8-lakh/articleshow/78562679.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||45-yr-old held for misbehaving||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old employee of a supermarket was caught for misbehaving with a woman in Uppal. The incident occurred on Wednesday, accused was arrested on Thursday and booked. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/45-yr-old-held-for-misbehaving/articleshow/78563699.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Cops book 30 on ransacking charge||Pune: The Kondhwa police on Wednesday night booked around 30 people on the charge of ransacking the house of a criminal on record after he and his four accomplices were arrested in connection with the murder of an unemployed man at Krishnanagar in Mohammadwadi on Tuesday evening. The police said the criminal, Akash Mhaske, had bludgeoned Vitthal Dhande to death with stones following a dispute over not offering him money for consuming liquor. The four other suspects, including two women, were arrested for abetting the murder. Sub-inspector Umesh Kadam stated in his FIR, “After the news of Dhande’s death spread in Krishnanagar locality, his relatives assembled in large numbers and broke the door of Mhaske’s tin shed house, damaged articles and set ablaze garments.” A police officer said, “The murder has created tension, and law and order problems in Krishnanagar. As of now, we have registered offences. We shall decide on taking action against the rioters after the situation limps back to normal in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-book-30-on-ransacking-charge/articleshow/78562655.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's riot victims denied proper aid: Minorities committee||NEW DELHI: The issue of compensation for victims of northeast Delhi riots was discussed in a meeting of the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Welfare of Minorities on Wednesday. Apart from the committee chairman Amanatullah Khan and other members, secretary home department and secretary, health, district officials and officials of Delhi Waqf Board were also present in the meeting. In a statement, the committee said that “there were many cases wherein victims were grievously injured but the medico-legal case (MLC) reports mentioned the injuries as ‘minor,’ resulting in the victims being unable to claim more compensation for which they were eligible.” Khan pointed out cases to the health secretary wherein even those who had lost their limbs were shown to have received minor injuries. One of the few cases discussed included one person whose one arm had to be amputated but received a compensation of only Rs 20,000 as the report mentioned minor injuries. The statement said that two videos recorded during the riots were also played in the meeting. People looting a store and provoking a mob in another were clearly visible in the videos, it added. The committee said that the home department secretary was asked to initiate action based on the videos and also submit a report on the action taken in the next meeting. In the committee’s previous meeting, it was claimed that in five different FIRs lodged regarding incidents from the Dayalpur area, the same content had been repeated. A member of the committee said that during the meeting on Wednesday, they were not provided any clear answers and copies of the FIRs were also not provided to them citing sensitivity of the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/riot-victims-denied-proper-aid-minorities-committee/articleshow/78563710.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||Fish fry treat in AC hall after Lalbazar arrest||Kolkata: Senior Calcutta High Court advocate-turned-BJP activist Chandana Mitra, who participated in the Lalbazar Gherao programme on Thursday, had no idea what was in store for them when she, along with fellow protesters, who had broken through the barricade in front of the Kolkata Police headquarters, was arrested. Mitra and others were first taken to an air-conditioned hall and much to their bewilderment, they were asked to wait there till they were released on bail. More surprises awaited the BJP women’s group from north Kolkata. Around 12.30pm, an officer came to ask them whether they were feeling hungry or not. Shortly, they were served a round of tea and biscuits, followed by piping-hot fish fries. That was not all. Half an hour later, the same officer returned to ask whether they would prefer fish or mutton for lunch. At this point, the women apparently came to a consensus that they would not accept any more hospitality from police. “We really appreciate the kind gesture shown by senior police officers at Lalbazar. We were given food as we were hungry. But we refused a sumptuous meal as our motto for the Lalbazar march was to expose the state government’s failure in all spheres,” Mitra said. Shweta Sinha, head of north Kolkata BJP women’s brigade, pointed out that while they were “treated well”, some other BJP woman activists were beaten up by police during the protest. “We had a plan to enter the Kolkata Police headquarters and we kept it a secret. When we reached Lalbazar and walked in through the main entrance, there was no woman police at the gate. We entered the headquarters buildings. Surprisingly, we were treated well by the police. We were offered good food, too,” Sinha said. Police, however, reportedly did not make it any faster in releasing the BJP activists on bail. “Despite our repeated appeals, cops did not release us before evening,” Mitra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fish-fry-treat-in-ac-hall-after-lalbazar-arrest/articleshow/78562720.cms||Saikat Ray
October 9, 2020||Nashik||All Nashik division’s Covid hospitals have Remdesivir||Nashik: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Nashik division, has done away with the need for families to frantically look for Remdesivir — a life-saving injection required in the treatment of Covid-19 — by making the drug available in the pharmacy stores of all the 72-odd hospitals treating patients for the viral infection. Assistant commissioner of FDA, Nashik division, Madhuri Pawar told TOI, “Till last week, the drug was available in the pharmacy stores of about 68 hospitals. Since now we have ensured supply to every hospital, the drug will be available in the pharmacy stores attached with each hospital treating Covid-19 patients.” “Family members of any patient need not have to look desperately for the drug in the city. One can fetch the Remdesivir vial from the pharmacy store in the hospital where the patient is undergoing treatment,” said Pawar. According to Pawar, making the drug available in all the Covid hospitals in the city was possible due to the guidance received from district collector Suraj Mandhare and state FDA commissioner Arun Unhale. Both Mandhare and Unhale have been constantly in touch with Nashik FDA authorities to boost the availability of the drug in the city.Pawar said that there has been a marginal drop in the demand for the drug as currently, more patients were getting recovered in the city compared to the number of fresh cases being reported on an average per day. Pawar and her team of officials are vigorously monitoring the sale and use of the drug on a daily basis.Talking about the availability of medical oxygen, Pawar said, “The supply of jumbo oxygen cylinders to hospitals is between 6,000-7,000 units per day. Around 3,500-4,000 of these cylinders are being used by different hospitals to treat patients on a a daily basis. We are keeping a vigil to ensure the medical oxygen supply remains unaffected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/all-nashik-divisions-covid-hospitals-have-remdesivir/articleshow/78563698.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Professional trekkers seek separate policy||PUNE: A collective of regular and trained adventure sports enthusiasts have complained that the new adventure activities and tourism policy of Maharashtra, currently being drafted, fails to adequately distinguish between skilled adventure sports and recreational activities. Public comments for the policy paper, drafted by the state tourism department, were invited till October 7. The 267-page policy draft, according to state government officials, will give a fillip to the adventure sports sector in the state on land, air, and sea, which provides employment to thousands of people. It also lists out how clubs, societies, and entities under the Companies Act, including professional trekking or other adventure sports or tour organizers, should register with the state tourism department, and take a wide range of safety measures. However, trained adventurers disagreed with the government’s plans to club adventure sports and adventure tourism. According to them, a similar 2018 policy paper was adequate with a few amendments and additions, and the new policy draft has little input from adventure sportspersons. “Adventure sports and adventure tourism are not the same. There should be separate standard operating procedures (SOPs) for both. We don’t disagree with the concept of adventure tourism as it provides employment to a lot of people,” said Umesh Zirpe, who is part of the Giripremi mountaineering organization. He added that in adventure sports, however, the people involved must train and know the correct techniques. There are even institutes across the country that train mountaineers to go on treks in the Himalayas and elsewhere. His organization, and other adventure sportspersons, have forwarded a dossier to the state government spelling out their objections. The state tourism department said competitiveness is missing from most activities that Zirpe and others want defined as sports. “There is a thin line of separation between the two. However, we are of the opinion that adventure activities provide pleasure to participants. There is no competition involved, unlike sports. The 2018 policy paper is being re-drafted due to a court order,” Valsa Nair Singh, principal tourism secretary in Maharashtra, told TOI. Commissioner of sports in Maharashtra Om Prakash Bakoria said there are plenty of competitive adventure sports that can be promoted. “Most adventure activities that have been raised do not have a competitive aspect to them. There are other sports, however, which we want to promote, such as cycle racing, or wall climbing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/professional-trekkers-seek-separate-policy/articleshow/78562686.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 9, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath pledges to curb Covid-19 in UP with special sanitization campaign||LUCKNOW: A weeklong special sanitization drive will be carried out in Uttar Pradesh from October 10. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanth has also directed officials to carry out special programmes on October 15 to commemorate World Hand Washing Day, a process crucial to promote in light of the current pandemic. The CM also took an oath under the Jan Andolan Abhiyan started by PM Narendra Modi to take all measures to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus. He also administered the oath to ministers and several senior officials present during the meeting. During a meeting of Team 11 on Thursday, the CM directed officials to organise a special sanitization drive from October 10-16, which should focus on anti-larval spraying, proper disposal of municipal solid waste and a campaign on sanitation. He said that regular spraying of anti-larva medicine, use of lime would help in controlling dengue, malaria and other diseases. He said that public representatives should also be associated with cleanliness and sanitization campaigns. To celebrate World Hand Washing on October 15, Yogi has directed the departments of basic, secondary and higher education to work with the administration to sensitise people on the benefits of washing hands, especially as a means of preventing the spread of Coronavirus. Under the Jan Andolan Abhiyan, which began on Thursday, the government will ensure strengthening of public participation in order to control Covid-19. As part of this, a campaign will be launched to administer the oath of containing Covid-19 to people. Under this, a change in behaviour to encourage hand washing, social distancing, use of masks will be promoted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-pledges-to-curb-covid-19-in-up-with-special-sanitization-campaign/articleshow/78564138.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 cases down, we won’t lower guard, ready to tackle surge: Civic chief||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday said that they were prepared to tackle more Covid-19 cases even if there is a surge in winter. The city recorded its first Covid-19 patient on April 6 and had recorded 24,521 cases till August 31. There was a spike in September as 26,021 patients were recorded in just one month, taking the total cases to 51,472. In October, the number of daily cases has dropped significantly. Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said that though the number of cases has reduced to some extent in past few days, they will not lower the guard. “There is a projection from the state government that the city may record a second wave of the Covid-19 in November and December. We have planned infrastructure to provide medical care to 10,000 patients in the city in case the cases spike during the winter,” Jadhav said, in his first interaction with the media after taking charge last month. Last month, the number of beds was increased from 3,000 to 4,500 beds in the city. The number of active patients have reduced from 6,000 around three weeks back to 4,000 now. Nearly, 33% of them are being provided treatment at their homes, said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-cases-down-we-wont-lower-guard-ready-to-tackle-surge-civic-chief/articleshow/78563703.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 9, 2020||Pune||Cops plan to double CCTV coverage||PUNE: Commissioner of police Amitabh Gupta on Thursday said he plans to double the number of CCTV cameras across the city to monitor the roads better. Gupta said he will push the proposal to increase the CCTV network from 1,000 to 2,000 cameras, and also upgrade the existing setup. Gupta also touched upon a plan to restructure the police units, including giving a push to the pending proposal for carving out Kalepadal and Baner police stations from the existing Hadapsar and Chatushrungi police stations, respectively, and also bringing in parts of the Haveli police areas (Pune rural police) into the city commissionerate’s fold. “The Kalepadal police station will be carved out of Hadapsar, while the Baner police station will be created partly from of the Chatushrungi and the Hinjewadi police stations. Also, two police stations from the Pune rural police limits will be merged into the limits of Pune city police. Also, some parts of the Haveli police station, which are in the Pune rural police limits, will be merged into the limits of the city police,” he said. Gupta further spoke about filling the post of the deputy commissioner of police (traffic). “In a day or two, the DCP will be appointed. After the lockdown, the volume of traffic on the city roads is returning to normal. Traffic is an important issue and I will personally look into it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-plan-to-double-cctv-coverage/articleshow/78562707.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Couple duped of Rs 56k while trying to sell bed online||Ajmer: A couple was duped of Rs 56,000 while trying to sell their bed through an online platform in Ajmer on Thursday. According to police, Kamal Singh and his wife, residents of Tanaji Nagar, decided to sell their old double bed. Singh posted the pictures of the bed on an online platform. Later, Singh got a notification which had a link seeking his bank details. He opened it and filled the details and after some time Rs 56,000 were debited from his bank account. Man loses Rs 2.6 lakh in bus: A man travelling from Bhopal to Ajmer in a private bus lost Rs 2.60 lakh on Thursday. Gold worth Rs 41 lakh seized: Gegal police on Wednesday stopped a Haryana roadways bus on a tip-off from ATS. They searched a passenger, Sushil Mehta and found 800 gram gold worth Rs 41 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-duped-of-rs-56k-while-trying-to-sell-bed-online/articleshow/78562712.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police seek appointment of sr IPS officer as FSL chief||Thiruvananthapuram: The state police have recommended the government to appoint a police officer of the rank of IG as director of state forensic science laboratory (FSL), as the incumbent director has opted for voluntary retirement. The police cited “best interests of the department” for recommending a police official or a fresh outsider, instead of the officer awaiting promotion to the post, in accordance with existing rules. State police chief Loknath Behera has written to additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) T K Jose (on July 9 this year) that the next senior-most joint director, who is to be promoted as per existing rules, is not experienced to hold a key post like director of FSL. “But as per existing special rules, she will be promoted and it may not be in the interest of the department. Now, it is also ascertained that she has expressed unwillingness to get promoted to the post of director and be stayed in the headquarters at Thiruvananthapuram,” Behera said in his letter to the home secretary. To substantiate its recommendation to post a police officer, the state police chief has said that in many states, police officers are administering FSLs, and the performance of such FSLs are par excellent. “They only do the administrative work and they do not interfere or intervene in scientific works conducted by the scientific officers. There is no legal bar on this kind of arrangement except special rules,” Behera’s letter said. The recommendation from the police assumes importance in the wake of FSL report last week on the killing of Maoist C P Jaleel (on March 6, 2019, at Vythiri in Wayanad) going against the police. The FSL has said that there was no sign of firing from the barrel of the country-made weapon detected from the site. The FSL report had also pointed out that there were no lead samples on the right hand of the slain Maoist, both of which were cited by the relatives and supporters of Jaleel to justify that he was killed in a unilateral firing by the police. Sources said that recommendations made regarding appointment of a police officer as FSL director is grossly unjustified. “Under sections 293 and 294 of CrPC, the reports of experts are accepted by the courts without even examining them. So the institution like FSL will have to be headed by a scientific expert, and not a police official so as to maintain the autonomy and credibility of the organization,” former law secretary B G Harindranath said. Though the incumbent director seeking VRS was the reason for triggering a debate on appointing a senior IPS officer as FSL head, it is learnt that the FSL director won’t press for VRS. “In fact, the director has written to senior officials expressing interest to withdraw the VRS application,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-seek-appointment-of-sr-ips-officer-as-fsl-chief/articleshow/78561505.cms||KP Saikiran
October 9, 2020||Pune||Chakan police sub-inspector suspended for dacoity link||Pune: A sub-inspector attached to the Chakan police was suspended on Wednesday after a probe revealed his alleged involvement in hatching and executing a dacoity in September.The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, Krishna Prakash, on Thursday said, “We have suspended sub-inspector Vikram Pasalkar and initiated the process to dismiss him from the service. We have informed the director-general of police and the director-general (law and order) about the same. We have made him the kingpin in the offence.”Sub-inspector Pasalkar’s involvement in the dacoity was revealed after the arrest of three persons for robbing spares worth Rs8 lakh of an automobile firm from a container truck. The container driver, Ankush Kendre, on September 22 lodged an FIR with the Chakan police, stating that four persons allegedly covered his eyes, while one of them took charge of the container and drove towards Rohkal Road. They shifted the spare parts to another vehicle and fled.A Chakan police team led by inspector Prakash Dhas on Wednesday arrested Vinod Thakare (28) and Jitendra Triwad (30), both from Chakan, and Riyaz Inamdar (24) of Khed in connection with the robbery. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Sudhir Hiremath said the trio revealed the name of Pasalkar. “Investigation confirmed that Pasalkar had hatched the plot of the robbery,” Hiremath said.He said, “Earlier, we had registered a case of robbery. After the involvement of five persons, including Pasalkar was revealed, we have registered the offence of dacoity under Section (395) and also section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.”Hiremath said Pasalkar was on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chakan-police-sub-inspector-suspended-for-dacoity-link/articleshow/78562753.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: All roads to Saptshrung Gadh to remain shut during Navaratra||NASHIK: The district administration has decided to block all the roads leading to the famous shrine of goddess Saptshrungi atop ‘Saptshrung Gadh’ in Kalwan taluka of the district to prevent gathering of devotees during Navaratra. “The state government has already announced that there will be no religious gatherings at any place of worship. Hence, the Navaratra utsav at Saptshrungi shrine stands cancelled. The trust and poojaris will make facilities for ‘online’ darshan of the rituals on social media so that people stay at home and do not travel to the shrine,” said district collector Suraj Mandhare, who was reviewing the measures taken by the district police and revenue officials to prevent the movement of people to the shrine on Thursday. “We have decided to barricade the roads to prevent the movement of vehicles. Only the local residents will be be given passes for moving up and down the hill,” said Mandhare. The pujaris and the temple trust members will be allowed to conduct the rituals during the nine-day festival as per tradition. No devotee will be allowed inside the hill shrine. Even the ‘Kavadias’ and the ‘torch’ (mashal) bearers who walk or run to the shrine from their homes across the state have been forbidden from travelling to the shrine. District superintendent of police Sachin Patil said that the police bandobast at district borders would be intensified to ensure people do not go towards the hills during Navaratra. “Strict bandobast will be deployed at the district borders to ensure the ‘torch’ bearers or the Kawadias do not march upto the shrine. The vehicles will not be allowed to go towards Nanduri—the village at the base of Saptashrungi hill,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/all-roads-to-saptshrung-gadh-to-remain-shut-during-navaratra/articleshow/78563708.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||One held in Pratap Nagar suicide case||Jaipur: A person identified as Shankar Saini (29) was arrested in connection with the suicide of a woman who jumped off the second floor of a hotel in Pratap Nagar. Saini had forced the woman into prostitution and has been booked for abetment to suicide, police said. Police said Saini met the woman around three years ago and even had a child 5 months ago. The accused was arrested on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday (October 8). One woman identified as Hemaraj Meena has been detained for questioning. “Following the investigation, it has come to our knowledge that the person was not her husband. We came to know that he got the woman indulged into prostitution," said Rahul Jain, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Jaipur (East). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-held-in-pratap-nagar-suicide-case/articleshow/78562750.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Major dams in Kolhapur, Sangli & Satara discharging water||Kolhapur: Incessant heavy rainfall in south Maharashtra has led to the discharge of water from 12 major dams in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts. People living along the banks of rivers have been put on alert. Heavy rain over the past four days has caused waterlogging at several places in the three districts, affecting the movement of vehicular traffic. Several roads and small bridges were closed by the authorities as a precautionary measure. The catchment area of the Radhanagari dam in Kolhapur district has been receiving moderate rainfall since Wednesday night. As a result, two gates of the dam have been opened. Officials said water is being discharged at the rate of 4,000 cusec from the dam. The Koyna dam in Satara district has been discharging around 34,000 cusec since Wednesday night. The dam is also receiving an equal volume of inflow because of rain in the catchment areas. Six gates of the dam have been opened. Mahabaleshwar recorded 122mm rainfall while Karad recorded 100mm rain. Other major dams in Satara district are also discharging water. They include Dhom Balkawdi, Kanher, Urmodi, Tarli. However, water discharge from these dams in minimal. Officials from the irrigation department said the Chandoli dam is discharging at the rate of 1,200 cusec. Meanwhile the Almatti dam on the Krishna river is releasing 1.11 lakh cusec. Reports from the three districts indicate that most places received heavy rainfall on Wednesday night, severely affecting normal life. The rain again started early in the evening on Thursday. Many roads in rural areas are submerged. The Krishna river water level in Karad and Sangli increased in the evening, but traffic on Krishna and Irwin bridge was not affected. Sangli district received 85mm rainfall. Showers were experienced in all parts of the district. Satara district recorded 83mm rainfall. District collectors of Satara and Sangli have ordered the panchnama of crop damage caused by the rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/major-dams-in-kolhapur-sangli-satara-discharging-water/articleshow/78686351.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Warm welcome for ex-deputy CM in Ajmer||Ajmer: Hundreds of Congress workers in Ajmer welcomed former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot who was on his way to Jodhpur on Thursday. This was Pilot's first visit to Ajmer after the political drama unfolded. The Congress workers welcomed Pilot with garlands and shouted slogans in his support. The Congress workers gathered at Ashok Udhyan on Jaipur Road when they received information that Pilot will pass theough Ajmer. "Usually Pilot never steps down from his car when workers welcome him, but this time he came out of his car with folded hands and thanked his followers," said a district Congress worker. Pilot had contested the Lok Sabha elections twice from Ajmer. It was under Pilot's leadership that Congress won the byelection to the Nasirabad assembly seat during the previous BJP government, he added. According to sources, workers belonging to the camps of Raghu Sharma and Ashok Gehlot refrained from welcoming Pilot. Later, Pilot took to social media stating that he was touched by the warm welcome of Congress workers in Ajmer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/warm-welcome-for-ex-deputy-cm-in-ajmer/articleshow/78562728.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Day-old girl found dead near Dighi||PUNE: A day-old girl was found dead at a construction workers’ colony in Dudulgaon, near Dighi, on Tuesday night. Police have registered an offence under IPC Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of body).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/day-old-girl-found-dead-near-dighi/articleshow/78562788.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Couple abandon baby boy, held||PUNE: A married couple were arrested on Thursday on the charge of abandoning their two-month-old baby boy at a desolate site behind the Khadki church on Tuesday morning. Police said the couple, a 35-year-old engineer and his wife (30), had started living together a year back after being separated for over three years. “The couple has an elder son (5), and had started living together again for the child’s sake. During their stay together, the woman gave birth to their second child. However, the husband would often pick up an argument with the woman, stating that the child was not his. Frustrated by the frequent aspersions, the woman gave in to her husband’s demand of abandoning the child,” senior inspector Rajendra Shahane of the Khadki police told TOI. The officer said the duo admitted to their crime during questioning. “The baby, rescued on Tuesday after some passersby noticed him near the church, was sent to Sassoon General Hospital for medical care. The District Child Welfare Committee will decide further course of legal action,” Shahane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-abandon-baby-boy-held/articleshow/78562772.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Bureau of Immigration inspects Nashik airport||Nashik: A team of officials from the Bureau of Immigration (BoI) visited the Nashik airport in Ozar, which is run by the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL), on Wednesday as part of procedure before giving the permission for immigration check-post. MP Hemant Godse said, “The visit of the BoI team to the Nashik airport will pave the way for giving the status of international airport to the facility here. The Centre has already announced setting up of an international courier terminal at the airport. This is a sign of movement of international air cargoes and passengers from Nashik airport to foreign destination.” Sources in the HAL confirmed the inspection of the airport carried out by the BoI officials. “This was a routine visit of the BoI officials. Currently, we have to carry out the immigration process of international crew members offline. The Central government wants to make all the immigration process from Nashik airport online,” said HAL sources. A senior official from Halcon, who was accompanying the BoI officials, said that the team had come for inspecting the infrastructure and the facilities at the airport required for immigration check-post. “This is the first step before starting the international cargo and passenger facilities,” said the official. “After getting the approval for immigration check-post, the next step will be to include Nashik airport in the list of Indian airports for bilateral air service agreements with multi airline operators,” said the Halcon official. On August 21 this year, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) had issued the notification to set up an international courier terminal (ICT) at Nashik Airport. The ICT at Nashik airport will be the second one in Maharashtra after Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bureau-of-immigration-inspects-nashik-airport/articleshow/78563723.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Man held in Barmer minor girl rape case||JAISALMER: The Barmer police late on Wednesday night arrested a man for raping a 15-year-old girl on Tuesday evening. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said the police have arrested one Gangaram Bheel (26), a resident of Jaisalmer, for raping the minor girl. The accused confessed to the crime and said that he was alone on the spot. Bheel claimed that he didn’t make any video of the act. He is married and has two children. The medical examination of the survivor has been conducted, he said. Sharma said the accused was taken to the spot for verification. Besides, samples were sent to the FSL. The accused also narrated the entire incident to the police. Bheel used to work as a labourer in the field of survivor’s grandfather for last two years. Police are investigating the case intensively. They have also formed a special team to file the chargesheet as soon as possible, Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/man-held-in-barmer-minor-girl-rape-case/articleshow/78567562.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot lays foundation stone for 17 industrial zones, opens 6 new ones||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday laid foundation stone for 17 industrial zones and inaugurated six new areas at a virtual event. Gehlot said in the 50 years of RIICO’s existence, starting work on 17 new industrial zones in a single year is a record. He also suggested that RIICO should develop a new industrial zone dedicated to non-resident Rajasthani (NRRs) entrepreneurs living in various states of the country and abroad as many of them are closely connected to their roots. “I would also like RIICO to organize a two-three day event and invite all the investors and felicitate them on the 50th year of RIICO,” said Gehlot. RIICO is spending over Rs 4,000 crore in developing these industrial areas where more than 5,000 industrial units can be set up. Among the 17 new zones, 10 are product specific, including a sports goods and toys zone in Khuskheda in Bhiwadi. The sports and toys industrial area has been created to promote manufacturing of toys and sports goods, much of which are imported from China today. Similarly, an industrial zone in Jodhppur has been dedicated to manufacturing of medical devices. The area would be developed over 48 acre land having 73 plots. Ashutosh Pednekar, managing director of RIICO, said that 19 companies have already approved the state PSU and expressed interest to set up units in the medical devices zone. Pednekar also said that RIICO has also sent a proposal to the Centre for setting up a pharma park in Kota. “We have decided on Kota because the pharmaceutical industry requires water in large quantities,” added Pednekar. Many of the new industrial areas have been developed keeping in mind the availability of raw material in that region. Rajasthan produces raw materials required by the ceramic industry in large quantities. Much of the raw materials are supplied to the thriving ceramic industry in Gujarat’s Morbi. Pednekar said that the new industrial zone in Chittorgarh will be used to promote manufacturing of ceramic products. Even though availability of land in Rajasthan is not a hurdle for investors, the common concern of the industry has been the high price they pay. To attract new investments, land rates in the new industrial areas have been reduced by 35%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-17-industrial-zones-opens-6-new-ones/articleshow/78562773.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Man held in Barmer minor girl rape case||JAISALMER: The Barmer police late on Wednesday night arrested a man for raping a 15-year-old girl on Tuesday evening. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said the police have arrested one Gangaram Bheel (26), a resident of Jaisalmer, for raping the minor girl. The accused confessed to the crime and said that he was alone on the spot. Bheel claimed that he didn’t make any video of the act. He is married and has two children. The medical examination of the survivor has been conducted, he said. Sharma said the accused was taken to the spot for verification. Besides, samples were sent to the FSL. The accused also narrated the entire incident to the police. Bheel used to work as a labourer in the field of survivor’s grandfather for last two years. Police are investigating the case intensively. They have also formed a special team to file the chargesheet as soon as possible, Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-in-barmer-minor-girl-rape-case/articleshow/78562769.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR trains to chug at 130kmph, cut travel time between T & AP cities||Hyderabad: Travel time of passenger and freight trains is likely to come down between major cities in the two Telugu states. South Central Railway (SCR), which is currently working on strengthening infrastructure and removing bottlenecks, announced that efforts are on to increase speed from 110-120km per hour to 130km on certain routes which are part of the golden quadrilateral (GQ) or golden diagonal (GD) sections of SCR. The golden quadrilateral routes, under the jurisdiction of the SCR, extend over Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, include Balharshah-Kazipet-Vijayawada-Gudur, Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam and Wadi-Gooty-Renigunta sections. The maximum permissible speed along the Balharshah-Kazipet-Vijayawada and Kazipet-Secunderabad sections at present is 120 kmph, while it is 110 kmph between the Vijayawada-Gudur and Wadi-Gooty-Renigunta sections. “Enhancing the speed on these important sections of the golden quadrilateral routes will improve the operation of passenger and freight trains. Once the running time of passenger services is reduced, it will pave the way for running more trains,” SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya said. “This will bring down the travel time between Secunderabad and Vijayawada by a considerable amount,” he added. Trials were being conducted along these routes by Research Designs and Standards Organisation, Lucknow. Once trials and infrastructure-enhancement works were completed, necessary permissions would be sought from the Commissioner Railway Safety, Secunderabad Circle, to raise the maximum permissible speed along these routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-trains-to-chug-at-130kmph-cut-travel-time-between-t-ap-cities/articleshow/78563724.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police forms teams for shoppers’ security||KOLKATA: A day after cop presence led to the immediate arrest of a molester from the Park Street area, Lalbazar has decided to post its men at all major markets in plain clothes. Local police will also carry anti-crime drives across the city to arrest history-sheeters. With the inter-state gangs back in action before the Pujas and various Banjara gangs giving cops a tough time, the headquarters has asked all police stations to carry out special evening and night checks, seize illegal liquor and ensure that repeat offenders are kept under watch. “The idea is to give shoppers a sense of security. Our constant presence will ensure immediate steps rather than waiting for local cops to come in. There will be multiple detective department teams — comprising officers from watch and anti-snatching units — at Gariahat, Hatibagan and New Market. In addition, teams will be posted outside malls in Park Circus, Jadavpur and other market areas like Burrabazar, Posta, Bhowanipore and Behala,” said an officer. Police have also decided to seek help from women cops. “Following the Park Street incident, the All Women’s Team will patrol the central business district and south Kolkata markets. In addition, we will place the Shakti response vehicles at strategic locations so that any woman can approach them on the road,” explained an officer. “The patrol vehicles have been asked to follow a dedicated route and serve key areas like Bowbazar, New Market,Shakespeare Sarani, Park Street and Bhowanipore,” said an officer. The control room monitors the movement of these vehicles. Police have already travelled to a Bhopal jail and brought back one of the main accused who had been carrying out kepmaris across Hatibagan and Shyampukur during the lockdown. “The accused, Abid Ali, had targeted senior citizens — especially women — posing as a cop and fleeing with jewellery once they got tricked into believing him. He has some local conduits. We are trying to trace them,” said an officer. The cops are also wary of Banjara gangs striking at the busy market places. With barely two weeks left for Durga Puja, the mad rush can offer them the perfect chance to strike, said cops. “Interrogation revealed that banjaras generally engage their wives and crowd at important crossings or enter into open rooms and flats and steal electronic gadgets, wallets and ornaments and slip away. If they are apprehended, they take the alibi of begging. The male members generally do not operate from the front line,” said an investigator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kp-forms-teams-for-shoppers-security/articleshow/78561500.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Pleas in Delhi HC to legalise gay marriage||NEW DELHI: A same-sex couple approached the Delhi high court on Thursday, challenging the provisions of Special Marriages Act that don’t recognise union between two people of the same gender identity. The couple claims to have been together for the past eight years and has also sought directions from the court to allow the Special Marriage Act to apply to all couples, regardless of their gender identity. A similar plea has also been moved by two gay men who got married in the United States, but their marriage was not registered under the Foreign Marriage Act of 1969 by the Indian consulate, as they were a same-sex couple. Justice Navin Chawla, before whom the matters came up for hearing, referred these to the bench of the Chief Justice of the high court, which is already hearing a PIL seeking a declaration that same sex marriages be recognised under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act (SMA). The women have urged the court to declare the SMA unconstitutional, in so far as it does not provide for solemnisation of marriage between a same-sex couple and also direct authorities in the capital to register their marriage under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. The women, represented by senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy and advocate Arundhati Katju, have contended that they have been living together as a couple for 8 years, in love with each other sharing the highs and lows of life, but unable to marry as both are women.The two women, one a psychiatrist and another a therapist, point out that simple things such as opening a joint bank account, buying family health insurance, or securing address proof, which a married couple takes for granted are a struggle for them. "Marriage is not just a relationship between two individuals – it brings two families together. But it is also a bundle of rights. Without marriage, the petitioners are strangers in law. Article 21 of the Constitution of India protects the right to marry a person of one''s choice and this right applies with full force to same-sex couples, just as it does to opposite-sex couples," the plea submits, seeking a direction to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate Kalkaji, who is also the Marriage Officer of South East District of Delhi to register their marriage under the Act. Meanwhile, in the second plea, two gay men have informed the high court that the Indian consulate at New York refused their application for registration on the ground of their sexual orientation alone. “The Indian consulate would have registered the marriage of any similarly placed opposite sex couple,” the plea says, adding that they are in a relationship since 2012 and got married in 2017. Opposing the consulate’s decision, the plea says it violates their fundamental rights, which the Supreme Court, in Navtej Singh Johar case ruled, were available also to LGBT and non-LGBT Indians equally. “Further, the Foreign Marriage Act (FMA) ought to be read to apply to same-sex marriages and is unconstitutional to the extent it does not do so,” the plea says, arguing that “non-recognition of same-sex marriages is a wanton act of discrimination that strikes at the root of dignity and self-fulfilment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ) couples.” Citing the Covid-19 pandemic, the gay couple says refusal of laws to recognize their marriage disentitles them to travel as a married couple to India and spend time with their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pleas-in-hc-to-legalise-gay-marriage/articleshow/78563728.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 9, 2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan: A mainstream Dalit leader who couldn't be rebel||NEW DELHI: Ram Vilas Paswan represented the paradox of being the most visible Dalit leader, for the longest period, on the Indian political firmament and yet unable to break through to establish political ground outside his native Bihar. What defined the affable and indefatigable Paswan was his never-ending desire to be the pan-Indian face of a community whose new-found aspirations coincided with his own rise during the Mandal movement. While the timing could not have been better, he was handicapped by his image as part of the "mainstream", which robbed him of the rebellious edge synonymous with an "outsider". Read AlsoPaswan's death set to add emotive element to Bihar election campaignNEW DELHI: The demise of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is set to become an emotive issue in the Bihar assembly polls with his son Chirag seeking to inherit the mantle in an election where he has declared chief minister Nitish Kumar as his number one target forSo when Paswan had hopes soaring, a certain then-nameless fire-breathing Kanshi Ram-Mayawati duo stormed the country and stole much of the thunder. The BSP became what Paswan might have wanted to. Of course, BSP was led by leaders from the Jatav community which has a presence across the country and is numerous. In comparison, Paswans are located in Bihar and while an assertive community, they lack a national spread. The Bihar leader could never quite overcome the disappointment and kept trying till the end. As he managed to stay in power for ever, he kept going to Uttar Pradesh, the cauldron of new-found Dalit assertion, and attacking Mayawati who commanded the larger Dalit community's loyalty. Read AlsoRam Vilas Paswan, Dalit face at the Centre, dies after long inningsNEW DELHI: Food and consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan, one of India's tallest Dalit politicians with a long innings in public life, died on Thursday at a private hospital where he had undergone a heart surgery recently. Paswan had experienced serious health problems in recent years, butBut Paswan was a face who played his part in the rebellion of the under classes. As member of VP Singh’s “team” of OBC leaders, he sided with the paradigm-shifting Mandal reservation that shook the established consensus and changed for good the face of politics as was known post-Independence. The backwards have as much to thank Paswan as the Yadavs like Lalu and Mulayam, just for the energy and force he lent to the controversial move which touched off a reaction that tested many a “mainstream” leader 1990 onwards. He never let his ambitions as a Dalit leader come in the way of power politics which required hobnobbing with OBCs and the compromises it entailed. Known as “political weathervane”, he managed to be in virtually every central government post-1989 barring a short break, with ideology proving no hurdle. Watch Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan passes away at 74||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ram-vilas-paswan-a-mainstream-dalit-leader-who-couldnt-be-rebel/articleshow/78564633.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Vid Covid recovery rate now over 83%, daily toll reducing||Nagpur: With 2,540 patients recovering from Covid-19 infection in a day, Vidarbha’s recovery rate surged above 83% on Thursday. Also, 1,554 new cases were reported in the day. Now, out of 1,63,448 total cases, 1,36,219 patients have recovered and discharged. Maharashtra state’s recovery rate is around 81% and national average is above 85%. With increasing recoveries and decreasing number of cases, Vidarbha is likely to reach close to national recovery rate in a day or two. The daily Covid casualty is also reducing in the region. On October 8, total 38 deaths were reported in Vidarbha. Out of these, 20 came from Nagpur district with Nagpur city accounting for 8. Other 8 are from other districts/states while 4 are from Nagpur rural. For the first time since August 15, Nagpur city has reported less than 10 deaths in a day. Amravati and Wardha reported 5 deaths each, Bhandara 3, Buldhana 2 and 1 each in Chandrapur, Washim and Akola. This is a strong indication that Covid fatalities are coming under control. But, the death rate (case fatality rate) is still constant at 2.7% in Vidarbha. Total 1,554 cases were reported in Vidarbha on Thursday which include Nagpur 746, Bhandara 108, Wardha 72, Gondia 38, Chandrapur 151, Gadchiroli 113, Akola 28, Amravati 151, Yavatmal 52, Buldhana 43, and Washim 52. More recoveries are now being reported from across the region. With Nagpur 1,012, Bhandara 273, Wardha 93, Gondia 247, Chandrapur 270, Gadchiroli 146, Akola 42, Amravati 137, Yavatmal 114, Buldhana 165, and Washim 41, total 2,540 patients recovered in the day. WARDHA: The district saw five deaths due to coronavirus, 72 new patients and 93 recoveries on Thursday. The total cases in the district reached 5,228 and the number of patients under treatment was reduced to 1,988. Two men (70 and 76), a 75-year-old woman from Wardha, two men (45 and 45) from Selu died due to coronavirus infection during treatment on Thursday, taking the toll to 154. On Thursday, 453 test reports were received of which 72, including 24 women, were Covid positive. The cases reported today are Wardha 49, Hinganghat 8, Karanja 6, Deoli and Selu 3 each, Arvi 2 and Samudrapur 1. After 93 got discharge on Thursday, total number of recovered patients has reached 3,086 AMRAVATI: Five Covid deaths and a spike of 151 cases took the district’s toll to 324 and caseload to 14,524 on Thursday. A report from civil surgeon’s office said five patients, two each from the city and Chandur Railway tehsil, and one from Achalpur tehsil lost the battle to coronavirus during treatment in the last 24 hours. The report further said 137 patients were discharged today, taking the total recoveries to 12,338 for a rate of 84.95%. This left 1,862 patients under treatment, including 673 at Covid Hospital, nine in Nagpur and 1,180 in home isolation, the report added. YAVATMAL: The district breathed a sigh of relief on Thursday as no Covid death was reported in the last 24 hours. The toll remains at 287. While 52 new Covid patients were detected on Thursday, 63 persons were discharged from the hospitals. According to ZP health department sources, at present there are 789 patients in Covid-19 Care Centres across the district. As on date, total 8,920 Covid patients were recorded in the district of whom 7,673 have recovered. CHANDRAPUR: With addition of 151 new patients, the Covid count in the district climbed to 11,623 on Thursday. Lone Covid death was reported during the day and the toll now stands at 180. The day also witnessed discharge of 270 patients taking the total recoveries to 8,369. Now, there are 3,074 patients under treatment. Meanwhile, health administration added 200 oxygen-equipped beds to its Covid treatment facilities at different places in the district. Collector Ajay Gulhane informed that 50 oxygen beds have been added to Christ Hospital in city, 25 at Chandrapur GMCH, 75 in Khristanand Hospital in Warora and 50 at Rajura rural hospital. GONDIA: The district registered 38 new Covid cases on Thursday. For the first time in 34 days, new cases came below 50 on October 8. On the other hand, 247 patients recovered in the day and no death was reported. Active cases in Gondia came below 1,000 after 34 days. Now, the hospitals in district have above 80% bed vacancy. BHANDARA: Covid situation in the district is still serious. Three Covid deaths were reported on Thursday, along with 108 new cases. On the other hand, 273 patients recovered and were discharged in the day. Now, the district has 6,484 total cases, 4,833 recoveries and 153 deaths. Total 1,498 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Total 146 Covid patients recovered and discharged on Thursday. But, 113 new cases were also detected. Gadchiroli district now has 3,618 Covid cases, and 2,676 of them have recovered. The recovery rate of the district is about 74%. With no deaths have been reported in last several days and the case fatality rate of Gadchiroli is below 1%, which is lowest in Vidarbha, and arguably lowest in the state. AKOLA: It was another day of Covid under control for the district. Only 28 new cases were reported on Thursday, and 42 patients recovered. A 65-year-old man, admitted on October 6, died during treatment on Thursday taking the district’s toll to 249. Now, the district has 7,741 total cases with 6,695 recoveries. Total 797 patients are under treatment. BULDHANA: The district administration received 395 reports of Covid-19 tests on Thursday. Out of them, only 43 were positive. A 65-year-old man from Lonar and a 63-year-old woman from Buldhana city died during treatment taking the district’s toll to 104. Recoveries, at 165, took the total number of recovered patients above 7,000-mark on Thursday. Now, Buldhana has 751 patients under treatment. WASHIM: The district saw 52 new Covid cases, 41 recoveries and a death on Thursday. Now, Washim has 4,868 cases out of which 4,108 have already recovered. With 98 deaths reported till date, now 662 patients are under treatment in the district, lowest in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-covid-recovery-rate-now-over-83-daily-toll-reducing/articleshow/78562806.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Gangs in Nashik divn prey on unemployed youth||Nashik: At least half a dozen organised gangs operating in the five districts of Nashik division have cheated gullible educated unemployed youth by promising them jobs in lieu of money. The office of the special inspector general of police, Nashik range, has received 23 complaints in the last one month or so from victims seeking help to get back their money. These victims have collectively paid over Rs 1 crore to these different gangs for getting employment. Special inspector general of police, Nashik range, Pratap Dighavkar told TOI that these gangs were operating in a clandestine manner in Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts “Dhule police have recently busted three such gangs and recovered Rs 30 lakh which the gang members had collected from some of the victims. We are working to identify and nab the gangs operating in the other four districts,” said Dighavkar. According to the senior IPS officer, some of the victims hail from humble backgrounds and have sold gold ornaments and land to provide money to the gang members in lieu of getting jobs. “All of them have been left in the lurch as these gangs failed to keep their part of the bargain despite taking money from the victims,” added Dighavkar. “The modus operandi of all these gangs is similar. They are on the lookout for unemployed youth to whom they can make promises of getting them jobs in public sector undertakings, reputed financial institutions and different government departments. In fact, some of these victims were even given appointment letters, which turned out to be fake,” said Dighavkar. He apprehended that the cases that that have come to the fore could be tip of an iceberg. Many more youth could have been duped by these gangs. “I have asked the police in all the five districts to probe and ascertain how long these gangs have been operating. I would also appeal to the youth not to fall prey to such false promises of employment and spend their money,” said Dighavkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gangs-in-nashik-divn-prey-on-unemployed-youth/articleshow/78563726.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Jagan assets case: Hearing in pharma chargesheet advanced||Hyderabad: In tune with the orders of the Supreme Court and the high court that asked all the courts in the country to expedite hearing in cases that have legislators as accused, the metropolitan sessions judge-cum-designated ED court in Hyderabad on Thursday commenced its hearing in one of the chargesheets filed by the ED in the Jagan Mohan Reddy assets case. The case, which was originally scheduled to come up for hearing on October 13, pertains to land allotments made to the two pharma companies. However, the court advanced the hearing. This case was an offshoot of a CBI case that charged the pharma firms with investing in Jagan’s companies in lieu of land they got at Jadcherla in Mahbubnagar district as part of an alleged quid pro quo arrangement. The CBI court that was hearing all the CBI chargesheets in the case was also designated as an ED court to try the ED cases too. But, somehow, the case pertaining to the two pharma firms did not go there. G Ashok Reddy, counsel for Jagan’s firms, told the MSJ court on Thursday that they had filed a plea in the high court, urging it to ensure that the pharma firms’ case too is transferred to the ED court in the CBI courts complex in Hyderabad. Upon being informed that the high court would take up the hearing in this case on October 20, metropolitan sessions court judge N Tukaramji posted the case to Oct 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagan-assets-case-hearing-in-pharma-chargesheet-advanced/articleshow/78563729.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||DHS tests positive for coronavirus||Kolkata: Director Health Services (DHS) Ajay Chakraborty has tested positive to Covid-19. Chakraborty is on home isolation currently and he may be admitted to state-run MR Bangur Hospital on Friday. Health officials said he is mildly symptomatic and doing well overall. Sources in the health department said Chakraborty’s wife had tested positive a few days ago. Since then the DHS isolated himself at home. His samples were first given for test on Monday. All investigations through rapid antigen, RT-PCR and Truenat test showed negative results. But a repeat test on Thursday confirmed he was positive for the virus. His wife is undergoing treatment at MR Bangur Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhs-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/78561519.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 9, 2020||Kochi||Man throws acid on wife, arrested||Kottayam: A man threw acid on his wife’s face in Perunad in Pathanamthitta district on Thursday. The woman who suffered burns on her face and shoulder was admitted in taluk hospital, Ranni. The man was held by the local residents and handed over to police. Jalajakumary, 36, a Perunad native, suffered burn injuries. Her husband Bineesh Philip, 34, was arrested. He also suffered burns while throwing acid on his wife’s body. The incident took place around 9:30am on a public road. The woman was on her way to work. Bineesh came in an auto rickshaw and threw acid on her from a bottle.  The woman ran crying to the next junction where people poured water on her and took her to hospital. The woman suffered 40% burn injuries. According to police, the couple were staying separately for over a year now. The couple have two daughters aged 5 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-throws-acid-on-wife-arrested/articleshow/78561529.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nashik||Railways proposes sale of bed linen through kiosks||Nashik: The Bhusawal division of the Central Railways has proposed setting up of kiosks by private enterprises that would sell bed linen to commuters on demand. Railway authorities at the Bhusawal Division said they had received applications from entrepreneurs under the ‘revenue sharing programme’ that the proposed sale of disposable linen for the commuters travelling by sleeper class trains at affordable prices. Since bed linens have been discontinued by the Railways in its air-conditioned coaches, commuters must now arrange for the same on their own. Many find it difficult to carry their bedding along. The proposal is being considered for Nashik Road railway station, Bhusawal railway station, Khandwa and Amravati railway stations of the division. “The proposal has been presented to the zone office and we are awaiting the sanction,” the officials said. The linen kits could include bed sheet, blanket, pillow covers for a single person, or a set for two persons or even an assortment. “There were issues with linen provided by the Railways. Often, they were dirty and were stained. Disposable linen would be welcome,” said Sajid Khan, a frequent traveller. Some, however, worry this would increase the amount of waste generated. “Is there a plan to recycle this linen from ecological point of view – and not just affordability?” Rahul Mahale, another commuter, asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/railways-proposes-sale-of-bed-linen-through-kiosks/articleshow/78563733.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Snag-hit IAF helicopter lands in field at Jalore||Jaisalmer: An IAF helicopter had to make an emergency landing on a field at Sanchore in Jalore district near Barmer-Jalore border on Thursday after it developed a snag. There was no information of any damage during landing. The Cheetah helicopter left for its destination after 2.30 hours. It was on a routine sortie from Jodhpur to Barmer Uttarlai airforce station. According to eyewitnesses, the copter was hovering over a field at Sanchore when it made the emergency landing. Police and administrative officers reached the spot and helped the pilot and co-pilot. Jalore district collector Himanshu Gupta said the chopper made an emergency landing on a field after developing a technical snag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/snag-hit-iaf-helicopter-lands-in-field-at-jalore/articleshow/78562819.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Survey to find out if African cheetah can be rehabilitated in Raj||Jaisalmer: Forest and environment minister Sukhram Vishnoi on Thursday said a survey was being carried out in a few areas of Chittorgarh to find out if African cheetahs could be rehabilitated. A committee to study the feasibility of bringing the cheetahs is headed by Wildlife Institute of India chairman Ranjeet Singh. In addition to Chittorgarh, Nauradehi sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh is considered suitable to settle cheetahs. The Centre has allotted Rs 2.50 crore to WII for the cheetah project. Initially, a plan was made to translocate a cheetah to Jaisalmer but the move was dropped due to oil and gas exploration works and BSF and army camps objecting to the move citing non-availability of food for the animals. The minister said that a proposal had been sent to the Centre to make a new tiger reserve at Kumbhalgarh. Discussing about the deaths tigers at Mukundra sanctuary, the minister said a few died of ailments, some because of territorial fights and old age killed a few. “Guards and officers are fully alert there and there has been no case of poaching so far. As far as Ranthambhore and Sariska are concerned, tigers are safe,” he added. In regard to posts lying vacant in the forest department, he said the state government had recently taken a decision to hire guards for the security of all sanctuaries. He added that the process to hire ACF, volunteers and other personnel had already started. He said as per the directions from the Supreme Court, all pasture lands are considered as forest lands and all district collectors have been asked to provide detailed reports on the number of trees and ownerships of these pasture lands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/survey-to-find-out-if-african-cheetah-can-be-rehabilitated-in-raj/articleshow/78562803.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Uber aims green run via tie-up with electric vehicle operator||NEW DELHI: App-based cab aggregator Uber is going to deploy over 1,000 electric vehicles in five cities, including Delhi-NCR, and plans to scale it up to 2,000 electric vehicles on its platform by next year. In a statement on Thursday, Uber announced its partnership with electric vehicle fleet operator Lithium Urban Technologies to deploy electric vehicles, all sedans, across Uber rentals and premier in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune. The company said that it has already deployed more than 100 of these electric vehicles on its platform. “Lithium’s charging hubs in these cities have the capacity to charge multiple cars and buses simultaneously. They also have fast and slow chargers installed at many sites across these cities. While a fast charger can charge a sedan in 90 minutes, a slow charger can do that in eight to nine hours,” the statement said. The cab aggregator said that the association is also in line with Uber’s recently announced global commitment to make all rides on its platform 100% emission-free by 2040, through zero-emission vehicles and the integration of public transport and micro-mobility. “We are delighted to partner with Lithium, a pioneer in sustainable urban mobility, and excited to provide greener commuting solutions to our riders,” said Prabhjeet Singh, president, Uber India and South Asia. “After our partnerships with Yulu, Mahindra and SUN Mobility, this is our fourth partnership in this space and Uber will always remain committed to providing smarter mobility, building greener cities and creating healthier lives,” he said. “Our partnership with Uber has the potential to significantly add to the number of electric kilometers covered by cars in every city. The responsibility to accelerate the adoption of clean mobility belongs to all of us, and partnerships have an important role to play in making that happen,” said Ashwin Mahesh, co-founder and CEO of Lithium Urban Technologies. “Electric vehicles are particularly well-suited to the shared economy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uber-aims-green-run-via-tie-up-with-electric-vehicle-operator/articleshow/78563739.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||EC prunes star campaignerslist, poll meets may lack lustre||Hyderabad: The  Commission of India (ECI) has imposed restrictions on star campaigners for Dubbak bypolls in view of Covid-19. ECI observers in Bihar spotted large gatherings during the visit of star campaigners. Keeping in view of the pandemic, the commission has decided to revise the norms of star campaigners. The ECI said the revised norms would come into effect immediately. Chief electoral officer, Telangana, issued the directions in this regard to all the contesting political parties. The commission said the maximum limit on the number of star campaigners for recognised national or state political parties should be 30 in place of 40. For unrecognised registered political parties, it would be 15 in place of 20, it said while issuing hte new guidelines. The period of submission of the list of star campaigners has been extended from seven days to 10 days from the date of notification. Parties will have to submit the request for permission for canvassing by star campaigners to district election authorities at least 48 hours before the start of the campaign so that the necessary safety measures are put in place by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ec-prunes-star-campaignerslist-poll-meets-may-lack-lustre/articleshow/78563738.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Bidhannagar Covid graph rises again, active cases cross 1,000||KOLKATA: Covid cases in the areas under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation continue to rise alarmingly in the run-up to Durga Puja. Active cases crossed the 1,000 mark again with another 117 new cases being reported on Wednesday. A fresh death reported in the last 24 hours has taken the Covid death tally to 52. Between October 1 and October 7, around 668 people had tested positive to Covid-19, with the daily new cases ranging between 75 and 117, whereas only 500 people recovered during the same period. Earlier on September 1, Covid cases in Bidhannagar had crossed the 1,000 mark. Out of 4,133 cases that had been recorded then, 1,001 were active. On Wednesday, total Covid infections had reached 6,946, with 1,024 active cases. Till date, 5,870 people have recovered from the disease. New cases are being reported from across Salt Lake and other pockets along VIP Road like Baguiati and Kestopur. Health experts said that like Kolkata, the number of Covid cases in Salt Lake would see an alarming rise in Bidhannagar post Durga Puja. “Some pujas in Salt Lake have become crowd pullers in the past few years. If revellers throng these pujas in the satellite township, the repercussion could be grave,” said infectious diseases control specialist, Deb Kishore Gupta. Active cases in Bidhannagar had slumped to as low as 650 on September 20 when the curve was moving downward. There was only slight increase in the daily cases for the next few days but the number started surging rapidly in the last one week.  Salt Lake has about 45% of the total cases, with the rest being reported from Baguiati, Kestopur and adjoining areas in Rajarhat that are also under the Bidhannagar civic body’s ambit. “We are continuously urging residents to wear masks, maintain hygiene and follow social distancing,” said Bidhannagar MMIC (Health), Pranay Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-covid-graph-rises-again-active-cases-cross-1000/articleshow/78561528.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 9, 2020||Kolkata||Virus claims prof who set up oceanography centre at JU||Kolkata: Former vice chancellor of Vidyasagar University and geology professor at Jadavpur University, Ananda Deb Mukhopadhyay, passed away on Thursday. The 82-year-old had tested positive for Covid-19. Mukhopadhyay, popularly known as Ananda Deb Babu, joined the JU as a faculty member in 1965 and went to Norway where he spent two years to study modern equipment and techniques used in geology. Later, he introduced many of those techniques for his students in JU. He was instrumental in starting the MPhil course in environmental science in 1991. He also served as the chairperson of Digha Development Authority. The master plan for DDA was prepared during his tenure. In a condolence message, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said, “I am deeply shocked at his demise. He breathed his last in Kolkata. He was a professor of geology at Jadavpur University for long and was a founder member of “Centre for Oceanography” there. He had successfully discharged the duty as the Vice Chancellor of the Vidyasagar University. He was also attached closely to the National Council for education.” Mukhopadhyay, who had a strong leaning towards leftist politics, was an active member of the undivided Communist Party of India. He also played a leading role in students’ health home movement. Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association said, “He will be remembered by all for his tenacity in defending the need for a University to function as a democratic space.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virus-claims-prof-who-set-up-oceanography-centre-at-ju/articleshow/78561538.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Sachi Pilot’s ‘show of strength’ in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot paid floral tributes to Jaswant Singh at his residence in Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon. Pilot, who reached Jodhpur by road from Pali, headed straight to the residence of Singh. In what can be termed a ‘show of strength’ in chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s home town, Pilot reached Singh’s house in a cavalcade and consoled Singh’s son Manvendra Singh. MLAs and leaders of the party, who supported him in rebellion, such as Dipendra Singh Shekhawat, Hemaram Choudhary, Ramniwas Gavadia and Rameshwar Dudi accompanied Pilot. PCC secretary Karan Singh Uchiyarda and former PCC vice-president Rajendra Choudhary from Jodhpur also accompanied him. While talking to media, Pilot said that Singh had done a lot for the country above party lines and his work would always be remembered. He said his demise was a huge loss to the country and Indian politics. Referring to three ordinances for the farmers by the BJP, Pilot questioned the urgency of bringing in such ordinances. “What was such an urgency that no debate was done on the bills, no state was taken into confidence and not even farmers were allowed to have their say,” Pilot said. He accused the BJP of abolishing MSP and mandi system for farmers instead of making them strong. He also condemned the UP government for the way it dealt with Hathras incident and stated that there was no transparency at any stage in the case. “They destroyed evidences, kept the family away, cremated the victim at the dead of night and not even allowed any party and their leaders to visit the village and meet the family,” Pilot said. When asked about the conflict in the party leaders in Rajasthan, he asserted that the party was 100% united and would take on BJP on every front under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/pilots-show-of-strength-in-jodhpur/articleshow/78566157.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Sachi Pilot’s ‘show of strength’ in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot paid floral tributes to Jaswant Singh at his residence in Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon. Pilot, who reached Jodhpur by road from Pali, headed straight to the residence of Singh. In what can be termed a ‘show of strength’ in chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s home town, Pilot reached Singh’s house in a cavalcade and consoled Singh’s son Manvendra Singh. MLAs and leaders of the party, who supported him in rebellion, such as Dipendra Singh Shekhawat, Hemaram Choudhary, Ramniwas Gavadia and Rameshwar Dudi accompanied Pilot. PCC secretary Karan Singh Uchiyarda and former PCC vice-president Rajendra Choudhary from Jodhpur also accompanied him. While talking to media, Pilot said that Singh had done a lot for the country above party lines and his work would always be remembered. He said his demise was a huge loss to the country and Indian politics. Referring to three ordinances for the farmers by the BJP, Pilot questioned the urgency of bringing in such ordinances. “What was such an urgency that no debate was done on the bills, no state was taken into confidence and not even farmers were allowed to have their say,” Pilot said. He accused the BJP of abolishing MSP and mandi system for farmers instead of making them strong. He also condemned the UP government for the way it dealt with Hathras incident and stated that there was no transparency at any stage in the case. “They destroyed evidences, kept the family away, cremated the victim at the dead of night and not even allowed any party and their leaders to visit the village and meet the family,” Pilot said. When asked about the conflict in the party leaders in Rajasthan, he asserted that the party was 100% united and would take on BJP on every front under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilots-show-of-strength-in-jodhpur/articleshow/78562824.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Coop societies to procure paddy, pay immediately||Thiruvananthapuram: In a bid to ensure better price and speedy payment for paddy, state government has decided to authorize select cooperative societies to procure paddy at Rs 28 per kg and make immediate payment. Cooperation minister Kadakampally Surendran here on Thursday said as many as 1,000 cooperative societies in districts that produce much of the paddy in the state have been authorized for paddy procurement and speedy payment as part of efforts to save farmers from exploitation of private rice mill owners. “Cooperative societies would procure paddy at the support price announced by the government. Farmers can collect the price by producing the procurement receipt issued by cooperative societies at the time of procurement. In that way farmers would be able to sell their produce easily and can get the price on the same day. After milling and due processing of paddy, the societies would hand over the rice product to civil supplies department,” Kadakampally said. The new procurement and payment system would be introduced first in Palakkad, Thrissur, Kottayam and Alappuzha. A meeting of top officials in cooperation department and representatives of cooperative societies was held here on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/coop-societies-to-procure-paddy-pay-immediately/articleshow/78561565.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Laxmi Vilas scam accused appear before CBI court in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The three accused of the alleged Laxmi Vilas Palace disinvestment scam appeared before the CBI court here on Thursday and furnished the bail bonds before the judge. The court has listed the matter for hearing on October 15. MD of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsana Suri, MD of Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha and Kantilal Karmsey of the valuer firm appeared in the CBI (Special) court with their advocates where two of them furnished their bail bonds of Rs 2 lakh each and two sureties each of Rs 1 lakh each, while Suri furnished her bail bond of Rs 5 lakh with two sureties of Rs 2.5 lakh each. Two other accused, former disinvestment minister Arun Shouri and former disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal did not appear in the court. While Shourie has a chance to appear in the court anytime till October 15 after relief from the high court, Baijal has been provided exemption from appearance by the Supreme Court. Baijal had moved the apex court seeking exemption from appearance in the court here which was granted by the division bench of justice S Abdul Nazeer and justice BR Gavai. It may be noted that holding all the five persons of hatching a conspiracy of selling Laxmi Vilas Palace of Udaipur through a disinvestment process between 1999-2002 at a meagre price of Rs 7.52 crore, the CBI court had summoned all of them by an arrest warrant. The deal was said to have caused a staggering loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. The court had also given directions to the district magistrate of Udaipur to attach the property in question and take over its management. The accused had challenged the order of the CBI court in the high court, which converted the arrest warrant into a bailable warrant and also ordered to handover the property back to the Bharat Hotels Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/laxmi-vilas-scam-accused-appear-before-cbi-court/articleshow/78567689.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Laxmi Vilas scam accused appear before CBI court in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The three accused of the alleged Laxmi Vilas Palace disinvestment scam appeared before the CBI court here on Thursday and furnished the bail bonds before the judge. The court has listed the matter for hearing on October 15. MD of Bharat Hotels Limited Jyotsana Suri, MD of Lazard India Limited Ashish Guha and Kantilal Karmsey of the valuer firm appeared in the CBI (Special) court with their advocates where two of them furnished their bail bonds of Rs 2 lakh each and two sureties each of Rs 1 lakh each, while Suri furnished her bail bond of Rs 5 lakh with two sureties of Rs 2.5 lakh each. Two other accused, former disinvestment minister Arun Shouri and former disinvestment secretary Pradeep Baijal did not appear in the court. While Shourie has a chance to appear in the court anytime till October 15 after relief from the high court, Baijal has been provided exemption from appearance by the Supreme Court. Baijal had moved the apex court seeking exemption from appearance in the court here which was granted by the division bench of justice S Abdul Nazeer and justice BR Gavai. It may be noted that holding all the five persons of hatching a conspiracy of selling Laxmi Vilas Palace of Udaipur through a disinvestment process between 1999-2002 at a meagre price of Rs 7.52 crore, the CBI court had summoned all of them by an arrest warrant. The deal was said to have caused a staggering loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. The court had also given directions to the district magistrate of Udaipur to attach the property in question and take over its management. The accused had challenged the order of the CBI court in the high court, which converted the arrest warrant into a bailable warrant and also ordered to handover the property back to the Bharat Hotels Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/laxmi-vilas-scam-accused-appear-before-cbi-court/articleshow/78562852.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||CPCB silent on violations in UP, Punjab, Haryana: Saurabh Bharadwaj||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj has alleged that Central Pollution Control Board is silent over rampant violation of pollution norms by thermal power plants of Haryana, Punjab and UP. Despite the Supreme Court order and central government’s direction, the 13 coal-based thermal power plants have not yet adopted anti-pollution technology, he claimed. Over 2,000 brick kilns are running in violation of the Supreme Court order, the AAP MLA said. Bharadwaj said the AAP government was the only government, which had closed all the thermal power plants. “This is the month of October and news reports are showing that massive stubble burning has started in the states of Punjab and Haryana. It is expected that in some days, the toxic air will enter the national capital and Delhi’s air quality will deteriorate drastically,” he said in a press conference. “When Delhi government can shut down these power plants, why can’t the other states do the same? These power plants are really dangerous in nature and the emissions from these power plants cause cancer, heart disease and other kinds of serious illnesses,” Bharadwaj said, adding that “CPCB has become a central political control board.” “Another biggest source of pollution is brick kilns. Only in the NCR, there are around 2,300 brick kilns. These were supposed to get converted into newer technology but none of these brick kilns has adopted any such new technology. And due to the corruption of the state pollution control boards and officials, these brick kilns are running as usual and causing massive pollution,” he claimed. CPCB did not respond to calls from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cpcb-silent-on-violations-in-up-punjab-haryana/articleshow/78563746.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Employees prevent bank robbery in Sikar, 1 held||Jaipur: One person was arrested in Sikar town as he attempted to loot Rs 1.5 crore from a Canara Bank branch under Udhyog Nagar police station on Thursday morning. Police said the accused, Kishor Saini tried to loot the bank at gunpoint, but his attempt was scuttled by the bank employees and locals as they informed the police immediately and prevented him from escaping. Udhyog Nagar SHO Pawan Kumar Choubey said the person carried a pistol and attempted to loot the bank at gunpoint. "Police hurriedly reached the branch on being informed by the employees and arrested the person. He had managed to loot Rs 1-1.5 crore from the bank and was about to escape. But he failed. We have also recovered his pistol," he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/employees-prevent-bank-robbery-in-sikar-1-held/articleshow/78562848.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Charged with misuse of material, Gondwana Club chief resigns||Nagpur: Probably for the first time in the 88-year history of Gondwana Club, the president of the club has resigned before completing his one-year tenure after he was charged with misuse of club material by a few members. The news went viral on Wednesday when the club, located in Seminary Hills, reopened after seven months of Covid-19 lockdown. Saket Daga, the club president, who quit the post on October 1 is no longer on the five-member management committee. Treasurer Jatin Kale assumed the charge of president on October 5. Kale has been replaced by Ashish Khemuka. Pankaj Chokhani is the co-opted member in place of Daga. Daga has denied all the allegations. “Many things did not happen when I was president. For one case in which there was a communication gap, I have already given my explanation to the club’s committee and it has been accepted,” he told TOI. He claimed to have resigned as president “because I felt hurt and I am sure I don't deserve this wrong treatment after serving the club for 10 long years”. “Everyone knows this is a thankless job but I could never imagine the club would stoop to such a level,” said Daga. Saying that it is an internal matter of club “which is a private place only for members”, Daga added, “Internal matters cannot be discussed outside. There is system in place in the club and if any wrongdoing is found I will answer to the club’s committee.” The club registered a burglary complaint on August 12 when it found electrical goods missing from the godown. The thief was later nabbed. Two members of the committee, on the condition of anonymity, told TOI that in CCTV footages scanned Daga was found with a worker who was cutting away the granite bought for renovating the swimming pool. “It was apparent that he had taken away the granite. No permission was taken from the management committee or administration. The issue was discussed at length and Daga had to resign,” they said. It is learnt that the club will form a committee to inquire into the goings-on of the last seven months. “The committee will also discuss if further inquiry is needed into Daga’s case,” said the members. The entire issue was kept under wraps by the management committee and a few members. News of Daga’s resignation filtered down to its elite 2,300 members only after the club reopened. The management committee was elected on October 12 last year for a one-year tenure. The annual general meeting of the club is delayed due to lockdown and is likely to happen in November. Kale did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. SKELETONS TUMBLE *Gondwana Club established in 1932 * Has a 5-member management committee * Comprises president, treasurer and 3 members * Existing body elected on October 12, 2019 for one year * President Saket Pande charged with misuse of club’s material last month * Resigned on October 1, treasurer Jatin Kale assumes charge * Ashish Khemuka appointed treasurer and Pankaj Chokhani co-opted member * Matter becomes public when clubs reopens after 7 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/charged-with-misuse-of-material-gondwana-club-chief-resigns/articleshow/78562885.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Missing sisters reunited with family after six years||Hyderabad: Two minor girls, who ran away from their Nagasanpally village home after their mother’s death, were reunited with the family on Thursday. They were reunited six years after the family had reported them missing. The girls, aged 12 and 17, were handed over to their father and village elders at an orphanage in Medak where they had been kept by the women and child welfare department. When the girls ran away from their home in Srirangapur mandal of Wanaparthy district in 2014, one was aged five years and another 10 years. They were admitted to the orphanage on August 4, 2014. The girls arrived in Hyderabad by train after they fled from their home. Police, who noticed the girls, handed them over to the women and child welfare department officials who, in turn, put them in the care of the Medak orphanage home. “Since the girls had run away intentionally, they did not provide their family details all these years. Once they opened up, they gave their family details,” Medak district welfare officer Rasool Bi told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-sisters-reunited-with-family-after-six-years/articleshow/78563742.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||State okays termination of Gorewada zoo JV with Essel||Nagpur: In another jolt to Gorewada international zoo project, the joint venture partner Essel World is on the way out with state government’s law and judiciary department giving a go-ahead to terminate the agreement for breach of tender conditions by the private company. The joint venture between Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) and Essel World Leisure Private Limited, Mumbai, was signed on September 6, 2018, to implement Rs452 crore Gorewada zoo project on public-private partnership (PPP) model with 51:49 stake, respectively. Essel was roped in by erstwhile BJP government in the state. As per tender conditions, joint venture company doesn’t come into existence unless concession agreement is signed and Rs9 crore performance guarantee is deposited by the investor. But before signing the concession agreement, FDCM allotted office space to Essel at its Hingna Road office without charging any rent. Principal secretary (forest) Milind Mhaiskar confirmed that the forest ministry has received communication from the law and judiciary department. “We had sent the proposal to end the impasse. We will have to think over other alternatives now,” said Mhaiskar. According to top officials, the joint venture termination is inevitable as Essel did not honour the tender conditions of submitting a performance guarantee followed by financial closure and secondly, it also withdrew earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs2.25 crore in January 2019. FDCM managing director N Vasudevan said, “I have joined three days ago. I am aware of the development and assessing the implications.” PCCF (head of forest force) N Rambabu, who had forwarded the termination proposal to the government in June, said, “The judiciary department has agreed to our contention. Essel did not follow the performance guarantee condition and financial closure even after the extended deadline of February 2020. Now that the government has agreed to part ways, a formal termination notice will be issued to Essel.” Of the Rs451 crore project, viability gap funding (VGF) by the government was Rs200 crore while the remaining amount was to be brought by Essel. Sources said the joint venture partner did not pump in any funds on physical work, but is said to have spent Rs3.81 crore on a consultancy firm to change designs and layouts of the project. As getting the JVC was delayed, the state decided to construct an Indian safari with its own funds. Till now, FDCM has spent over Rs140 crore on phase-I of the project which includes an Indian safari, boundary wall, and rescue centre. The safari is built in 115 hectares including buffer area and includes leopard, tiger, sloth bear, and composite herbivore safaris. The Indian Safari has missed the commissioning deadline four times. It was finally slated to be opened by March 31, 2020, but now its opening is planned for December. On repercussions of the termination of the joint venture, top officials said, “FDCM can run the show as the Indian safari is ready. The safari in Borivli in Mumbai was earlier operated by FDCM only. If the government gives another Rs250 crore, even in instalments, phase-II of the project, which includes African safari, can be completed. The details and designs of the African safari have already been approved by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). Search for another partner can also be launched.” An African safari will house 26 species including lion, wild dog, cheetah, chimpanzee, colobus monkey, herbivore, hippopotamus, red river hog, spotted hyena, naked mole-rat, puff adder, vervet monkey, Barbary sheep, rock hyrax, banded mongoose, klipspringer, among other species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-okays-termination-of-gorewada-zoo-jv-with-essel/articleshow/78562860.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Cracks emerge in farmers’ front||BUTARI: Discordant notes have started emerging from within the conglomerate of 31 farmers organisations of Punjab agitating against the three controversial agriculture laws. Blaming the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee for ignoring unanimous decisions taken by it, a group of 30 farmers’ bodies has unanimously decided to write to it (KMSC), to clarify whether it was them or not. The decision to question KMSC about its allegiance with the group was taken in a meeting held in Chandigarh under the leadership of BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill. “KMSC have not been attending our meetings ever since the beginning of the agitation against the farm bills. So we have decided to write to them to clarify their stand,” Burjgill told TOI on Thursday. When the agitation was launched, the KMSC had assured them of support, he said. “Whatever programme we chalk out for our agitation, the KMSC announces the same ahead of our programme to gain prominence in the media,” said another farmer leader. Citing instances, he said they had decided to begin ‘rail roko’ agitation from October 1 but KMSC began it from September 24. According to sources, after KMSC’s alleged adamant attitude, the group asked Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh Sandhu to hold discussion with KMSC president Satnam Singh Pannu and persuade them to honour the coalition dharma. But it has not helped, they added. Kisan Chapter, a group of major 10 farm bodies in the state, took cognisance of the KMSC’s independent programmes that could jeopardise their ‘united’ struggle, in its meeting held in Moga on October 5. The meeting in Chandigarh was held to decide on action to make KMSC fall in line. When contacted, Pannu denied being part of the conglomerate of 31 farm bodies. “From day one, we had made it clear that we will support their actions but we will not be part of their front,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-front-blames-kmsc-for-going-against-collective-decision/articleshow/78562855.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM ridicules Sukhbir’s ‘fixed match’ allegation||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has slammed Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal over his ‘fixed match’ allegation while lambasting the Akalis for playing Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) game to ruin state’s farmers. “Who am I playing a fixed match with?” asked Amarinder. He said after playing all those ‘fixed matches’ with the BJP on the farm laws’ issues, Sukhbir seemed to have become so obsessed with the phrase that he had even forgotten that a fixed match cannot be played solo. The chief minister further added that it was the SAD who is playing a fixed match and continues to act at the behest of the BJP, and in the interests of the NDA government at the Centre even after ostensibly quitting it. Amarinder cited the latest incident of the Akalis defending the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) decision to withdraw their petition against the farm laws from the Supreme Court. Amarinder also said Badals have made a laughing stock of themselves and their party with their senseless statements and outrageously false claims on the issue of the black agricultural laws. He pointed out that SAD’s own former ally, the BJP, had already publicly declared that the Akalis had fully supported the legislations from the day one. “In any case, who is Sukhbir to give a suggestion to the state government (for calling special legislative assembly session) after he openly refused to support us in rejecting the farm ordinances during the all-party meeting, and asked his MLAs to stay away from the Vidhan Sabha session at which we passed a resolution against them?’ asked Amarinder. He also ridiculed Sukhbir’s allegation that the state government is deliberately delaying bringing in a state legislation to counter the Centre’s farm laws, saying as a chief minister who had always stood for the rights of the farmers, he was doing what was in the best interests of the farming community. The people of Punjab know who they can trust and who they cannot, the chief minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cm-ridicules-sukhbirs-fixed-match-allegation/articleshow/78562862.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Real estate sales and launches improve in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: After being hammered by the Covid-19 pandemic in April-June, the real estate market in Ahmedabad has shown some signs of revival with sales and supply improving in both the residential and office space categories in the July-September quarter. The market, however, is far from reaching the levels seen in the corresponding period last year. The quarterly update by real estate consultancy Knight Frank India shows that home sales in Ahmedabad improved to 1,176 units in the third quarter (July-September) from just 252 units in the second quarter (April-June) of 2020. Similarly, the city saw 1,451 new residential units being launched in Q3 against just 525 in Q2. “A decline in prices, low interest rates, flexibility in payment options and freebies offered by developers have led to an improvement in residential sales in Q3 as against Q2 this year,” said Rajani Sinha, chief economist and national director, research, Knight Frank India. Several fence-sitters also found an opportune time to buy homes. “The return of construction workers and easing of supply chain constraints has improved new launches,” she added. “Currently, real estate is a buyers’ market and buyers are getting good deals. There has been a marked revival with growing inquiries in residential, commercial and office segments,” said Jaxay Shah, national chairman, CREDAI, the apex body of real estate developers in India. Although there has been a marked improvement, sales and supply of residential units still remain low at 28% and 51% respectively compared to the quarterly average in 2019. Last year, the average quarterly of home sales was 4,181 units and of new launches was 2,872 units, the report further added. “In the residential segment, average prices in Ahmedabad fell by 3% year-on-year,” the report added. According to the consulting firm, realtors have been able to hold off the pressure on pricing despite challenging market conditions in the second quarter. With the return of corporates into the market and construction resuming, office space also saw traction in the July-September quarter. Ahmedabad saw supply bouncing back to 15 lakh square feet (sq ft), which is 125% of the quarterly average of 12 lakh sq ft in 2019. Office space transactions, however, was 1 lakh sq ft in Q3 this year, just 25% of the quarterly average of 4 lakh sq ft last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/real-estate-sales-and-launches-improve-in-city/articleshow/78561717.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Vadodara||MSU to spread giloy’s goodness among masses||Vadodara: Considered to be Amrit (elixir) in ayurveda, the plant has shot into the limelight during the ongoing pandemic, being sold as immunity boosters in form of capsules, ‘vatis’, tablets and juices in pharmacy, medicinal and ayurvedic stores. Now, M S University’s department of Botany has become the only institute in Gujarat that has bagged a national project to promote this ‘amrita for life’ – known as ‘guduchi’ in Sanskrit or ‘gado’ in Gujarati. The ministry of Ayush of Government of India has released Rs 18.19 lakh to the department to promote spread of this medicinal plant. Under this project, the department will grow at least two lakh saplings at the university arboretum and medicinal plants garden. The saplings will be distributed free to citizens. “Guduchi or giloy or gado is known as golden plant because there is no disease where this plant has not been used. In the current Covid-19 induced pandemic, it has become more popular as immunity booster. The national campaign is meant to spread awareness on its benefits,” said Dr Padamnabhi S Nagar, associate professor and garden superintendent at botany department of MSU’s Faculty of Science. “Also, rather than buying capsules or ‘vatis’, its efficacy increases by 50 to 60 % when you consume the freshly prepared decoction. We will popularize it by distributing the saplings not just in urban areas but even rural pockets,” he said. “Through this campaign, we will be conducting promotional programmes, make documentaries on this plant, organize workshops, local fairs, competitions among students like elocution, painting, essay writing among others. Also, we will explain people what all things can be done using this plant and how they can make their own decoctions at home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-to-spread-giloys-goodness-among-masses/articleshow/78561152.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 9, 2020||Mysuru||Won’t send my kids to school: BJP MLA||Hassan: Even as the state government is preparing to reopen schools and start formal classes after six months, Preetham J Gowda, the ruling party’s MLA from Hassan said he won’t send his children back to school. “Being a parent, if the government orders to open schools from tomorrow, I will not send my two children to school. But as a legislator I will not oppose the government orders,” said Preetham. The lone BJP MLA in Hassan district alsso attacked former minister HD Revanna, questioning his contributions to the district. Commenting on the recent cabinet approval of adding 25 villages into Hassan CMC, Preetham said, “If some one is there to listen, Revanna would say that he had built Halebidu and Belur temples. Revanna being an influential politician when tried to update Hassan CMC to corporation, he failed. But only being as a legislator, I have achieved this. I know how to carry things systematically. Why didn’t the previous ministers of the district do this ?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wont-send-my-kids-to-school-bjp-mla/articleshow/78563657.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Soon, lodging scheme for guest workers||Thiruvananthapuram: State government is about to launch a welfare programme that would help guest workers find a clean, comfortable and safe lodging facility at affordable rate. The scheme, titled Guest-Friendly Residence, being rolled out by the state labour department would be managed using an internet-based mechanism. The scheme would be introduced as part of the 100-day programmes by the government. As per the scheme, a guest worker would be able to avail on rent buildings having a floor area of 6.5 square metres (70 sq ft approx) in addition to a kitchen, veranda and common toilet facility. Preference would be given to buildings having facility and space for indoor games. There would be separate facilities for bachelors and families. In the initial phase, the project would be operationalized at Payippad in Kottayam, Bangladesh Colony in Ernakulam and Patttambi in Palakkad. The project would be implemented with the cooperation of building owners and local self-government institutions. Labour commissionerate would coordinate the project. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/soon-lodging-scheme-for-guest-workers/articleshow/78561612.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi gets war room to combat pollution||NEW DELHI: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday inaugurated a ‘war room’ at the Delhi Secretariat to monitor air pollution in the capital. Apart from local sources of pollution, the war room will also monitor the impact of stubble burning in neighbouring states on Delhi’s air, officials said.  Track the pollution level in your cityRai said the ‘war room’ was launched to monitor efforts to contain pollution, fumes and dust levels in Delhi’s pollution hotspots. “It will be equipped with high-end technology, which will allow the government to monitor real-time pollution data, hotspot conditions and Nasa-Isro images of stubble burning. A 10-member expert team comprising officials from Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the state environment department will also be operating from the war room under senior scientists Mohan George and BL Chawla,” he added. “To combat the air pollution in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday had launched the ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virudh’ campaign. This fight will not be possible without the support of every agency, and therefore, we have set up and launched a centralised war room today at the Delhi Secretariat,” said Rai. “Three large LCD screens are present across the room. Real-time pollution data, which includes air quality and data of PM 2.5 and PM 10; oxides of sulphur and nitrogen; ozone and wind speed, will be displayed on one of the screens. Through another screen, we will monitor the situation of Delhi’s 13 hotspots. Through a third screen, we will monitor Nasa and Isro pictures on the stubble burning taking place in the neighbouring states,” the minister added. Complaints against air pollution, meanwhile, will be tracked through ‘Green Delhi’ app, which is to be launched by the chief minister in the coming days. “We will monitor the complaints and implement strict actions. Through GPS, we will also monitor activities like road sweeping and the water sprinkling work being done by MCD. Daily reports will be sent to the CM, me and the environment secretary,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-gets-war-room-to-combat-pollution/articleshow/78563756.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Over 3L already infected by Covid in Akola: Sero survey||Nagpur: Akola became the first district from Amravati division and second in Vidarbha to conduct sero surveillance to know Covid-19 prevalence in healthy people. First such survey was conducted in the region in Wardha between August 10 and 17. The survey in Akola was conducted between September 7 to 18 in rural as well as urban areas. Total 2,975 participants were tested, out of which 451 (15.16%) tested positive for antibodies. This survey provides estimate of Covid-19 incidence in the population. This means, these many people were already infected by Covid-19 and developed antibodies without any medicine or treatment. Most of these people experienced either no symptoms or only very mild symptoms. Akola district’s population is estimated to be 20 lakh in 2020. If 15.16% of it had already been infected and recovered as per the survey, then we can fairly say that more than 3 lakh people in the district have been infected already. Officially, Akola district’s Covid-19 case count is less than 8,000. This means, the number of unreported Covid-19 cases could be over 37 times more than the known cases. “District administration, GMCH Akola and public health department jointly conducted this survey between September 7 and 18. As per the standards of sero survey, we conducted blood samples of 2,975 people from different categories,” said district collector Jitendra Papalkar. Out of the 2,975 samples, 1,970 were collected from rural areas while 1,105 from urban population. Apart from these, 635 samples were collected from high-risk groups that include police, doctors, health workers, and journalists. All age groups were covered in this survey. “Overall, we can conclude that 15 out of every 100 citizens in the district have already been infected with Covid-19 and recovered without major symptoms. This means, major part of the population is still not infected and is at risk,” said Papalkar appealing to people to take every possible care to stay protected from Covid-19. Doctors at biochemistry department of Akola GMCH told TOI that the survey was comprehensive. “Akola has already experienced a peak of Covid-19 cases in June-July and second peak-like situation in September. Now, Covid cases and deaths have once again reduced significantly. Even after two waves of infection, less than 20% population is infected, indicating we have a long way to go,” said a senior doctor from the biochemistry department. In Nagpur, similar survey has just started and its results are expected in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-3l-already-infected-by-covid-in-akola-sero-survey/articleshow/78562919.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||No plan to shoot Rajura tiger: Chanda CCF||Chandrapur: Even as politicians are demanding shoot orders for dreaded Rajura tiger RT-1, forest department officials have deployed two hunting teams to tranquillize and capture the beast. APCCF Bhupendersingh Huda visited Rajura and took stock of the situation. He gave directives to intensify the efforts in view of growing outcry from the locals. He discussed problems being faced in capturing the tiger and told the officials to plug the loopholes. Officials were told to put more efforts into the operation, said Chandrapur CCF, NR Pravin. He said the tiger seems to have become alert and hence avoiding areas with human presence. Pravin said there was no plan to seek shoot order. He also countered claims by politicians that RT-I has claimed 10 lives and maintained that the official count is eight. Explaining reasons for failure to capture the tiger, he said that forest has grown thick during the rainy season and visibility has decreased considerably. “Moreover, the tiger moves in a large area spanning two ranges and tracking has become a daunting task,” he said. Sources claimed the tiger has killed around two dozen baits kept in the forest but the hunting teams failed to dart the beast. Moreover, a couple of senior forest officials involved in the operation have been infected with Covid-19 and those in their close contact were forced to go into quarantine, said the sources. Ex-MLA Sudharshan Nimkar told TOI visiting APCCF has assured him of a positive outcome in terms of capturing the tiger in the next five days. Citing information given by forest officials, Nimkar said that expert veterinary doctor-cum-shooter has been summoned from Nagpur, while the experts from Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve are already involved in the operation. He maintained that there could be angry outburst from people in problem area if any further incident takes place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-plan-to-shoot-rajura-tiger-chanda-ccf/articleshow/78562902.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Internet for 590 tahsil offices||Hyderabad: The Telangana government has decided to provide secondary internet broadband connection to 590 tahsil offices across the state. The decision has been taken as the tahasil offices would register agriculture property from Dasara portal. In an order, the IT department said the secondary internet connection is being provided to avoid the down or failure of connectivity using the Dharani project applications. As of now, all the offices across the state have been using 12 mbps SWAN connectivity for office. The offices have been asked to take broad connection for which the government would reimburse Rs 2,000 or actual, monthly bill whichever is less. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/internet-for-590-tahsil-offices/articleshow/78563757.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Varanasi||Soon, single-ticket facility to come up for hassle-free entry of tourists at all places||VARANASI: Before the Covid-hit tourism sector comes back on track, the tourism department will implement a unique facility that will make the travel experience of tourists smoother. Under this facility, all the venues where entry is allowed only after purchasing their respective tickets, can be accessed with just a single ticket. In this regard, the department is finalizing ties with Archeological Survey of India, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Trade Facilitation Centre, royalties of erstwhile Kashi kingdom, Kashi Vishwanath Temple, cruise service providers and others. Such tickets will not only be sold through travel agencies across the globe, but also online to individuals. Talking to TOI, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “The single-ticket facility will ensure hassle-free entry of tourists at all those places where entry is given only after after purchase of tickets. The introduction of the facility is in its final stage. Platform for booking e-tickets with barcodes is being developed by the tourism department.” The two museums of ASI in Varanasi—one at Sarnath and the other at Maan Mahal near Dashaswamedh Ghat—will avail the single-ticket facility as soon as it is introduced. Similarly, DDU-TFC and Kashi Vishwanath Temple including its aartis are going to be linked with the service. Ramnagar Fort, a private property, and cruise service, which is operated by a private company, have also agreed to get linked with the new system. In the coming days, the light and sound show of Sarnath and water parks would also avail the new service, said Agrawal. “The tourists will be able to book this ticket at the time of online reservation or travel agent-facilitated reservation. The price of the ticket will be concessional and affordable even for budget tourists. It will help save the time of tourists which is wasted in queues to purchase separate tickets at the different places they visit,” he added. The tourism department is likely to complete all the required exercises in this regard by year-end. “The tourism industry expects no improvement in the sector any soon,” said president of Banaras Hotel Association Gokul Sharma, adding, “However, once the Covid situation eases, Kashi’s pilgrimage tourism will bounce back. With relaxation in movement of buses and trains, pilgrims has started to arrive in good numbers, as was evident during Pitripaksha. We expect more footfall during Navratra.” According to joint director (tourism) Avinash Mishra, Varanasi has registered 68 lakh tourists including over three lakh foreigners in 2019. But, he said, the sector had been jolted badly due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/soon-single-ticket-facility-to-come-up-for-hassle-free-entry-of-tourists-at-all-places/articleshow/78561613.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Government submits health infra report in Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The bureaucrats tasked with auditing health infrastructure across the state in the Covid-19 pandemic have come up with their examples of crisis management by babus, versions of patients and their kin expressing satisfaction over health services and a few minor suggestions. In her affidavit tendered in the Gujarat high court (HC) on Thursday, Jayanti Ravi, state principal health secretary, in a great detail narrated how bureaucrats resolved a crisis caused due to the shortage of oxygen in Vadodara. The affidavit also includes the testimony of patients and their kin about their satisfaction with the health services provided by the state government and all of them are showering praises on the system. The 30-page affidavit includes few faults and suggestions by the supervising IAS officers. One IAS officer in his report said how in Tapi Covid hospital, patients’ relatives did not have newspapers to read in their waiting area and how a renbasera (night shelter) was located in front of a mortuary. The officer also pointed out that the hospital staff badly required training in biowaste disposal management. Another IAS officer had a suggestion that the SSG Hospital in Vadodara and Zydus Medical College Hospital in Dahod should run their help desks round-the-clock. Similarly, a supervising officer in Navsari’s Covid hospital found that the doctors were demanding regular payment of dearness allowance and travelling allowance. He suggested to meet the demand and also recommended the inclusion of private doctors from the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to fight the Covid situation. Since the HC had sought a detailed reply on the situation prevailing in Rajkot with a comment that the state authorities should not be late at least in Rajkot in fighting Covid-19, Ravi submitted, “...foreseeing the pandemic impact, the preparation for management of Covid-19 patients in PDU Hospital in Rajkot started well in advance under the supervision of the health department and with the lessons learnt from international and national experiences in other states.” The affidavit informs the HC about the health infrastructure. It says that at present, there are 14,860 oxygen-supported beds and 2,559 additional ventilators available in various hospitals across the state. There are 11,144 isolation beds, 1,454 ICU beds and 1,840 ventilators available in 37 government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-submits-health-infra-report-in-hc/articleshow/78561685.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Farm help killed in NZB||Hyderabad: Relatives of a 35-year-old farm worker, who was murdered in agricultural fields of Sirikonda village in Nizamabad district on October 3 by robbers, gave a petition on Thursday to local police and revenue officials demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. The victim was identified as Mamatha, 35, wife of Sailu, a shepherd from Sirikonda village in Nizamabad district. On October 3 morning, Mamatha went to their agricultural fields in the village. As she did not return home till evening, family members went in search of Mamatha and found her lying dead in the fields. “Assailants slit her throat with a sharp-edged weapon. They hit on her head with a blunt object and pressed her face in the mud. The offenders stole her two-tola gold chain,” Dharpally circle inspector Prasad said. Police shifted the body for post-mortem examination and doctors said there were no signs of sexual assault on the victim. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farm-help-killed-in-nzb/articleshow/78563751.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Now, farmers deny entry to AAP MLA||BATHINDA: After BJP, Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress functionaries facing the wrath of the farmers over new agriculture laws, the Aam Aadmi Party too is facing the heat. Noticeably, during their eight-day protest, farmers have not allowed representatives of any political party to address them from their stages. On Thursday, irate young farmers laid siege to AAP MLA Budh Ram’s vehicle at Barey village in Budhlada assembly constituency represented by him. The farmers did not allow the MLA to enter the village and asked him what his party had done for them and why its government in Delhi was not doing anything there for the farmers against the new farm laws enacted by the Union government. Earlier, protesting farmers had not allowed AAP MLA Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer to sit on their stage at Barnala Railway station. Holding protests at the residences of BJP MP, MLAs, farmers have also taken on Congress MLA Pritam Singh Kotbhai at Goniana in Bathinda and Congress ex-MLA Harchand Kaur at village Raisar in Barnala. At many villages, banners of disallowing SAD leaders have been been put up. A score of farmers asked MLA Budh Ram why he has come to their village “when he had not raised voice in favour of farmers when they were in trouble and fighting a big battle”. When contacted, Budh Ram said some misguided youth, who did not know what AAP was doing against the new laws, were raising slogans against the party. “They must know that our state president Bhagwant Mann had strongly opposed the legislations in Parliament and we are opposing these on the roads,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/now-farmers-deny-entry-to-aap-mla/articleshow/78562888.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 14 Covid deaths, 400 new cases||Dehradun: The Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand continued to rise with the state recording 14 deaths and 400 new cases on Thursday. The total number of Covid deaths in the state is now 702 while the total positive cases till date are 53,359. Of the 14 who succumbed to the deadly infection, the youngest was a 43-year-old, while the eldest was an 80-year-old man. Both of them died at the Himalayan Hospital in Jolly Grant and had multiple other ailments as well. Till date, maximum number of Covid-19 deaths in the state have been recorded in Dehradun (342) followed by Nainital (126), Haridwar (107), US Nagar (69) and Pauri (21). Maximum number of Covid cases surfaced in Haridwar (76) followed by Dehradun (70) and Nainital (58). Uttarakhand has 7,849 active cases at present, of which, highest are in Dehradun (2,447) followed by Haridwar (1,486) and Nainital (698). Presently, there are 252 hotspots of which maximum are in Haridwar (96). Notably, so far, maximum Covid-19 cases have been recorded in Dehradun (14,567) followed by Haridwar (10,120), US Nagar (8,812) and Nainital (6,299). On Thursday, as many as 904 patients recovered from the infection taking the number of overall recoveries to 44,535 in the state. The recovery rate meanwhile stood at 83.6%. The results of 14,243 samples are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-14-covid-deaths-400-new-cases/articleshow/78560531.cms||Shivani Azad
October 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: District stresses on SOP as guest workers return||COIMBATORE: With guest workers returning to the district, the district administration has instructed industrialists to follow the Covid-19 standard operating procedure (SOP) strictly. Collector K Rajamani told TOI that as of date, there are 47,168 guest workers in the district. “Of this, a small portion were those who stayed back in the district. The rest are those who have returned after the unlock,” he said. After the lockdown was announced, 83,000 guest workers went to their home states, the collector said. He held a meeting with industry representatives to ask them to follow the SOP. A release from the collectorate said the industrialists have been asked to immediately conduct Covid-19 test for workers who have symptoms such as cold, cough or fever. They have also been asked to use more thermal scanners, pulse oximeters and maintain records. Industrial units should encourage use of handwash and sanitisers at the entrance, ensure separate ways for people and goods to enter and exit, maintain distance at parking lots and dispose of used masks and gloves. President of Railway Suppliers Association S Surulivel, who attended the meeting, said guest workers have been returning for a month. “So far, they come with test result. Some people are also testing them for Covid-19 once they come back. But the collector has asked us to isolate them for a week and then test them, so as to get accurate result,” he said. “The workers are mainly returning by bus. Some of them come to Chennai by train and then come to Coimbatore by bus.” Officials from departments of labour and health will inspect the units to ensure SOPs adherence. District president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises J James said the businessmen requested the collector not to be too harsh with micro and small industrial units. “We asked him to give us instructions and a week to rectify the shortcomings,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-stresses-on-sop-as-guest-workers-return/articleshow/78562899.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Stop playing a ‘fixed match’: SAD president to Punjab CM||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has asked Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh “to end playing a fixed match” by purposely delaying bringing in legislation to negate the Centre’s agri laws “which were detrimental to the future of the farmers of Punjab”. Sukhbir said, “Capt Amarinder is again asking for time to bring the legislation despite the fact that the SAD was the first to make this demand more than 10 days back. We had asked the chief minister to call a special session and bring in legislation making the entire state a single market yard.” He added that the farm organisations were also making a similar demand. The SAD president said that his party would compel the Punjab Congress government to not only repeal amended the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act of 2017, but also bring in legislation to make the entire state one mandi so that the three agri marketing laws are no longer applicable in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stop-playing-a-fixed-match-sad-president-to-cm/articleshow/78562882.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Madurai||NHAI to remove 22 black spots along NHs in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The National Highways Authority of India is set to eliminate 22 black spots (accident spots) along national highways in Chennai and Madurai regions at Rs 400 crore. Of the 748 black spots on national highways in Tamil Nadu, extending over 6,741km, 487 were identified by the ministry of road transport and highways for removal based on accidents that took place between 2015 and 2018. “We got the nod to take up permanent rectification of 22 spots at Rs 400 crore as part of ongoing road widening projects in Chennai and Madurai regions. We plan to complete it by the end of October 2022,” said an NHAI official. The authorities are doing studies on the rest of the accident spots to find area-specific solutions to ensure safety of pedestrians and road users. “We will take up construction of flyovers, under-passages for public vehicles and cattle and also reduce narrow curves to remove the risk factors and eliminate black spots permanently. This work is aimed at segregating the local traffic and main traffic on national highways. It will be taken up based on suggestions of stakeholders and outcome of the study,” added the official. Of the 372 black spots to be studied, work on 69 was under progress as part of ongoing road widening projects including Chengalpet-Trichy stretch of NH 45 (new no: 32), Salem-Ulundurpet stretch of NH 79, Chennai-Tada stretch of NH 5 and Hosur-Krishnagiri stretch of NH 7. “We have sent a proposal for permanent rectification at 36 spots, while preparation of proposals is on to take up permanent measures in 252 other spots,” said an NHAI official The agency has provided temporary measures including blinkers, road markings, signboards, rumble strips and improving lighting facilities at 151 black spots. “Work is on at 264 spots which will be considered for permanent rectification in a phased manner,” added the official. For 2011-2014, the ministry identified 100 black spots in TN including 78 on national highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nhai-to-remove-22-black-spots-along-nhs-in-tn/articleshow/78565029.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
October 9, 2020||Chennai||NHAI to remove 22 black spots along NHs in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The National Highways Authority of India is set to eliminate 22 black spots (accident spots) along national highways in Chennai and Madurai regions at Rs 400 crore. Of the 748 black spots on national highways in Tamil Nadu, extending over 6,741km, 487 were identified by the ministry of road transport and highways for removal based on accidents that took place between 2015 and 2018. “We got the nod to take up permanent rectification of 22 spots at Rs 400 crore as part of ongoing road widening projects in Chennai and Madurai regions. We plan to complete it by the end of October 2022,” said an NHAI official. The authorities are doing studies on the rest of the accident spots to find area-specific solutions to ensure safety of pedestrians and road users. “We will take up construction of flyovers, under-passages for public vehicles and cattle and also reduce narrow curves to remove the risk factors and eliminate black spots permanently. This work is aimed at segregating the local traffic and main traffic on national highways. It will be taken up based on suggestions of stakeholders and outcome of the study,” added the official. Of the 372 black spots to be studied, work on 69 was under progress as part of ongoing road widening projects including Chengalpet-Trichy stretch of NH 45 (new no: 32), Salem-Ulundurpet stretch of NH 79, Chennai-Tada stretch of NH 5 and Hosur-Krishnagiri stretch of NH 7. “We have sent a proposal for permanent rectification at 36 spots, while preparation of proposals is on to take up permanent measures in 252 other spots,” said an NHAI official The agency has provided temporary measures including blinkers, road markings, signboards, rumble strips and improving lighting facilities at 151 black spots. “Work is on at 264 spots which will be considered for permanent rectification in a phased manner,” added the official. For 2011-2014, the ministry identified 100 black spots in TN including 78 on national highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nhai-to-remove-22-black-spots-along-nhs-in-tn/articleshow/78562958.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||C Rly to run 4 trains to Pune, another between Gondia and Kolhapur||Nagpur: After announcing the restarting Duronto and Vidarbha Express trains to Mumbai, the Central Railway has added 8 more pairs of special trains from October 11 within the state. Of these, Pune-Nagpur-Pune (01417-01418) Hamsafar AC special will run once a week. From Pune, 01417 will leave from October 15, every Thursday, and arrive in Nagpur the next day. The 01418 will leave Nagpur from October 16, on every Friday and reach Pune the next day. The train will have 13 AC-3 tier coaches. Another AC special will operate between Ajni-Pune. The 02239 weekly special will leave Pune from October 17, on every Saturday till and arrive at Ajni the next day. Similarly, 02240 special will leave Ajni from October 18 every Sunday till further and reach Pune the next day. This train will also have 13 AC-3 tier coaches. The third train to Pune will operate from Amravati. The 02117 Pune-Amravati AC special weekly will leave Pune from October 14 every Wednesday and arrive in Amravati the next day. Similarly, 02118 weekly special will leave Amravati from October 15 every Thursday till further advice and arrive in Pune the next day. Another train to Pune will operate from Ajni. Ajni-Pune 02224 weekly special will leave Ajni from October 13, every Tuesday till further advice, and arrive Pune next day. Besides, 02223 special will leave Pune from October 16 every Friday and arrive Ajni the next day. The Central Railway has also decided to operate Maharashtra Express between Gondia-Kolhapur. The 01039 special train will leave Kolhapur daily from October 11, till further advice and arrive Gondia next day. Similarly, 01040 special will leave Gondia daily from October 13, and arrive Kolhapur next day. Officials said bookings for these special trains will commence from October 9 and 11 at all reservation centres and online. Only passengers having confirmed tickets will be permitted to board these trains. Passengers have been advised to adhere to all norms, SOPs related to Covid-19 during travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/c-rly-to-run-4-trains-to-pune-another-between-gondia-and-kolhapur/articleshow/78562943.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lowest daily Covid tally in 39 days in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Thursday added 1,278 new Covid cases, taking the total to 1.48 lakh. It was the lowest daily tally in 39 days for the state and went below the 1,300-plus mark after 30 days. The state had recorded its highest tally on September 25 at 1,442. The new cases include 270 from Surat, 195 from Ahmedabad, 124 from Vadodara, 105 from Rajkot, and 89 from Jamnagar. With the update, the total tally of Vadodara went past 13,000 at 13,107. The case tally for Ahmedabad reached 38,466, Surat 31,317 and Rajkot 10,413. The state also recorded deaths of 10 Covid patients, taking the death toll to 3,541. The latest reported deaths include three from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Amreli, Banaskantha, Gir Somnath, Patan and Tapi. With the update, the deaths in Ahmedabad and Surat reached 1,838 and 792, respectively. A total of 1,266 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.27 lakh. The discharges included 306 from Surat, 242 from Ahmedabad, 108 from Rajkot and 105 from Jamnagar. With the update, the number of active patients in Gujarat reached 16,487. The share of active, discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat, out of total Covid-19 patients so far, was 11.1%, 86.5% and 2.4% respectively. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 52,465 tests, taking the total to 48.58 lakh. Analysis of the tests reveals that against the average of 69,540 daily tests in September, the number of average daily tests in October dipped by 21% in first eight days at 55,059. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.99 lakh persons under quarantine - out of the total, 407 are under facility quarantine, whereas the rest are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lowest-daily-tally-in-39-days/articleshow/78561668.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bhopal||Behenji will be kingmaker in MP, says BSP||Bhopal: With its third list for the upcoming bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, which was announced on Wednesday, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has fielded candidates for 27 assembly constituencies. Mayawati’s BSP will try its best to disturb the political equations in the state for the November bypolls. The bypolls, which have been necessitated after the resignations by 22 MLAs from the Jyotiraditya Scindia camp in March that led to the collapse of the Kamal Nath-led Congress government. The party has announced the names of Rajendra Singh Kanshana from Dimni, Rahul Dandotia from Sumaoli, Dr Virendra Sharma from Mungaoli, Rajesh Nagar from Hatpipliya, Om Prakash Malviya from Badnawar, Gopal Prasad Ahirwar from Surkhi (all general seats). The ticket for Ashoknagar (SC) seat has been given to Strom Billin Bhandari, Nepanagar (ST) to Mal Singh Patel and Sushil Singh Paraste has been fielded from Anuppur (ST) seat. “We announced our third list on October 7. Only one candidate from Bada Malhera is yet to be declared”, said Ramakant Pippal , the BSP state president. Pippal said, “Both Congress and BJP are worried. They are two sides of the same coin. Their leaders shift loyalties from one party to another according to convenience.” Pippal added, “The key to power will be in the hands of Behenji (Mayawati) after the elections. She will be the kingmaker in MP. We will get a large number of seats”. Former Congress minister Mahendra Boudh is the BSP’s nominee from Bhander seat (SC). Most of the seats the BSP will be contesting on its own fall in the Gwalior-Chambal belt where the party had gained sizeable support in the past elections. In the 2018 assembly elections, the BSP had won two seats in the 230-member Assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/behenji-will-be-kingmaker-in-mp-says-bsp/articleshow/78561642.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Underbridge built near HSR terminal site||Ahmedabad: To enable smooth construction of its station at Sabarmati, NHSRCL has constructed a new road under-bridge to facilitate direct entry to the construction site. This will allow construction without interference with the railway network on a day-to-day basis. The under-bridge has been built under the Ahmedabad-Delhi main line and is about 22m long. The officials said Sabarmati is the terminal station of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed rail corridor and NHSRCL has planned to develop it as a vibrant multimodal transport hub. A multi-modal transit terminal has been planned on the eastern side of Sabarmati HSR station which shall ensure smooth traffic flow near the HSR station. Sources said the railway board had in September decided to hand over the Sabarmati station and land near it to the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDCL) for development of the station on commercial basis to serve both the bullet train and the railways. The railways, in its design has proposed a single entry and exit for passengers of both the high-speed rail and Indian Railways. The proposed design envisages the bullet train station and Sabarmati railway station being connected with a skywalk. The first floor of the station will have restaurants and food courts. Officials said that the station end towards Ramnagar will be the entry point for the bullet train and railways and will also be connected to the part of the station near the central jail. Sabarmati station presently has 20 trains originating from the Ramnagar end and 22 trains stopping at the platform near the central jail. To segregate arriving and departing passengers to avoid obstructions and crowding, the new design has proposed separate entry and exit points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/underbridge-built-near-hsr-terminal-site/articleshow/78561690.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Farmer held for poisoning leopardess||Nagpur: A farmer has been arrested by forest officials for allegedly poisoning a leopardess that killed his calf. The case has been cracked nine days after the animal was found dead in a farm. According to Nagpur deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) Prabhunath Shukla, on September 30 evening, carcass of a leopardess was found under mysterious circumstances in the farm of Rahul Wasnik in Nayakund village under Ramtek range. Post-mortem was conducted at Nagpur on October 1 and samples were sent for forensic tests. During investigations, the officials had also collected pieces of bones and flesh on a nearby farm of one Gyaneshwar Bharsakre. Even as the probe was on and statements were recorded, Bharsakre confessed that he had sprayed insecticide on a half-eaten carcass of a calf, which was killed by the beast. The accused was arrested and produced before a judicial magistrate first-class (JMFC), Parsheoni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmer-held-for-poisoning-leopardess/articleshow/78562917.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Cops chase ATM thieves 1,300km, nab 4, recover Rs9.5 lakh||Nagpur: Rural polices’ Local Crime Branch (LCB) squad covered 1,300km in 15 hours to zero down upon a unique ATM breaker gang, which worked as truckers in the day. Police recovered cash Rs9.50 lakh and also seized their truck. The gang had broken at least two ATMs successfully, one at Mansar in Ramtek and another one at Nelgunda in Telangana, on their way to Tamil Nadu from Haryana to deliver a consignment for a company. By breaking ATMs, the gang had managed to steal around Rs30 lakh, while for delivering the consignment they would have earned Rs80,000 for the trip as truckers. In July this year, this gang had robbed cash from an ATM at Dhapewada too. Rural police team, under SP Rakesh Ola, had swung into action after the ATM theft at Mansar, where the ATM breakers had decamped with around Rs19.5 lakh cash. The LCB squad comprising senior inspector Anil Jittawar, assistant PI Jeetendra Vairagade, sub-inspectors Sachin Matte and Narendra Gourkhede had got the first clue while reviewing CCTV footage of a petrol pump near the ATM outlet which was targeted. “We could see a truck parked in front of the petrol pump. A man was spotted getting down from the truck with a gas cylinder in his hand and walking towards the ATM. Soon, others too were seeing following him. The truck’s registration number was noted from the footage and our probe kicked off in the right direction,” said an officer. “From the registration number, we could collect the name and mobile phone number of the owner of the truck and managed to trace it’s location. Our cyber experts had told us that the truck was moving south on National Highway -7,” said the officer. “When we started, our team was 900km behind the gang’s vehicle. We drove fast and had almost caught up with the gang but did not want it to realize we were tailing them, or they may have either tried to harm us or the public in their attempts to flee,” he said. “The local police of Tamil Nadu had also been alerted about the gang,” said the cop. “We allowed the truck to reach inside the company where it was supposed to deliver some consignment and then swooped down to arrest four (Sajid Khan, Ahmaduddin Usman, Taufiq Mamrezkhan and Jainulabuddin Khan) while two (Kala and Tajir) had left earlier,” he said. During searches inside the truck, the cops seized the gas cylinder, cutters and some tools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-chase-atm-thieves-1300km-nab-4-recover-rs9-5-lakh/articleshow/78562965.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Two arrested for duping 110 people||Hyderabad: Two persons who duped 110 people of Rs 44 lakh through multi-level marketing (MLM) schemes have been arrested at Mancherial. Ramagundam police intercepted M Kamalakar, 35, from Mancherial, and Raju Goswami, 35, from Bengaluru, at Mancherial on Thursday while they were travelling in a car with promotional material for MLM schemes. Police took the duo into custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-duping-110-people/articleshow/78563761.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers start indefinite dharna in Sirsa||Sirsa: Representatives of 17 farmers’ organisations started round-the-clock indefinite sit-in on Thursday near the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Stadium on Barnala road in Sirsa demanding the resignation of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and power minister Ranjit Singh. The dharna site is quite close to the deputy chief minister’s private residence. Haryana Kisan Manch’s state president Prahlad Singh Bharukhera said their main demand was that the deputy CM and the power minister should resign from their posts and stop supporting BJP. Kisan Sangharsh Samiti state president Mandeep, Bhartiya Kisan Union general secretary Dilbag Singh, Bharatiya Kisan Sangharsh Samiti president Vikas Sisar, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Jogendra Singh Nain, Kisan Manch’s SP Singh participated in the protest. On Tuesday, 17 different farmer organizations had tried to gherao the houses of deputy CM and power minister. The protesters had broken the police barricade and had faced teargas shells and water cannons. After this, the farmers staged a sit-in on the highway and continued throughout the night. On Wednesday morning, Sirsa police took 93 farmers into custody. All were released in the evening after a common consent was reached between the farmers and the administration over the dharna site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-start-indefinite-dharna-in-sirsa/articleshow/78562948.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Students crowdfund to help classmates who cannot afford fees||BENGALURU: From a first-generation learner, whose family lost their means of income, to a student whose entire family is in hospital, the student council of St Joseph’s College (Autonomous) was flooded with distraught emails and messages from pupils unable to pay fees. Realising the situation was dire, the council, together with volunteers and support from the college management, decided to raise funds to pay their peers’ fees. About 25 students launched an initiative on Ketto, the crowdfunding site, on September 8 with the aim of raising Rs 10 lakh by October 25. So far, they have raised Rs 2,83,800 through contributions from about 90 people. “We received messages from more than 65 students and we’re helping over 50 students,” said Aryan Anup, 19, a UG student and head of sponsorship of the college. “There must be more who need help. They may not have contacted us directly, but instead spoke to their mentors.” He said the management has also waived fees for many and helped others in different ways. “The pandemic has affected a lot of people. This is what we could do for our classmates,” he said, adding that their initiative supports students from both undergraduate and post-graduate courses. Shruti Lal, president of the student’s council, said the situation is so dire for some students that they are unable to pay even reduced fees. “One student said she comes from a family of seven and her father is their sole breadwinner,” Shruti said. “Now that he has lost his job, she is juggling menial jobs in the hope of paying her second instalment.” She gave another example of a UG student who reached out to them. “His mother contracted the infection and cannot return to work. He is contemplating dropping out and taking up a job to ensure his siblings get an education,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-crowdfund-to-help-classmates-who-cannot-afford-fees/articleshow/78561118.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Patna||ECR launches massive awareness campaign in Danapur||PATNA: The Danapur division of the Eat Central Railway (ECR) on Thursday launched a massive awareness campaign against Covid-19 pandemic . Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar administered an oath to all railway officials and employees of the division through video conferencing to take all precautionary measures and ensure implementation of the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and railway ministry from time to time to check the spread of the disease on railway premises. Railways reviewed its preparedness also to deal with Covid-19 menace successfully during the festive season in Bihar which is likely to commence with Durga Puja this month. An advisory has been issued to station employees to strengthen precautionary measures on priority . “Railway employees and passengers could be highly vulnerable if precautionary measures are not taken,” he added. According to the DRM, the railways took this measure to motivate railway employees working at stations, workshops, depots, control room and offices to follow Covid-19 related health protocol in the division at a time when number of passengers have increased either for boarding or alighting from special trains at different places in the division. In addition to cleanliness, railways is focussing more on maintaining social distancing among passengers boarding trains from Patna Junction and other major stations of the division, he said adding railways is only allowing confirmed ticket holders to enter the railway premises while platform tickets are not being issued by railways to check unnecessary rush of people. To ensure fool proof safety, every passenger contact surfaces like railway platforms, benches, chairs, washbasins, bathrooms, door knobs and ticket booking counters at all major stations are being disinfected. Besides, railways has also started supplying sufficient liquid soaps in coaches of every passenger train, the DRM said adding, “Fogging of passenger train rakes in the yards prior to their placement at platforms for onward journey is also being done.” Similarly, ECR’s Sonpeur division DRM Anil Kumar Gupta also administered an oath to railway officials and employees of the division on Thursday to take safety measures against the Covid-19 pandemic “Posters, banners and public address systems are being used in the division to create mass awareness among common people and passengers about the safety measures to be followed during journey by trains,” Gupta said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-launches-massive-awareness-campaign/articleshow/78560584.cms||Kumod Verma
October 9, 2020||Chennai||S Rly tries out battery-run locomotive to get greener||Chennai: As part of its initiative to reduce carbon footprint, Southern Railway is planning to try out battery-operated shunting locomotives to reduce dependency on diesel for moving rakes from stations to yards for maintenance. Railways still use diesel locos for shunting as the yards where coaches are maintained are not designed to enable electrification and use of electric locomotives. On Tuesday, a battery-cum AC operated dual-mode shunting locomotive called “Pasumai” was tried out at MGR Central railway station to pull a 24-coach rake weighing 1,080 tonnes to Basin Bridge maintenance yard. The loco pulled the rake to the yard in eight minutes at 15kmph. The loco that can run on battery and electric traction was developed by Electric Loco Shed, Arakonam, by converting a WAG5HA electric locomotive by adding two sets of batteries that can be charged. The locomotive can run for three and a half hours to four hours in battery mode and are easier to maintain than diesel locomotives. An official said, “Two more battery-operated locomotives are being developed for shunting work. More will be developed based on the performance of the one that has been inducted. The emission cut and diesel saved will be studied.” Sources said the move could be the beginning of phasing out of diesel locomotives from shunting work. Southern Railway is also looking at using these battery-run locos to attend to breakdown work where electrified lines may not be available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/s-rly-tries-out-battery-run-locomotive-to-get-greener/articleshow/78562970.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Farm laws anti-farmer, says Punjabi university teachers’ body||PATIALA: After holding a detailed discussion on the new agriculture laws, the members of Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF) of the Punjabi University, Patiala on Thursday claimed that both text and context of the acts are vehemently against the interests of the farm sector and the farming community. DTF has been supporting the ongoing agitation of the farmers against the new farm acts. They said bills have been drafted in a clumsy language, which conceals much, while the entry of private corporate purchasers would result in a dual market system for farm produce that would gradually weaken the assured minimum support price (MSP) and government purchase system. “The private corporate players by acquiring monopolistic power will be in a position to dictate terms of trade against the farmers, especially small and marginal. The timing of legislation points towards a subtle connection with rising tensions in the neighbourhood, lobbying by the domestic corporate sector, pressure from surplus food grain producing countries and meeting requirements of the world trading system,” DTF convener Jaswinder Singh Brar said. Unfolding of the policy package according to the new acts would jeopardise the farm economy of Punjab with consequential impact on all economic sectors, activities and sections of society, the DTF convener said. Brar pointed out that it would also impact the twice-recharging of the state’s economy in a year by the MSP-based procurement by the Centre with a circulation of huge money as payment to farmers, labourers and others associated with the farm trade. “Judicial exclusion is the worst part of the bill as district magistrate has been notified as the highest appellate authority to adjudicate in case any disputes between producers and buyers involved in contract farming,” Brar said. The members further apprehend that any unintended weakening of a tried and tested system due to these acts could also have adverse impact on the national food security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farm-laws-anti-farmer-says-pbi-varsity-teachers-body/articleshow/78562960.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress will win Dubbak bypoll: Uttam||Hyderabad: Exuding confidence that Congress will win Dubbak bypoll on November 3, TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the ruling TRS and BJP would be fighting for second and third positions. Addressing a series of meetings in Dubbak constituency on Thursday, Uttam said the people would crush the arrogance of TRS on November 3. He said KCR had cheated all sections of the society with his false promises. He said STs and Muslims were cheated with the promise of 12% reservation in jobs and education. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-will-win-dubbak-bypoll-uttam/articleshow/78563764.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Scent of scam money’ leads AAP to Punjab CM’s farmhouse||CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators tried to cordon the Siswan farmhouse of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, saying it was where a big part of Rs 64 crore made in the post-matric scholarship scam had reached. The marching band of Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema ran into police barricades at New Chandigarh T-point short of the farmhouse and served an hour’s detention at the Mullanpur police station for trying to crash through. Condemning the clean chit to minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot as betrayal against the Dalit children, Cheema asked the CM to instead put his minister under arrest and suspend him from the cabinet. Cheema also demanded a special assembly session on the new central farm laws, on which he also sought a meeting with farm unions and agricultural experts. He accused Amarinder of taking the excuse of Covid-19 to “sabotage the farmers’ agitation, while letting off corrupt politicians and the mafia”. Principal Budhram, Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Baljinder Kaur, Baldev Singh Jaito, Manjit Singh Bilaspur, Sarvjeet Kaur Manuke, Kulwant Singh Pandori, Meet Hayer, Rupinder Kaur Ruby, and AAP state general secretary Harchand Singh Barsat were the MLAs detained with Cheema, who called Amarinder “the next Hitler after Narendra Modi for stifling the voice of the opposition and running a corrupt government deaf to the farmers and Dalits”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/scent-of-scam-money-leads-aap-to-cms-farmhouse/articleshow/78562991.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand ramps up disaster communication facilities||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday inaugurated “quick deployable antenna (QDA) system” aimed at establishing communication channels in remote areas, in times when there’s failure of normal communication networks during a disaster. The QDA system, installed at State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA)’s control room in the secretariat, has been procured by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). “With this technology, the SDRF will be able to establish communication facilities in no signal areas in remote places of the state, especially during a disaster,” said Sanjay Gunjyal, Inspector General (IG), SDRF. During a visual demonstration session, CM Rawat spoke to residents of Gunji in Pithoragarh district, Malari in Chamoli district and Tyuni in Dehradun district — all remote places of Uttarakhand. While applauding the role of SDRF, the CM said, "QDA system will surely strengthen Uttarakhand's disaster response capabilities and will help in meeting future challenges." The SDRF officials claimed that with the inauguration, Uttarakhand has become the first state to use QDA technology in the country as till now, only NDRF and paramilitary forces were using this technology. "We now have six QDA systems, which can be installed at a helipad or any other accessible place in a disaster-hit area and a communication link can be established with the control room. Even video conferencing can be done with the use of this system," said Gunjyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-ramps-up-disaster-communication-facilities/articleshow/78560587.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 9, 2020||Chennai||Stalin thanks non-BJP CMs for confronting Centre on dues||Chennai: DMK leader M K Stalin on Thursday wrote letters to chief ministers of 10 states, who declined to accept borrowing options proposed by the Centre at the recently concluded GST council meeting. Thanking the chief minister of 10 states, including neighbouring Kerala and Puducherry, on behalf of the Tamil Nadu people for fighting for the rights of the respective states, Stalin said, “Your efforts in standing united to uphold federalism are greatly appreciated. When the Union has a moral and legal obligation to pay the states, proposing we should borrow to substitute for their non-payment is a travesty of both states’ rights and justice.” “On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, I truly appreciate your efforts so far, and urge you to stand firm even as our own Tamil Nadu government continues to betray its people,” he said. Pointing to the CAG report for 2018-2019, he said the Centre had illegitimately transferred Rs 47, 272 crore from the GST compensation account to the consolidated fund of India during 2017-18 and 2018-19. “The possibility of such illegitimate transfers for the past fiscal year (2019-2020) remains. The report states that the Centre accepts these wrongful actions and promises to correct them,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-thanks-non-bjp-cms-for-confronting-centre-on-dues/articleshow/78562988.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||With help from Doctors For You, Yelahanka hosp opens Covid unit||Bengaluru: Yelahanka General Hospital, the only government hospital in Bengaluru that had not set up Covid wards till recently, on Wednesday launched a dedicated Covid-19 unit. Although the government had provided all other infrastructure to treat Covid patients, the hospital lacked specialist doctors. That problem was solved by ‘Doctors For You’, an organisation that provides key specialists. The NGO has come to the rescue of government hospitals at a time when there has been little or no response to health department’s notification to hire specialists. “Human resources was an issue at our hospital and to tide over that problem we decided on a public private partnership. We have tied up with Azim Premji Foundation and Doctors For You. They have provided doctors and other staff to set up the Covid unit in addition to staff recruited by the government,” said Dr Asma Tabassum, medical superintendent, Yelahanka General Hospital. The hospital has 30 general oxygen beds and three high dependency units. It is likely to be allocated patients from Friday. It may be recalled that on September 20, TOI had written about the hospital’s travails. Staff resources plummeted after many of them caught the infection and the hospital was forced to shut its inpatient services and OPD for weeks. A total 34 employees of the hospital including eight doctors had tested positive in September which had severely limited the functioning of the hospital. Now, Doctors For You has deputed six MBBS doctors, two specialist doctors, 12 nurses and 22 supporting staff at the hospital. This is the third government facility assisted by the NGO in Bengaluru. The organisation has provided similar help to Anekal Taluk hospital and Charaka super speciality facility. Speaking to TOI, G Shandeepan, a director at Doctors For You, said that the medical NGO has signed a memorandum of understanding with the hospital to provide required medical staff till December 2020. “Given the pandemic situation, the MoU is likely to be extended Shandeepan said. He said that some doctors associated with the organisation have come to train the medical team in Bengaluru. Doctors For You is funded by Azim Premji Foundation. The organization has also assisted All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with Covid-19 work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-help-from-doctors-for-you-yelahanka-hosp-opens-covid-unit/articleshow/78561143.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Man booked for no. plate tampering||Hyderabad: The owner of a two-wheeler was booked for tampering his vehicle number plate by folding the corner of the plate. The accused, Mohd Najeebuddi, who was travelling to Panjagutta, was booked for cheating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-no-plate-tampering/articleshow/78562978.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Demand for remdesivir on the rise||Bengaluru: The government has been floating tenders to buy 50,000 vials of remdesivir once every 15 days due to rising demand and spiraling Covid-19 cases. Karnataka State Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society (KSDLWS), on September 28, sought to buy 50,000 vials. A tender for a similar number was floated on September 14. The government supplies the drug to government hospitals and patients referred by the government being treated in private hospitals. “We issue tenders depending on requirement,” said N Manjushree, additional director, KSDLWS. The state buys the drug at a cost of Rs 2,100 per vial from four major manufacturers. A five-day course involves administering 200mg intravenously on Day 1, followed by 100mg a day for the next four days. The drug comes in 100mg vials. For some patients, it is administered for 10 days due to the severity of infection. The drug is said to be effective in reducing the severity of the disease and preventing fatalities. Private hospitals TOI spoke with said close to 70% of patients require the drug. Meanwhile, the health and family welfare department has directed all districts to submit an audit on remdesivir use. “If criteria is followed and only patients with moderate to severe symptoms are admitted, about 70% of patients may require remdesivir,” said Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, HOD and consultant , pulmonology, Manipal Hospitals. “Remdesivir is a game changer when administered at the right time. Uninterrupted supply must be ensured.” Dr Prasanna HM, managing director, Pristine Hospital, said private hospitals are struggling to procure remdesivir even now since supply is erratic. “Even if we pay the full amount today, we would get a consignment after 2-3 days. The supply has been streamlined for government referred patients in private hospitals. But patients paying on their own in private hospitals are waiting for the drug, which is a scary scenario,” said Dr Prasanna, also president-elect of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). PHANA had raised these issues with the government in August and it had requested that hospitals directly procure from KSDLWS. “The government allowed us to purchase directly from the warehouse only for a couple of weeks and stopped it abruptly,” Dr Prasanna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/demand-for-remdesivir-on-the-rise/articleshow/78561173.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Task force busts betting racket||Hyderabad: West Zone Task Force busted a cricket betting racket on Thursday and arrested two organisers. The accused were caught accepting cricket bets from punters for IPL 2020 matches. Police seized Rs 45,000 and booked them under TS Gaming Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-busts-betting-racket/articleshow/78563009.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: CM candidate of the front not decided, say AIADMK’s ‘allies’||CHENNAI: The AIADMK may have settled the fight over the chief minister candidate within the party, but its allies are irked over the decision as they were not taken into confidence. Senior leaders in the BJP and the PMK have said the AIADMK’s decision is not binding on them as electoral alliance talks are yet to begin. After initially congratulating EPS, BJP state president L Murugan retracted saying it was an internal matter of the AIADMK. Senior BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan was more forthcoming with his reservations, even saying the BJP’s alliance with the AIADMK was only for the last LS polls, meaning they are no longer allies. PMK leaders said the party would decide the CM candidate only closer to the assembly polls. Not too long ago, the BJP and the PMK had been maintaining that they were part of the AIADMK front. AIADMK leader K P Munusamy’s announcement that party coordinator O Panneerselvam would declare the AIADMK front’s CM candidate is the bone of contention. If the AIADMK wanted to announce its CM candidate, it should have done that. “Why did they say he is the CM candidate of the front? Who have they discussed this with in the front?” asked a PMK state-level leader. Since PMK leaders S Ramadoss and Anbumani are yet to officially react to the development, the PMK leader preferred anonymity. “Our party general council had decided to take a call on alliance three months prior to the assembly polls. Talking about the CM candidate for the alliance now is like naming an unborn child,” said the PMK leader. The PMK is all set to harden its bargaining by demanding deputy chief minister post for Anbumani as and when alliance talks begin. “We have not ruled out any option,” the leader said hinting that it was not averse to going with the DMK if discussion with the AIADMK did not yield results. A senior BJP leader, referring to Murugan’s initial response to EPS’s candidature, said the BJP state chief had been instructed by the national-level leaders to retract. BJP spokesperson Narayanan Tirupathy said after the demise of Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK had been having a dual leadership. Hence, they had to choose a chief minister candidate to end the confusion. As regards the CM candidate of the alliance, the leaders of the allies should meet and discuss, said Tirupathy. Captain Vijayakanth’s DMDK has also chosen to remain silent for now. Not too long ago, the party’s treasurer Premalatha had called upon the party cadres to make Vijayakanth the King (read CM) in the next elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cm-candidate-of-the-front-not-decided-say-aiadmks-allies/articleshow/78563032.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||PhD scholars to get back to campus on Oct 15 for lab use||Hyderabad: The state universities are gearing up to welcome back to the campus PhD scholars from science stream, starting October 15, following a nod from the Telangana government as part of unlock 5.0 guidelines. Issuing a few relaxations, the state government said that only research scholars and and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental works may return to the campuses. However, although universities are keen on letting PhD scholars back, PG students are unlikely to return in state universities. At Osmania University (OU), the administration is deciding on allowing close to 700 research scholars after October 15. However, the university is not opening hostel facility. “We have to wait for standard operating procedure from the state government on reopening of hostels. Only day scholars will be allowed to resume their laboratory/experimental work at the university,” said Ch Gopal Reddy, OU registrar. The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad is also planning to follow suit as they intend to allow on campus only research scholars from this month. “The PG students are set to appear for their final year examinations from October 12. Once that concludes, they will head out for project work. Therefore, we are unlikely to allow PG students on campus at the moment and would prefer to call them once fresh admissions for PG courses conclude,” said Manzoor Hussain, JNTUH registrar. While universities await orders from the government on reopening of hostels, they have decided to reduce the number of students that will be accommodated in each room. Universities are also waiting to hear from the government on resumption of physical classes for undergraduate and post-graduate students as admissions are under process. By November, varsities expect social science and humanities research scholars also to return to the campus with due permission from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/phd-scholars-to-get-back-to-campus-on-oct-15-for-lab-use/articleshow/78563018.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||State agency approves Ambazari lake dam work design||Nagpur: The near 148-year-old and 1,070 metres long embankment of Ambazari lake is still robust, as per a report of the Central Design Organization (CDO). “The embankment includes 930 metre earthen and 140 metre of cement concrete portion at spillover point. The embankments is stabile,” executive engineer (irrigation department) Rajesh Dhumne told TOI. The CDO has approved irrigation department’s design for strengthening and beautification of the lake after suggesting some modifications, he said and added that this has paved way for the long-pending work. “The state agency has given its nods after minor changes in our proposal. Now, the design will be submitted to the chief engineer of irrigation department and in the next stage project cost will be estimated,” he said. If all goes well, the strengthening work will commence early next year, he said. It will be carried out in two phases. First phase will cover strengthening work while beautification if the lake and its surroundings will be taken up in second phase. Following a PIL and directives by High Court in 2018, the NMC’s lake and river department had approached the irrigation department for the work. Though department is claiming that the dam is stable, TOI visited the lake’s embankment and found that the platform at the spillover point of the lake and south-west portion is in a deplorable condition. Cracks can be spotted easily. Senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari claimed seepage has already started at several places from the concrete wall. “As per the previous plan, a cement concrete wall will be constructed between the Vivekananda Memorial and old wall,” he said. Steps will be repaired under phase-I strengthening and maintenance of both inner and outer slope of the embankment. Steps leading into the lake will also be strengthened. Work for parking area and three viewer galleries will also be carried out under the first phase. The second phase will focus on beautification which will include redesigning of areas surrounding the lake. “It may also cover the reconstruction of the bridge near the spillover portion of the lake,” said Dhumne. The project cost will be shared by MahaMetro and the NMC. To a query, Dhumne said that IIT-Mumbai had conducted a study over construction done by MahaMetro near the dam. Vibration caused by Metro train operations has not done any damage to the lake’s embankment, as per the study. A senior NMC official said that of the 1,070 metres of embankment, MahaMetro will share cost for work on 340 metres from the point where its pillars were constructed. The rest will be funded by the state government, as per the NMC. MahaMetro has already deposited Rs1 crore which helped NMC in getting the proposal prepared from the irrigation department. Tiwari stressed work should start without any further delay and demanded construction of steps in the lake for performing Chhath puja, a festival celebrated by Bihari community. BOX Phase-I Strengthening along with maintenance of both inner and outer slopes Solidification of steps Parking area development Phase-II Beautification of the lake and its surrounding areas Three viewers galleries Redesigning the Nag river bridge near the lake’s spillover point||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-agency-approves-ambazari-lake-dam-work-design/articleshow/78563029.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||American woman alleges rape, police register case||Rishikesh: A 37-year-old American woman was allegedly raped in the Tapovan area of Rishikesh by a local tour operator. A case has been registered by the police and a statement of the victim has been recorded. According to the police, the accused sexually assaulted her several times after giving her drugs without her consent. The victim claimed that the father of the accused, who is a retired Army officer, has been putting pressure on her to settle the matter. SHO Muniki Reti police station RK Saklani told TOI, “The victim has been living in Rishikesh since 2017 and has been working as an online English teacher. She met the accused, Abhinav Rai, three months ago and she was allegedly drugged and raped by him in his flat located at the Tapovan area. On October 5, the accused broke into the victim’s house, beat her and threatened her of consequences. The victim approached the police on Thursday and filed a case against the accused. An FIR has been registered under section 376 (punishment of rape) of the Indian Penal Code and the investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/american-woman-alleges-rape-police-register-case/articleshow/78560621.cms||MS Nawaz
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt teacher hangs self||Hyderabad: A 29-year-old government teacher ended her life allegedly after suffering from prolonged health issues, on Thursday. The deceased was identified as H Shailaja, a government teacher and resident of Laxmi Ganapathi Colony, Moinabad. The victim was found hanging in her rented house, said police. The victim was allegedly suffering from health issues for the past decade and was vexed with it. She left no suicide note. The police have registered a suspicious death case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-teacher-hangs-self/articleshow/78563030.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Man held for posting woman’s obscene pics, mobile number online in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The cyber crime branch of the Aurangabad city police have arrested a sales executive, working with a private bank, for creating a fake profile of a woman along with sharing obscene photographs and her mobile number on a social media platform. The alleged act by the accused resulted into mental harassment of the 24-year-old married woman, as she started receiving innumerable calls from unidentified numbers hailing from different parts of the country. Based on the complaint lodged by the woman, the cyber police have booked the accused under sections 354-C (capturing the image of a woman engaging in a private act), 354-D (stalking), 500 (defamation) and section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. In addition to this section of Information and Technology Act, 2000 and sections of Indecent Representation of Women Prohibition Act, 1986 have also been slapped on the accused. The 27-year-old accused has been identified as Santosh Dighode — a resident of Sevli village of Jalna district. Cyber police inspector Geeta Bagwade said the suspect knew the woman for several years and had been pestering her to accept his proposal. Around four years ago, the woman got married to another youth and the suspect too got married to another woman, but he continued to chase and pester her by one or the other means.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-held-for-posting-womans-obscene-pics-mobile-no-online/articleshow/78559315.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Storage in big dams slightly less than last year||Nagpur: In spite of near normal rainfall this year, storage in major dams of Nagpur division is slightly less than last year when there was very little rainfall in June and July. Even though there were floods due to overflowing of Totladoh and Kamptee Khairi dams this year, the storage in the two major dams is a little less than last year. However, rains are predicted in the coming days and this year may create a record of sorts as far as storage is concerned. The storage in 18 major dams of the division was 3,082 million cubic metre (mm3) against total capacity of 3,553 mm3, as on Thursday morning. On October 8, 2019, the storage in these dams was 3,104 mm3. In percentage terms, the storage is 86.74% this year against 87.36% last year. When it comes to the 40 medium-sized reservoirs in the division, the storage as compared to last year is far less. These dams have a total capacity of 536 mm3. The storage this year is 421 mm3 (78%) against 511 mm3 last year (95%). It is unlikely that more rains will make up this difference. If the storage is compared with last six years, then major dams have far more water this year, except last year. The five-year average storage in major dams of the division (between 2015 and 2019) is 2,018 mm3 while this year’s figure is 3,104 mm3. However, when it comes to medium dams, the storage this year is only slightly above the average figure between 2015 and 2019. Data provided by Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) shows that water was released from six major dams — Wadgaon, Sirpur, Dham, Lower Wardha, Gosikhurd and Dhapewada II — on October 8. VIDC is unable to store 100% water in Gosikhurd because some project affected persons (PAPs) still remain to be relocated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/storage-in-big-dams-slightly-less-than-last-year/articleshow/78563070.cms||Ashish Roy
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Birth date confusion persists as capital Hyderabad turns 429||HYDERABAD: Today is the birthday of Hyderabad. It was on October 9 in 1591 that the foundation stone was laid for the new city of Hyderabad after the then capital city of Golconda could not hold its ever-growing population and bear the burden of infectious diseases. Exactly one year prior to the foundation of Hyderabad, Golconda city and villages around the site where the Charminar now stands, witnessed a major plague epidemic triggering a health emergency and playing havoc with human lives. The residents placed a tazia or tabut (representation of the tomb of Hazrat Imam Hussain) at a place about 10km away from Golconda Fort. It was right on this spot that the Charminar was built, heralding a world-class city. According to Tuzuke Qutub Shahi, a historical account written during the Qutub Shahi dynasty, after the outbreak of an epidemic the people set up a huge Tazia during Muharram, 999 Hijri (corresponding to October 1590) as charm against the outbreak of plague. After the epidemic disappeared the Charminar was built. Though there are several theories on why the necessity of a new city arose when the fortified city of Golconda attracted the attention of the medieval world, the one on the plague epidemic gains more credence. The Charminar — built at the cardinal point of four highways, including the one leading to port city of Machilipatnam — has always stood as a charm against epidemics in Hyderabad if the minimal human loss in the last 430 years as compared to other cities, is any indication. City historian and chronicler, Dr Mohammad Safiullah, told TOI that the foundation of Hyderabad was laid during Muharram in 1,000 Hijri, which corresponds to October 9, 1591 of Gregorian calendar. “The world was celebrating the first millennium of Islam and Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah built the new city to mark the grand event. Charminar was built to celebrate the 1,000 years of Islam. One can safely say October 9 is the birthday of Hyderabad,” he said, adding that Charminar was built at a cost of two lakh Huns (Qutub Shahi currency) equivalent to nine lakhs of Moghul Rupee. Abdul Majeed Siddiqui, in his History of Golconda, writes that the Qutub Shahs desired to create a collective life in their subjects so that they could promote social activities, develop their mental and moral faculties and thereby diffuse their cultural rays all over the country. And Hyderabad continues to live up to its repute even four centuries later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/birth-date-confusion-persists-as-capital-hyderabad-turns-429/articleshow/78563095.cms||Syed Akbar
October 9, 2020||Agra||60 more Covid +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 60 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 6,170. A district supply officer and a junior doctor of SN Medical College were among those infected.Also, 73 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 6,170 cases reported in the district, 89.3% have been declared "cured and discharged".There are now 532 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 5,509 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/60-more-covid-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78560617.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||MLA Bains, LIP workers stopped from going near Union minister’s house||PHAGWARA: Lok Insaaf Party leaders and workers led by MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, who had announced to gherao Union minister Som Parkash’s residence here on Thuersday over farm laws, were stopped at a distance by the police. As LIP workers sat on the road where they were stopped, Bains said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs and other party leaders were also responsible for safeguarding interests of Punjab farmers and in place of just becoming messengers of union government they should raise issues of Punjab farmers. He also said Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had surrendered before BJP that is why it was not consulted by the Union government. Bains also said now Punjab CM Amarinder Singh was also dragging his feet over calling special session of Punjab assembly. LIP leader Jarnail Nangal, who contested previous assembly election against Som Parkash, also participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mla-bains-lip-workers-stopped-from-going-near-union-ministers-house/articleshow/78563057.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Agra||Six MPs urge Modi, Shah to step in & secure Kerala journo’s release||Agra: Six MPs, five of whom are from Kerala, have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah seeking their intervention to secure the release of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested in UP on sedition and terror charges when he was on his way to meet the Hathras victim’s family. In separate letters, Rajya Sabha MPs Binoy Viswam and PV Abdul Wahab, and Lok Sabha MPs Benny Behanan, PK Kunhalikutty, ET Mohammed Basheer and K Navaskanu wrote about the “arbitrary arrest” and asked the PM and home minister to uphold freedom of press and individual liberties. Kappan, secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), and three others — Atikur Rahman, Masood Ahmad and Aalam, had been detained in Mathura when they were on their way to Hathras. Police said they found “sensitive literature” on them and, later, charged them with sedition, booked them under the stringent anti-terror UAPA and linked them to an “international conspiracy to disrupt peace”. “Freedom of press is a cornerstone of a healthy democracy and the arrest of a reputed senior journalist Kappan on terror charges is a direct attack on this freedom. The reporting of such incidents and presenting the truth to the public is an essential part of a journalist’s work,” Viswam wrote. Behanan, too, wrote that the move holds larger implications for liberty in the Indian society: “This is not just an attack on the press freedom but also on the democratic rights of the Indian citizens.” In the immediate context, both said, it could influence the investigation. “The UP police has given a clear message to the media in India that objective reporting will not be allowed in the state,” Behanan wrote. Viswam, on similar lines, said this is an attempt to “distract” from the incident and create an alternative narrative. “At a time when accountability, transparency and the rule of law must be upheld, such actions by the state government can not be given legitimacy and must be condemned by you as the Prime minister immediately,” he added. Indian Union Muslim League MPs Wahab, Kunhalikutty, Basheer and Navaskanu, in their joint letter to Shah, sought that the “draconian charges” against all four be revoked. “The incident once again exposes the high-handedness of UP Police in annulling human liberties under the guise of maintaining law and order.” Former secretary of KUWJ’s Delhi’s unit, PK Manikandhan said this is a recurring problem: “Last week, a number of reporters were threatened and intimidated by the UP Police while covering Hathras. They were only doing their job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/six-mps-urge-modi-shah-to-step-in-secure-kerala-journos-release/articleshow/78560626.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||New grenades order for pvt co, cold shoulder for ordnance factory||Nagpur: Even as Economic Explosives Limited (EEL), a company from the city, became the first private entity to get a bulk contract to make hand grenades, the ordnance factory is awaiting a reply to its multiple reminders to the Army to place an order for its product too. Both, Ordnance Factory Khamaria (OFK), at Jabalpur, and Nagpur’s EEL, had got the technology from DRDO to make the latest multimodal hand grenades for the army. Even as EEL has got an order, the ordnance factory has been sending letters after letters to the Army. There has been no reply yet, said reliable sources. Both EEL and OFK cleared the trials for their respective grenades. However, the Army also wants both to prove that their grenades have a shelf life of 15 years. EEL has come up with a report ascertaining a 15-year shelf life. The company has used the isothermal micro calorimetry method, which it says is in line with NATO norms. EEL is the first to have introduced this method. Under this the shelf life can be ascertained in 4 months. The OFK on the other hand uses the intensive shelf life assessment method, which it says is the only approved method by the Directorate General of Quality Assurance (DGQA) of Army. The ordnance factory method takes two years. Under this system the grenades are kept in containers under various conditions to assess the shelf life. As it may take two years to get a final report, ordnance factory has been insisting that the Army can begin with taking the initial batches in the meantime. The factory has also agreed to replace the grenades if the shelf life of 15 years is not proven, said a source aware of the developments. However, there has been no response yet. EEL has got the contract through negotiation method and the ordnance factory will be getting the orders through the direct indenting system. The design has been made by Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL), that comes under DRDO. The multimodal grenades will be replacing the M36 grenades of World War II make used by the Army at present. Getting the grenade order also makes EEL the first private company to have bagged a contract for any complete ammunition system. EEL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Solar Industries, a listed company based in Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-grenades-order-for-pvt-co-cold-shoulder-for-ordnance-factory/articleshow/78563094.cms||Shishir Arya
October 9, 2020||Agra||101 of 124 patients who died of Covid-19 in Agra had diabetes||(Agra): Experts at SN Medical College, the only government-run L3 Covid care facility in Agra, attributed over 80 percent of the 124 deaths of infected patients in the district to complications caused by high blood sugar levels. Doctors further said that diabetes is a known co-morbidity and undermines the human immune system’s ability to fight Covid-19.Various studies in the wake of the virus outbreak, too, have pointed to increased complications among Covid-19 patients with diabetes, thus putting them at higher risk of mortality.Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “Diabetes is a known comorbidity. People with diabetes can avoid serious complications if the sugar levels in the blood are well-managed. Fluctuating blood sugar level can be lethal for Covid-19 positive patients.”At SNMC, 1,375 Covid-19 patients were admitted till Thursday evening. Of these, 1,060 were declared cured of the infection and discharged while 99 patients were shifted to other hospitals and 124 succumbed. Of the total deceased patients, 101 [81.4%] had diabetes. After Covid-19 infection, their health deteriorated rapidly.SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “People with diabetes lack a robust immune system to fight the new Coronavirus. Decreased insulin output impacts immunity and makes the body susceptible to infections and other chronic health issues.”“People with diabetes tend to have less than average blood flow, making it difficult for the body to transport nutrients to protect against infections and help in the healing process. Diabetes also keeps the body in a low-level state of inflammation, making it more difficult to recover,” Kala added.Covid facility in-charge at SNMC Dr Prashant Gupta said, “People with diabetes are among the most vulnerable to serious complications and death. While not everyone with diabetes has the same level of risk, it is essential for diabetic patients to maintain their blood sugar levels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/101-of-124-patients-who-died-of-covid-19-in-agra-had-diabetes/articleshow/78560620.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bareilly||Father booked for son's murder and burying him secretly during lockdown||Strap: SHO suspended for not registering the wife's complaintBareilly: A man along with two others were finally booked for allegedly killing his son over a property dispute and burying the body secretly during the Covid lockdown in April, in the Quila area of Bareilly. An investigation by circle officer Saad Miyan and the autopsy report confirmed that the man had died of pellet injuries in the chest and head. It indicated that his death was not natural.After this revelation, Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan has suspended Quila SHO Manoj Kumar. The SHO had reportedly refused to register an FIR earlier on the complaint of the deceased man's wife. An FIR has now been registered under the IPC sections of murder and disappearing of evidence against the father and brother. Both of them were detained on Thursday.Notably, the wife had approached the police on numerous occasions after the sudden death of her husband. And now, finally, after her repeated complaints, her husband's body was exhumed and sent for autopsy. On Wednesday, the SSP said, “The body was exhumed in the presence of a magistrate, and the investigation by the circle officer suggested it was an unnatural death. We are suspending the SHO for not registering the complaint and recommend departmental probe against him. Two accused have been detained while the third one is still absconding."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-booked-for-sons-murder-and-burying-him-secretly-during-lockdown/articleshow/78560628.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Agra||Hathras main accused says girl was his 'friend', Dalit family dismisses 'ploy'||AGRA: The primary accused in the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras has claimed innocence in a letter to the Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal, saying that her family did not approve of their “friendship” and it was they who beat her up to a point where she became critical. The family dismissed the letter as a “tactic” to escape punishment. “The jail administration received the letter, addressed to Hathras SP, on Thursday evening. It has been forwarded,” said Aligarh district prison’s jailer Pramod Kumar Singh. The superintendent of the jail, Ashok Singh, also confirmed the letter had been sent. The letter carried thumb impressions of the main accused, Sandeep, who wrote the letter, and the three others — Lavkush, Ravi and Ramu. “As far as (the girl) is concerned, she lived in my village and I was friendly with her. We would speak over the phone sometimes. Her family did not approve of this. I had met her on the day of the incident. Her mother and brother were with her...she asked me to leave and I came home,” the letter said. “Later, I got to know from other villagers that she had been beaten up badly by her mother and brother, leaving her severely injured,” it added. It also pleaded innocence on behalf of the three others and sought release. The girl, in her dying statement before a magistrate, had said she had been gang-raped by Sandeep and three others and had named them all. Her father said the letter was a ploy: “We want justice for our daughter. None of it (what the letter says) is correct. We did not beat her up. How can the government ignore the ill-treatment we are being meted out? The PM and CM should look into this.” Reacting to discussions around the alleged involvement of the gang-rape victim with the accused, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, “Creating a narrative that defames a woman’s character and holding her somehow responsible for crimes committed against her is revolting and regressive. A heinous crime has been committed at Hathras, leaving a 20-year-old Dalit woman dead,” adding, “She deserves justice, not slander.” Later in the evening, the family’s legal counsel Seema Kushwaha, who had also fought on behalf of Nirbhaya’s family, visited Hathras to wrap up paperwork for filing an affidavit in the Supreme Court. “Those accused in a case give statements in court … They don’t write letters from jail. What narrative is being created?” she asked. About the purported call detail records that showed 100 calls between the main accused and the victim’s brother in five months, Kushwaha said, “Even if a person is known to you, it doesn’t mean they can be condoned for a crime … The accused can’t be declared innocent even if he was talking to the family. What is the logic here? Besides, I have not seen the CDR myself.” The family, she added, is scared: “They can’t trust anyone right now.” (With inputs from Pathikrit Chakraborty and Shailvee Sharda) (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-main-accused-says-girl-was-his-friend-dalit-family-dismisses-ploy/articleshow/78560624.cms||---
October 9, 2020||India||'83-yr-old activist held sans warrant'||RANCHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken social and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy in custody from his residence at Ranchi's Namkum locality on Thursday "without producing any warrant", people associated with him told the media. NIA officials have not issued any statement on the matter yet. The 83-year-old is among the several other activists named in the 2018 Elgar Parishad case in Pune. Swamy's residence, named Bagaicha, has been raided twice in the past - on August 28, 2018 and June 12, 2019 - in the same case. Sources said an NIA team reached Swamy's residence without informing the local police. One of his colleagues told TOI, "The team behaved rudely and picked him up forcefully at night stating that senior officials in Delhi have asked them to question him. We do not know what prompted them to suddenly detain an elderly person during a pandemic. Swamy has never resisted any questioning and has always cooperated whenever required." CPI (M-L) state secretary Janardhan Prasad and Bagodar MLA Binod Singh also condemned the NIA's action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/83-yr-old-activist-held-sans-warrant/articleshow/78564655.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 9, 2020||Meerut||Voices being suppressed, discontent simmering: RLD’s Jayant at mahapanchayat||Muzaffarnagar: At a well-attended mahapanchayat organised by Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) here on Thursday, the party's national vice president Jayant Chaudhary said the massive presence of farmers at the rally showed that people are against the “anti-farmer” policies of the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government.Though the ‘Loktantra Bachao’ (save democracy) mahapanchayat was not given permission by the district administration, the rally got direct support from other opposition parties as Congress leader Deepender Hooda, UP Congress vice-president Pankaj Malik, former MLA Imran Masood, Samajwadi Party leader Dharmendra Yadav, INLD leader from Haryana Abhay Chautala, and BKU national president Naresh Tikait also addressed the rally. Thousands of farmers, youths and heads of several khap panchayats were also in attendance.“There is simmering discontent and people want an avenue to express that. Hathras was a catalyst. The government is trying to suppress the opposition. The farmers want to agitate but they are being suppressed. We are sad for the incident that happened in Hathras and we will fight till the last breath to bring justice to the victim’s family,” Chaudhary later told TOI.The RLD leader announced another mahapanchayat in Mathura district on October 12 and asked the public to put up a similar show of strength there too.Police force from neighbouring districts, ten companies of PAC and the bomb squad were deployed in Muzaffarnagar to avoid any untoward incident.Additional district magistrate (enforcement) Amit Singh said, “Section 144 was imposed in the city and the permission to hold any such event was not given by the administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/voices-being-suppressed-discontent-simmering-rlds-jayant-at-mahapanchayat/articleshow/78560646.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 9, 2020||Bareilly||Farmer sacrifices life to save livestock from fire in Kheri||Bareilly: A 28-year-old farmer was charred to death while trying to save his livestock in Gulra Bhagwant Nagar village in Kheri district on Wednesday night. He was sleeping when his house caught fire.Khemkaran rushed out with his family members, and on seeing that the fire had spread to the cowshed as well, he jumped into it to rescue the cattle. Though four animals were killed, he managed to save a calf and a bull.Khemkaran is survived by his wife and a two-year-old daughter. His brother, Saligram, said, “We were sleeping when a massive fire broke out in the house. Fire brigade took nearly an hour to reach the village and everything had burnt down completely by then. Khemkaran saved two animals, but we lost him.”Palia SHO Bhanupratap Singh said, “We rushed to the spot as soon as we received the information. We ensured that the fire did not spread to other houses in the vicinity and doused it with the help of the locals.”Terming the incident as unfortunate, local MLA Romi Sahni said, “We will recommend increasing the number of fire engines in the area to improve the response time.” Sahni has announced a compensation of Rs 25,000 for the family of the deceased and promised them relief of Rs 4-5 lakh under the State Disaster Relief Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-sacrifices-life-to-save-livestock-from-fire-in-kheri/articleshow/78560632.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||CM launches ‘Solar Swarozgar Yojna’ for self-employment of youths||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday launched the ambitious ‘Mukhya Mantri Saur Swarojgar Yojana’ which aims to generate self-employment to 10,000 people in the state. The CM said that through this project, the government would give opportunity to the youths to set up solar power plants of 25-kilowatt (KW) capacity. He said that the process of applying for the scheme should be kept simple and land conversion should be completed within a week. According to officials, around 1.5 naali (land measurement unit) to 2 naali land is required to set up a 25-kw solar plant. The total project cost of each plant is estimated to be Rs 10 lakh. On the basis of average sunlight received in state, a plant can generate 38,000 units of power each year. The beneficiaries can take loan from cooperative or nationalised banks. The co-operative bank will provide loan for this scheme for 15 years at an interest rate of 8%. The CM pointed out that a four-month time period haas been wasted due to Covid-19 outbreak and the projects needs to be executed at “double the pace in the next eight months”. “Permanent residents of the state can set up solar power plants on their private land or on lease,” he added. The list of all these transformers would be made available online. Electricity generated from the project allocated under the scheme will be purchased at rates determined by the UPCL for 25 years. For this, a power purchase agreement (PPA) will be made with the concerned beneficiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-launches-solar-swarozgar-yojna-for-self-employment-of-youths/articleshow/78560652.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||State may need 22k guest teachers||Mysuru: The department of public instruction has initiated the process of appointing guest teachers on contract basis in government schools to fill in for regular faculty, many of whom have contracted Covid-19. The state needs 1.9 lakh teachers to run government primary and high schools, but faces a 20-25% shortage. Mysuru district alone needs 904 guest teachers. Mamatha Naik, director, DPI, said details are being collected on the shortage from all education blocks. She said guest teachers are needed to continue Vidyagama classes. “Once details are available, a list will be finalised and sent to higher officials for approval,” Mamatha said. “The state may need around 22,145 guest teachers this year.” Those appointed in primary schools will be paid a monthly honorarium of Rs 7,500 and those handling high school classes will get Rs 8,000 per month. R Udaykumar, deputy director (in-charge), DPI-Mysuru, said although many permanent staffers are down with Covid or on leave, the department is ensuring enough teachers to conduct Vidyagama classes. However, Revanna, director of State Government Employees Association, said many guest teachers were laid off because of the pandemic and that the honorarium was meagre. “Government must ensure ESI, provident fund, ID cards, service certificates and salary in the first week of every month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-may-need-22k-guest-teachers/articleshow/78560990.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Meerut||IAF chopper makes emergencylanding in a paddy field in UP||Meerut: An ALH Dhruv helicopter of Indian Air Force (IAF) made a precautionary landing in a paddy field in UP's Saharanpur on Thursday. The pilots were unhurt.The light helicopter had developed a technical snag soon after it took off on a routine sortie from Sarsawa Air Force station in Saharanpur, sources said.The landing took place near a forested area of Kallarpur village around 30 km south of the Air Force Station, on Thursday morning. Local police had to secure the site from curious onlookers. Soon, technicians from the base reached the site.Nanota SHO Veeresh Giri said, "We received the news of the emergency landing and immediately secured the area. The pilots said that there was some technical fault that compelled them for precautionary landing."This is not the first time an IAF chopper has made an emergency landing in the region. A Chetak helicopter had made a similar landing on Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Baghpat on April 16. The copter was on Covid-19 mission carrying blood samples of patients from Leh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/iaf-chopper-makes-emergencylanding-in-a-paddy-field-in-up/articleshow/78560636.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 9, 2020||Meerut||UP govt extends grains, cash scheme for missed midday meals from July to Aug to 1.5cr schoolkids||MEERUT: UP government has extended the foodgrains and cash allowance scheme for 1.5 crore students studying at state government-run schools for missed midday meals for 49 working days from July 1 to August 31. Earlier, the scheme was announced for a 76-day period from March to June. The schools were closed during this period due to the Covid-19 lockdown. According to the government’s decision, each primary class student will get 4.9kg of grains and an upper primary class student 7.35kg each for the 49-day period. In addition, a total sum of Rs 243.50 each for primary class students will be transferred via online banking to the accounts of their parents while each upper primary class student's parents will get Rs 365. The funds are a part of the conversion cost -- the money allotted per child to make a meal in a day. The conversion cost of midday meal, according to the Government of India, from July 1 to August 31, was Rs 4.97 a day for each primary student and Rs 7.45 for each upper primary student. An order to the effect was issued by RV Singh, UP special secretary. It said the money will be transferred only after the block education officers concerned provide the details of each student from Prerna portal to each school principal – who will further investigate the details before transferring the money||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-govt-extends-grains-cash-scheme-for-missed-midday-meals-from-july-to-aug-to-1-5cr-schoolkids/articleshow/78560642.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 9, 2020||Bareilly||7-year-old boy's partially eaten body found in field in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: A partially eaten body of a seven-year-old boy was found in a paddy field in Mirzapur area of Shahjahanpur district on Thursday afternoon. Nearly 80% of the flesh from the body was missing. This has surprised both police and residents as the surrounding area falls under social forestry region and carnivores like leopard or tiger have never been sighted there in living memory.The boy, who was mentally handicapped, had gone missing on Monday evening. His father had lodged a complaint with police.A forensic team examined the spot to gather evidence.S Anand, SSP, Shahjahanpur, said, “Prima facie it looks like the boy was killed by a wild animal. But there is also a possibility that his body was dumped there after he was killed and wild animals devoured his flesh. We are waiting for the autopsy report to confirm reason of death."Victim's family could not throw any light on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/7-year-old-boys-partially-eaten-body-found-in-field-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78560629.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: I-T department raids 26 premises of Popular Builders||AHMEDABAD: The income tax (I-T) department on Thursday carried out a major search operation across 26 premises belonging to city-based Popular Builders and those associated with the management. The search continued till late evening as the officials made inventory of the seized documents and valuables.  The Patel family associated with Popular Builders was recently in news as Raman Patel and his son Monang were accused of domestic violence. Sources close to the development said that the group had amassed a huge land bank in and around Ahmedabad and the group was on the department’s radar for some time. One of the premises linked to Popular Builders GroupIt was the first major operation by the state I-T department post Covid-19 lockdown. “All the officers directly involved in the search of premises were provided PPE kits, their temperature measured, and social distancing was maintained under watchful eyes of the senior officers. It meant use of more resources such as vehicles, but the SOP would become the norm for future searches and surveys,” said a senior I-T official. While the officials refused to divulge the amount of cash and jewellery seized from various premises, they said that they got details of 14 lockers in different banks which are sealed for further probe. “Earlier, the search was initiated at 24 locations – 18 residential premises and six offices – associated with the top management. We then got details on Bharat Patel, who works with the firm. His flat was searched when we got location of a secret apartment on the same premises. The apartment – belonging to him – fetched a large number of documents associated with the group’s financial transactions,” said an official close to the development.  Some of the locations where the search was conducted included four bungalows at Popular Park, Harbans Kutir in Navrangpura, their offices at New York Tower, Popular Corporate Park on Sindhu Bhavan Road, Pushpak Bungalows in Ambli, Satyagrah Chhavni in Satellite, and Venus Benecia in Bodakdev among others. A senior official said that the group has 80-odd companies. The firms’ transactions of past few years would be under scanner to check for any discrepancies as the books of accounts will be matched with the official submission made at the I-T department. Some members of the Popular Builders Group: Ramanlal Patel, Dashrath Patel, Chhagan Patel, Aalap Patel, Priyesh Patel, Prathmesh Patel, Vikram Patel, Virendra Patel, Krupesh Patel, Mrugesh Patel, The I-T team also searched premises belonging to Lakshman Vekariya, Zankhit Prajapati and Bharat Patel Firms associated with Popular Builders Group: Popular Estate Management Ltd, Popular Club and Resorts Ltd, Popular Realty Pvt Ltd, Pioneer Infra Pvt Ltd, Savan Farms Pvt Ltd, Dashrath Farms Pvt Ltd, Sholay Farms Pvt Ltd, Shalimar Farms Pvt Ltd, Shaandar Farms Pvt Ltd, Sheetal Farms Pvt Ltd, Shiva Farms Pvt Ltd Documents found at ‘secret flat’: I-T sleuths said they were surprised to find a large cache of documents at a ‘secret’ flat belonging to Bharat Patel on Satellite Road. “It’s possible the promoters may have got wind of the possible action and thus not much was recovered from their offices. We have also seized hard drives which will be sent for forensic investigation,” said an official privy to the development. Personnel brought in: Officers and personnel from Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara were roped in for the raids which began early on Thursday morning simultaneously at 20 premises, so as not to allow time for a cover-up by the construction company. A total of 27 teams with about 150 officers and personnel were involved in the operation. A couple of teams were roped in just to inventory the documents found from an apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-t-dept-raids-26-premises-of-popular-builders-seizes-14-lockers/articleshow/78561951.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Update exam app, appeals NU after students fail to log in even on Day 2||Nagpur: The Nagpur University’s Board of Examinations and Evaluation director Prafulla Sabale on Friday morning appealed to students to update their RTMNU ‘Pariskha App’ after several complaints were received regarding the software not opening. Following widespread complaints of technical errors reported on Thursday, the exam section removed the troublesome provision of the one-time password (OTP) needed after logging in the app to appear in the online exam. Sabale said the students are being asked to update their App as the OTP process has been removed. Several colleges were flooded with calls from worried students of management course as they were unable to login for the paper scheduled in the morning. Exam officals said such students would get additional time of 30 minutes. Students also reported mistakes in their hall tickets. Some students told TOI that they had updated the App yet it was not functioning. Officials blamed slow internet speed for the problem. On Thursday, the officials had blamed the mobile service providers for delay in receiving OTPs and thereby crippling the entire exam process. Students of management and humanities said that their exam was scheduled from 11.30am to 12.30pm. “Start time was pushed to 12.10pm. But it is 12.35 pm and still the exam hasn’t started. In our college WhatsApp group, students are angry and discussing if it will happen or not and whether we should demand offline exam. It must happen smoothly. We have already spent so much time waiting for this moment. We are feeling bad,” said the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/update-exam-app-appeals-nu-after-students-fail-to-log-in-even-on-day-2/articleshow/78569647.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||With pvt schools withholding TCs, admission to govt schools in limbo||BENGALURU: While several students are seeking to move from private schools to government ones due to the pandemic-indcued economic crisis, many are in limbo since transfer certificates (TC) have become a sore point. Volunteers say private schools are refusing to issue TCs to students who have fees pending from last year and government schools cannot complete admission formalities without the document. “Of the 120 admissions this year, around 50 were students from private schools,” said Sumedha Rao, a lead volunteer with Whitefield Ready which works with government schools. “Most parents cannot get TCs as they have payments pending from last year. In government schools, TCs are mandated in the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS) website. We have asked students to join online and offline classes, but other formalities like formative assessment can be done only if they’re formally enrolled.” Rizwan Ahmed, founder-member, Gubbachi Learning Community, another NGO that works with government schools, concurred saying “Many students take intent-to-join forms, but never return with the required papers. They attend lessons under the Vidyagama programme, but their admissions are incomplete.” Private schools, though, accuse government officials of resorting to unfair means to get TCs. “In small private schools, many parents pay fees only when exams approach. Since schools were closed in March, they did not pay fees that run up to Rs 40,000-Rs 50,000 per student, leaving private schools in a financial crisis,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. The association says department officials log into the school’s system and take away the TCs without the school’s approval. “This is nothing but theft,” Kumar said. “Managements of these small schools would have given IDs and passwords to department officials. They are now using them to take TCs. We will file complaints with cybercrime police if this continues.” The association has accused the government of resorting to double standards by allowing continued learning through Vidyagama programme in government schools, but not allowing private schools to resume classes. However, V Anbukumar, commissioner of public instruction, said: “We will ensure no child is left out. It’s the duty of government schools to enrol students who approach them. We stand by the student at all times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-pvt-schools-withholding-tcs-admission-to-govt-schools-in-limbo/articleshow/78561220.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Shepherd dies, kincritical after assault||Aurangabad: A shepherd who was allegedly attacked by a group belonging to a family three days ago in Chincholi village of Jalna district died during treatment at the GMCH here on Thursday. Seven suspects have been arrested in the case. Hasnabad police said Ramdas Joshi (35) and his 18-year-old nephew Yogesh were attacked with axes, sharp weapons and sticks for entering a farm, leaving them seriously injured. Yogesh is battling for life at the GMCH, said police. Hasnabad police inspector Santosh Ghodke told TOI that there is an ongoing dispute between the victim and the suspects over the possession of a farmland. “We have arrested the seven suspects named in the FIR and further probe is underway,” added the officer. Community members demanding immediate compensation for the family of the deceased refused to accept the body for several hours. It was only after senior officers of Aurangabad city police intervened that the family relented on their demand. Not taking any chance, heavy police bandobast was deployed even in Chincholi village, where the body was taken in the evening. According to police, on the day of the incident, the shepherd’s cattle entered the farm owned by one of the arrested suspect, resulting in a heated argument. It soon took a violent turn with several members of the suspect’s family reaching the spot and allegedly attacking the duo. “The family of the deceased lodged a complaint against seven people of the main suspect’s family. The victim’s family also alleged that the suspects ran a tractor over Yogesh, possibly causing him permanent disability,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shepherd-dies-kincritical-after-assault/articleshow/78559371.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Diesel thieves gang busted, 4 from MP held||Nagpur: Sakkardara police have arrested four persons, all from Shajapur in Madhya Pradesh, for their alleged role in stealing diesel from parked vehicles on highways and other places. The four — Biharilal Malviya, Golu Jatav, Mahesh Jatav and Khemchand Jatav — were arrested from Bhande Plot area after they were spotted roaming in suspicious manner in the wee hours of Wednesday. During questioning, the quartet confessed to stealing diesel from trucks and lorries. Sakkardara police, under senior PI Satyavan Mane and zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, have earlier detected diesel thefts under several rural police stations like Umred, Kuhi, Ramtek, Kalmeshwar and Buti Bori. Police claimed the gang members had several serious offences registered against them in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/diesel-thieves-gang-busted-4-from-mp-held/articleshow/78563107.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||Four get 20 year jail in gang rape case in Gadchiroli||NAGPUR: The sessions court on Wednesday sentenced four persons to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs55,000 after finding them guilty in a case of gang rape at Gadchiroli in August 2018. The judge, RN Mehare, also issued an order to extend compensation of Rs2 lakh to the gang rape survivor. The four convicts, Nikhil Mondal, Rajesh Dakwa, Mahadev Barai and Swaroop Mistry, were also held guilty of assault, extortion and threatening by the court. It’s learnt the victim and her would-be husband were talking to each other at Laldongri when the four accused had clicked their photograph, demanded Rs4,000 after threatening to upload the images on the social media, and also thrashed them. The four had later also dragged the victim to the nearby forest before forcing themselves on her. On September 1, the four were arrested by the Chamorshi police. The case was investigated and chargesheeted by sub-inspector Nisha Khobragade. The prosecution was represented by additional public prosecutor Anil Pradhan. Senior inspector Prakash Tunkalwar had coordinated the case during the trial. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-get-20-yr-jail-in-gang-rape-case-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/78563125.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Abhay Singh Chautala, Deepender Singh Hooda join ‘mahapanchayat’ slam Centre’s anti-farm policies||CHANDIGARH: Some of the prominent Congress leaders from Haryana, including Abhay Singh Chautala and Deepender Singh Hooda, joined the ‘Loktantar Bachao Mahapanchayat’ organised in UP’s Muzaffarnagar on Thursday to protest against the lathicharge on Rashtriya Lok Dal’s (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary for seeking justice for the family victimised in the Hathras case. Addressing the gathering, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender appealed to the farmers to rise above the caste or community lines. “If the farmers do not organise themselves, they will be beaten up on roads and their crops would be beaten up in mandis. The BJP government has started doing both these things through the newly introduced farm laws,” he said Deepender. He said the BJP government wanted to suppress all those voices that are raised for the poor, farmers and labourers. Attack on Jayant Chaudhary, who was going to meet the Hatharas victim’s family, was one such example, he added. INLD’s secretary general and Ellenabad MLA Abhay said instead of bringing justice for the victim of Hathras incident, the UP government was trying to save the perpetrators. He said Jayant is not only Ajit Singh’s son but also the grandson of Chaudhary Charan Singh, who were farmers’ messiah. UP Police did not just lathicharge on Jayant, but every farmer, he said. The INLD leader appealed to the political parties present on the stage that the time has come again to rise above politics and mobilise against the oppressive policies of the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/abhay-deepender-join-mahapanchayat-slam-centres-anti-farm-policies/articleshow/78563134.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: BJP gears up for municipal polls||JAIPUR: The BJP had started preparing for the municipal elections in the state much before the clouds of uncertainty had cleared. The party has now constituted a five-member monitoring committee to take stock of the preparations. The committee comprises party's senior members — Ashok Saini, Shravan Bagdi, Madhu Kumawat, H Khan and Meenakshi Pareek. The committee will work on campaigning and oversee meetings to be held during the polls. Organisation general secretary Chandrashekhar also held a meeting of this state-level monitoring committee in which all aspects regarding the elections were discussed. Chandrashekhar also called Malaviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan Saraf and Vidyadhar Nagar MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi separately to know their perspective about the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). A senior party office-bearer said, “Since the JMC was constituted, the BJP has retained majority. In such a situation, the party wants to maintain its record and do not want to lose its strong hold." After the formation of 250 wards, the party strategist also discussed about the new circumstances and changed equations due to fresh delimitation. Sources said the situation cannot be ruled out that BJP’s chances of winning in the election during the Covid times are comparatively lesser. "A less voter turnout could go against BJP," said a source. The party is also taking feedback to devise a strategy if elections happened in October. In a legal cell meeting on Thursday, the state law cell convenor of BJP, Surendra Singh Naruka said that in the municipal elections, all legal information will be obtained from the applicant by the party. In a big political move, the state government last year decided that Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota will each have two municipal corporations and two mayors. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal said the decision was taken as these three cities have a population of over 10 lakh each. The move was to weaken the BJP's strong hold in cities. BJP is worried as the move might favour many independent candidates. "The size of the wards is reduced and the average population of one ward is 10,000 to 12,000. This will increase the possibility of independent candidates, who are associated with people of their wards and carrying out their works, winning the elections. Party tickets will not matter much in these polls," said Sushil Sharma, a former independent candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-gears-up-for-municipal-polls/articleshow/78561943.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Docs perform rare heart surgery||Jaipur: The cardiac surgeons of Mahatma Gandhi Hospital on Thursday replaced defective part of aorta near the heart with a dacron tube and restored blood circulation to all parts of the body, including the heart of a 36-year-old person, suffering from Marfan’s syndrome. The surgery took eight hours. It was a rare and complex heart surgery as doctors had to put the patient on a heart and lung machine while implanting dacron graft which is made of synthetic material in place of defective aorta. “Aorta is the biggest artery in the body that arises from the heart. It is like a pipe and supplies blood to the entire body through many branches. The patient was suffering from Marfan’s syndrome which weakens aortic wall. As a result, the layers in the wall of the aorta split. The split spreads rapidly through the length of the aorta in such a condition that the patient felt excruciating pain in the chest,” said Dr M A Chishti, director of heart surgery department of Mahatma Gandhi Hospital. The patient required immediate surgery as there was a risk in which aorta can burst or stop blood supply to the heart or brain and kill the patient instantly. While the doctors performed the surgery, the blood in the body was diverted into a heart and lung machine which purifies the blood and returns it to the body continuously at five litre/minute rate. To prevent damage to the heart, brain, spinal cord and kidneys, the body is also cooled to 20 to 24 degree Celsius and special protective concoctions are used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-perform-rare-heart-surgery/articleshow/78561955.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Bengaluru||40-yr-old doctor dies of Covid||Bengaluru: A 40-year-old doctor, who was treating Covid patients in ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar, succumbed to Covid on Thursday. Dr V Basavaraj tested positive in the last week of September and was in home isolation for four days. He was rushed to ESI hospital on September 27 when his oxygen saturation level fell below 90%. Colleagues say his was a case of late presentation. Seeking further care, he was shifted to a private hospital near Marathahalli that same day. He was again moved to a private hospital near Sheshadripuram a week later and put on Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO), but had developed multi-organ dysfunction, say colleagues. He is survived by wife and son. His colleagues say he didn’t immediately get remdesivir when he was admitted to ESI, Rajajinagar. “The hospital had no stock. We had to get it from a dealer, but his condition worsened by then,” his colleagues said. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner, said: “It’s unfortunate we lost a doctor. We don’t know why doctors take their own health lightly,” he said. He insisted the state has enough supply of remdesivir. “ESI hospital could have contacted the health department for the drug,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/40-yr-old-doctor-dies-of-covid/articleshow/78561241.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Demolition of temples: HC defers hearing as Akhada Parishad moves SC||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday deferred the hearing for three weeks relating to a public interest litigation (PIL) against the removal of religious structures from public land after the advocate general (AG) told the court that the Akhada Parishad has moved the Supreme Court seeking extension of time to remove structures in Haridwar. According to the submissions made by the AG, there are four religious structures in Haridwar which have not been removed by the government. According to the submissions made by the AG before the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, there are four structures in Haridwar which have not been removed by the state government. The Akhara Parishad, which is the custodian of these structures, approached the apex court because these are very important to host the Kumbh Mela which is scheduled to be held next year. “The AG informed the court that the Parishad has approached the SC and he therefore asked the court to list the matter after three weeks. The court in view of the AG’s request said that the case will now be heard after three weeks,” said an advocate present in the hearing. The HC had taken suo motu cognisance of the issue as the state government had failed to comply with the 2009 orders of the SC which directed the state governments to remove these structures. The HC had then directed the state to demolish all these structures by March 23. As reported by TOI earlier, the state government then informed the HC that it has demolished almost all the illegal religious structures built on public land across the state, however, there still were some structures in Haridwar district which were yet to be razed. The government has since then been seeking extension of time till the Kumbh Mela is concluded to demolish the structures. The HC however has refused to grant the extension||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/demolition-of-temples-hc-defers-hearing-as-akhada-parishad-moves-sc/articleshow/78560698.cms||Prashant Jha
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Collector launches ‘No Mask, No Entry’ campaign||Jaipur: Amidst an increase in Covid-19 cases in the district, collector Antar Singh Nehra launched ‘No Mask, No Entry’ campaign at the district collectorate on Thursday. He started the campaign by pasting a poster outside his room and at the main entrance gate of the collectorate. Following the campaign, nobody will be allowed to enter government offices or board public vehicles without wearing a mask. Posters were pasted in front of the divisional commissioner’s office. Nehra said, “The campaign has been launched to strictly enforce the rules of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in Jaipur. It has been made mandatory to wear masks in district collectorate. Civil defence workers will ensure compliance, who will be deployed at the entrance gates.” He said this campaign will be turned into a mass movement in rural and municipal areas. “The SDMs and development officials will ensure this at all levels,” he added. The campaign posters will be pasted in more than 4,000 auto-rickshaws and other vehicles in the city, the collector said. Chief Executive Officer of the Zila Parishad Athar Aamir and other officials at the collectorate also pasted the poster outside their offices. The collector also made the volunteers of National Service Scheme and others to take a pledge to follow Covid guidelines issued by the state government and adhere to the rules strictly. Volunteers of the Rashtriya Seva Yojana will paste the ‘No Mask, No Entry’ posters at the entrance of the rooms of chief engineer and additional secretary, and other chambers at the Public Works Department (PWD) office on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-launches-no-mask-no-entry-campaign/articleshow/78561959.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Civic polls: Cong lags BJP in poll preparedness||Jaipur: The Supreme Court has cleared the decks for elections in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota municipal corporations in October. It seems that the ruling Congress party is lagging behind opposition BJP in poll preparedness. The BJP finalised working committee members and held many meetings of workers. On the contrary, the Congress is yet to organise a single meeting. A former Congress councillor said, “We are worried about the elections now. The BJP has already started mobilizing its workers. Continuous meetings are being held at their headquarters and a blueprint is already in place. But in Congress, members were waiting for the decision of Supreme Court. At least, they should have taken some initiatives after the decision of Rajasthan High Court,” he said. The Congress does not have a district head. Kishanpole MLA Mahesh Joshi said, “There is no need of any working committee in our party as ticket distribution is done by the conveyor. We will soon appoint a conveyor who will take the decision accordingly. Besides, all the preparations are complete.” Another sources in Congress said, “All the MLAs in heritage city are from Congress. So, everyone is of the opinion that at least one municipal corporation will be under their command. However, BJP has already started to send their workers to reach out to people. How Congress is going to cover in such a short time.” With 250 seats in both the municipal corporations, there is an expectation that the Congress will be facing problems after a recent fight between top leaders. Ticket distribution will be challenging task for the Congress. Standoff between two top leaders was also considered to be a reason that the state government wanted to postpone the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-polls-cong-lags-bjp-in-poll-preparedness/articleshow/78561946.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad’s varsity tribunal sets aside ‘oral termination’ of 20 non-teaching staff||Aurangabad: The University and College Tribunal, Aurangabad, has set aside the “oral termination” of 20 non-teaching staff of Y B Chavan College of Pharmacy run by the Maulana Azad College.The tribunal, presided by justice Sunil Kotwal, also directed the president of Maulana Azad Education Trust along with managing trustee Suhail Amin Nathani and in-charge principal Abubakar Bawazir to reinstate the appellants to their respective posts and continue their services within a period of three months. Besides, the trust has also been directed to pay salary arrears to the appellants from June 2020 till the date of reinstatement.According to the petition, the appellants are non-teaching employees working as clerks, laboratory attendants, peons etc. They have been working with the college since the last 10 to 15 years and are permanent employees of the college. They also alleged that their monthly salary was not paid since June 2020. Later, they approached the High Court bench for recovery of arrears as per the 6th Pay Commission. This annoyed the Trust management, resulting into alleged harassment, including with threats to initiate departmental inquiry against them for damaging the reputation of the management and the college.Bawazir also stopped allotment of suitable work to the appellants and even assigned the duty of watchmen to them. Later, he restrained the employees from working in the college and prevented them from entering the premises. He also assigned work to only selected staff members thereby proving that this was an example of “revengeful” act. The employees claimed that this amounted to their “otherwise oral termination.”In its say, the Trust raised preliminary objection that the appeals were premature and cannot be entertained under Section 81 of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabads-varsity-tribunal-sets-aside-oral-termination-of-20-non-teaching-staff/articleshow/78559409.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Kota top officials on Covid awareness drive||Kota: Kota divisional commissioner, collector, DIG and SP city hit the streets on Wednesday evening to generate awareness on Covid protective measures and to distribute masks among locals in Bhimganjmandi area. The message that mask is the only vaccine against corona currently and one must wear it whenever out of home was conveyed by divisional commissioner Kailashchand Meena and Kota range DIG Ravi Dutt to people, shopkeepers and traders. Collector Ujjawal Rathore and SP city Gourav Yadav called upon locals to follow the norms of social distancing and use sanitisers to fight the pandemic. The officials asked traders and shopkeepers not to sell commodities to customers if they don’t wear masks. Bhimganjmandi police carried out an awareness rally with banners and placards highlighting the message on the need to take precautions and safety measures against the virus. The officials offered masks to pedestrians who were using towels or clothes to cover ther faces and persuadeed them not to come out of home without masks. Meanwhile, teachers in some government schools of the region on Thursday officiated an oath to students on wearing masks and follow social distancing norms to fight corona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-top-officials-on-covid-awareness-drive/articleshow/78561962.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||HC directs U’khand govt to forward questionnaires to ‘each and every PHC, CHC and district hospital’ and file reply within 4 wks||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state government to file the details of “each and every primary health centre (PHC), community health centre (CHC) as well as district hospital in the state within a period of four weeks.” The government has been directed to submit the details on the points listed in a questionnaire which range from the budget allocated to the institution to the number of patients referred to higher centres, the availability of doctors, blood banks as well as availability of diagnostic tools like x-ray machines.The direction from the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe came while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) that proper medical facility is a fundamental right of every citizen. The court had broadened the scope of this 2013 PIL to cover the issue of the entire medical infrastructure in the state and had asked the petitioner to file questionnaires which will be put before the government to seek answers about the availability of health infrastructure and medical facilities in the state.Speaking to TOI, Abhijay Negi, the counsel who has prepared the questionnaire and is representing the petitioner, said, “The court has directed the state government to ensure that the questionnaire is transferred to these institutions and they should fill it up and send back to the court for its consideration within four weeks,” Negi said.He added that the court has also directed the state government to seek reply from these institutions on the facilities available for people with disabilities. “We had informed the court that there are several institutions which are inaccessible for people with disabilities since they do not have proper ramps. The court has directed the state to seek a reply on this issue as well,” Negi said.The HC has now listed the PIL for further hearing on November 10 by which date the details of all the health institutions need to be furnished before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-directs-ukhand-govt-to-forward-questionnaires-to-each-and-every-phc-chc-and-district-hospital-and-file-reply-within-4-wks/articleshow/78560697.cms||Prashant Jha
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Allow attachment of Hyd mining firm assets in loan fraud: ED to HC||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has impleaded itself in a case of alleged loan defaulters versus the Reserve Bank of India and pleaded with Telangana high court to permit the investigators to attach the properties of Hyderabad mining firm Kyori Oremin Limited. The ED has also urged the court to stop sale of the properties that are currently being investigated. CBI and ED have alleged that the accused firm had cheated Bank of Maharashtra to the tune of Rs 43 crore. The directorate impleaded itself on October 6 in the petition of Kyori Oremin and its managing director Ishoo Narang and two non-executive directors versus RBI and banks. The ED said it had come to its notice that the accused were planning to transfer the properties to third parties so as to tamper the proceedings under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). It also wrote to the Bhogapuram sub-registrar office not to transfer any property of the company since an investigation is pending. It may be recalled Kyori Oremin had already filed a petition, urging the high court to declare the ED’s action as illegal. The case is still pending in the court. Loan defaulter companies like Kyori and Musaddilal had challenged the decision of the RBI and other banks declaring their loan accounts as fraud. These accounts were declared fraud accounts after an external forensic audit, sources said. The high court had granted an interim order, stopping the investigating agencies from taking any coercive steps. The RBI had also filed a counter and the matter is being heard. In 2019, the CBI Bengaluru banking securities and fraud cell had registered an FIR against Kyori Oremin and its directors and later, the ED initiated an investigation under the PMLA. ED sleuths also conducted searches on the accused directors. Sources said forensic audit reports filed by Bank of Maharashtra and ICICI Bank had hinted at the loan fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/allow-attachment-of-hyd-mining-firm-assets-in-loan-fraud-ed-to-hc/articleshow/78563217.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rework startup policy to address Covid impact: Industry to govt||Jaipur: With the startup policy drafted before the Covid-19 outbreak hanging fire, incubators, co-working space owners, and investors have appealed to the government to rework the document to provide relief to the startups hit by the lockdown and the economic woes that followed. They said that majority of startups, which were scaling up their business before Covid and looking to raise funds, are currently battling for survival. “Barring a few, most of the startups which had raised funds should be fine in due course. But the ones who were scaling up by hiring new talent and technology, and expecting funding but could not tie up funds, are in a crisis. Eventually, some will tide over the crisis but most of the mortality in the startup space is expected to come from this segment,” said Mahavir Sharma, president of TiE Global. Sharma said that since the rollout of the startup policy has already been delayed, the government can hold it up by another month and discuss with the ecosystem players to see what new measures can be incorporated into the document to save the startups from folding up. “The policy has been delayed by several months. A delay of another month or so is not going to make a big difference if the difficulties arising out of the pandemic are addressed. Some funding support will go a long way in reducing fatalities of vulnerable startups,” said Sharma. He said one of the positive outcomes of the pandemic is that there is greater clarity now that geography is no more an influencing factor. “Startups always drew upon the power of technology but there were perceived geographic barriers. The pandemic has demonstrated that location is no more a factor as people use digital technologies to break barriers. This will certainly help the state’s startups,” added Sharma. In terms of the investors’ confidence, Sharma said the fund tap has started flowing now and early stage, PE and VC investors are more confident. “There were new learnings for funding agencies. They had a better idea about the startups that are resilient and the ones that can fall through in challenging times. They are back into investing but have a better understanding of what can work, and what cannot,” added Sharma. Chintan Bakshi, CEO of StartupOasis, an incubator in Jaipur, said that many are changing their business model in order to grow. “For example, a startup, which depended on exhibitions and retail stores to sell handicrafts, textile products, fashion accessories, is now looking to expand its online presence. The well-funded startups are recovering. They will survive by cutting costs and getting their business incrementally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rework-startup-policy-to-address-covid-impact-industry-to-govt/articleshow/78561968.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Hostels and career centres for tribal youths in Jaipur, Udaipur||Jaipur: The tribal area development (TAD) department will be setting up tribal youth hostels and career centres in Jaipur and Udaipur headquarters at a budget of Rs 13 crore each, said additional chief secretary (ACS) of the department Rajeshwar Singh. The tribal students will be provided food and training for competitive exams in these career centres. Singh informed the responsibility has been given to Rajasthan State Agricultural Marketing Board for the construction of Jaipur centre. It is being constructed on 1,606sqm land allotted near Jawahar Circle in Sanganer tehsil. So far, Rs 2.91 crore has been spent on construction and it is likely to be completed by January 2021. The eight-storey centre includes parking space, reception, office, training hall, laboratory, lecture hall, multi-purpose hall, dining hall, kitchen, store, warden quarters and hostel with a capacity of 150 students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hostels-and-career-centres-for-tribal-youths-in-jaipur-udaipur/articleshow/78561974.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Lion cubs with missing limbs, bone defects, blindness result of excess antibiotics: Experts||Dehradun: Excessive use of antibiotics and too many healthcare interventions for lions are interfering with laws of natural selection, allowing “genetically unfit” animals to survive and produce offspring with birth defects, experts at Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India have warned. Dr Y V Jhala, senior scientist at WII, who has closely researched the lion population in Gujarat's Gir National Park over two decades, said radio-tagging and improved surveillance techniques have allowed constant monitoring of health conditions in lions, leading to increased medical interventions. But that seems to be counterproductive, said Jhala. “Though well-intentioned, treating every animal that is sick or injured has huge repercussions on natural selection. In most wild populations, ‘survival of the fittest’ is very crucial because it ensures the best genetic material is passed on to the next generation,” Jhala said at a webinar on lion conservation in Dehradun on Thursday. The “genetic pressure” that extensive healthcare is putting on lions in Gir is now becoming evident, said Jhala. “Human intervention through antibiotics, vaccines etc is allowing genetically unfit animals to survive and contribute poor genetic material to the next generation,” he said. According to the scientist, there have been more instances of cubs born with deformities such as skeletal deformities, missing limbs or blind cubs in the past few years. “This was not seen 15-20 years ago. I believe this is due to intensive healthcare being administered to lions. We are not allowing animals to die naturally, and it’s very important that we allow it to happen,” said Jhala, adding that this can have disastrous effects on the long-term survival of the population. “Even tiger reserves have taken to treating animals intensively. We must not treat wild populations like we treat zoo animals,” he said. Jhala said another reason for birth defects in cubs could be inbreeding. “Gir has around 259 sq km area as its core area where there is no human activity while in case of tiger reserves we have set the benchmark at 1,000 sq km,” said Jhala. The scientist is calling for healthcare interventions in wild populations to be regulated. Dr Umesh Chandra Sharma, former president of Veterinary Council of India, said antibiotics or any medicines should be administered to animals only on a case-by-case basis because of their ability to directly impact genes. “There is an urgent need for the forest department to have its own veterinary cadre so that wild animals are looked after properly. At present, the forest department borrows doctors from the animal husbandry department who are actually experts in livestock, not wild animals," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lion-cubs-with-missing-limbs-bone-defects-blindness-result-of-excess-antibiotics-experts/articleshow/78560705.cms||Shivani Azad
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||State fails to clear encroachment in Doon, HC arrays chief secy, PWD secy as accused in contempt proceedings||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday arrayed chief secretary Om Prakash and public works department (PWD) secretary RK Sudhanshu as accused in civil contempt petition as several departments — the state government, PWD, district administration and municipal corporation — failed to clear encroachment in Dehradun city, even after two years of the court’s order. A single-judge bench of the HC had been hearing this contempt petition since August 2019 as the officials failed to comply with the 2018 order. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe on Wednesday clubbed the contempt petition with another public interest litigation (PIL) dealing with the encroachment in Doon. On Thursday, the court arrayed both chief secretary and PWD secretary as accused and gave them two weeks’ time to respond. “The division bench of the HC had in 2018 directed the state government as well as several others to clear all encroachment from the city within a period of four weeks. However, even more than two years after the court’s order, the state government admitted that there are over 1,400 identified encroachments that need to be removed. The court, therefore, arrayed the chief secretary and PWD secretary. The chief standing counsel appearing for the state government took notice on behalf of the two officials and they have now been given two weeks to respond,” said an advocate present in the hearing. The state has informed the court that it had identified over 8,000 encroachments in the city and cleared several thousands of them. It has said that, at present, there are only a few hundred more identified encroachments and those too would have been cleared had the coronavirus pandemic not stalled all the work. According to the court records, C Ravishankar, Ashish Srivastava, Vinay Shankar Pandey and Arun Mohan Joshi are already respondents in the contempt proceedings. While C Ravishankar is the former district magistrate of Dehradun, Srivastava holds the charge at present. Pandey, meanwhile, is the municipal commissioner and Joshi is senior superintendent police (SSP) of Dehradun district. Apart from them, Shailesh Bagoli and Rajeev Sharma are also respondents in the proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-fails-to-clear-encroachment-in-doon-hc-arrays-chief-secy-pwd-secy-as-accused-in-contempt-proceedings/articleshow/78560710.cms||Prashant Jha
October 9, 2020||Mumbai||IIT Hyderabad launches BTech programme in biomedical engineering||Mumbai: IIT Hyderabad has launched a new BTech programme in biomedical engineering to train biomedical engineers in next generation healthcare technologies and prepare them to work at the frontiers of healthcare innovations in the deep-tech industry or academia. The course trains candidates to design medical devices, develop 3D imagers and microscopes, crunch mountains of healthcare data, recognize patterns in health and disease, simulate and predict spread of epidemics, create brain-spinal systems in silico, move prosthetics with your thoughts, 3D print a cornea, bone or skin, develop nano-particles to fight tumours or burn them down with ultrasound, design implants, regenerate organs from stem cells, create bio sensors on a chip, model impact on body, craft algorithms that mimic our body and brain. Director IIT Hyderabad, B S Murty, said, “IIT Hyderabad has taken a bold step towards Atma Nirbhar Bharat by developing a strong BTech programme in Biomedical Engineering thereby inculcating biomedical education in young minds from the grassroots, with the BTech programme for the first time among all IITs. We strongly believe that this programme will help in bringing out indigenous medical devices of high quality that serve all sections.” According to IITH, the course has an advanced module on biomedical product design, entrepreneurship, regulatory affairs and clinical immersion, that brings in a core product design and development focus. This curriculum is designed around four verticals: bio-imaging/sensing, bio-mechanics, bio-materials and bio-intelligence / AI. They rest on a single horizontal core training in physiology, anatomy, systems science, mathematics, circuits, instrumentation, mechanics and algorithms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iit-hyderabad-launches-btech-programme-in-biomedical-engineering/articleshow/78556492.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Nagpur||NU drops OTP from app, to hold re-exam||Nagpur: After Thursday’s debacle in its first attempt to hold online examinations, Nagpur University administration swung into action and scrapped the requirement of one-time password (OTP) that emerged as the biggest nemesis. Now, students will only need login and password for accessing papers and they can appear for exams from any Android mobile handset.While blaming mobile service providers, the NU officials also declared that re-exam of students, who missed Thursday’s papers due to technical snag or any other reason, would be held on any Sunday.“Even those students who think they faced technical problems and weren’t able to solve questions properly can also reappear for the paper. We can’t fix the date today, as we were busy resolving examinees’ troubles throughout the day. But it will be held on any Sunday and keeping in mind timing of competitive exams,” Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI.Attributing Thursday’s mess to delay in receiving OTP by examinees, the director said it led to panic reaction among students. “Even when we do banking transactions, such things happen. In today’s case, anxious students panicked and reapplied for it many times. As a result, they received multiple OTPs. In the meantime, they started calling on helplines frequently, and we provided them a common OTP. But it was of no use as the App takes only the last OTP that further aggravated the panic." As some examinees uninstalled and re-installed the ‘Pariksha App’ on not getting OTP, Sable said one problem led to another and turned out to be a big mess. “Our server was not used even 10% of its capacity today and NU has no role to play in sending OTP. It’s purely the domain of service providers over which the university has no control. We’ve tried our best to help out the examinees by granting them extra time of 50 minutes for finishing the papers,” he said, adding the students should have kept some patience, instead of panicking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-drops-otp-from-app-to-hold-re-exam/articleshow/78561981.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Govt employees to take pledge today to follow social distancing, wearing masks||Dehradun: Government employees across Uttarakhand will take a pledge today to follow the guidelines issued in wake of Covid-19 pandemic. An official order in this regard was issued by chief secretary Om Prakash on Thursday evening. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will administer the oath to government employees at the secretariat. The employees will pledge to wear masks, increase awareness among others, maintain two-yard distance, wash hands often and go for a check up in case of any health issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-employees-to-take-pledge-today-to-follow-social-distancing-wearing-masks/articleshow/78560712.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rational use of oxygen for Covid management||JAIPUR: The state government is ensuring uninterrupted availability of oxygen in hospitals to treat scores of critical Covid patients having pneumonia and respiratory distress. The government, which is now promoting rational use of oxygen so that it can be saved and used for other patients, has already increased the share of oxygen for medical use to more than 75% by reducing the share for industrial purposes. Through rationalisation, RUHS Hospital is saving 250 oxygen cylinders a day. Principal secretary (health) Akhil Arora on Thursday issued detailed guidelines on rational use of oxygen for management of Covid patients. “We have directed the hospitals and health department officials not to use oxygen irrationally. When to use it continuously, when to use it intermittently and when to taper it down, the hospital staff should follow,” said a senior health department official. The health department is using oxygen as a life-saving essential drug. While a lot of patients are coming with difficulty in breathing, the health department has set a target of oxygen saturation rate of 94% to 95% for hospitalisation of Covid patient. Directions have been issued that once the patient has recovered and the oxygen saturation rate reaches to 94%-95%, the flow of oxygen may not be increased as it may not provide any additional benefit to the patient, the official said. Doctors are using medical oxygen as one of the mainstays for management of moderate and severe Covid cases. In ‘severe’ patients, the oxygen flow should be maintained at 10-15 litres/ minute and for the moderate patients, the oxygen flow should be 2-5 litres/minute. Severe patients are those whose oxygen saturation rate is below 90% and moderate are those who have more than 90% and below 95% oxygen saturation rate. The health department is making the hospitals to follow the guidelines issued by the Centre on rational use of oxygen for management of Covid patients. Directions have been issued to regularly monitor oxygen consumption at each hospital by forming an oxygen monitoring committee. The panel will supervise inventory planning, oxygen consumptions, regular repair and maintenance of gas pipelines, gas plant and wall-mounted gas outlets. Hospital’s officials will ensure closure of valves during ‘no-use’ at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rational-use-of-oxygen-for-covid-management/articleshow/78561980.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Dehradun||Irked over slow paddy procurement in US Nagar, farmers warn protest from October 11||Rudrapur : Farmers of Udham Singh Nagar district, which is known to be the food bowl of Uttarakhand, have expressed displeasure over “undue delay” in the procurement of paddy crops. They are alleging that a “lack of coordination” between the government departments and the procurement agencies is causing the delay. Farmers in Sitarganj have been protesting for the last five days and they have been now joined hands with the farmer organisations who have warned to intensify their agitation from October 11. Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, said, “Farmers have been waiting to sell their crops for the past five days. The government should make proper arrangement for farmers and ensure that the crop is procured as soon as the produce reaches the grain market.” Block president of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Gursahab Singh, said: “The district administration is not serious on paddy procurement. The active procurement has not been initiated and farmers are compelled to play in the hands of middlemen who are paying them only Rs 1200 for a quintal against the minimum support price of Rs 1880 per quintal. They are not clear about the moisture content and are really unaware how many days they will have to wait till competent authorities come into action.” A majority of mandis (paddy procurement centres) in several blocks are expressing their inability to purchase paddy from farmers due to non-lifting by the rice millers. “Paddy laden trucks, tractors and bullock carts are waiting for days near the mandis to avoid the burden of extra transportation costs. In any case they have to shell out more towards transportation as they have to pay the vehicle halting charges,” said Ganesh Upadhyay, Congress leader and member of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Mahasabha. Virk further said they apprised the situation to the administration and urged the DM to take appropriate measures for smooth lifting of paddy. "We will be agitating against the administration at DM office on October 11 if the procurement is not embarked", he added. “This is happening in all mandis. We have warned the ADM that the farmers will be forced to hit the streets if such poor treatment will continue,” Navtej Pal Singh, another farmer, said. The farmers suggested the administration to issue token to farmers before the procurement of paddy by clearly mentioning the quantity of paddy each of the farmers have to bring to the mandis. This way the farmers will be save from paying extra transportation cost. Farmers also alleged that the few paddy procurement agencies who are working have not been paying the full cost of the paddy to the farmers. The agencies are keeping the cost of 4-5 kg of paddy on the pretext that the grains are not meeting the standard of fair average quality. Meanwhile, the vice-chairman of the Farmers Commission, Rajpal Singh, has assured the farmers that the procurement of paddy will come into full swing in another couple of days and the farmers' demands will also be met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/irked-over-slow-paddy-procurement-in-us-nagar-farmers-warn-protest-from-october-11/articleshow/78560716.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Assault case: Court says no to drop Asaduddin Owaisi’s name||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad court refused to delete the name of Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi in an old assault case, after the police filed a supplementary chargesheet with a list of new witnesses.  Ch VRR Varaprasad, the special sessions judge for trial of cases against MLAs at Nampally Metropolitan criminal courts on Thursday declined to entertain the plea, filed by Mirchowk police about an assault on Congress leader Shabbir Ali during the February 2016 Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls. A case was registered by the Mirchowk police after AIMIM activists allegedly attacked a car in which senior Congress leaders from Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee Uttam Kumar Reddy and Shabbir Ali were overviewing the electoral process in the Old City. During the attack, the car’s windows were damaged.  Owaisi was allegedly spotted near the Congress leader's car along with his supporters. Based on the eye witnesses and videographic evidence, the police registered a case.  But in a surprise move, the police filed a supplementary chargesheet with a list of new witnesses and sought permission from the special sessions judge (constituted for trial of MPs and MLAs) to delete Owaisi’s name from the list of accused, saying he was not present.  Last week, the judge questioned the police, when the prosecution in the past had filed the chargesheet and the cognizance was already taken by the court.  The special judge Varaprasad on Thursday rejected the police plea seeking permission to delete the name of Hyderabad MP in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assault-case-court-says-no-to-drop-asads-name/articleshow/78563219.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||A Hathras in Jharkhand as well, says HC on rape-murder probe||Ranchi: Hearing a case related to the minor girl who was possibly raped before she was set ablaze in Giridih district in March this year, the Jharkhand high court on Thursday said that apart from Uttar Pradesh, a Hathras also exists in this state. In a writ petition filed at the HC, the girl’s father said that while a case was registered at Dhanwar police station for murder and attempt to commit rape, police have failed to make any arrest in the case and the investigation is being conducted without any urgency. In an FIR, the girl’s father accused against Pintu Paswan, a resident of Dhanwar, for trying to rape and murder his daughter. He said Paswan poured kerosene in the room where he had confined the girl and set her on fire. He then escaped by removing a part of the roof of the house, leaving his cap and slippers behind. Justice Ananda Sen expressed dismay with the police inaction and said, “Hathras is not only in the state of Uttar Pradesh, but it is also in Jharkhand.” He ordered the DGP (M V Rao) to form a special investigating team SIT with senior officers to probe the incident and personally monitor the progress of investigation. He also left it open for the DGP to act against the erring police officers and the SIT to arrest the accused. Justice Sen has also directed the Giridih superintendent of police to be virtually present before the court for the proceedings held through video conferencing. After going through the case diary, the court took a note of the laches of the investigating officer. “The officer found the smell of kerosene and burnt hair in the room from where the body of the minor girl was recovered. Post-mortem of the corpse revealed 100% burn injuries,” the judge mentioned in the order. “A doctor had suggested a vaginal swab test to determine if the girl was raped, yet the investigating officer took almost 30 days to send the samples for forensic examination without mention any cause of the delay,” Justice Sen observed in his order. He said, “The way the investigation proceeded is absolutely unsatisfactory. No seriousness has been shown by the investigating officer nor by the supervising authority. The urgency is absolutely lacking. This court cannot keep its eyes shut and ignore this type of lackluster and shoddy investigation. Seriousness and urgency ought to have been shown by the investigating authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/a-hathras-in-jkhand-as-well-says-hc-on-rape-murder-probe/articleshow/78562905.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||BSL records unprecedented growth in Sept, exceeds 100% production target||Bokaro: Notwithstanding the economy’s bad shape because of the ongoing pandemic, Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) recorded unprecedented growth last month when it surpassed its 100% production target. Of the 2,80,000 tonne production target set by the SAIL management (of which BSL is a unit) for September, the steel giant has achieved 2,82,030 tonne, thus achieving 101% of the production target, BSL’s chief of communication Manikant Dhan said on Thursday. Dhan said that production in almost all the units of the plant grew by leaps and bounds last month. “Last month’s growth figures surpassed the figures achieved in September, 2019. There was a growth of 12 % in production of hot metal, 7% in production of crude steel, almost 40% jump in production of HR coils and an impressive 27% increase in saleable steel production.” Besides improvement in production, BSL also dispatched around 2,97,000 tonne of products to customers, which include more than 18,000 tonne of export orders. “Ninety percent of the steel has been dispatched to China while 10% went to Vietnam last month,” Dhan said. China has turned out to be the prime overseas customer during the pandemic since the country has placed an order of about 1,50,000 hot roll coils and slab with the steel giant. The company also recorded highest monthly granulated slag production in September. Slag is sold to the cement industries. “BSL has made a strong comeback with growth in its production in September, 2020. With the demand of flat products picking up in the market these days, the plant is all set to meet the increased demands by starting operation of all its blast furnaces,” said an official, adding, “Ever since the lockdown in March, of the five blast furnaces, only two were functioning.” BSL director in-charge Amarendu Prakash has recently asked the employees to ensure 100% production with optimum utilisation of resources in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-records-unprecedented-growth-in-sept-exceeds-100-production-target/articleshow/78562851.cms||---
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19 patient dies ‘unattended’ at Rims, body left in ward for 10 hrs||Ranchi: A Covid patient died unattended, searching for drinking water at Ranchi Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Thursday morning, the victim’s said, accusing the state’s premier hospital of medical negligence. Hospital sources the woman, a resident of Hesalpeda village under Pithoria police station, was admitted to Rims surgery department with stomach pain on October 2. She had tested positive for Covid-19 on October 4 during treatment. Sanjay Tati, the husband of the deceased, said, “Last night, she called me and said she needed drinking water and no one was around. I went to the medicine department’s D-1 ward, where she was admitted, with some water, but the it was locked from outside and not a single doctor or nurse was present. I was informed about her death around 5 am. I was later told by other patients that the lone nurse on roster was sleeping in her assigned room.” The patient’s family also said if her condition had deteriorated, she should have been shifted to the ICU, but that could not be done as there was no doctor around. The hospital staff moved the body out of the at 3pm, 10 hours after she died, they said Rims public relation officer and Covid task force member Dr Nishith Ekka said: “I do not have any information about any such incident in the hospital. If something like this has happened, I would ask the patient’s family members to register a complaint and we will take action against the guilty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-19-patient-dies-unattended-at-rims-body-left-in-ward-for-10-hrs/articleshow/78563006.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||Health min fixes Rims GB meeting on Oct 14, raises eyebrows||Ranchi: State health minister Banna Gupta has convened the long-pending governing body (GB) meeting of the premier Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on October 14, but not without raising eyebrows. The meeting, which should be conducted routinely every three months, was last held on September 26, 2019. According to the regulations of Rims, an autonomous body, all head of departments (HODs) should be asked to submit their proposals, if any, to be included in the meeting agenda and the 13 governing body members are to be intimated 15 days in advance about the meeting with the proposed agenda. However, none of these rules are followed. The meeting is also called when the state-run healthcare institute is being run by a director-in-charge. The government has recently selected Padma Shri award winner Dr Kameshwar Prasad, a 1980 Rims passed out and currently serving as HOD of neurosurgery at AIIMS in Delhi as the director. His appointment letter is yet to be issued. Talking to TOI, Rims director-in-charge Dr Manju Gari said, “Gupta is the chairperson of the GB and the meeting has been scheduled on October 14 at his direction.” On the hurry to conduct the meeting after a delay of more than a year when the new director is supposed to join within the next few days, Gupta said, “As the governing body meeting has been delayed for than one year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have decided to convene it on October 14 so that a review of the work and the future requirements can be looked upon for the betterment of the hospital.” However, nearly half-a-dozen HODs of the institute were not aware of the meeting. “Earlier, the director used to ask us to submit proposals a month in advance so that it can be put up before the meeting. The last time we were asked to submit proposals was in March 2020. After that, we have not received any such correspondence from the director’s office,” a senior faculty and HOD at Rims said. Another HOD said, “This meeting is news to me as I do not have any official information about it.” On seeking proposals from the HODs, Dr Hirendra Birua, the officer on special duty to the Rims director, said, “A few HODs have submitted their proposals on their own.” Dr Birua, however, declined from commenting on whether the HODs were asked to submit their proposals. Talking to TOI, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, who is a member of GB said, “I haven’t received any communication about the meeting till today (Thursday). In fact, I have written to the health minister asking him the reason for the delay ever since he took charge as the chairperson.” Kanke MLA Samri Lal, who is also a member, said: “I have received the letter for the general body this evening. I live just a stone’s throw away from Rims, but what about the other members who need to get the letter on time and go through the agenda?” Lal also questioned the timing of meeting and asked why the meeting is being conducted with a caretaker director, who is not supposed to take policy decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/health-min-fixes-rims-gb-meeting-on-oct-14-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/78562950.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||Birsa Agri Univ begins online examinations||Ranchi: The Birsa Agriculture University (BAU) on Thursday said it will go ahead with its online mid-term examinations to regularize its current academic sessions amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While students of forestry and veterinary wings are already appearing for their examinations online, the agriculture department said it is ready to start its process. As many as 110 students of second, fourth and sixth semesters of the forestry department are appearing in the 30-minute-long objective tests. Dean of the forestry department, M H Siddiqui said, “Prior to the examination, the students were trained on the online system through mock tests. The practice has helped the students perform better in the examination.” He further said post-graduate and the PhD examinations of his department will be held from October 12 to 21. The BAU registrar has already issued a notification to other departments to start their examinations, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/birsa-agri-univ-begins-online-examinations/articleshow/78563514.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||‘NIA detains tribal rights activist Stan without warrant’||RANCHI: The National Investigation Agency has taken social and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy into custody from his residence at Ranchi’s Namkum locality on Thursday, people associated with him told the media. While NIA officials did not issue any statement, Swamy’s aides said the central agency detained him without producing any warrant. The 83-year-old is among the several other activists accused in the 2018 Bhima-Koregaon violence case in Pune. Swamy’s residence, named Bagaicha, was raided twice in the past — on August 28, 2018, and June 12, 2019, in the same case. Sources said an NIA team reached Sawmy’s residence without informing the local police. One of his colleagues told TOI, “The team behaved rudely and picked him up forcefully at night stating that senior officials in Delhi have asked them to question him. We do not know what prompted them to suddenly detain an elderly person during a pandemic. Swamy has never resisted any questioning and always cooperated whenever required.” CPI (M-L) state secretary Janardhan Prasad and Bagodar MLA Binod Singh also condemned the NIA’s action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nia-detains-tribal-rights-activist-stan-without-warrant/articleshow/78563328.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||Jobless widow tries to sell newborn for Rs 100 in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDHPUR: Having lost her job at a road-side eatery job during the lockdown and her husband dead soon after, a woman tried to sell her 10-day-old male infant for Rs 100 in Jamshedpur on Wednesday, police said on Thursday. The cops said they reached a petrol pump in the Jugsalai locality after a tip-off that a mother was waiting there to hand over the child to a customer. While they managed to prevent the sale of the baby, the man managed to escape. Police said the woman, who hails from Chakradharpur, told them that she had no money and was left with no option but to sell her baby. “She told us that she gave birth to the child outside Tatanagar station as she could not afford hospital delivery,” the source said. Police said they are also probing if the baby belonged to the woman or was stolen. Police took the woman and her child into custody and handed them over to Sonari-based NGO Bal Kalyan Samiti. Samiti member Alok Bhaskar, said: “The child is safe and caregivers are looking after him. Anyone related to the child can stake claim through legal procedures within 60 days before we take its custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jobless-widow-tries-to-sell-newborn-for-rs-100-in-jsr/articleshow/78562732.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||Church finds 50-person cap unviable, defers reopening for Sunday service||Ranchi: The Catholic Church on Thursday said it will approach chief minister Hemant Soren and ask him to remove the cap of 50 persons attending a service at any given time. Churces have decided to remain shut saying the strict guidelines for places of worship are difficult to follow. In an order issued around 10pm on Wednesday, the government banned distribution of bhog, sprinkling of holy water on devotees, touching of idols/statues/holy books at religious places. Congregation of more than 50 at any given point is also barred and priests have been told to use masks like other devotees. The 30-point guidelines also ban community singing and choirs. Talking to TOI, Theodore Mascarenhas, assistant bishop of Ranchi, said, “The 50-person limit is not viable for us. St.Mary's Cathedral at Purulia Road here can accommodate more than 3,000 people and our other churches elsewhere can can also accommodate a large number of devotees.” He added, “Although we are ready and willing to abide by all Covid-19 protocols , religious practices followed by us make this number unfeasible. We will request the CM to make suitable changes to the norms.” Meanwhile, churches throughout the state sis not open on Thursday due to the late arrival of the government orders. “We are in the process of issuing circulars to our priests at different churches across the state, spelling out the norms that are required to be complied with. We expect our churches to be ready to reopen Sunday, We have lined up online services on October 11, 18 and 25 to reduce crowding crowds at our worshipping places.” The 175-year-old Gossner Evangelical Lutheran (GEL) Church also said that they need more time to reopen. "We will hold a meeting with our functionaries on Friday. It will take some time to get all the safety norms and other arrangements in place. We ar aiming at reopening our churches across the state by Sunday,” Johan Dang, moderator of GEL Church, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/church-finds-50-person-cap-unviable-defers-reopening-for-sunday-service/articleshow/78563359.cms||Tapas Biswas
October 9, 2020||Ranchi||Virus caseload in Jharkhand past 90k-mark, set to breach China figure||Ranchi: With eight new casualties, the Covid-19 toll Jharkhand rose to 7775 even as the state continued to report new infection three digits and recoveries in four digits, bringing down the number of active cases to 9,272, the lowest since August 16. Of the eight casualties, five were in Ranchi and one each in Bokaro, Ramgarh and Palamu. With 784 new cases, the cumulative caseload in Jharkhand breached the 90,000-mark and stood at 90,486, of which 80,439 (including 1,263 on Thursday) have recovered. If current trends continue, Jharkhand will have more cases than the whole of China (90,689 at the time of writing according to Johns Hopkins University) in the next couple of days. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported the highest number of new number of cases with 247 and 233 respectively, making up 61.22% of the new cases. The positivity rate fell significantly as 2.44% of 32.092 samples tested on Thursday returned a positive result. The state also reached the milestone of more than 25 lakh tests on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/virus-caseload-in-jharkhand-past-90k-mark-set-to-breach-china-figure/articleshow/78563291.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jobless widow tries to sell newborn for Rs 100 in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDHPUR: Having lost her job at a road-side eatery job during the lockdown and her husband dead soon after, a woman tried to sell her 10-day-old male infant for Rs 100 in Jamshedpur on Wednesday, police said on Thursday. The cops said they reached a petrol pump in the Jugsalai locality after a tip-off that a mother was waiting there to hand over the child to a customer. While they managed to prevent the sale of the baby, the man managed to escape. Police said the woman, who hails from Chakradharpur, told them that she had no money and was left with no option but to sell her baby. “She told us that she gave birth to the child outside Tatanagar station as she could not afford hospital delivery,” the source said. Police said they are also probing if the baby belonged to the woman or was stolen. Police took the woman and her child into custody and handed them over to Sonari-based NGO Bal Kalyan Samiti. Samiti member Alok Bhaskar, said: “The child is safe and caregivers are looking after him. Anyone related to the child can stake claim through legal procedures within 60 days before we take its custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jobless-widow-tries-to-sell-newborn-for-rs-100-in-jsr/articleshow/78570581.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
