October 10, 2020||Delhi||Section of Mathura Road out of bounds for traffic, commuters suggested to use other routes||NEW DELHI: Commuters have been suggested to take alternative routes as the Mathura Road in Delhi will remain closed for traffic from Bhogal to Ashram for three days starting from Saturday, the Delhi Traffic Police said on Friday. According to the traffic police, the Delhi Jal Board was granted the permission to carry out repair works between 10pm and 6am from October 7 to October 10 alternatively on both the carriageways -- from Ashram to Bhogal and vice versa. While the repair works on the route from Ashram to Bhogal is likely to be finished by Saturday morning, no work could be started by the Delhi Jal Board on the opposite carriageway. The delay in these water pipeline repairs has caused great inconvenience to the commuters using the Mathura Road, said SD Mishra, additional commissioner of police (Traffic). The woes in the area has further been compounded by the damage to the MTNL cables affecting about 8,000 odd connections due to the ongoing repair work. The traffic diversions affected to allow Delhi Jal Board to finish repairs on Mathura Road over the past three days has been leading to delays, increased travel and stoppage time and also adding to the pollution in the area of Ashram Chowk, said Mishra. "In order to ensure quick and timely repairs of the water pipes as well as the surface roads, a joint meeting of various stakeholders including officials of the Delhi Jal Board, MTNL, PWD was called on Friday. It was decided that a coordinated effort would be put in by all the agencies involved so as to finish the work over the weekend," he said. Elaborating on the necessary traffic diversions in place, the officer said in a statement that with effect from 10 am on October 10, all types of vehicles on Mathura Road going from Bhogal side to Ashram would be diverted onto Lodhi Road from Neela Gumbad ( Subj Bhurj Circle). They may proceed onwards via Barapullah flyover or Lala Lajpat Rai Marg. Likewise, all traffic from Bhogal T Point (Mathura Road-Jathedar Harbans Singh Bhogal Marg T Point ) would be diverted onto Mathura Road towards Neela Gumbad ( Subj Bhurj Circle). The residents staying in Jangpura, Jangpura extn, Bhogal, East and West Nizamuddin seeking to proceed towards Ashram Chowk would have to take Mathura Road towards Neela Gumbad ( Subj Bhurj Circle) and subsequently proceed onwards via Lodhi Road, Barapullah lyover or Lala Lajpal Rai Marg, the officer said. However, for all those staying in Jangpura, Jangpura extn, Bhogal, East and West Nizamuddin and all vehicles going to and coming from Nizamuddin Railway station would be able to commute on Mathura Road between Neela Gumbad and Bhogal flyover, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/section-of-mathura-road-out-of-bounds-for-traffic-commuters-suggested-to-use-other-routes/articleshow/78581851.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||City’s nightlife reopens with caution, SOPs to be monitored||With restrictions being lifted on clubs, Chandigarh’s nightlife has begun its revival. After being shuttered for months, nightclubs resumed operations in September. “I never had to wait this long to party with friends,” says Aditya Gulati, a resident and regular at clubs. The joy of partying again has come at the cost of strict SOPs like, not allowing people to crowd the dance floors, maintaining social distancing, sanitisation, masks etc. However, some vie that guidelines are not being followed as strictly. After recent videos of people partying at some clubs surfaced, UT adviser Manoj Parida told TOI that the administration will “conduct surprise raids” on nightclubs. STAFF NOT WEARING MASKS“No temperature checks were done. Except waiters, the other staff at the club was not wearing masks. People were brushing against each other on the dance floor,” says Aditya, who was at a high-end club recently to celebrate his birthday. Anshul Sharma, another club hopper adds, “They did check temperature, but ironically the person checking temperature wasn’t wearing masks. The usher too wasn’t wearing a mask.” CLUB OWNERS ARGUE THEIR CASE On their part, club owners say they are taking all precautions. “We are following guidelines, but sometimes when people are dancing they are in a swing and it becomes difficult to maintain the mandated distance,” says Neeraj Khrab, club owner. Rahul, in charge of another club says, “We are running with 90 people as compared to our capacity of 180 to ensure distancing. We are not allowing dancing, only dine in, with soft music playing.” Vaibhav Rana from a club that opened last year, says they have converted their dance floor into a seating area “to maintain the SOPs laid out for COVID.” Clubs & new rules The entire club is sanitised 3-4 times a week  Immunity boosters are administered to staff  Dance floors converted into sitting area We have received clips of huge crowd (without masks &amp; no social distancing) drinking and dancing in some night clubs. UT will conduct surprise raids and action will be taken against owners and public for violating COVID protocol.— Manoj Parida, UT adviser, told TOI on October 4CELEBS SHOW THE WAY TO PARTY...Chak De! India girl, Tanya Abrol, who loves visiting Chandigarh, says, “I would want to act responsible here. Clubs have opened, and I too would want to enjoy safely. Concepts like creating a clubbing bubble on the lines of a travel bubble can be explored, with a separate corridor where entry is allowed after stringent checks. Some foreign clubs, like those in Amsterdam, are innovating and creating a transparent cave-like structure within the premises for safety.”  Singer and actor Khushboo Grewal, who is from Chandigarh, says, “Since I am a private person, we host get togethers at home. For clubbing, I would want to stress on social distancing. If I go to a public space, I will avoid shaking hands or using their cutlery. I also carry a proper kit which has sanitiser, sprays, extra masks.” Chucha of Fukrey, actor Varun Sharma, is keen to party in a closed area with limited people. He says the dance floor should be sanitised in between the music sets belted out by the deejay. Varun, once a regular face in party circuit of Chandigarh, is waiting for the right time to start partying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citys-nightlife-reopens-with-caution-sops-to-be-monitored/articleshow/78580833.cms||Ankur Batra
October 10, 2020||India||BJP leader shot dead in Azamgarh||VARANASI: A Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Kshetra Panchayat member Arjun Yadav (40) was shot dead by some unknown miscreants in Pawai police station area of Azamgarh district on Thursday night. The police have launched a manhunt to identify and nab the killers. According to reports, Yadav, a resident of Jaldipur village, owned a store of ayurvedic medicines near Pawai crossing. At around 9pm on Thursday night, he was returning after closing his shop when some unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreants opened fire on him and fled the scene. Yadav sustained bullet injuries on his chest and fell on the ground. The news spread like a wildfire in the locality and people started gathering at the spot. Azamgarh SP (rural) Siddharth Kumar and Phoolpur CO Rajesh Kumar along with the police force reached the incident site after getting information. Meanwhile, the villagers and family members took Yadav to the local hospital from where he was referred to Phoolpur trauma centre after primary treatment. Later he was taken to the divisional hospital where doctors declared him dead. According to the police, the reason behind the killing is yet to be known. The matter is being investigated. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said that details are being gathered from family members to find the reason behind the killing. The assailants would be nabbed soon, said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-leader-shot-dead-in-azamgarh/articleshow/78581926.cms||Pravin Kumar
October 10, 2020||World||Wisconsin||Trump and Biden each are making a play for the 10 electoral votes in Wisconsin, where Trump four years ago was the first Republican presidential candidate to win the state since 1984. Read AlsoSix swing states that may make or break fortunes in US presidential electionsIn US presidential elections, most states are reliably Republican or Democratic. However, there are a few states that are unpredictable and can swing either way. These are known as "battleground" or "swing" states. The road to the White House runs through these handful of states where the electionMany voters in the state also are uncertain about the candidates until the last-moment, making it difficult to gauge the outcome. According to exit polls, 14 percent of Wisconsin voters had made their choice in the final week of the elections in 2016 with last-minute decision-makers picking Trump over Hillary Clinton by a two-to-one margin.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The state also became a flashpoint in the country's reckoning over race and policing after the shooting in August of Jacob Blake, an African-American, by a white police officer in the city of Kenosha. After Black voter participation in Wisconsin sank in 2016 compared with previous elections, Biden's campaign is betting that energized Democratic-leaning Black voters this year will help overcome Trump's less than-1-percentage-point margin of victory over Clinton there. Biden has an advantage over Trump in most recent Wisconsin opinion polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/battleground-states/wisconsin/articleshow/78582573.cms||---
October 10, 2020||India||Active Covid cases in India drop below 9 lakh after 1 month||NEW DELHI: India's Covid curve continues to offer better news with the number of active cases dropping to below nine lakh on Thursday, depicting a steady trajectory of declining actual case-loads for almost three weeks now even though some states pose concerns with high positivity rates. With a larger number of recoveries as compared to new cases being reported daily, a sustained declining trend can be seen in active cases. While 70,496 new patients were added on Thursday, 78,365 were discharged on the same day. With 8.93 lakh active cases, the count is below 9 lakh for the first time after a month.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The weekly average of new cases has been less than the average number of daily recoveries for last three weeks. Also, the weekly average of fresh cases itself has been falling. For instance, during October 2-8 the average new cases dropped to 5.23 lakh from over 6.14 lakh during September 18-24. Coronavirus live updates: Complete coverage"This is the result of collaborative action by states and UTs under the Centre's strategy of comprehensive testing, tracking, quick hospitalization and adherence to the standard treatment protocol which has ensured a standardised quality of medical care across public and private hospitals and for home isolation cases," the health ministry said.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); On Thursday, India recorded an average positivity of 6.53%, whereas Goa recorded the highest positivity rate at 30.20%. The total number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 stood at 69,06,151, which includes 1,06,490 deaths from the infection so far. On Thursday, 964 case fatalities were reported. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); While seven states and UTs have positivity rate below 5%, a total of 22 have positivity below the national average. However, states and UTs like Goa, Maharshtra, Chandigarh, Nagaland and Kerala continue to report high positivity rate. This was followed by Sikkim at 19.82%, Maharashtra at 17.58%, Chandigarh at 14.97%, Nagaland at 13.64% and Kerala at 13.08%. Majority 78% of new cases were reported from 10 states and UTs, underlining the concentration of the disease burden in few states. In fact, Maharashtra continues to be the state reporting a high number of new cases. Watch India's Covid curve offers better news, active cases drop below 9 lakh after 1 month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-covid-cases-in-india-drop-below-9-lakh-after-1-month/articleshow/78583223.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 10, 2020||World||Six swing states that may make or break fortunes in US presidential elections||In US presidential elections, most states are reliably Republican or Democratic. However, there are a few states that are unpredictable and can swing either way. These are known as "battleground" or "swing" states. The road to the White House runs through these handful of states where the election is expected to be close. In 2020, pollsters have identified at least six states where the battle could go down to the wire due to the changing demographics and the polarizing politics of Republican President Donald Trump. Both the Republicans and Democrats have been heavily courting these bellwether states since the beginning of the campaign and even opinion polls are divided as to which candidate the voters would end up favoring. Here are the states that can play a critical role in delivering the 270 electoral college votes needed to win the White House:  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Florida | Electoral Votes: 29Recent opinion polls show Trump and Biden in a close race in Florida, a big prize with 29 electoral votes. The state is particularly important for Trump - no Republican has won the presidency without Florida since Calvin Coolidge in 1924. Trump won Florida over Hillary Clinton in 2016 by just 1.2 percentage points. In 2020, he is making a strong play for Hispanic votes, namely conservative-leaning Cuban Americans, while Biden is running ahead of Clinton’s support among the state’s seniors, another crucial voting bloc, and white voters. Moreover, when it comes to presidential elections, Florida is known as the top bellwether state as it has been electing the winning candidate since 2000. Pennsylvania | Electoral Votes: 20Pennsylvania has swung from being a Republican-leaning state during much of the 20th century to being a battleground state in present-day politics. From 1992 to 2012, the state had backed the Democratic candidate in six straight elections. However, it was won by Republican candidate Donald Trump in 2016. Trump won the Rust Belt state by just 45,000 votes in 2016, promising to bring blue-collar jobs back to the economically depressed region. The president typically polls well on his handling of the economy, but overall he is trailing Biden in recent opinion polls in Pennsylvania by several percentage points. Trump has attacked the former vice president for his prior support of liberalizing trade deals that facilitated the offshoring of jobs. Biden has chosen the state where he was born to deliver some of his most forceful speeches of the campaign, including a late August address in which he condemned Trump for fomenting violence at nationwide protests over racial equality. Ohio | Electoral Votes: 18Ohio has swung between Republican and Democratic candidates for decades. Trump won the state handily in the 2016 election, beating Clinton by more than 8 percentage points, while Obama carried it in 2008 and 2012. This year, Trump holds a narrow edge in Ohio in most polls. But Democrats hope they can win back the state’s 18 electoral votes as suburban, college-educated and women voters have grown more disenchanted with Trump’s coronavirus response. As in Michigan and Wisconsin, high turnout in cities such as Dayton among Black voters, who have been disproportionately affected by the virus, will be key to Biden’s chances of winning Ohio. Michigan | Electoral Votes: 16Four years after being among the Midwestern battlegrounds that delivered Trump’s upset victory, Michigan, with its 16 electoral votes, has polled steadily in favor of Biden ahead of the November 3 election. Analysts believe if Biden can mobilize African-American voters in the state’s largest city, majority Black Detroit, it could go a long way to overcoming the fewer than 11,000-vote advantage Trump had in the state in 2016. Both candidates are trying to convince voters they are best suited to revive the economy in the state, where the once-proud manufacturing base has suffered from decades of overseas outsourcing. In the past five elections, the state had been consistently voting for a Democrat until it was won by Trump in 2016. Arizona | Electoral Votes: 11Latino voters are crucial in Arizona, where Trump won its 11 electoral votes by almost 4 percentage points in 2016. The state is known as a conservative stronghold and has voted in favour of the Republicans in the last five presidential elections. However, the state in 2018 elected a Democratic senator amid rapid growth in Maricopa County, which contains Phoenix, and a shift in suburban voters toward the Democrats. Latinos, who constitute the Democratic base in the state, have grown from a quarter of the population to a third in the past two decades. Biden has seen his edge with Latinos shrink as Republicans have focused heavily on the state, while Trump has come under fire for his administration’s halting response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has disproportionately harmed minority groups. Wisconsin | Electoral Votes: 10Trump and Biden each are making a play for the 10 electoral votes in Wisconsin, where Trump four years ago was the first Republican presidential candidate to win the state since 1984. The state became a flashpoint in the country’s reckoning over race and policing after the shooting in August of a Black man by a white police officer in the city of Kenosha. After Black voter participation in Wisconsin sank in 2016 compared with previous elections, Biden’s campaign is betting that energized Democratic-leaning Black voters this year will help overcome Trump’s less than-1-percentage-point margin of victory over Clinton there. Biden has an advantage over Trump in most recent Wisconsin opinion polls. (With inputs from Reuters)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/news/six-swing-states-that-may-make-or-break-fortunes-in-us-presidential-elections/articleshow/78583471.cms||---
October 10, 2020||World||Six swing states that may make or break fortunes in US presidential elections||In US presidential elections, most states are reliably Republican or Democratic. However, there are a few states that are unpredictable and can swing either way. These are known as "battleground" or "swing" states. The road to the White House runs through these handful of states where the election is expected to be close. In 2020, pollsters have identified at least six states where the battle could go down to the wire due to the changing demographics and the polarizing politics of Republican President Donald Trump. Both the Republicans and Democrats have been heavily courting these bellwether states since the beginning of the campaign and even opinion polls are divided as to which candidate the voters would end up favoring. Here are the states that can play a critical role in delivering the 270 electoral college votes needed to win the White House:  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Florida | Electoral Votes: 29Recent opinion polls show Trump and Biden in a close race in Florida, a big prize with 29 electoral votes. The state is particularly important for Trump - no Republican has won the presidency without Florida since Calvin Coolidge in 1924. Trump won Florida over Hillary Clinton in 2016 by just 1.2 percentage points. In 2020, he is making a strong play for Hispanic votes, namely conservative-leaning Cuban Americans, while Biden is running ahead of Clinton’s support among the state’s seniors, another crucial voting bloc, and white voters. Moreover, when it comes to presidential elections, Florida is known as the top bellwether state as it has been electing the winning candidate since 2000. Pennsylvania | Electoral Votes: 20Pennsylvania has swung from being a Republican-leaning state during much of the 20th century to being a battleground state in present-day politics. From 1992 to 2012, the state had backed the Democratic candidate in six straight elections. However, it was won by Republican candidate Donald Trump in 2016. Trump won the Rust Belt state by just 45,000 votes in 2016, promising to bring blue-collar jobs back to the economically depressed region. The president typically polls well on his handling of the economy, but overall he is trailing Biden in recent opinion polls in Pennsylvania by several percentage points. Trump has attacked the former vice president for his prior support of liberalizing trade deals that facilitated the offshoring of jobs. Biden has chosen the state where he was born to deliver some of his most forceful speeches of the campaign, including a late August address in which he condemned Trump for fomenting violence at nationwide protests over racial equality. Ohio | Electoral Votes: 18Ohio has swung between Republican and Democratic candidates for decades. Trump won the state handily in the 2016 election, beating Clinton by more than 8 percentage points, while Obama carried it in 2008 and 2012. This year, Trump holds a narrow edge in Ohio in most polls. But Democrats hope they can win back the state’s 18 electoral votes as suburban, college-educated and women voters have grown more disenchanted with Trump’s coronavirus response. As in Michigan and Wisconsin, high turnout in cities such as Dayton among Black voters, who have been disproportionately affected by the virus, will be key to Biden’s chances of winning Ohio. Michigan | Electoral Votes: 16Four years after being among the Midwestern battlegrounds that delivered Trump’s upset victory, Michigan, with its 16 electoral votes, has polled steadily in favor of Biden ahead of the November 3 election. Analysts believe if Biden can mobilize African-American voters in the state’s largest city, majority Black Detroit, it could go a long way to overcoming the fewer than 11,000-vote advantage Trump had in the state in 2016. Both candidates are trying to convince voters they are best suited to revive the economy in the state, where the once-proud manufacturing base has suffered from decades of overseas outsourcing. In the past five elections, the state had been consistently voting for a Democrat until it was won by Trump in 2016. Arizona | Electoral Votes: 11Latino voters are crucial in Arizona, where Trump won its 11 electoral votes by almost 4 percentage points in 2016. The state is known as a conservative stronghold and has voted in favour of the Republicans in the last five presidential elections. However, the state in 2018 elected a Democratic senator amid rapid growth in Maricopa County, which contains Phoenix, and a shift in suburban voters toward the Democrats. Latinos, who constitute the Democratic base in the state, have grown from a quarter of the population to a third in the past two decades. Biden has seen his edge with Latinos shrink as Republicans have focused heavily on the state, while Trump has come under fire for his administration’s halting response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has disproportionately harmed minority groups. Wisconsin | Electoral Votes: 10Trump and Biden each are making a play for the 10 electoral votes in Wisconsin, where Trump four years ago was the first Republican presidential candidate to win the state since 1984. The state became a flashpoint in the country’s reckoning over race and policing after the shooting in August of a Black man by a white police officer in the city of Kenosha. After Black voter participation in Wisconsin sank in 2016 compared with previous elections, Biden’s campaign is betting that energized Democratic-leaning Black voters this year will help overcome Trump’s less than-1-percentage-point margin of victory over Clinton there. Biden has an advantage over Trump in most recent Wisconsin opinion polls. (With inputs from Reuters)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/six-swing-states-that-may-make-or-break-fortunes-in-us-presidential-elections/articleshow/78583472.cms||---
October 10, 2020||World||Six swing states that may make or break fortunes in US presidential elections||In US presidential elections, most states are reliably Republican or Democratic. However, there are a few states that are unpredictable and can swing either way. These are known as "battleground" or "swing" states. The road to the White House runs through these handful of states where the election is expected to be close. In 2020, pollsters have identified at least six states where the battle could go down to the wire due to the changing demographics and the polarizing politics of Republican President Donald Trump. Both the Republicans and Democrats have been heavily courting these bellwether states since the beginning of the campaign and even opinion polls are divided as to which candidate the voters would end up favoring. Here are the states that can play a critical role in delivering the 270 electoral college votes needed to win the White House:  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Florida | Electoral Votes: 29Recent opinion polls show Trump and Biden in a close race in Florida, a big prize with 29 electoral votes. The state is particularly important for Trump - no Republican has won the presidency without Florida since Calvin Coolidge in 1924. Trump won Florida over Hillary Clinton in 2016 by just 1.2 percentage points. In 2020, he is making a strong play for Hispanic votes, namely conservative-leaning Cuban Americans, while Biden is running ahead of Clinton’s support among the state’s seniors, another crucial voting bloc, and white voters. Moreover, when it comes to presidential elections, Florida is known as the top bellwether state as it has been electing the winning candidate since 2000. Pennsylvania | Electoral Votes: 20Pennsylvania has swung from being a Republican-leaning state during much of the 20th century to being a battleground state in present-day politics. From 1992 to 2012, the state had backed the Democratic candidate in six straight elections. However, it was won by Republican candidate Donald Trump in 2016. Trump won the Rust Belt state by just 45,000 votes in 2016, promising to bring blue-collar jobs back to the economically depressed region. The president typically polls well on his handling of the economy, but overall he is trailing Biden in recent opinion polls in Pennsylvania by several percentage points. Trump has attacked the former vice president for his prior support of liberalizing trade deals that facilitated the offshoring of jobs. Biden has chosen the state where he was born to deliver some of his most forceful speeches of the campaign, including a late August address in which he condemned Trump for fomenting violence at nationwide protests over racial equality. Ohio | Electoral Votes: 18Ohio has swung between Republican and Democratic candidates for decades. Trump won the state handily in the 2016 election, beating Clinton by more than 8 percentage points, while Obama carried it in 2008 and 2012. This year, Trump holds a narrow edge in Ohio in most polls. But Democrats hope they can win back the state’s 18 electoral votes as suburban, college-educated and women voters have grown more disenchanted with Trump’s coronavirus response. As in Michigan and Wisconsin, high turnout in cities such as Dayton among Black voters, who have been disproportionately affected by the virus, will be key to Biden’s chances of winning Ohio. Michigan | Electoral Votes: 16Four years after being among the Midwestern battlegrounds that delivered Trump’s upset victory, Michigan, with its 16 electoral votes, has polled steadily in favor of Biden ahead of the November 3 election. Analysts believe if Biden can mobilize African-American voters in the state’s largest city, majority Black Detroit, it could go a long way to overcoming the fewer than 11,000-vote advantage Trump had in the state in 2016. Both candidates are trying to convince voters they are best suited to revive the economy in the state, where the once-proud manufacturing base has suffered from decades of overseas outsourcing. In the past five elections, the state had been consistently voting for a Democrat until it was won by Trump in 2016. Arizona | Electoral Votes: 11Latino voters are crucial in Arizona, where Trump won its 11 electoral votes by almost 4 percentage points in 2016. The state is known as a conservative stronghold and has voted in favour of the Republicans in the last five presidential elections. However, the state in 2018 elected a Democratic senator amid rapid growth in Maricopa County, which contains Phoenix, and a shift in suburban voters toward the Democrats. Latinos, who constitute the Democratic base in the state, have grown from a quarter of the population to a third in the past two decades. Biden has seen his edge with Latinos shrink as Republicans have focused heavily on the state, while Trump has come under fire for his administration’s halting response to the coronavirus pandemic, which has disproportionately harmed minority groups. Wisconsin | Electoral Votes: 10Trump and Biden each are making a play for the 10 electoral votes in Wisconsin, where Trump four years ago was the first Republican presidential candidate to win the state since 1984. The state became a flashpoint in the country’s reckoning over race and policing after the shooting in August of a Black man by a white police officer in the city of Kenosha. After Black voter participation in Wisconsin sank in 2016 compared with previous elections, Biden’s campaign is betting that energized Democratic-leaning Black voters this year will help overcome Trump’s less than-1-percentage-point margin of victory over Clinton there. Biden has an advantage over Trump in most recent Wisconsin opinion polls. (With inputs from Reuters)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/six-swing-states-that-may-make-or-break-fortunes-in-us-presidential-elections/articleshow/78582778.cms||---
October 10, 2020||India||Elgar Parishad: NIA charges eight with plot to damage state, oldest is 83 yrs||Less than nine months after it took over the probe into the Elgar Parishad case, the National Investigation Agency has filed a chargesheet claiming that the violence at Bhima Koregaon was part of a CPI (Maoist) strategy using its “urban network” and frontal organisations. It said the banned terrorist outfit aimed to incite people against the elected government and gather information on the movement of security forces to inflict damage on the state. The 10,000-page supplementary chargesheet mentions a “systematic network of Maoists operating for supply of arms and ammunitions”, with links to banned outfits in India and abroad. The chargesheet named lawyer and activist Gautam Navlakha; academician Anand Teltumbde; DU associate professor Hany Babu; cultural group Kabir Kala Manch members Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor and Jyoti Jagta; Jesuit priest Stan Swamy and Milind Teltumbde. Barring Milind, alleged to be a top operative of CPI (Maoist), all are in custody. Stan Swamy, 83, was the last to be picked on Thursday. This is the first chargesheet by the NIA after it took over the probe from Pune police in January. Pune police had submitted two chargesheets in 2018 and 2019. These individuals were named during investigations, but barring Milind Teltumbde, none had been charged. Sixteen people are in jail, nine of them for more than two years, for a case linked to the caste clashes that broke out at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The NIA said its investigation revealed that the accused conspired to further the ideology of the CPI (Maoist) and abetted violence, incited disaffection towards the government and promoted enmity between groups on grounds of religion, caste and community. Milind also organised camps for imparting weapons training to other accused. NIA claims the active role of Navlakha — the most high-profile accused — came up in the 10,000 pages of secret communications with CPI (Maoist) cadres recovered during the probe. The NIA said Navlakha was recruiting cadres for the CPI (Maoist). DU professor Hany Babu, said the agency, was instrumental in organising visits of foreign journalists to CPI (Maoist)-controlled areas and was assigned responsibility of the Revolutionary Democratic Front, a banned outfit in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. It said he was in contact with terror outfit Kanglepak Communist Party of Manipur and was making efforts for the release of convicted accused G N Saibaba on the directions of the CPI (Maoist). Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor & Jyoti Jagtap, as per the chargesheet, have undergone weapons training by CPI (Maoist) cadres. They are also members of Kabir Kala Manch, a frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist), and attended meetings for the organisation of the Elgar Parishad programme, it said. “Stan Swamy propagated among cadres that the arrest of urban CPI (Maoist) cadres from different parts of the country has caused irrevocable damage to CPI (Maoist),” said NIA. Swamy allegedly received funds from Maoist cadres to further the activities of CPI (Maoist), it said, adding that he is a convenor of the PPSC, a frontal organisation of CPI (Maoist). Anand Teltumbde was one of the convenors of “Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan” and was present at Shaniwar Wada on December 31, 2017. The chargesheet says the Elgar Parishad at Shaniwar Wada in Pune was funded by CPI (Maoist) to create unrest and overthrow the government. The NIA alleged that provocative speeches by Kabir Kala Manch activists promoted enmity between caste groups and led to the clashes at Bhima Koregaon. Watch Bhima Koregaon Case: NIA files chargesheet against 8 people||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elgar-parishad-nia-charges-eight-with-plot-to-damage-state-oldest-is-83-yrs/articleshow/78583420.cms||---
October 10, 2020||India||Javadekar: RWAs not right in stopping newspapers from reaching homes||NEW DELHI: Union information & broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar has said it is not correct for any entities including any Resident Welfare Association to stop the door-to-door delivery of newspapers to people's homes. In an interview to Times Now, the minister said he reads 20 newspapers every day, and he has not seen any special problem with newspapers. "Therefore, if some RWAs and others are stopping newspapers, it is not correct - they should allow people to take their choice, and read or not to read and what to read," he said. Avid newspaper reader Union minister for information and broadcasting @PrakashJavdekar’s message for RWAs 👇 https://t.co/XSZVnztj9x— The Times Of India (@timesofindia) 1602230068000Heads of apex bodies of housing societies have also been pointing out that it is illegal to stop door-to-door delivery of newspapers to people's homes, and recent statements have been given by the Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association (MahaSeWa), the Maharashtra Housing Federation as well as URJA - the United RWAs Joint Action, in Delhi - in this regard. They have all pointed out delivery of newspapers to people's doorsteps is an essential service and cannot be stopped, and have asked RWA office-bearers not to interfere in the service or act in violation of orders from competent authorities. MahaSeWa president Ramesh Prabhu had said home delivery of newspapers is an essential service, while MHF chairman Prakash Darekar had said it was illegal to stop door-to-door delivery of newspapers. The apex body of RWAs in Delhi, URJA, had also issued a recent statement where its president Atul Goyal said "it has come to our notice that there are some housing societies and RWAs that are not allowing distribution of newspapers to their residents, which is illegal, wrong and challenges the integrity of our society". These bodies pointed out that in these times of rumours and fake news, it is newspapers that bring in credibility and uphold the right of information for the people. Lawyers have also been emphasising that circulation and distribution of newspapers is an inseparable and essential part of dissemination of information and is protected by both Article 19(1)(a) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution guaranteeing right to free speech and profession respectively. They have pointed out that the only method to achieve dissemination of ideas and information is by circulation of the newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/javadekar-rwas-not-right-in-stopping-newspapers-from-reaching-homes/articleshow/78583657.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||Match-fixing: Goa Football Association’s inquiry panel taking shape||PANAJI: The Goa Football Association (GFA) is still in the process of appointing an inquiry committee to look into suspicious matches in the Goa Professional League last season. Early this year, London-based Sportradar, a company which monitors betting odds and suspicious patterns, had red-flagged six matches in Goan football and alerted the All India Football Federation (AIFF), which asked the state association to conduct an inquiry. The initial inquiry by GFA – conducted within three days – and submitted to AIFF’s integrity officer, Javed Siraj, was not up to the mark. GFA was found to be pointing fingers to its own partner and the integrity officer said the report had no connection with the match-fixing suspicions in the Goa Pro League. In-between, GFA’s ethics committee came to the fore and was almost beginning to start the probe. They had to stop due to lack of clarity about the formation of a previous committee and also questions from its own executive committee. The GFA executive committee which met late last month at the Football Stadium in Duler proposed names for the inquiry committee. Many, though, seem reluctant to join. A senior retired police officer and a lawyer has verbally agreed, while a former senior GFA administrator could also join the group. They are yet to give their written consent to the association for the five-member committee. “The minutes of our meeting are not finalised yet. It took time because the minutes are very long. There were many issues addressed like the Goa Pro League sponsors, first, second and other division leagues, but we should sort it out soon,” said a source from the GFA. The GFA has managed to rope in a Kolkata-based firm, Accord Sports Inc, as their sponsors for the next three seasons of the state league. The sponsorship is worth Rs 95 lakh. Amid the coronavirus pandemic, GFA is hoping to start the Goa Pro League in December, to be played behind closed doors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/match-fixing-gfas-inquiry-panel-taking-shape/articleshow/78583661.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
October 10, 2020||India||No criminal record, but booked for terror: Kin of man held near Hathras||AGRA: Siddique Kappan has been a journalist for nine years, covering north India for a Malayalam-language news site. Masood Ahmed was preparing for his civil services exam; Atikur Rehman for his PhD. On Monday, the three of them, along with an embroiderer-turned-driver, Mohammad Alam, were on their way to Hathras to meet the gang-rape victim's family when they were detained at Mathura. Their families, away in Malappuram, Bahraich, Rampur and Muzaffarnagar, told on Friday they cannot understand how they were locked away as terror threats. "He had never even been involved in a brawl. No criminal record. Suddenly, he gets booked for terror," said Atikur's brother Mateen Ahmed, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar. Mateen said Atikur had a congenital heart ailment and needed constant medical attention. "On October 1, he had gone to Delhi for treatment at AIIMS ... Four days after that, I got a call. He had been arrested." Back home, his wife worries, helplessly, about his heart problem. A similar concern is "killing" Kappan's wife. "I am worried about his diabetes. Stress will make it worse," Rehanath told TOI through a translator. For an entire day, she had not known her husband had been arrested. "It was only on Tuesday that some friends told me." She could not make sense of what had happened. "Neither he nor anyone in our family has any political ties." For now, she is keeping it together for his 90-year-old mother and three children. "He is a journalist. If he was going to Hathras, it was to report," she said. Masood's brother, Monis Khan, said he would have stopped them had he known they were travelling to Hathras. Monis lives in Noida, a younger brother is still studying, a sister is married and their father Shakil Ahmad runs a small lock and key repair shop in Bahraich. "We are simple people. He has never done anything illegal. We never saw him misbehave with anyone," he said. Masood cleared NET after a diploma in mass communication in 2016 and Masters in public administration from Jamia Millia Islamia last year. He was preparing for his PhD. Driver Alam's mother, Naeem Jahan, 50, said she came to know about the arrests when some people came to her house in Rampur on Monday evening, asking about her son. "The next day, his photo was all over TV. Neighbours started asking." She and her husband, Laiyak Pehalwan, roll beedis for a living. Their son, she said, had moved to Delhi 10 years ago after trying his hand at embroidery. He got married in 2018 and lived in Delhi with his wife. "He was just taking passengers ... I don't even know where he is, how he is." All four are now in a temporary prison, awaiting Covid-19 test results, after which they will be moved to the district jail in Mathura, a senior police official said. They have been charged with sedition and under the stringent UAPA, among other sections related to funds diversion, disturbing peace and tampering of evidence. In Delhi, Campus Front of India, the student wing of Popular Front of India, said members Atikur and Masood, along with Kappan and Aalam, were arrested illegally. "The police's lies on 'sectarian violence', 'fundraising' and 'carrying dangerous literature' are baseless and nonsensical." (With inputs from Pathikrit Chakraborty and Mohammad Ibrar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-criminal-record-but-booked-for-terror-kin-of-man-held-near-hathras/articleshow/78583686.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 10, 2020||India||Only 1 non-BJP face in NDA cabinet now||NEW DELHI: The death of LJP leader and food and consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan has turned the Union Cabinet into a mostly all-BJP affair. While the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) still has more than a dozen constituents, Ramdas Athawale of the Republican Party of India (RPI) is now the lone non-BJP representative in the Council of Ministers. While Shiv Sena had pulled out its representative Arvind Savant following the bitter dispute with BJP last year over power-sharing in Maharashtra, Harsimrat Kaur Badal of Shiromani Akali Dal quit the government citing differences over the just-enacted farm laws. Speculation about a likely expansion of the Union Cabinet has been rife for some time, with the induction of Congress rebel Jyotiraditya Scindia adding fuel to the buzz. However, with the BJP leadership preoccupied with Bihar polls, it may have to wait until mid-November. Among the remaining NDA allies, JD(U) is the largest constituent after BJP, but has stayed out of the government for reasons that have remained shrouded in secrecy. The issue of LJP joining the Union ministry has become uncertain as the party has quit the alliance in Bihar and is contesting the polls alone. Apna Dal MP Anupriya Patel, who was junior minister for five years in the first government, didn’t join in 2019. Sources said she wanted elevation to Cabinet rank, which was not accepted by BJP leadership. Watch Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan passes away at 74||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/only-1-non-bjp-face-in-nda-cabinet-now/articleshow/78583694.cms||Akhilesh Singh
October 10, 2020||Vadodara||Lawyer fined Rs 2K for ‘highly deprecable’ conduct||Vadodara: A woman lawyer has drawn district court’s flak for displaying poor conduct and fined Rs 2,000 for frivolous proceedings by seeking transfer of a criminal case lodged against her. Lawyer Dipti Mistry, who is accused of assaulting her father, had filed a plea with the district court, alleging that the trial court hearing her case has a ‘pre-judicial’ approach towards her and that she will not get justice. The court of principal district judge M R Mengdey junked Mistry’s recently and fined her for wasting the court's time. When the case of assault came on board on November 26 last year, Mistry turned up at the court at 11am and informed that she would come after completing some work. Mistry said that on hearing this, the judicial magistrate got angry and addressed her as an ‘accused’. The use of the term ‘accused’, according to Mistry, showed the pre-judicial approach of the approach towards her. But the truth was revealed before the district court when the trial court submitted its remarks in connection with the transfer application. “The applicant (Mistry) had not appeared at 11am and the witness, who happens to be her mother, could not be examined till 1.15pm and the matter was posted for 3pm. The applicant turned up at 1.15pm and was informed that the matter will be taken up at 3pm on the same day,” the district court’s order stated. At 3pm too, neither Mistry nor her advocate appeared, and the court started recording Mistry’s mother’s deposition. The court also took a note of Mistry’s conduct in the proceedings. When Mistry and her advocate showed up 3.15 pm, they were shown the witness’s deposition and the mention of Mistry’s conduct. After going through the mention, Mistry behaved in an unruly behaviour with the presiding officer, the order stated. Dismissing her application, the court stated that the conduct of Mistry before the trial court is ‘highly deprecable’. She was asked to pay Rs 2,000 for the frivolous proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lawyer-fined-rs-2k-for-highly-deprecable-conduct/articleshow/78580823.cms||Jay Pachchigar
October 10, 2020||Business||Truck rental rates rise for first time since April||Chennai: Stocking up of goods for the festival season, coupled with kharif harvest procurement, have pushed up truck freight rates for the first time this fiscal. After rentals dropped 4%-5% in September, they have rebounded 10%-12% since October 1. “Upto September, truck owners were losing between Rs 10,000-Rs 20,000 due to discounting and very low cargo availability. But now the freight rates are viable and about 75%-80% of the fleet is back on the roads. The truck fleet had shrunk to 30% of its full size during and after the lockdown in April-May,” said Chennai-based transporter Rajinder Singh, general secretary All India Confederation of Goods Vehicles Owners Association. Festival demand is only one of the reasons for the uptick. “Freight rates have gone up in the last 8 days for several reasons. First, kharif harvest and procurement has started so agri goods movement is up 40% year-on-year. Also industry and factory gate goods movement is up by 10% as even MSMEs start full-fledged operation,” said SP Singh, co-ordinator Indian Foundation of Transport Research & Training (IFTRT).Transporters say the business size is already similar to last October. “In terms of value of business we have hit 110% of October 2019,” said Ramesh Aggarwal, chairman-All India Transporters Welfare Association. Accordingly trunk route rates have firmed up particularly from Maharashtra to Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai as well as Gujarat to rest of India. Transporters say the fleet usage would have been better if there was no driver shortage dogging fleet operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/truck-rental-rates-rise-for-first-time-since-april/articleshow/78581740.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 10, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Leaders make way for political heirs||PATNA: Several political heirs, across the party line, have got the chance to try their luck in this assembly election in Bihar. For instance, Meena Kamat, daughter-in-law of state Panchayati Raj Minister Kapil Dev Kamat, will be fighting from the latter’s Babubarhi assembly constituency in Madhubani. The minister is currently in a serious condition at AIIMS-Patna, where he was admitted recently after testing positive for Covid-19. In the list announced by JD (U) on Wednesday, Meena replaced her father-in-law. After the list was announced, a message on Kamat’s Facebook account was posted thanking senior party leaders for considering his suggestion. Another JD (U) sitting MLA Janardan Manjhi, a Kushwaha by caste, has fielded his son. Janardan represents Amarpur in Banka district and this year his son Jayant Raj will be contesting from there. Shalini Mishra, who had joined JD (U) this year in February, has got the ticket from Kesaria Vidhan Sabha in East Champaran. She is the daughter of veteran CPI leader and former late parliamentarian Kamla Mishra Madhukar. Two of Bihar’s political stalwarts, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh and Congress legislative party leader Sadanand Singh have also fielded their sons in this assembly election. Jagdanand’s son Sudhakar Singh will be contesting on an RJD ticket from Ramgarh assembly constituency, from where his father had won six times consecutively until he was elected as an MP from Buxar in 2009. But this is not for the first time that Sudhakar is fighting from here. In 2010, he had contested from Ramgarh assembly on BJP’s ticket and that time his father had supported RJD’s candidate. RJD has also accommodated former parliamentarians Jai Prakash Narayan Yadav and Kanti Singh’s children. While Jai Prakash’s daughter Divya Prakash will be contesting from Tarapur and Kanti’s son Rishi Kumar will fight the assembly election from Obra. RJD had to cut the ticket of its sitting MLA Birendra Prasad Yadav to accommodate Rishi. On the other hand, Sadanand, who had won nine times from Kahalgoan has stepped back and allowed his son Shubhanand Mukeshto fight instead. Another Congress sitting MLA from Wazirganj, Awadhesh Kumar Singh has fielded his son Shashi Shekhar Singh in his place. In the list of 27 candidates announced by BJP for the first phase, Shreyasi Singh, who is the daughter of late former Union minister Digvijay Singh has been given a chance. Shreyasi, who is a Commonwealth gold medallist shooter will be contesting on a BJP ticket from Jamui Vidhan Sabha. Political analysts feel senior leaders have turned old and want to accommodate their children during their lifetime. A political party worker, who did not want to be named said, “Most of the leaders have become very old, but what is shocking is that instead of giving space to a dedicated party worker, they have placed their children. Have these political children burnt sweat like us?” JD (U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said the number of political heirs getting into politics has reduced to a great extent. “This will further reduce in the future,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/leaders-make-way-for-political-heirs/articleshow/78581002.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||UNICEF, WBCPCR celebrate girls with gender-equality song||Kolkata: Every October 11, on International Day of the Girl, UNICEF launches an annual campaign with girls to amplify their voices and stand up for their rights. This year, under the theme “My voice, our equal future”, the campaign aims to re-imagine a better world inspired by adolescent girls. In association with UNICEF, West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has come up with a song that will be unveiled on October 11. Meant to promote gender equality, the song has been written and composed by Anupam Roy and sung by him, Iman Chakraborty, Parambrata Chattopadhyay, Anirban Bhattacharya and Rafiath Rashid Mithila. As per the official National Family Health Survey 4 (NFHS 4) data, one in three of the world’s child brides live in India. “This data of NFHS 4 (2015 – 2016) shows that approximately one in four young women in India were married or in union before their 18th birthday. Among all the districts in India, West Bengal’s Murshidabad shows the highest prevalence of child marriage within the age group of 15-19 years. The figure is 39.9%. Several state government initiatives like Kanyashree and Rupashree are working on ground to stop child marriages,” said Ananya Chakraborti, the chairperson of WBCPCR who directed the video along with film-maker Sudeshna Roy.  According to her, the reason behind this high occurrence is the “vicious cycle of poverty and illiteracy”. Child brides are common in families for whom the girl child is a “burden”. “Those who are poor and illiterate don’t consider giving equal opportunities to their sons and daughters. It’s easier for them to get the daughters married off or work somewhere. We have noticed that those parents who are literate but poor try everything in their capacity to send the daughters to schools and not get them married off early. This song – ‘Chhoto Chhoto Paye Pothchhola’ - harps on the need to give equal opportunities to all children,” Chakraborti said. A still from the video of the song featuring Iman Chakraborty, Rafiath Rashid Mithila, Anupam Roy and Parambrata Chattopadhyay Its lyrics – “Amio egote chai/ Soman amader odhikar/ Chhele aar meyer tofhat korona/ Ei gota duniyae” - advocates the need of a girl child to also go ahead in life without feeling differentiated. “Unlike his other composition, this song relies heavily on simplicity. This song is not elitist but is meant for everyone, including first generation learners. The video is shot by Debolina and edited by Saikat Sekhareswar Ray,” said Sudeshna Roy, special consultant of WBCPCR.  While writing it, Roy kept in mind that it should “natural” without being “preachy”. “I didn’t want to make it slogan-driven or a protest song. The world is unfair and there is so much of injustice all around. Amid this injustice, this song is asking for equal opportunity to everyone,” Roy said. “The song is very special because it speaks about girls’ voices, choices and rights. I hope after listening to this song we all will be inspired to ensure the girls and boys are treated equally and girls are given voices and choices and their rights are ensured,” said Mithila.  Child rearing, Roy said, is often seen as an investment. “Sons were given more to eat than the daughters. The difference is so huge that when they reach 20 or so there is no question of equality. This song is trying to make an earnest appeal to awaken the consciousness at the grassroot level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unicef-wbcpcr-celebrate-girls-with-gender-equality-song/articleshow/78581127.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Too many alliances, CM faces may confuse voters||PATNA: As the filing of nomination papers for 71 assembly constituencies going to polls in the first phase ended on Thursday, the battle lines have largely been drawn involving the parties in alliances and outside them. The first phase election in the state will be held on October 28. However, there is also a huge scope for confusions among the voters, largely due to the presence of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan, observers feel. For people, counting the number of alliances, their respective CM faces and also the parties in the fray have become a curiosity at the tea stalls and in groups. “What the voters will finally decide during the first phase will be the trend during the remaining two phases. Overall, the fight will be between two big alliances – NDA and Mahagathbandhan,” state BJP spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. His observation was echoed by RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari. There are two main alliances with each having its own CM face. The NDA, with Nitish Kumar as its CM face, comprises four parties – JD(U), BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahani. Mahagathbandhan, on the other hand, comprises RJD, Congress and three Left parties – CPI(ML), CPM and CPI. Its CM face is Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. On Thursday, AIMIM led by Asaduddin Owaisi had joined hands with the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Janwadi Socialist Party (JSP) headed by former MP Devendra Prasad Yadav to float Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF). Further, there is Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA) led by Jan Adhikar Party chief Pappu Yadav. The GDSF and PDA are considered smaller alliances, as they, barring the lone member of the AIMIM, have no representation in the outgoing state assembly. The attention, therefore, is on the LJP as it has walked out of the NDA but continues to be in alliance with the BJP. The LJP has not joined hands with any party. It is just opposed to Nitish, and has fielded all its 42 candidates in the first phase against the candidates of the JD(U). The LJP leader Chirag is the party’s CM face, while Kushwaha has been declared the CM face of the GDSF and Pappu Yadav of the PDA. “The fight is between two models of governance – the forward looking one that is represented by CM Nitish Kumar and the bleak and backward model of the Mahagathbandhan,” a JD(U) spokesman said. However, the JD(U) circles appeared concerned that Chirag has fielded 42 candidates against the party nominees in the first phase. “By extension, they will field 122 candidates against the JD(U) and 21 others against the BJP in three phases. Who the LJP is harming?” a JD(U) source asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/too-many-alliances-cm-faces-may-confuse-voters/articleshow/78584677.cms||Abhay Singh
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: When leaders wooed voters with their theatrics||PATNA: Long before political parties began “hiring” celebrities to attract voters, there were few netas who mesmerized people with their theatrics and registered victory with big margins. Old-timers recall how Jan Kranti Dal leader Mahamaya Prasad Sinha had mobilized the students by addressing them as “jigar ke tukde” during the 1967 assembly polls. They were annoyed with the then chief minister (CM) K B Sahay due to police firing on a group of students near Gandhi Maidan in Patna in late 1966. Sahay was heading the Congress government then. “Sinha had, earlier, championed the cause of Patna University students agitating against the death of a B N College student, Dinanath Pandey, in police firing in August, 1955. During the 1967 elections, he challenged the CM from Patna West constituency and started canvassing for himself with the wide support of students. He was also backed by a large section of non-gazetted employees who were allegedly agitated over the CM’s ‘ask your children to sell groundnuts if you are not satisfied with your present pay’ remark. They had resorted to an agitation for a pay hike,” Patna high court lawyer S K Lal told this newspaper. Lal also pointed out that Sinha would beat his chest, tear his clothes and cry during his public addresses. Ultimately he not only defeated Sahay by a big margin of votes in the elections, but also led to the formation of the first non-Congress government in Bihar in 1967. Magadh University retired chemistry teacher Mahesh Chandra recalled how Sinha had defeated Congress leader Krishna Kant Singh from the Goriyakothi assembly constituency during the 1972 elections. “During the election campaign, Sinha was moving on a horse-driven cart along with his supporters. When a procession of his opponent’s followers, coming from the opposite direction, raised ‘Mahamaya Prasad murdabad’ slogans, he fell from the cart and lied on the middle of the road with both his eyes shut. The protesters from the rival camp rushed towards Sinha and asked him to stand up. He, however, said he was dead after hearing the ‘murdabad’ slogans and would stand only when they chanted ‘Mahamaya Prasad zindabad’,” said Chandra. He added, “The climax of Sinha’s theatrics was witnessed by the voters of Goriyakothi constituency when he reached his opponent’s ancestral home, touched his mother’s feet and sought blessings from her.” Socialist leader Karpoori Thakur, who is often considered one of the makers of modern Bihar, won the hearts of his electorate by his simplicity. While campaigning, he would invariably squat on the ground when he visited the house of big landlords or other influential people. When he was offered a chair to sit, he would simply ask, “How can I sit on a chair in front of you when my forefathers did not?” The retired principal of a Samastipur-based high school, Kusheshwar Jha, claimed, “Thakur’s politeness won the hearts of many of his critics.” RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav, on the other hand, had the gift of gab which made him one of the most well-known politicians in the country. He used his theatrics to rib-tickling effect as he mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi by mimicking him. On earlier occasions, he had promised to make the roads in Bihar as smooth as Hema Malini’s cheeks. “Jab tak samose mein rahega aalu, Bihar mei rahega Lalu was a very popular slogan for several years,” said Veer Kunwar Singh University’s retired botany teacher A K Sharan. However, in the absence of such popular figures and restricted hours of campaigning amid the Covid-19 pandemic, young voters will miss out on such theatrics this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/when-leaders-wooed-voters-with-their-theatrics/articleshow/78584761.cms||B K Mishra
October 10, 2020||Patna||Fodder scam trial involving Lalu awaits completion in Patna||PATNA: A fodder scam case against Lalu Prasad still awaits completion of trial in a special CBI court in Patna due to non-appearance of the RJD chief as he is lodged in a Ranchi jail. Eight others, including two former MLAs and two IAS officers (retired), are accused in the case. The case is related to fraudulent withdrawal of at least Rs 45 lakh from Bhagalpur treasury in undivided Bihar. CBI sources said apart from the lone case in Patna, trial in one more fodder scam case against Lalu and other accused is yet to be completed in Jharkhand. “Lalu and others were convicted for fraudulent withdrawal of crores of rupees from Deoghar, Chaibasa and Dumka treasuries. There are four fodder scam cases against Lalu and others in Jharkhand and one in Patna,” sources said. A top CBI officer said Lalu is also an accused in yet another case related to IRCTC tender scam. “CBI had filed chargesheet against Lalu and other accused in the IRCTC case before a Delhi court in April 2018. He is presently on bail in the case,” the officer said. Meanwhile, another CBI source said trial in Bhagalpur treasury case in special CBI court-III in Patna stopped more than a year back. “Lalu is unable to appear before the court for the trial as he is undergoing sentences in Ranchi,” the source said. Besides Lalu, former MLAs R K Rana and Jagdish Prasad, IAS officers (all retired now) Beck Julius, Phoolchand Singh and Mahesh Prasad and animal drug supplier Tripurari Mohan Prasad, Sunil Kumar Sinha and Sushil Kumar Singh are also accused in fodder scam case pending before special CBI court-III. “There is another case of disproportionate assets (DA) against Rana and his wife Naina Rana which is also by-product of fodder scam. However this case is also pending for completion of trial before special CBI court-III in Patna,” a source said. CBI sources said several witnesses are to be examined in the Bhagalpur treasury case, which is pending in Patna, and it will take a lot of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fodder-scam-trial-involving-lalu-awaits-completion-in-patna/articleshow/78580377.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid recovery rate 8.5% higher than national average||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in state rose to 1,93,826 on Friday with 1,155 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. The number of patients testing negative was more than positive cases as 1,424 people were discharged from the hospitals and isolation centres after their test results came negative. Altogether 1,81,781 people have so far recovered from the virus in the state. The active cases in the state stand at 11,111. Altogether 99,496 samples were tested across the state in the past 24 hours, much less than the daily average of sample tests in the state. So far, 81,99,627 samples have been tested in Bihar since March. The state’s recovery rate has slightly improved from 93.6% to 93.79% in the last 24 hours, nearly 8.5% higher than the national average of 85.2%. As per the state health department’s data, five more Covid causalities were reported in the state, taking the death toll to 934. Officially, Patna and Bhagalpur recorded two deaths each on Friday and Munger one. With this, Covid toll has reached 126 in Patna, 64 in Bhagalpur and 37 in Munger. Unofficially, AIIMS-Patna reported five deaths on Friday and the victims included a 50-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man from Phulwarisharif, a 70-year-old man from Daniyawan in Patna district, a 42-year-old man from Araria and a 60-year-old man from Nawada. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 19 Covid patients, including a nine-year-old boy, were admitted to the hospital on Friday and 15 discharged. The new patients included the ones from different Patna localities like Rajeev Nagar, Beur, Mahendru, Bahadurpur and Khajekalan. At NMCH-Patna, no new Covid death was reported in the last 24 hours. Two Covid patients were discharged from the hospital and five admitted on Friday. Of 1,155 new cases registered on Friday, Patna accounted for 234 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-recovery-rate-8-5-higher-than-natl-average/articleshow/78580503.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 10, 2020||Patna||Home dept allows political events with SOPs||PATNA: The state home department on Friday issued order along with standard operating procedures (SOPs) allowing political gatherings and events at closed place and on grounds outside the containment zones across the state for the assembly election and byelection to Valmikinagar Lok Sabha seat. The order was issued in the backdrop of MHA’s direction rolled out on Thursday in which it had authorized state government for regulating political gatherings and events outside containments zones. As per the order, only 50% of the sitting capacity would be allowed inside closed places with maximum gathering of 200 persons. As per the order, the home department has authorized the district administrations or competent authority to allow gathering of people on a ground or open space as per its size and ensure that arrangements are made in such a way that social distancing of at least six feet is maintained while sitting or standing. The department has authorized magistrates for issuing orders under Section 144 of CrPC to ensure social distancing. It has also directed that the model code of conduct of Election Commission would have to be followed sternly and any such gathering or event could be organized only after prior permission from competent authority. The department has also ordered that if any special directions are issued, those would be effective above the SOPs rolled out by it. All the people in the gathering would have to compulsorily use mask and face shield and their hands be sanitised at the entrance and thermally screened to ensure that they don’t have any Covid-19 symptoms. None would be allowed to spit anywhere and all the places, especially those touched by people, be disinfected periodically. Crowd management at parking spots and outside event premises must be ensured. Proper disposal of masks, shields, tissue papers used for while sneezing or coughing would have to be properly disposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-dept-allows-political-events-with-sops/articleshow/78581854.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||JD(U) makes arrangements for Nitish’s virtual rally on Oct 12, 13||PATNA: JD(U) president and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar will address the electors of the first phase constituencies on October 12 and 13 through the party’s digital platform. It will be his first virtual rally after the announcement of the poll schedule. Earlier, Nitish had addressed a mega virtual rally on September 7 before the announcement of the poll schedule, using the party’s digital platform jdulive.com. JD(U) sources said Nitish would address the electors of four to six constituencies at a time. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary told TOI on Friday that the exact schedule for the CM’s virtual rally was yet to be finalized. “It’s a tentative plan. We will inform the media once the constituency-wise plan is finalized,” he said. Sources said necessary arrangements were being made to put up big TV screens at several important places in the constituencies being contested by the party candidates, so that a large number of people could hear the CM’s speech. Altogether 71 assembly constituencies are going to the polls in the first phase on October 28. JD(U) is contesting in 35 out of the 71 constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-makes-arrangements-for-nitishs-virtual-rally-on-oct-12-13/articleshow/78581221.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC notice to govt on preserving CCTV footage from police stns||CHENNAI: Asserting that lack of a proper procedure to maintain CCTV cameras in police stations led to destruction of video footage in Sathankulam custodial deaths case, a lawyer has moved the Madras high court for a direction to the state to frame a standard operating procedure (SOP) for maintaining such cameras and footage recorded inside police stations. Admitting the the PIL moved by advocate K Nizamuddin, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha directed the Tamil Nadu government to file its response by November 6. According to the petitioner, there is no statutory framework or standard operating procedure prescribed to protect and maintain the CCTV cameras and recorded footage in police stations. Police station is a place where a citizen’s right to liberty is curtailed by way of an arrest and custodial interrogation, which are as sanctioned under law. While so, the very installation of CCTV camera within the premises of the police station is for security and also to prevent any custodial torture or police excess committed within the four walls of the police station, which would amount to human rights abuse by uniformed force, the petitioner said. Though such cameras are installed in all police stations across the state, there is lacuna in preserving the footage recorded, he added. “Such CCTV footage plays a very prominent role in investigation of custodial deaths and tortures, but without preserving the footage with fool proof technology, the same would undo the very objective of installation of CCTV cameras in police stations,” Nizamuddin argued. The solemn objective to prevent police excess gets defeated due to lack of a statutory framework to protect and preserve the footage, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-notice-to-govt-on-preserving-cctv-footage-from-police-stns/articleshow/78581878.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Ex-ASI outsmarts former DGP in game of politics||PATNA: What is common between a former DGP and a former assistant sub-inspector of police? Both belong to the same caste, both are from the same district and both opted for VRS to fulfil their political aspirations. But it’s the ex-ASI, who pipped the former DGP in the game of politics. Parshuram Chaturvedi (54) was fielded as a BJP candidate from the Buxar assembly constituency, which Pandey, a 1987-batch IPS officer, was tipped to be in the race for. Pandey opted for VRS on September 22 to join CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), but Buxar went to the BJP as part of the seat-sharing deal. Pandey had met the Buxar district unit president of JD(U) before putting in his papers. The news about their closed-door meeting spread like wildfire in Buxar, which may have prompted Chaturvedi, a native of Mahda village in Buxar district, to start lobbying for a ticket from the Buxar seat, which was wrested by Congress from BJP in 2015 assembly election. Read AlsoBJP's CEC to meet today to discuss candidate list for Bihar pollsNEW DELHI: The Central Election Committee (CEC) of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is slated to meet here on Saturday evening to discuss the list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly Election in Bihar. This will be the second CEC meeting of the BJP over the ensuing polls. Notably, the BJP hadTalking to TOI over the phone, Chaturvedi said, “I have been associated with BJP for the last two decades. I was appointed a member of the executive committee of the farmers’ cell as well as the state executive committee. My sincere work during Covid19 pandemic drew the attention of the top leadership, who selected my candidature for the seat.” Chaturvedi was keen on joining politics since his school days. In 1977, he was associated with the JP students’ movement. But he joined the police department to run his family. “My sincere work as a constable made me close to several police officers, including DP Ojha (former DGP) and Ramesh Prasad Singh (former SP, rural, Patna). I also served in the state criminal investigation department in Patna before I decided to quit the job in 2004-05 to join politics,” he added. “This is a big challenge for me. The party has posed faith in me and I have to justify that,” said Chaturvedi, who attends ‘Sakha’ regularly. When asked about former DGP Pandey, the BJP nominee said, “I regard him as my elder brother. I have a lot of affection for him. I never considered him as my opponent.” Chaturvedi, however, claimed he was promoted to the rank of sub-inspector of police before he accepted VRS. “Police vibhag mein meri achchi chhabi thi (I enjoyed a good reputation in the police department),” he said. After losing the race to Chaturvedi, ex-DGP Pandey posted an emotional post on his Facebook, clearing his stand on joining politics. “I am not going to contest the assembly polls this time. My life is full of struggles and is dedicated to serving the people,” he wrote. He also reposed faith in the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and claimed that he (Nitish) had kept his words. “Mare saath koi dhoka nahi hua hain (I have not been deceived),” he added. Sources in JD(U) said the party tried its level best to stake its claim on Buxar but in vain. “The seat went to BJP in the seat-sharing arrangement. So, Gupteshwar Pandey couldn’t be accommodated,” a senior JD(U) leader said. Buxar, which has a sizable Brahmin population, is considered to be a traditional seat of BJP. The BJP nominee Chaturvedi filed his nomination on Thursday. The constituency will go to polls in the first phase on October 28. The counting of votes will take place on November 10. Watch Bihar elections 2020: Ex-ASI outsmarts former DGP, gets ticket from Buxar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-asi-outsmarts-former-dgp-in-game-of-politics/articleshow/78585032.cms||Ramashankar
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t pay LRS fee: Cong tells people||Hyderabad: Congress on Friday asked people not to avail or pay fee of the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) offered by the TRS-government and announced that the party will regularize “free of cost” the unauthorized layouts after it comes to power in 2023. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy made the announcement stating that Congress has taken a clear stand against the LRS scheme. “This LRS scheme of TRS lacks a humane touch. The KCR government has come out with the LRS scheme with the main objective of filling up its coffers and not intended to benefit the people,” Uttam said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-pay-lrs-fee-cong-tells-people/articleshow/78582953.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Iskcon hosts Nabadwip virtual tour||KOLKATA: On the occasion of Purushottam month, which comes once in three years, Iskcon devotees from 83 countries have been linked up on a virtual platform for the Nabadwip Mandal Parikrama from Friday till Thursday. Usually, devotees come to Mayapur, the Iskcon headquarters, for the tour of the nine islands that make up Nabadwip, accompanied by monks and sevaks to understand the philosophy of Sri Chaitanya Mahaprabhu, and Gaudiya Vaishnavism in the 15th century that was preached by him. This year, the pandemic has led to the physical tour being cancelled. Iskcon sources said devotees will be taken to all important temples and spots associated with Chaitanya. “This is the first time that this kind of a virtual tour is being organized,” said Subrata Das, spokesperson of Iskcon Mayapur. Senior monk Jayapataka Swami will address the parikrama. The tour will include a one-and-a-half-hour-long daily parikrama with sankirtan and ‘Gaura Katha’. Over 10,000 devotees will join the link globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iskcon-hosts-nabadwip-virtual-tour/articleshow/78581168.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 10, 2020||Business||Care Ratings downgrades LVB’s tier-I and II bonds||Chennai: Care Ratings has downgraded Lakshmi Vilas Bank’s (LVB) Rs 250 crore Basel III compliant tier-I bonds to CARE B- from CARE B+, besides reaffirming negative outlook, as it fears negative networth — in view of delay in mobilising fresh capital — may continue. Among others, the ratings on lower tier-II bond issuances of Rs 50 crore have been downgraded to CARE BB-. Basel III Compliant tier II bonds of Rs 78.1 crore, Rs 140.1 crore and Rs 100 crore have been downgraded to CARE B- from CARE BB+ each.There has been a sharp decline in the bank’s net worth after losses were reported between FY20 and the June quarter of FY21 impacting the rating actions. LVB reported net loss of Rs 112 crore for the June quarter, and said its tier-1 capital turned negative in the first quarter of the current fiscal. The bank reported only Rs 9 lakh operating profit for the quarter. Last fiscal it had incurred a loss of Rs 836 crore. The bank has made provisions on depreciation of investments of Rs 30 crore and Rs 83 crore towards NPAs during Q1FY21 resulting in the bank reporting a loss. “In view of current capital adequacy levels, timely mobilisation of capital to augment its capital adequacy ratio (CAR) is critical,” the credit rating agency said in a statement.The bank reported total CAR and tier I CAR of 0.17% and -1.83% respectively, as on June 30, 2020. Deposits declined by 27% from Rs 29,729 crore as on March 31, 2019 to Rs 21,443 crore as on March 31, 2020.This is the second rating downgrade on LVB’s bonds, after irate shareholders ousted seven director, along with the auditors in September. Brickwork Ratings India had downgraded the rating from “BWR BB+” (credit watch with developing implications) to “BWR B+” (credit watch with negative implications) for its unsecured redeemable non-convertible subordinated lower tier-II bonds of Rs 50.5 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/care-ratings-downgrades-lvbs-tier-i-and-ii-bonds/articleshow/78581701.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Patna||20 lakh likely to cast votes in Begusarai||BEGUSARAI: Soon after the Election Commission issued notification for the second phase of assembly elections in the state on Friday, the process of filing of nomination papers started in all the seven assembly constituencies in Begusarai district. District election officer-cum-DM Arvind Kumar Verma said altogether 20,22,173 voters are expected to exercise their franchise at 2,985 polling stations in the seven assembly segments on November 3. “In a bid to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Election Commission, a volunteer or an anganwadi worker will be deployed at every booth with a thermal scanner and hand sanitiser. Those showing Covid symptoms will be asked to cast their vote at the last hour between 5pm and 6pm,” Verma said. He added polling personnel at the booths will be provided PPE kit. “A single-use glove will also be provided to voters. To facilitate safe disposal of the biomedical waste, every booth will be provided with a dustbin,” he said. For election related complains or any complaint regarding violation of model code of conduct, people can use toll-free number 1950 or register it via C-vigil app, the district election officer said, adding for the first time one booth each in the seven assembly constituencies will have all-woman polling personnel, including security personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-lakh-likely-to-cast-votes-in-begusarai/articleshow/78581208.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||Nitish, Tejashwi & many others pay tributes to Paswan in Patna||PATNA: Thousands of people and politicians cutting across party lines paid floral tributes to LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, whose mortal remains reached Patna airport from Delhi on Friday evening. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, LJP MP Veena Devi, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, legislative assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary, Council’s acting chairperson Awadhesh Narain Singh, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his party MP Manoj Jha paid tributes amid state honours to Paswan at the airport hangar. Ram Vilas’s son Chirag Paswan broke down. Nitish laid a wreath on the body of his former ally and long-time friend with folded hands. Tejashwi shook hands with Chirag and consoled his mother as well. The leader of opposition said he had learnt a lot from Ram Vilas. The body was brought to Bihar Vidhan Sabha where JD(U) working president Ashok Choudhary, RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari, state ministers Maheshwar Hazari, Mangal Pandey and Nand Kishore Yadav among many others paid tributes to the departed soul. A large number of people, especially of Paswan community, had reached near the airport from all over Bihar to have a last glimpse of their leader. The entire road outside the airport was jam-packed. When the body was brought for a few hours to the LJP office, ‘Ram Vilas amar rahe’ rent the air. Dharmendra Paswan, who had come from Shivaji Nagar in Samastipur, called Paswan’s death a big loss for their community. Chinta Devi, who looks after sanitation work at the LJP office, said she had come there thrice “to have a last glimpse of my brother”. Next to Chinta was Samundari Devi, who had come from Hajipur to pay tribute to her leader. Ramesh Paswan, who had come from Kusheshwar Sthan, said he was associated with the LJP founder for two decades. “Now we will stand behind Chirag. He is our son,” he said. LJP’s spokesperson Shravan Agarwal said at least 10,000 people had come from across the state to pay tributes to their leader. He said at least 500 people had also come from Shaharbanni, Paswan’s native place. Agarwal said the last journey of Paswan will begin from his residence on Saturday for cremation at Janardhan ghat in Digha, the same place where Ram Vilas’s brother Ram Chandra Paswan was cremated last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-tejashwi-many-others-pay-tributes-to-paswan-in-patna/articleshow/78581255.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 10, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Too many alliances, CM faces may confuse voters||PATNA: As the filing of nomination papers for 71 assembly constituencies going to polls in the first phase ended on Thursday, the battle lines have largely been drawn involving the parties in alliances and outside them. The first phase election in the state will be held on October 28. However, there is also a huge scope for confusions among the voters, largely due to the presence of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan, observers feel. For people, counting the number of alliances, their respective CM faces and also the parties in the fray have become a curiosity at the tea stalls and in groups. “What the voters will finally decide during the first phase will be the trend during the remaining two phases. Overall, the fight will be between two big alliances – NDA and Mahagathbandhan,” state BJP spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. His observation was echoed by RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari. There are two main alliances with each having its own CM face. The NDA, with Nitish Kumar as its CM face, comprises four parties – JD(U), BJP, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahani. Mahagathbandhan, on the other hand, comprises RJD, Congress and three Left parties – CPI(ML), CPM and CPI. Its CM face is Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad. On Thursday, AIMIM led by Asaduddin Owaisi had joined hands with the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Janwadi Socialist Party (JSP) headed by former MP Devendra Prasad Yadav to float Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF). Further, there is Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA) led by Jan Adhikar Party chief Pappu Yadav. The GDSF and PDA are considered smaller alliances, as they, barring the lone member of the AIMIM, have no representation in the outgoing state assembly. The attention, therefore, is on the LJP as it has walked out of the NDA but continues to be in alliance with the BJP. The LJP has not joined hands with any party. It is just opposed to Nitish, and has fielded all its 42 candidates in the first phase against the candidates of the JD(U). The LJP leader Chirag is the party’s CM face, while Kushwaha has been declared the CM face of the GDSF and Pappu Yadav of the PDA. “The fight is between two models of governance – the forward looking one that is represented by CM Nitish Kumar and the bleak and backward model of the Mahagathbandhan,” a JD(U) spokesman said. However, the JD(U) circles appeared concerned that Chirag has fielded 42 candidates against the party nominees in the first phase. “By extension, they will field 122 candidates against the JD(U) and 21 others against the BJP in three phases. Who the LJP is harming?” a JD(U) source asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/too-many-alliances-cm-faces-may-confuse-voters/articleshow/78580939.cms||Abhay Singh
October 10, 2020||Business||Social marketing veteran ‘DK’ passes away||MUMBAI: Media and social marketing veteran Dwipal Kumar Bose passed away early on Friday. He was 75 years old. DK, as he was popularly known, was a pioneer in the field of social marketing. He had started the country’s first social marketing agency, Thompson Social. He later went on to head Ogilvy Outreach, which carried out the largest multi-brand rural campaign for Unilever. DK had recently published his biography ‘Life Unstoppable’. He loved the outdoors and travelled to remote places in India and overseas. Ironically, he passed away in his sleep on the night of October 8/9, in a hotel room in McLeodganj where he had gone just a couple of days ago to break free from the lockdown. DK is survived by his son, daughter and their families. Also known as a behaviour change communications strategist, DK described himself online as a ‘margdarshak’ and adviser’ on rural and social marketing in India. He had worked in advertising, social marketing, rural marketing and development communication for over five decades. DK firmly believed attitudes and behaviour change can be influenced by strategic and effective communication. DK was the founder trustee of the Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR), and had also designed the nationwide immunisation communication campaigns in the country. He was a member of the Awareness & Communication Strategy Advisory Council set up by the UIDAI. He was awarded the lifetime achievement award from the Rural Marketing Association of India in 2017. Prior to his social marketing stint, DK excelled as a media professional, holding leadership positions at JWT and R K Swamy agencies. He was also a visiting faculty at several institutions and tutored many who are stalwarts of the communication industry today. During his college days at Elphinstone in Mumbai, where he studied economics and statistics, DK was one of the members who created the adventures and explorers club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/social-marketing-veteran-dk-passes-away/articleshow/78582330.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Business||24 hour RTGS to boost ease of doing business||MUMBAI: Real-time gross settlement (RTGS) — a mechanism for high-value bank fund transfers — will be made available round-the-clock from December 2020 instead of just during daytime on working days. The move will improve ease of doing business in India as companies use this platform for payments and, with increased digitisation, commercial transactions are taking place throughout the day. Announcing the measure in his post-monetary policy statement, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that in December 2019, the RBI made available the national electronic funds transfer (NEFT) system on a 24x7 basis and it has been operating smoothly since then. “To facilitate swift and seamless payments in real-time for domestic businesses and institutions, it has been decided to make available the RTGS system round-the-clock on all days from December,” said Das. The third-payment platform — Immediate Payment System (IMPS) — which is used for lower-value transactions among individual accounts has been available on a 24-hour basis for several years now. “This will support India to become an integral part of global financial markets and provide wider payment elasticity to domestic companies and institutions. The RBI initiative would also enable almost all businesses to operate 24x7, with a payment system that supports trade and commerce,” said Mahesh Ramamoorthy, MD — banking solutions, FIS. “This move will certainly encourage innovations in real-time payment system, and promote ease of doing business,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/24-hr-rtgs-to-boost-ease-of-doing-biz/articleshow/78582455.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Business||RBI keeps rates unchanged, sees FY21 GDP shrinking 9.5%||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) monetary policy committee on Friday voted unanimously to keep key interest rates unchanged but the central bank unleashed steps to reduce borrowing costs by making it cheaper for banks to provide high-value home loans and announced a Rs 1-lakh-crore liquidity infusion. Governor Shaktikanta Das made it clear that he was prioritising growth, asserting that the economy will bounce back to positive territory in the fourth quarter with 0.5% growth, but overall for the current financial year, GDP will still decline by 9.5%. The RBI’s assessment on growth is in line with most agencies and economists and is closer to the World Bank’s estimate of a 9.6% contraction for 2020-21 as the Covid-induced lockdown inflicts pain across sectors. “Indian economy is entering into a decisive phase in the fight against the pandemic. Relative to pre-Covid levels, several high-frequency indicators are pointing to easing of contractions in various sectors of the economy and emergence of impulses of growth,” Das said in his statement live-streamed on Internet platforms. “By all indications, the deep contractions of Q1/2020-21 are behind us, silver linings are visible in flattening of the active case load curve across the country. Barring the incidence of a second wave, India stands poised to shrug off the deathly grip of the virus and renew its tryst with pre-Covid growth trajectory.” Announcing its decision to hold rates, the MPC said that it will look through the current high inflation. “While inflation has been above the tolerance band for several months, the MPC judges that the underlying factors are essentially supply shocks, which should dissipate over the ensuing months as the economy unlocks, supply chains are restored, and activity normalises,” the RBI said in its statement. Going ahead, prices are expected to ease in the fourth quarter. “Consumer price index inflation is projected at 6.8% for Q2/2020-21, at 5.4-4.5% for H2/2020-21 and 4.3% for Q1/2021-22, with risks broadly balanced,” according to the statement. On growth, the MPC said GDP in 2020-21 is expected to contract at -9.5%, with risks tilted to the downside: -9.8% in Q2/2020-21, -5.6% in the third quarter, and 0.5% in the fourth quarter. GDP growth for the first quarter of 2021-22 is placed at 20.6%. “I have always dared to be an optimist. Believing firmly in the ability of humankind to overcome the pandemic. In the months gone by when Covid razed in fury across the world, our hopefulness might have appeared impudent like a flame flickering amidst gathering storms. Today there is a turn in the print which suggests that it is not impudent to dream of a brighter tomorrow even in the bleakest of time,” said Das. The governor said the central bank would continue to retain its accommodative policy for the whole of 2020-21 and well into 2021-22. According to bankers, despite the 9.5% decline forecast by the governor, the RBI has given an overall positive outlook. The liquidity supporting measures include Rs 1 lakh crore to banks under a fresh targeted long-term repo operation (TLTRO) for up to three years, with a rate linked to repo rate. This cheap money will have to be lent by banks to specific sectors that have both “backward and forward linkages, and multiplier effects on growth”. The governor also said that it will bid for state government bonds through its open market operations to improve liquidity and facilitate efficient pricing. The move is aimed at making it easier for state governments to issue bonds, considering their growing need to borrow with drop in GST collections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-keeps-rates-unchanged-sees-fy21-gdp-shrinking-9-5/articleshow/78582461.cms||---
October 10, 2020||---||Yashwant Sinha’s UDA hopeful of united opposition||PATNA: Even as the last date of nominations for the first phase of assembly polls ended on Thursday, the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) led by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha is still trying to bring smaller parties under its umbrella to take on the NDA in Bihar. The UDA has fielded its candidates in all the 71 constituencies going to the first phase of assembly polls on October 28. “We are finalizing the candidates for the second phase of polls,” UDA coordinator Rajiv Bhrigu Kumar said on Friday. Former director of the World Bank and retired IAS officer Gulrej Hoda and former minister Purnamasi Ram formed Jan Sangharsh Dal (JSD) and joined the UDA last week. Rajiv said, “UDA is still trying for a united opposition in Bihar. Till date, 15 big and smaller parties have joined hands with us. We are trying to stitch an alliance with two other opposition combinations — the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) and Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA).” GDSF comprises RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha, Mayawati’s BSP and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM while Pappu Yadav’s JAP (Loktantrik) has formed PDA with Azad Samaj Party of Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, Socialist Democratic Party of M K Faizi and Bahujan Mukti Morcha led by BPL Matang. Prakash Ambedkar’s Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) also joined the opposition group to ensure the NDA’s defeat. Former minister Devendra Prasad Yadav, who was earlier with the UDA, has been appointed the GDSF convener. “We will pose a stiff challenge to the ruling NDA. We have fielded candidates with a clean image and will raise issues concerning the people during the election campaign. We are against fielding candidates with criminal antecedents,” Rajiv said. The UDA combination also include Bhartiya Sablog Party, Janata Dal Rashtrawadi, Vanchit Samaj Party, Janata Party and LJP (Secular). Senior leaders like former MPs Arun Kumar, Ranjan Yadav, former ministers Nagmani, Renu Kushwaha besides Satyendra Sharma are associated with the UDA. The opposition, however, is still a divided lot. “The situation would be more difficult for the NDA, had all the opposition parties come under a banner to fight the election unitedly,” Pramod Kumar, a political observer, said. The LJP led by Jamui MP Chirag Paswan has decided to contest the election alone and announced its candidates against the JD(U) nominees. “LJP’s move has virtually robbed the sleep of the NDA. It is going to be a very tough fight this time,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/yashwants-uda-hopeful-of-united-opposition/articleshow/78581061.cms||Ramashankar
October 10, 2020||Patna||Yashwant Sinha’s UDA hopeful of united opposition||PATNA: Even as the last date of nominations for the first phase of assembly polls ended on Thursday, the United Democratic Alliance (UDA) led by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha is still trying to bring smaller parties under its umbrella to take on the NDA in Bihar. The UDA has fielded its candidates in all the 71 constituencies going to the first phase of assembly polls on October 28. “We are finalizing the candidates for the second phase of polls,” UDA coordinator Rajiv Bhrigu Kumar said on Friday. Former director of the World Bank and retired IAS officer Gulrej Hoda and former minister Purnamasi Ram formed Jan Sangharsh Dal (JSD) and joined the UDA last week. Rajiv said, “UDA is still trying for a united opposition in Bihar. Till date, 15 big and smaller parties have joined hands with us. We are trying to stitch an alliance with two other opposition combinations — the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) and Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA).” GDSF comprises RLSP led by Upendra Kushwaha, Mayawati’s BSP and Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM while Pappu Yadav’s JAP (Loktantrik) has formed PDA with Azad Samaj Party of Chandrashekhar Azad Ravan, Socialist Democratic Party of M K Faizi and Bahujan Mukti Morcha led by BPL Matang. Prakash Ambedkar’s Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) also joined the opposition group to ensure the NDA’s defeat. Former minister Devendra Prasad Yadav, who was earlier with the UDA, has been appointed the GDSF convener. “We will pose a stiff challenge to the ruling NDA. We have fielded candidates with a clean image and will raise issues concerning the people during the election campaign. We are against fielding candidates with criminal antecedents,” Rajiv said. The UDA combination also include Bhartiya Sablog Party, Janata Dal Rashtrawadi, Vanchit Samaj Party, Janata Party and LJP (Secular). Senior leaders like former MPs Arun Kumar, Ranjan Yadav, former ministers Nagmani, Renu Kushwaha besides Satyendra Sharma are associated with the UDA. The opposition, however, is still a divided lot. “The situation would be more difficult for the NDA, had all the opposition parties come under a banner to fight the election unitedly,” Pramod Kumar, a political observer, said. The LJP led by Jamui MP Chirag Paswan has decided to contest the election alone and announced its candidates against the JD(U) nominees. “LJP’s move has virtually robbed the sleep of the NDA. It is going to be a very tough fight this time,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/yashwants-uda-hopeful-of-united-opposition/articleshow/78587781.cms||Ramashankar
October 10, 2020||Patna||Professionals rake in the bucks as parties go big on digital outreach||PATNA: Experts in the digital marketing and campaigning sector are raking in the moolah with political parties using virtual platforms to woo voters ahead of the state assembly polls. Having expertise in niche segments like content writing, graphic designing and research, they are campaigning vigorously for different candidates on Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter. The founder of a Delhi-based election management firm, Ashish Gupta, told this newspaper, “We have done election campaigning in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana before. This year we are working for our client in Bihar and are surprised to see the reaction of the voters. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, we have formed a team of 13 members in the war room to help our client win the election.” Another digital marketing company, comprising a team of engineers, gathers information on the basis of the people’s response and plans the campaign accordingly. Its founder Utpan said, “We have a team of 15 content writers, graphic designers, editors, camerapersons and strategists that works in the war room for our clients. The total cost of the campaign of a candidate is around Rs 5 lakh.” Parties are spending a lot of money on virtual campaigns to win the confidence of their followers, who are also finding it easy to connect to their favourite candidates. 24-year-old Chetkar, who spends most of his free time surfing the internet, pointed out, “Seeing political campaigns on various social media platforms makes me inquisitive. It works like direct communication where I can express my viewpoint easily.” Shreya, a first-time voter, said, “I am really excited to cast my vote for the first time. I already know whom to support because of social media that gave me this clarity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/professionals-rake-in-the-bucks-as-parties-go-big-on-digital-outreach/articleshow/78581117.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Business||Indiabulls dilutes stake in UK arm, raises Rs 441 crore||MUMBAI: After raising Rs 2,200 crore through a combination of institutional offers and stake sales in its business arms in the September quarter, Indiabulls Housing Finance on Friday said it raised another Rs 441 crore through part-sale of its stake in the UK-based bank OakNorth. It is also planning another institutional placement in the current quarter to further bolster its reserves, sources said. Indiabulls Housing has further sold a portion of its stake in OakNorth Holding, the wholly owning parent company of OakNorth Bank to Riva Capital Partners V of the US for approximately Rs 441 crore, the company said in a regulatory disclosure. “The sale proceeds will be accretive to the regulatory net worth” and the capital adequacy ratio, it said. With the latest stake sale, Indiabulls Housing has raised a total of Rs 2,273 crore as fresh equity during September and October this year, adding to the regulatory equity capital of the company. “Indiabulls Housing in its category of AA/AA+ rated housing finance/NBFCs is at the top position for both raising bonds and fresh equity in the current fiscal,” it said. During FY21, it has already raised Rs 2,780 crore through bonds and Rs 2,273 crore through equity issuance. Of late, banks and NBFCs have been on a capital-raising spree, anticipating higher levels of defaults once the economy opens up and the government-led loan moratorium ends, analysts have said. By raising funds ahead of an anticipated bad loan deluge, lenders would be in a position to carry on with their businesses smoothly, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indiabulls-dilutes-stake-in-uk-arm-raises-rs-441cr/articleshow/78582259.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||6 women in fray from Barachatti||GAYA: Altogether 225 candidates have filed nomination papers in the 10 assembly segments of Gaya district till the last date on Thursday. Scrutiny of The last date for withdrawal of nomination papers is October 12. According to reports, one nomination from Atri was rejected during scrutiny on Friday. Police had to use force to disperse the agitating supporters of the candidate and six persons were arrested for creating ruckus, Nimchak Bathani DSP Vinay Kumar Sharma said. The maximum 29 candidates filed their papers from Gurua and 27 from Gaya Town constituency. Six women, including Jyoti Kumari of HAM(S), Samta Devi of RJD and Renuka Devi of LJP, are contesting from Barachatti. JD(U) has fielded Manorama Devi from Atri while Kumari Shobha Sinha is the LJP candidate from Imamganj. From Gaya Town, Beauty Sinha is the Shiv Sena candidate against BJP’s Prem Kumar. Seven sitting MLAs, one former MLA and an ex-MP have joined the fray from their respective constituencies. The sitting MLAs include Prem Kumar (Gaya Town), Jitan Ram Manjhi (Imamganj), Kumar Sarvajeet (Bodh Gaya), Surendra Prasad Yadav (Belaganj), Rajiv Nandan Dangi (Gurua), Vinod Prasad Yadav (Sherghati) and Abhay Kumar Sinha, who is Tekari MLA but contesting from Belaganj this time. Ex-MP Hari Manjhi (BJP) and former MLA Ajay Paswan (RLSP) are trying their luck from Bodh Gaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-women-in-fray-from-barachatti/articleshow/78580968.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||RJD elated over bail to Lalu||PATNA: The bail granted to RJD chief Lalu Prasad in one of the fodder scam cases on Friday brought relief and happiness to the party workers and leaders in the poll-bound Bihar. However, they are still keeping their fingers crossed as Lalu will remain behind bars in the Dumka treasury case. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said this news has brought excitement to the RJD camp. “Across the state, workers are happy and distributing sweets. Imagine, what would have been the reaction had he (Lalu) been out of jail,” Tiwari said. RJD’s state general secretary (headquarters) Nirala Yadav said there were two barriers and one has been overcome. “We will pray and expect him to be with us at least during the formation of our government. However, even the bail granted today has given new hope and energy to our party workers,” he said. RJD, on its official Twitter handle, wrote that their national president got bail in one of the cases, as half punishment was completed, adding that one more case was pending and its half punishment tenure will be completed on November 9, after which he may be coming out of jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-elated-over-bail-to-lalu/articleshow/78580449.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 10, 2020||Business||‘Mfg sector too can adopt WFH policy’||Pankaj.Doval@timesgroup.com Vikram Kirloskar is the fourth-generation member of the Kirloskar Group that began operations way back in 1888. The chairman and MD of Kirloskar Systems and vice-chairman of Toyota Kirloskar Motor, Kirloskar feels that the government needs to initiate steps to kickstart demand as the unlock process gathers pace and the economy opens up... How far have you achieved normalcy in business? What are the specific challenges? We are witnessing a steady shift towards normalcy and today approximately 95% of our dealerships are open. On the sales side, enquiry levels are at 80%, order levels at 81% and retail sales at 76% of pre-Covid levels from the dealerships that are open. Challenges are of fluctuating demand and production because of spurt in Covid cases in different parts of the country. How much cost increases are your grappling with? Due to high levels of localisation and self-sustaining ecosystem of suppliers, we have tried to minimise cost-increases. However, if the cost escalates further beyond a point, we have to pass on to our customers. How are you dealing with your employees? We haven’t downsized our workforce. We are going ahead with the salary increment with effect from July 2020 for our non-unionised employees and performance bonus for employees. We have also enhanced medical insurance cover, including Covid-19, and increased coverage for all employees and their families. How can government help? For the auto sector, support by way of GST reduction will be extremely beneficial. However, we recognise the fact that revenue collection is a challenge at this juncture. Therefore, it may be the right time to implement the scrappage policy that will support in spurring demand and reducing pollution. What are you doing to ensure work-life balance? We have enabled work-from-home option for all non-production employees. Workforce is being engaged through employee-led CSR activities, skill trainings, regular business updates and clear and transparent internal communication. Learnings from doing business amid the pandemic? The biggest takeaway has been that the manufacturing sector too can embrace a work-from-home model and the importance of human development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mfg-sector-too-can-adopt-wfh-policy/articleshow/78562345.cms||Pankaj Doval
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Traffic to remain suspended for six hrs for a week at NH9 for road-cutting work||Pithoragarh: To avoid any untoward incident during road cutting work, the district administration has decided to suspend vehicular movements on National Highway 9 near Gurna Mata Temple for a week, starting from Saturday, from 8 am to 2 pm. The road cutting work for the construction of the all-weather Char Dham Road will take place at Gurna, where there are hard rocks and the stretch is narrow, from October 10 to October 16. “The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) informed us that there is a potential threat of boulders falling on the road during the construction work and hence, we took the decision of suspending traffic movements for six hours for a week to ensure the safety of travellers and locals,” RD Paliwal, officiating DM Pithoragarh. The official added that vehicles will be allowed to use the stretch after 2:30 pm. In emergency cases, people can use the alternative route of Thal-Berinag road, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traffic-to-remain-suspended-for-six-hrs-for-a-week-at-nh9-for-road-cutting-work/articleshow/78580543.cms||Prem Punetha
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM, others condole Ram Vilas Paswan’s demise||PATNA: Politicians, social workers and people cutting across party lines condoled the death of Union minister and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, who passed away in New Delhi on Thursday. Residents of Hajipur in Vaishali, the seat he had represented in the Lok Sabha for a long time were shocked at the demise of their beloved leader. CM Nitish Kumar, in his condolence message, said Paswan left a strong imprint on Indian politics. Paying his homage to the departed soul, Nitish described him (Ram Vilas) as an elegant orator, popular leader, able administrator, good organizer and a lovable person. Referring to the departed leader’s political journey Nitish said Ram Vilas Paswan was first elected as a member of the state legislative assembly in 1969. In 1977, he got elected as an MP from Hajipur (SC) parliamentary constituency with a record margin. The CM said, “I had a very old relationship with Ram Vilas Paswan. I pray to the almighty to give enough courage and patience to the bereaved family to bear the great loss.” Former CM Rabri Devi and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also expressed grief over the demise of the Union minister and said no food was cooked in their house on Thursday night to mark the mourning. RJD national vice- president Shivanad Tiwari remembered Paswan as a man, who went out of the way to maintain personal relations. “I remember I somehow forgot to invite Ram Vilas Ji to my daughter’s wedding at Patna in 1992. He came on his own with his younger brother Pashupati Kumar Paras, saying how could he not bless his niece on her wedding. He always told me to keep blessing his son Chirag Paswan,” Tiwari said. Former Maharashtra CM and BJP in-charge of Bihar elections Devendra Fadnavis said that the nation has lost a great humanist leader. “We used to meet and discuss the issues related to Maharashtra. His contribution to uplift weaker sections of society would always be remembered,” the former Maharashtra CM said. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said Ram Vilas Paswan always worked for the development of Bihar. “His contribution as Union minister will always be remembered. Whichever ministries he was allotted, he worked hard and left his impact,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-others-condole-paswans-demise/articleshow/78563092.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Scholarship scam: AG given 1 week to obtain govt nod for transfering probe of fake income certificates to SITs||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Friday gave the advocate general (AG) a weeks’ time to obtain instructions from the state government on whether the SITs probing the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam should also be tasked with probing the fake income certificates used to siphon off government funds. Currently, the two SIT set up to investigate the scam are only looking into the fake admissions. The part related to allegations on government officials as well as private individuals forging income certificates to achieve eligibility for funds is being probed by different police stations. “The advocate general informed the court that he would have to seek instructions from the government on whether the SITs should investigate the issue of fake income certificates as well. The court, therefore, gave him a weeks’ time and listed the case for further hearing next week,” said an advocate present in the hearing. As reported by TOI earlier, there is an allegation that several people produced fake income certificates to avail the scholarship which was actually meant for students of SC and ST communities whose family incomes were less than Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. A high court-monitored investigation has revealed how hundreds of private and government-aided colleges went to great lengths — forging Aadhaar cards and passing off minors, labourers and rickshaw pullers as students — to siphon off funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scholarship-scam-ag-given-1-week-to-obtain-govt-nod-for-transfering-probe-of-fake-income-certificates-to-sits/articleshow/78580542.cms||Prashant Jha
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Residents grapple with dug-up roads, officials cite fund crunch||Dehradun: Even after receiving funds for repairing roads and laying of water pipelines and tubewells by Peyjal Nigam, the Public Works Department has not repaired any roads in Arcadia and Mehuwala cluster, the residents allege. PWD officials have been citing lack of funds as the reason for delay in repairing of roads. Mudit Dutta, a resident of Mehuwala, said, “The work of laying water pipelines is almost completed in the majority of the wards but the dug up roads are causing major inconvenience to the locals as they can lead to accidents. The Peyjal Nigam and PWD officials must resolve their internal coordination so that the public convenience is not compromised.” Meanwhile, the officials at the Public Works Department alleged the road repairing and re-carpeting work is already underway in various areas and will be finished after the development work under Smart City and other projects is completed at specific stretches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-grapple-with-dug-up-roads-officials-cite-fund-crunch/articleshow/78580537.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Business||Sensex gains 327 points, bonds rally||TNN Mumbai: Easy liquidity, bigger open market operations (OMOs) and proactive yield management by the RBI led to a rally in financial stocks on Dalal Street on Friday. The sensex ended in the green for the seventh consecutive session, above the 40,500-point mark. Government and state bonds also surged on Friday after the RBI governor announced several measures that are expected to boost liquidity and help yields from softening from the current levels. The sensex opened marginally higher, dipped into negative territory and then rallied after the RBI policy. It closed near the day’s high — at 40,509 points, up 327 points. HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Infosys and Axis Bank contributed the most to the index’s gains, while selling in HUL, Asian Paints and Reliance Industries restricted its gains to some extent. Indices rallied on Friday following positive announcements of liquidity enhancement measures like targeted long-term repo operations (TLTRO) and OMOs, according to Geojit Financial Services head (research) Vinod Nair. These steps will help in availability of funds at cheap rates from the RBI to the industry, Nair said. “Rationalisation of risk weights for home loans will help banks and NBFCs in reducing provisions and enhance operational flexibility. The market, including the BFSI sector, will continue to be in the limelight as investors have an optimistic view on the next round of stimulus, ongoing Q2 results and SC verdict on moratorium next week,” he added. The gains, however, were limited to large-caps, as small- and mid-cap stocks witnessed selling. BSE’s mid-cap index closed 0.4% lower, while the small-cap index was down 0.3%, data showed. The day’s session also recorded a Rs 40-crore net selling by foreign funds, while domestic funds were net buyers at Rs 127 crore. Among others, the central bank doubled the weekly OMO limits to Rs 20,000 crore. For the first time in the history of Indian banking, RBI announced an OMO for state bonds which will ease borrowings for the states too. This measure will help narrow the yield-spread between state bonds and gilts, market players said. As a result, both the gilts and state bonds rallied. In bonds, the benchmark yield on 10-year papers closed at 5.94% from 6.01% on Thursday, while some of the 10-year state bonds closed up to 20 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) softer at about 6.80% level. According to PGIM India Mutual Fund CIO (fixed income) Kumaresh Ramakrishnan, although the central bank has left rates unchanged, outside of rates, the policy was very dovish. “With an eye on yield management and reiterating the need to ensure orderly market functioning, RBI decided to upsize OMOs to Rs 20,000 crore per tranche, offered reassurance on conducting special (twists) and outright OMOs, conducting OMOs in state loans as a special case,” Ramakrishnan wrote in a note. “Combination of easy liquidity, larger OMOs and active yield management should support the entire curve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-gains-327-points-bonds-rally/articleshow/78582370.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Leaders make way for political heirs||PATNA: Several political heirs, across the party line, have got the chance to try their luck in this assembly election in Bihar. For instance, Meena Kamat, daughter-in-law of state Panchayati Raj Minister Kapil Dev Kamat, will be fighting from the latter’s Babubarhi assembly constituency in Madhubani. The minister is currently in a serious condition at AIIMS-Patna, where he was admitted recently after testing positive for Covid-19. In the list announced by JD (U) on Wednesday, Meena replaced her father-in-law. After the list was announced, a message on Kamat’s Facebook account was posted thanking senior party leaders for considering his suggestion. Another JD (U) sitting MLA Janardan Manjhi, a Kushwaha by caste, has fielded his son. Janardan represents Amarpur in Banka district and this year his son Jayant Raj will be contesting from there. Shalini Mishra, who had joined JD (U) this year in February, has got the ticket from Kesaria Vidhan Sabha in East Champaran. She is the daughter of veteran CPI leader and former late parliamentarian Kamla Mishra Madhukar. Two of Bihar’s political stalwarts, RJD state president Jagdanand Singh and Congress legislative party leader Sadanand Singh have also fielded their sons in this assembly election. Jagdanand’s son Sudhakar Singh will be contesting on an RJD ticket from Ramgarh assembly constituency, from where his father had won six times consecutively until he was elected as an MP from Buxar in 2009. But this is not for the first time that Sudhakar is fighting from here. In 2010, he had contested from Ramgarh assembly on BJP’s ticket and that time his father had supported RJD’s candidate. RJD has also accommodated former parliamentarians Jai Prakash Narayan Yadav and Kanti Singh’s children. While Jai Prakash’s daughter Divya Prakash will be contesting from Tarapur and Kanti’s son Rishi Kumar will fight the assembly election from Obra. RJD had to cut the ticket of its sitting MLA Birendra Prasad Yadav to accommodate Rishi. On the other hand, Sadanand, who had won nine times from Kahalgoan has stepped back and allowed his son Shubhanand Mukeshto fight instead. Another Congress sitting MLA from Wazirganj, Awadhesh Kumar Singh has fielded his son Shashi Shekhar Singh in his place. In the list of 27 candidates announced by BJP for the first phase, Shreyasi Singh, who is the daughter of late former Union minister Digvijay Singh has been given a chance. Shreyasi, who is a Commonwealth gold medallist shooter will be contesting on a BJP ticket from Jamui Vidhan Sabha. Political analysts feel senior leaders have turned old and want to accommodate their children during their lifetime. A political party worker, who did not want to be named said, “Most of the leaders have become very old, but what is shocking is that instead of giving space to a dedicated party worker, they have placed their children. Have these political children burnt sweat like us?” JD (U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said the number of political heirs getting into politics has reduced to a great extent. “This will further reduce in the future,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/leaders-make-way-for-political-heirs/articleshow/78584713.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 10, 2020||---||Bihar polls: When leaders wooed voters with their theatrics||PATNA: Long before political parties began “hiring” celebrities to attract voters, there were few netas who mesmerized people with their theatrics and registered victory with big margins. Old-timers recall how Jan Kranti Dal leader Mahamaya Prasad Sinha had mobilized the students by addressing them as “jigar ke tukde” during the 1967 assembly polls. They were annoyed with the then chief minister (CM) K B Sahay due to police firing on a group of students near Gandhi Maidan in Patna in late 1966. Sahay was heading the Congress government then. “Sinha had, earlier, championed the cause of Patna University students agitating against the death of a B N College student, Dinanath Pandey, in police firing in August, 1955. During the 1967 elections, he challenged the CM from Patna West constituency and started canvassing for himself with the wide support of students. He was also backed by a large section of non-gazetted employees who were allegedly agitated over the CM’s ‘ask your children to sell groundnuts if you are not satisfied with your present pay’ remark. They had resorted to an agitation for a pay hike,” Patna high court lawyer S K Lal told this newspaper. Lal also pointed out that Sinha would beat his chest, tear his clothes and cry during his public addresses. Ultimately he not only defeated Sahay by a big margin of votes in the elections, but also led to the formation of the first non-Congress government in Bihar in 1967. Magadh University retired chemistry teacher Mahesh Chandra recalled how Sinha had defeated Congress leader Krishna Kant Singh from the Goriyakothi assembly constituency during the 1972 elections. “During the election campaign, Sinha was moving on a horse-driven cart along with his supporters. When a procession of his opponent’s followers, coming from the opposite direction, raised ‘Mahamaya Prasad murdabad’ slogans, he fell from the cart and lied on the middle of the road with both his eyes shut. The protesters from the rival camp rushed towards Sinha and asked him to stand up. He, however, said he was dead after hearing the ‘murdabad’ slogans and would stand only when they chanted ‘Mahamaya Prasad zindabad’,” said Chandra. He added, “The climax of Sinha’s theatrics was witnessed by the voters of Goriyakothi constituency when he reached his opponent’s ancestral home, touched his mother’s feet and sought blessings from her.” Socialist leader Karpoori Thakur, who is often considered one of the makers of modern Bihar, won the hearts of his electorate by his simplicity. While campaigning, he would invariably squat on the ground when he visited the house of big landlords or other influential people. When he was offered a chair to sit, he would simply ask, “How can I sit on a chair in front of you when my forefathers did not?” The retired principal of a Samastipur-based high school, Kusheshwar Jha, claimed, “Thakur’s politeness won the hearts of many of his critics.” RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav, on the other hand, had the gift of gab which made him one of the most well-known politicians in the country. He used his theatrics to rib-tickling effect as he mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi by mimicking him. On earlier occasions, he had promised to make the roads in Bihar as smooth as Hema Malini’s cheeks. “Jab tak samose mein rahega aalu, Bihar mei rahega Lalu was a very popular slogan for several years,” said Veer Kunwar Singh University’s retired botany teacher A K Sharan. However, in the absence of such popular figures and restricted hours of campaigning amid the Covid-19 pandemic, young voters will miss out on such theatrics this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/when-leaders-wooed-voters-with-their-theatrics/articleshow/78581033.cms||B K Mishra
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Four months on, Calcutta HC tells state to conduct post-mortem on newborn’s body after parents allege foul play||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the Bengal government to conduct a post-mortem on the decomposed body of a four-day-old who reportedly died on June 15. The newborn’s parents claimed that they were informed of the baby’s death 10 days later, on June 25, prompting them to allege foul play and move court. The HC also sought a DNA report on October 13 when it will hear the matter next. The child’s parents have already submitted their blood samples for the DNA test. A division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee directed SSKM Hospital’s paediatric department to “particularly indicate the reasons for the apparent decomposition of the body and the other usual information as required to be furnished in course of a post-mortem report”. The HC also asked the SSKM authorities to corroborate the DNA report before it is placed before the court. The HC said, “The matter could have been closed if the state was not found wanting in the perfunctory inquiry conducted by the hospital and the blame sought to be foisted on a lowly employee.” The boy was born to Babun and Debjani Mandal on June 12 at Chandernagore Hospital. Due to a breathing problem, he was admitted in RG Kar Medical College and Hospital’s SNCU on June 13. The couple claimed they had been visiting RG Kar from June 15 to 25. On June 25, they were shown a decomposed body and was told their baby had died on June 15. Their lawyer Brajesh Jha told the HC that the couple had waited outside RG Kar Hospital all day and on June 23, the mother was reportedly asked by hospital authorities to breastfeed heir son. State advocate general Kishore Dutta had told the court that the hospital had made announcements on June 15 through the hospital public address system to inform the boy’s parents. They, however, did not turn up. The hospital kept the body in the ward for three days before sending it to the morgue. The hospital also claimed to have attempted to reach the parents over cellphone but had received no reply. The court had earlier directed police to check the call details. The court had mentioned that it appeared that the hospital authority did not make any attempt to contact the police station where the parents lived to inform them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-mnths-on-hc-tells-state-to-conduct-post-mortem-on-newborns-body-after-parents-allege-foul-play/articleshow/78581137.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Guns, bikes point to inter-state link in Titagarh murder||KOLKATA: CID has recovered two firearms — a carbine and a pipe gun — along with three bikes from a Barrackpore hideout on Friday, pointing to an inter-state racket involved in Titagarh BJP leader Manish Shukla’s murder. They got the lead from Subodh Yadav, who is in custody. Investigators believe the bikes were used by marauders on the day of the incident. But the CID is yet to confirm if the recovered firearms were used to kill Shukla. For now, the CID is waiting for reports from ballistic experts. “Prima facie, it appears that a semi-automatic weapon from one of the illegal gun-making units of Bihar was used,” an officer said. A CID team is visiting places in Bihar to gather more input. Police have got hold of CCTV footage of a local BJP rally where the criminals could have been present. According to some cops, the killers had followed Shukla to the Titagarh party office on October 3, but didn’t get the opportunity to open fire because of police presence. CID officers suspect that arrested Md Khurram, who had personal enmity with Shukla, could have contacted Yadav, who has connections in the arms market. The link in the supply chain is Nazir Khan, claims CID, whom Yadav had met in jail. Nazir is on the run. “We almost have the sequence of events. But, right now, we don’t want to comment on whether there was someone other than Khurram who plotted the murder,” said an officer. The CID version, however, doesn’t impress the BJP. The party took out a candlelight march from Barrackpore Chiriya More to the murder spot on Friday evening. “We want to know who the culprits are and who hatched the conspiracy. CID has arrested some small fries. Shukla’s father has named some Trinamool heavyweights, including municipality administrators, in his FIR. We have moved court demanding a CBI inquiry. Trinamool is celebrating the murder because their leaders were feeling threatened with Shukla,” said BJP Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh. TMC North 24 Parganas president Jyotipriya Mullick has called a peace rally in the area on October 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guns-bikes-point-to-inter-state-link-in-titagarh-murder/articleshow/78581161.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Lion gets stuck in snare, fence; freed after 3 hours’ ordeal||RAJKOT: It took the forest department three long hours to free a fully grown lion that got stuck in a fence of a farm in a village of Palitana taluka of Bhavnagar district on Friday. While the task was daunting in itself, what added to the foresters’ worries were causing further injury to the already stressed animal aged around 12 years which was also caught in a snare. According to the forest department, it was a double whammy for the lion which first got stuck in a snare. Frightened, it started running with the cable in its leg which got stuck in the fencing at Lavjibhai Gohil’s farm on Friday morning. It took forest department three-long-hour to free a lion that got stuck in a fence of a farm in a village of Palita… https://t.co/0gCNoOawhV— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1602309550000It got further agitated and in the process uprooted three fencing poles while trying to free itself, but in vain. Ultimately it soon stressed itself out. Thankfully, Gohil saw the incident and soon informed the forest department. A team quickly reached the spot but saw that the lion, hurt and stressed, needed tranquilizing. Deputy conservator of forest, Shetrunji division, Nisha Raj told TOI, “It took us three long hours to finally tranquilize the lion which was highly stressed. Our team was accompanied by veterinary doctors who treated the minor injuries before shifting the animal to the Vadal animal care centre. We will release the lion in the forest within two or three days.” While farmers generally fence their farms with iron poles to protect crops from both domestic as well as wild animals, electric fences near farms are strictly not allowed. A probe, however, has been ordered as to how the lion got stuck in the snare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-gets-stuck-in-snare-fence-freed-after-3-hours-ordeal/articleshow/78581199.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata in shock after rape post goes viral; cops launch probe||KOLKATA: The detective department has started an investigation into a viral social media post in which a text in Bengali allegedly details how to commit rape. After social media erupted in strong protests, some women activists led by Pranaadhika Sinha Devburman, who started the ‘One Million Against Child Abuse’ campaign, reported the post to Kolkata Police. Police sources indicated they have sought legal opinion on the issue after a prima facie probe indicated the post may have originated outside India before being shared by some local social media handles. “We plan to write to Facebook about the entire issue,” said a source. Cyber law expert Bivas Chatterjee said cops can act regarding such posts. “Even if there is no rape here, this is just the sick mentality that promotes rape culture. It is obscene and derogatory and attracts sections 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act. Even if prima facie the links appear to have originated in Bangladesh, the two countries have a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT), under which, through Letter Rogatory (LR), investigators from both nations can share leads and take action,” he said. Mental health activist Ratnaboli Ray expressed disgust that such narratives are brazenly put out in the public domain and shared. She felt it pointed to not only normalization of violence against women in our daily lives but also that one could get away with it. “This is not about perversion or insanity. This is about power and misogyny. It has become part of our DNA. Those who share this kind of content are also culpable. We must also be conscious about articulating the protest against such content without sharing it. There is a need to start a conversation on rape culture and gender-based violence. This should not be pathologized, because the moment one does so, the person who puts out such vicious content is absolved of responsibility for sharing it,” she said. Anuradha Kapoor, founder of Swayam, a women’s rights organization committed to ending violence against women, said such behav-iour was a result of rapists going unpunished. “People get emboldened and believe this is acceptable. Vile content going viral mirrors the acceptance in society. The impunity with which people are committing such acts is extremely unfortunate,” she said. Pranaadhika had tweeted to Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma and joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma, “Could I request @KolkataPolice @KPDetectiveDept @CPKolkata to please look into this? We have enough sexual violence around us, we do not need someone on social media who shares instructions on how to rape/gangrape women. Please help.” Kolkata Police responded to the tweet saying, “You are requested to report the matter in detail with necessary link(s) to alleged pages/profiles, your contact details to Joint CP crime.” However, TOI could not reach Pranaadhika for comments. Watch Kolkata: Social media erupts after post allegedly detailing ‘how to rape’goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rape-post-goes-viral-shocks-city-cops-launch-probe/articleshow/78581089.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 10, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Ex-ASI outsmarts former DGP in game of politics||PATNA: What is common between a former DGP and a former assistant sub-inspector of police? Both belong to the same caste, both are from the same district and both opted for VRS to fulfil their political aspirations. But it’s the ex-ASI, who pipped the former DGP in the game of politics. Parshuram Chaturvedi (54) was fielded as a BJP candidate from the Buxar assembly constituency, which Pandey, a 1987-batch IPS officer, was tipped to be in the race for. Pandey opted for VRS on September 22 to join CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), but Buxar went to the BJP as part of the seat-sharing deal. Pandey had met the Buxar district unit president of JD(U) before putting in his papers. The news about their closed-door meeting spread like wildfire in Buxar, which may have prompted Chaturvedi, a native of Mahda village in Buxar district, to start lobbying for a ticket from the Buxar seat, which was wrested by Congress from BJP in 2015 assembly election. Read AlsoBJP's CEC to meet today to discuss candidate list for Bihar pollsNEW DELHI: The Central Election Committee (CEC) of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is slated to meet here on Saturday evening to discuss the list of candidates for the upcoming Assembly Election in Bihar. This will be the second CEC meeting of the BJP over the ensuing polls. Notably, the BJP hadTalking to TOI over the phone, Chaturvedi said, “I have been associated with BJP for the last two decades. I was appointed a member of the executive committee of the farmers’ cell as well as the state executive committee. My sincere work during Covid19 pandemic drew the attention of the top leadership, who selected my candidature for the seat.” Chaturvedi was keen on joining politics since his school days. In 1977, he was associated with the JP students’ movement. But he joined the police department to run his family. “My sincere work as a constable made me close to several police officers, including DP Ojha (former DGP) and Ramesh Prasad Singh (former SP, rural, Patna). I also served in the state criminal investigation department in Patna before I decided to quit the job in 2004-05 to join politics,” he added. “This is a big challenge for me. The party has posed faith in me and I have to justify that,” said Chaturvedi, who attends ‘Sakha’ regularly. When asked about former DGP Pandey, the BJP nominee said, “I regard him as my elder brother. I have a lot of affection for him. I never considered him as my opponent.” Chaturvedi, however, claimed he was promoted to the rank of sub-inspector of police before he accepted VRS. “Police vibhag mein meri achchi chhabi thi (I enjoyed a good reputation in the police department),” he said. After losing the race to Chaturvedi, ex-DGP Pandey posted an emotional post on his Facebook, clearing his stand on joining politics. “I am not going to contest the assembly polls this time. My life is full of struggles and is dedicated to serving the people,” he wrote. He also reposed faith in the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar and claimed that he (Nitish) had kept his words. “Mare saath koi dhoka nahi hua hain (I have not been deceived),” he added. Sources in JD(U) said the party tried its level best to stake its claim on Buxar but in vain. “The seat went to BJP in the seat-sharing arrangement. So, Gupteshwar Pandey couldn’t be accommodated,” a senior JD(U) leader said. Buxar, which has a sizable Brahmin population, is considered to be a traditional seat of BJP. The BJP nominee Chaturvedi filed his nomination on Thursday. The constituency will go to polls in the first phase on October 28. The counting of votes will take place on November 10. Watch Bihar elections 2020: Ex-ASI outsmarts former DGP, gets ticket from Buxar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ex-asi-outsmarts-former-dgp-in-game-of-politics/articleshow/78581174.cms||Ramashankar
October 10, 2020||---||Bihar: RJD dumps some sitting MLAs in 2nd phase polls||PATNA: Even though the process to file nomination papers for the 94 seats in the second phase of state assembly election commenced on Friday, neither RJD nor Congress has officially announced their candidates. RJD has kept 144 seats while giving 70 to Congress and 29 to the three Left parties to contest for the 243-member state assembly election. Under the seat-sharing arrangements in the Mahagathbandhan, 14 seats for the second phase have been given to the Left parties to contest — six to CPI (ML) and four each to CPI and CPI(M). Sources attributed the delay to the claims of both Congress and RJD on some seats like Supaul, Belsand and Vaishali. RJD wants Vaishali seat for former minister Bishen Patel while Congress is adamant on fielding Veena Shahi from there. RJD wants Lovely Anand’s son to contest from Supaul while Congress has two claimants — former MP Ranjeeta Ranjan and party’s minority wing chairman Minnat Rahmani — for this seat. However, RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said there was no tussle at all. “Rather senior leaders from both the parties are trying to figure out who will be the best candidate for a particular seat. Number of seats have already been distributed,” he said. Even though final calls on a few seats are yet to be taken, RJD had distributed 31 tickets for the second phase till Friday evening. It has also dropped some of its sitting MLAs, including from Barauli, Mohammad Nematullah, and preferred Reyazul Haque Raju, who had left JD(U) and joined RJD in 2010. Even Taraiya MLA Mundrika Prasad Rai has been dumped and Sipahi Lal Mehto will be RJD candidate there. This decision has been taken to give representation to people of Nonia caste, which comes under the economically backward caste category, sources said. RJD also preferred Nagendra Ram from Harsidhi to its sitting MLA Rajendra Kumar. Kesaria MLA Rajesh Kumar also could not find favour and RJD has fielded Santosh Kushwaha in his place. Even Mahua seat, which is represented by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, has been given to Mukesh Ranjan. But political experts expect some last minute changes, as RJD has yet not made any official announcement. But the party has reposed faith in several sitting MLAs, like Bhai Virendra (Maner), Ejya Yadav (Mohiuddinnagar), Alok Kumar Mehta (Ujiarpur), Mangita Devi (Runnisaidpur), Samir Kumar Mahaseth (Madhubani), Lalit Kumar Yadav (Darbhanga rural), Rajesh Kumar alias Munna Yadav (Meenapur), Ramvichar Rai (Sahebganj) and Kedar Nath Singh (Baniyapur). RJD has fielded its sitting MLA Shreenarayan Yadav’s son from Sahebpur Kamal and fielded former minister Awadh Bihari Choudhary from Siwan. The party has also gambled on new faces like Rakesh Raushan (Islampur), Prem Shankar Yadav (Baikunthpur), Shreekant Rai (Ekma), Rajesh Kushwaha (Hathua), Mohammad Iqbaal Mansoori (Kanti), Manoj Yadav (Kalyanpur), Sunil Rai (Amnaur) and Dev Kumar Chaurasia (Hajipur). Mohan Shah has got the RJD ticket from Madhuban, while former LJP parliamentarian Rama Singh’s wife Veena Devi will be RJD candidate from Mahnar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-dumps-some-sitting-mlas-in-2nd-phase-polls/articleshow/78581152.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RJD dumps some sitting MLAs in 2nd phase polls||PATNA: Even though the process to file nomination papers for the 94 seats in the second phase of state assembly election commenced on Friday, neither RJD nor Congress has officially announced their candidates. RJD has kept 144 seats while giving 70 to Congress and 29 to the three Left parties to contest for the 243-member state assembly election. Under the seat-sharing arrangements in the Mahagathbandhan, 14 seats for the second phase have been given to the Left parties to contest — six to CPI (ML) and four each to CPI and CPI(M). Sources attributed the delay to the claims of both Congress and RJD on some seats like Supaul, Belsand and Vaishali. RJD wants Vaishali seat for former minister Bishen Patel while Congress is adamant on fielding Veena Shahi from there. RJD wants Lovely Anand’s son to contest from Supaul while Congress has two claimants — former MP Ranjeeta Ranjan and party’s minority wing chairman Minnat Rahmani — for this seat. However, RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said there was no tussle at all. “Rather senior leaders from both the parties are trying to figure out who will be the best candidate for a particular seat. Number of seats have already been distributed,” he said. Even though final calls on a few seats are yet to be taken, RJD had distributed 31 tickets for the second phase till Friday evening. It has also dropped some of its sitting MLAs, including from Barauli, Mohammad Nematullah, and preferred Reyazul Haque Raju, who had left JD(U) and joined RJD in 2010. Even Taraiya MLA Mundrika Prasad Rai has been dumped and Sipahi Lal Mehto will be RJD candidate there. This decision has been taken to give representation to people of Nonia caste, which comes under the economically backward caste category, sources said. RJD also preferred Nagendra Ram from Harsidhi to its sitting MLA Rajendra Kumar. Kesaria MLA Rajesh Kumar also could not find favour and RJD has fielded Santosh Kushwaha in his place. Even Mahua seat, which is represented by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, has been given to Mukesh Ranjan. But political experts expect some last minute changes, as RJD has yet not made any official announcement. But the party has reposed faith in several sitting MLAs, like Bhai Virendra (Maner), Ejya Yadav (Mohiuddinnagar), Alok Kumar Mehta (Ujiarpur), Mangita Devi (Runnisaidpur), Samir Kumar Mahaseth (Madhubani), Lalit Kumar Yadav (Darbhanga rural), Rajesh Kumar alias Munna Yadav (Meenapur), Ramvichar Rai (Sahebganj) and Kedar Nath Singh (Baniyapur). RJD has fielded its sitting MLA Shreenarayan Yadav’s son from Sahebpur Kamal and fielded former minister Awadh Bihari Choudhary from Siwan. The party has also gambled on new faces like Rakesh Raushan (Islampur), Prem Shankar Yadav (Baikunthpur), Shreekant Rai (Ekma), Rajesh Kushwaha (Hathua), Mohammad Iqbaal Mansoori (Kanti), Manoj Yadav (Kalyanpur), Sunil Rai (Amnaur) and Dev Kumar Chaurasia (Hajipur). Mohan Shah has got the RJD ticket from Madhuban, while former LJP parliamentarian Rama Singh’s wife Veena Devi will be RJD candidate from Mahnar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-dumps-some-sitting-mlas-in-2nd-phase-polls/articleshow/78587420.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 10, 2020||Business||IIFL Wealth raises new Rs 1,300 crore fund||BENGALURU: IIFL Wealth Management is closing a new private equity fund of about Rs 1,300 crore in a record time frame of about three weeks, said sources briefed on the matter. The new fund, raised by its unit IIFL Asset Management, underlines the appetite for private investments among India’s ultra-wealthy despite the ongoing pandemic. “Typically, funds take about two or three quarters to gather commitments and close the formalities,” said one source. The fund has mopped up capital from over 200 investors, of which two-thirds has come from high net worth individuals (HNIs), while the remaining has come from institutions. The new fund will focus on backing financial intermediaries that have already established a market-leading position. This will include players like credit rating agencies, depositories, credit bureaus and online financial service aggregators. For instance, it has already picked up a stake in the recently listed registrar and transfer agent Computer Age Management Systems (CAMS). Another potential investment on its radar is the National Stock Exchange (NSE), where some its other funds already own a stake. The new fund has a pipeline of about Rs 500 crore of investments, which helped accelerated its raise, said the source mentioned earlier. The new fund will take IIFL Asset Management’s total corpus close to Rs 18,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iifl-wealth-raises-new-rs-1300cr-fund/articleshow/78582217.cms||Madhav Chanchani
October 10, 2020||Patna||Many skip food in Ram Vilas Paswan’s ancestral village||KHAGARIA/PATNA: Saharbanni, a sleepy hamlet under Alouli block in Khagaria district, has virtually not slept ever since the news about the death of veteran Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan reached there on Thursday evening. Fire didn’t light in most houses in the village and majority of the residents observed fast as mark of respect to the son of the soil. People of all ages – men, women and children – rushed to the departed leader’s ancestral house to console the bereaved family members and close relatives, who were in a state of shock. Paswan’s first wife, Rajkumari Devi, was also found weeping inconsolably in a corner of the building. She was married to Paswan in 1968 and has two daughters, both married. “Maano gaon ka chirag bhujh gaya hai. Ab kaun gaon ke logo ki fikr karega? Logon ka dukh-dard kaun sunega? Gaon anaath ho gaya hai (Village’s torchbearer is gone now. Who will take care of residents of the village? Who will listen to their grievances? The village has become orphan),” said a visibly upset Jagdeo Rajak (75), a childhood friend of Paswan. Villagers recalled that Paswan had last time visited Saharbanni after the death of his younger brother Ram Chandra Paswan, an MP from Samastipur, in July last year. Though he was shocked over his younger brother’s untimely death, he greeted people as usual and promised them to see them again. Born in a poor family of Jamuna Das in 1946, Paswan got his primary education at the village school and did his matriculation from Prince Wales School (now JNKT Inter school), Khagaria. After graduating in political science from Kosi College, Khagaria, he shifted to Patna for higher education and got enrolled in Patna University. A true follower of socialist leaders like Ram Manohar Lohia, Karpoori Thakur and Madhu Limaye, he took part in JP students’ movement. Paswan has been credited with setting up Dalit Sena in 1980. Paswan, who served in the Union cabinet under five PMs, will be remembered in history as the first MP from the state who broke the country’s record of electoral victory margin when he was elected on the Janata Party ticket from the Hajipur reserved parliamentary seat for the first time in 1977 riding the popular anti-emergency wave. From there, he never looked back and became the Lok Sabha MP eight times in all – 1977, 1980, 1989, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2004 and 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-skip-food-in-paswans-ancestral-village/articleshow/78581316.cms||N P Thakur
October 10, 2020||Patna||Covid: No pandal or gathering this Puja; Bihar govt issues guidelines||PATNA: This Durga Puja in state is set to be a low-key affair as the state home department on Thursday issued a slew of guidelines to restrict mass gathering and other large scale rituals in the festivities owing to Covid-19 pandemic. As per the guidelines, Durga Puja can be organised only in temples or at home without any theme decoration. There will be no entrance gates and open space will have to be kept on the temple premises except where the idols of Goddess Durga will be kept. Distribution of prasad, fairs, dandiya or garba celebrations have been prohibited to avoid public gathering. Public address system will not be allowed during the Puja. Also, no person will be allowed without face mask near the temple or any public area. The Puja organisers are required to have enough stock of sanitiser in the temples. “We are not allowed to erect pandals this year. However, ‘kalashsthapna’ will take place with Covid restrictions,” said Santosh Kumar, chairperson of Shri Vijay Vahini Durga Puja Samiti, Anandpuri. Amik Kumar Srivastava, joint secretary of Shri Shri Navyuvak Sangh Durga Puja Samiti, Kadamkuan, said, “We have won several awards for cleanliness and maintenance in the pandals. This year, keeping in mind the pandemic, we have decided to organise a few activities such as blood donation camps instead of erecting pandal in a bid to help people during the festive period.” Residents have also accepted the guidelines issued for the festivities. Kankarbagh resident Pranav (32) said, “Durga Puja for us is all about decorated pandals, fairs and dandiya nights. However, it will be different this year and we will not step out of home unnecessarily.” Neeta (50), a resident of Anandpuri, said, “We go to pandals every year during Puja, but this time we will avoid public gathering and enjoy the rituals at home. Kalashsthapna will anyway take place. However, it is better to avoid going outside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-pandal-or-gathering-this-puja/articleshow/78580327.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||IIT-P to host ‘JEE open house session’ today||PATNA: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)- Patna will host a live ‘JEE Open House Session’ for 7,000 female candidates, who have cracked the JEE (Advanced) exam across the country (including 300 from Bihar), on October 10 from 3pm to 5.30 pm. This virtual interactive event aims to guide students and their parents about different engineering branches in premiere IITs, career opportunities, and help them better understand the IIT system. Sudhan Majhi, chairman- JEE (Advanced), IIT-Patna told this newspaper on Friday that the online programme is to encourage the supernumerary seats for women, which has been increased to 20% in every institute. “Around 1,000 students will be able to join the live session, while arrangements will be made to live stream the session on different social media platforms. The programme will be held under the stewardship of IIT-Patna director Pramod Kumar Jain,” he said. He added: “This open house will address the queries of students, especially about the counselling sessions, and will also provide an insight into the academic courses. The JEE online session will also share information on facilities offered by IIT-Patna as well, which is of prime concern for the students and their parents.” Meanwhile, the registration process of Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSSA) for the first round of choice filling has started from October 6 and it will continue till October 15. The registration process is being done online due to Covid. The first round for seat allocation and reporting will be held between October 17 and 20, second round from October 21 to 25, third round (October 26 to 29), fourth round (October 30 to November 2), fifth round (November 3 to 6) and final round on November 7. At the time of reporting, a candidate is required to fill the option for ‘freeze’, ‘float’ or ‘slide’—for the choice of the academic programme. Majhi said there are 427 seats for different courses in IIT- Patna, including 83 each in computer science and engineering, electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, 67 each in chemical engineering and civil engineering and 44 in metrology. “Almost 10% seats are reserved for candidates for economically weaker section, besides 20% seats are under supernumerary category,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-p-to-host-jee-open-house-session-today/articleshow/78581645.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Rehabilitation of stroke patients suffers owing to pandemic||Mangaluru: The diversion of medical resources to tackling Covid-19 has resulted in patients suffering from other afflictions not being able to receive the treatment they badly need. Among those who have suffered as a consequence of the shifting of priorities are stroke patients, who have been unable to receive treatment for rehabilitation after their discharge from the hospital. Amreen Mahmood, researcher at the Manipal College of Health Professions, pointed out that nearly 72% of the stroke patients had not been able to take part in the rehabilitation exercises owing to lack of doctors’ supervision since the onset of the Covid-19 crisis. The whole of the rehabilitation process for a stroke patient takes from three to six months, and it includes physiotherapy, occupational and speech therapies. “Lack of awareness among patients is a fairly common problem but the pandemic has made the situation much more difficult for them. Acute stroke care and stroke rehabilitation in India are limited to owing to financial constraints and restricted access to healthcare. Reporting of stroke cases crashed during the lockdown in India, which has had an adverse impact on the number of patients recovering. It has come to light that a large number of patients stopped follow-up treatment following the enforcement of the lockdown. Since community outreach centres were also closed, few patients followed the prescribed regimen at home or they shifted to tele-consultation,” Amreen told TOI. A month-long campaign was launched the world over to raise awareness about the disorder. “In India, people are still following home remedies and opting for traditional medicine to deal with the disorder. This is owing to a lack of awareness about how one recovers from a stroke. Once an individual who has suffered is stable, one must start exercises within 48 hours. These exercises must be repeated and with greater intensity, which will result in organs regaining their functions. Walking, cooking, writing are essential to the recovery process. The mantra is ‘Use it and improve it’. This basically means that one must use the affected leg or hand as frequently in order to ensure it recovers sooner,” Dr Amreen added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rehabilitation-of-stroke-patients-suffers-owing-to-pandemic/articleshow/78580581.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Three people killed in separate accidents in US Nagar||Rudrapur: Three people died in two separate accidents in Udham Singh Nagar on Thursday. In the first accident, a 50-year-old man riding a bicycle was killed after being run over by a speeding dumper on Thursday evening. The deceased was identified as Virendra Rai, president of Adarsh Indira Colony in the city. While the errant driver managed to flee the spot, police were able to impound his vehicle. A manhunt has also been launched to nab the accused, said police officials. In the second accident, the driver and the cleaner of a dumper were killed after the vehicle rammed into a stationary truck which was parked outside Paiga police outpost at Aliganj Road in Kashipur town of the district late on Thursday night. According to the police, the victims were heading towards Chandausi (Moradabad) from Ramnagar. At around 1 am, the speeding dumper rammed into a truck which was earlier seized by the police. The impact of the collision was such that the cabin of the speeding dumper got badly disfigured and both driver and helper died on the spot. The deceased were identified as driver Shahrukh Khan (23), a resident of Mahuakhera Ganj (Kashipur), and helper Mohammad Nawaish (20), a resident of village Bhagatpur in Moradabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-people-killed-in-separate-accidents-in-us-nagar/articleshow/78580576.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Shatabdi Express Spl to soon ply on Doon-Delhi route||Dehradun: After a gap of a few months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Railways may soon restart the Shatabdi Express Special train on the Dehradun-New Delhi route. Trains on other major routes may also be restarted during the ongoing Unlock-5 phase, according to sources. It is expected that the train will start operations from October 15, when more Unlock restrictions are set to kick in. According to a railway official, in order to maintain adequate measures of social distancing and thermal screening, only confirmed ticket holders will be allowed on the railway platform. Notably, the Dehradun-Delhi Jan Shatabadi Express and the Nanda Devi Express have already operating on the Delhi-Doon route but in view of the upcoming festival season, many were waiting for the popular Shatabadi Express to resume.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/shatabdi-express-spl-to-soon-ply-on-doon-delhi-route/articleshow/78580569.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
October 10, 2020||Chennai||BJP plans campaign at Lord Muruga’s abodes to consolidate Hindu votes||CHENNAI: The BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit is set to launch a one-month statewide campaign ‘Vetri Vel’ in November to consolidate the Hindu votes and exhibit the party’s growing strength on the Dravidian turf, ahead of the 2021 assembly election. The campaign would start at Tiruttani on November 6 and would end at Tiruchendur on December 6, covering the ‘Aarupadai Veedu’ (the six abodes of Lord Muruga); the other four being Tirupparankundram, Palani, Swamimalai and Pazhamudircholai. The campaign, in its tone and tenor, would be a continuation of the Kandha Shasthi Kavasam campaign and the ‘vel pujas’ launched by the Sangh Parivar in response to the Karuppar Koottam’s derogatory video on Lord Muruga. The party had initially planned to organise public meetings at the six places and the campaign was scheduled to begin in October. The plan was dropped after police refused to give permission to organise public meetings, citing Covid-19 protocol. “The state government is in no mood to give permission, in view of the recent agitations of the BJP in violation of prohibitory orders,” said an official. “The yatra (campaign) will be a big turning point in TN politics,” said party state president L Murugan, after unveiling the yatra’s logo (Vel) and releasing the theme song at the party’s state headquarters here on Friday. It was aimed at unmasking the anti-Hindu elements such as Karuppar Kottam who hurt Hindu sentiments and faith and the political parties supporting them, he said. Murugan said the party would have its representative in the TN assembly after the 2021 polls. “The campaign will give the much-needed thrust for the party to gear up for the assembly polls. We will offer prayers to Lord Muruga at his abodes and seek blessings for the party’s successful campaign,” said party vice president K S Narendran. Welfare aid and relief material would also be distributed to the poor and needy during the campaign, besides dispelling the wrong propaganda of the opposition parties against the Modi government, he said. Murugan would also meet the party functionaries and supporters in all the districts during the campaign. “District functionaries have been instructed to organise grand reception to the yatra and gather cadres and sympathizers in large numbers to demonstrate our growing strength,” said another leader. The party’s IT wing would take the campaign across the world on digital platforms. “It will help us reach out to supporters through social media campaigns and increase vote base,” said BJP IT wing president C T R Nirmal Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-plans-campaign-at-lord-murugas-abodes-to-consolidate-hindu-votes/articleshow/78581903.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: Rs 69L cash, jewellery worth Rs 82L found||Ahmedabad: A day after a major search operation by the income tax (I-T) department in Gujarat on city-based Popular Builders group, top department officials said that they found Rs 69 lakh in cash and ornaments worth Rs 82 lakh which were unaccounted for. The search was conducted at 27 premises across offices and residences of the persons associated with the building and real estate development group. The teams also found 18 bank lockers and digital data in form of mobile phones, pen drives and computers. ‘The group had around 96 companies at a few common addresses, which were being used for routing money and for land holding. Most of the companies are found to have no real business and very few returns of income have been filed. Many have not filed returns with ROC (Registrar of Companies),’ mentioned a release by Surabhi Ahluwalia, official spokesperson of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). ‘Some directors of these concerns, other than main family members, have accepted to be dummy directors with mere signing roles.’ Officials said that they found innovative methods of tax evasion by increasing the cost of properties through intra-group transactions. ‘Substantial evidence of transactions outside the regular books of accounts, unaccounted cash expenses, and cash advances received and interest paid in cash have been found,’ the official release said. Cache of documents The officials had found a huge cache of documents from an apartment on Satellite Road on Thursday. The officials said that several of these documents are related to properties which are held in names of cooperative societies. Real owners of these properties will be tracked as the officials will also check applicability of the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988. Registered and notarized sale-purchase agreements of agricultural lands with substantial cash component have also been found. At one of the premises, evidences pertaining to unaccounted property transactions up to Rs 150 crore have been found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-rs-69l-cash-jewellery-worth-rs-82l-found/articleshow/78581909.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Garbha sanskar pips public admin in applications race||LUCKNOW: The postgraduate (PG) diploma course on ‘garbha sanskar’, which teaches students the dos and don’ts for a pregnant woman, is among six courses which will be run by Lucknow University this academic session. However, 22 PG diploma courses including that on public administration will remain suspended. The reason is that people have shown more interest in the garbha sanskar course than in public administration. The garbha sanskar course has received more than 40% applications against the number of seats, which is required to run a course. Public administration has not been able to attract the required number and hence will remain suspended this year. “Since most of these courses are self-financed, it becomes difficult to sustain if applicants are not in the required number,” said an officer. Five more PG diploma courses—cyber law, calamity relief and rehabilitation, naturopathy, social duties and human rights and yoga—will continue as they fulfil the criterion. However, 22 PG diploma courses will remain suspended because they do not. Of these, public administration, French and clinical nutrition and dietetics have failed to get the minimum required number for the second consecutive year. Garbha sanskar course was introduced this year on the advice of governor Anandiben Patel, the chancellor of state universities. The course with 30 seats will teach students what pregnant women should eat, listen to, practice, and do from the time of conception till delivery. Another addition this year is PG diploma course in cyber law with 40 seats. Teachers said that diplomas are like add-on courses, hence students apply if they think a course will be useful in getting jobs or benefit in day-to-day life. Quality of teaching is also a major determining factor for applicants, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/garbha-sanskar-pips-public-admin-in-applications-race/articleshow/78583394.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Entrance for LU PG courses from today||Lucknow: The entrance test for admissions to around 4,000 seats for Lucknow University’s various postgraduate courses will begin from Saturday. The entrance tests will be held till October 17 in two shifts to ensure that social distancing is maintained in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Day 1, the entrance test for masters in physical education and education, and bachelors in physical education will be conducted at LU’s old campus. Over 1,000 candidates will take the examination on the first day in two shifts — from 10am to 11.30am and 2pm to 3.30pm. Candidates will have to reach the examination centre at least an hour before the examination is slated to begin. The examination schedule has been uploaded on LU’s website. “ No candidate will be allowed to appear for the entrance exam without a mask. They have to ensure that they reach the examination centre an hour earlier,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/entrance-for-lu-pg-courses-from-today/articleshow/78583399.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||AP HC notice to SEC over local body polls||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Friday issued notices to the State Election Commission (SEC) to file a reply on conducting elections to local bodies in the state. Hearing public interest litigation (PIL) petitions challenging the inaction in conducting local body elections, the high court sought to know why elections are not held to local bodies when assembly elections are being conducted in other states. The counsel representing the state government told the high court bench comprising Chief Justice J K Maheswari and Justice Lalitha Kanneganti, that because of the prevailing pandemic situation it may not be feasible to conduct elections to the local bodies. However, the bench observed that conducting election to the local bodies is the duty of the SEC and they have to tell their opinion whether it is feasible to conduct the elections or not. As the standing counsel for SEC was not available at the hearing, the high court issued notices to SEC to respond on the issue and posted the matter for further hearing to November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-hc-notice-to-sec-over-local-body-polls/articleshow/78582956.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 10, 2020||Varanasi||Hotel owned by Mukhtar’s wife, sons to be demolished||VARANASI: The illegally constructed hotel owned by the jailed don turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s wife and sons in a posh locality in Ghazipur will be demolished within a week, ordered Ghazipur SDM (sadar) Prabhash Kumar on Thursday. “The hotel owners have been asked to demolish the illegally constructed hotel within a week failing which the local administration would demolish the construction and claim the expenses from them,” the SDM told TOI on Friday. The hotel Ghazal, situated in the posh locality Mahuabagh in Ghazipur city, is owned by don’s wife Afsa Ansari and two sons Abbas Ansari and Omar Ansari. The SDM had ordered the measurement of the hotel in June. After the detection of a number of irregularities in the construction the map was cancelled. The irregularities in the purchase of land were also came to light, after which an FIR was lodged against 12 persons including the owners under section 420, 423 ,465, 467, 468, 471, 474, 477A, 120B of IPC. According to the SDM, illegal ways were adopted in registration of the land and getting the map approved. The construction was done illegally for commercial use while the map was approved for housing. The upper floor would be demolished completely, while the ground floor would be demolished partially. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hotel-owned-by-mukhtars-wife-sons-to-be-demolished/articleshow/78581952.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Maximum temperature levels hover above normal in both plains and hills, dip likely after 10 days||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre has forecast change in current weather conditions and a drop in mercury levels, especially the maximum temperatures, after October 18 onwards. The weather has remained dry in Uttarakhand for more than a week now with maximum temperature levels hovering above normal at majority of places in the hill state. For instance, the maximum temperature in Dehradun was recorded at 33.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Similar are the conditions in the hills as the hill town of Mukteshwar witnessed a maximum temperature of 25 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal. According to Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, “The temperature levels, especially the maximums, are settling 4-5 degree Celsius above normal. While the minimums are hovering around normal level only.” He added that maximum temperature levels are going to drop in both the hills and the plains from October 18 onwards. Also, a small western disturbance is going to have an impact over the weather conditions in the state, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maximum-temperature-levels-hover-above-normal-in-both-plains-and-hills-dip-likely-after-10-days/articleshow/78580618.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University colleges reopen admission portal to seek fresh applications||KOLKATA: Several colleges affiliated to Calcutta University, like Lady Brabourne and Gokhale, have reopened their admission portals and invited fresh applications to fill up the vacant seats in undergraduate courses before the deadline to wrap up the admission process ends on October 30. Lady Brabourne College will accept applications in six subjects till 11pm on October 11. Similarly, Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College is accepting applications in seven subjects. Other colleges, like Basanti Devi College, Calcutta Girls’ College, Shyamaprasad College and Charuchandra College, had reopened their portal earlier this week for fresh applications. “The response has been encouraging,” said the principal of a college. Many of these colleges had published multiple call-up lists, inviting students who had applied in the first phase to take admission but many seats in some subjects have remined vacant. TOI had published how several seats in Presidency University are yet to be filled up even after four rounds of provisional admissions. “The portal has been reopened for admission in subjects like Bengali, Hindi, Persian, philosophy, Sanskrit and Urdu. The merit list will be published on October 13 and admissions will start the same day,” said an official of Lady Brabourne College. At Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College too, the college authorities decided to reopen the portal after seats remained vacant in seven subjects after several call-ups from the first full merit list. According to officials of the higher education department, many students scored very high marks in their Plus Two examinations as the boards had to cancel some tests due to the pandemic and awarded marks to students based on their performance on the rest of the subjects for which the examinations were held. High-scoring students have made it to subjects they don’t want to pursue, resulting in vacant seats in many subjects. “There are several subjects where the seats are empty. So, we have decided to invite fresh applications to fill up the seats,” said Atashi Karpha, principal of Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College. In City College on Amherst Street, the portal will remain open till October 10. Applications will be received in subjects like political science, economics, botany and philosophy, among others. The higher education department has set a deadline of October 30 to fill up the vacant seats in undergraduate courses. This year, the entire admission process is taking place online owing to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-colleges-reopen-admission-portal-to-seek-fresh-applications/articleshow/78580615.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gangsters booked under GujCTOC||AHMEDABAD: Eleven members of a gang led by the notorious Sultankhan Pathan of Juhapura, who have serious offences including extortion and land grabbing against their names, have been booked under the stringent Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime (GujCTOC) Act. An FIR under various sections of GujCTOC Act was lodged against the gangsters at Vejalpur police station in Ahmedabad city on Thursday. The gang is active in areas under Vejalpur, Aslali and Sarkhej police stations and is accused of threatening people to grab land, property and extorting protection money, police said. The gang members are also accused of keeping firearms, robbery, attempted murder, bootlegging, cruelty to animals and electricity theft. Five members of the gang have been arrested after the FIR was filed, while prime accused Pathan and two others are in a Surat jail under PASA, said police. Police identified the 11 accused as Sultankhan, Aamirkhan Pathan, Zameer Pathan, Nazirkhan Pathan, Bakukhan Pathan, Waseem Qureshi, Mohammad Nadeem Dahelvi, Javed Dahelvi, Irfan Shaikh, Salim Pathan and Mohammad Junaid Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gangsters-booked-under-gujctoc/articleshow/78581907.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bareilly||Six farmers booked for burning stubble in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Six farmers under three different police station circles were booked for burning stubble of sugarcane and paddy crops on Thursday night on the complaint of lekhpals of their respective areas. Three farmers — Anmol, Shri Niwas, Ramesh in village Tilsada under Bilsanda police station — were booked for burning dry sugarcane leaves in their fields, said SHO Birja Ram. Puranpur circle tehsildar Vijay Kumar Trivedi said three farmers — Om Prakash and Ramesh Kumar of Pajawa village under Seramau (North) police station and Amreek Singh of Pachpeda Prahladpur village under Puranpur kotwali — were booked for burning paddy stubble despite a ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/six-farmers-booked-for-burning-stubble-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78575051.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong challenge to TRS on 2bhk housing scheme||Hyderabad: Congress on Friday threw a challenge at the ruling TRS asking it not to seek votes in the villages wherein it has failed to provide 2BHK houses to the poor. “If the ruling party is willing to accept the challenge, Congress will not campaign in the villages that have two-bedroom houses and TRS should not enter the villages that have Indiramma houses,” said Telangana Congress working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar. There are 140 plus villages in Dubbak constituency. “How many times has KCR visited these villages? If TRS is not scared, why is it luring the local Congress leaders into its fold,” he asked. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-challenge-to-trs-on-2bhk-housing-scheme/articleshow/78582963.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Mangaluru||PU colleges in dilemma over new circular on supplementary exams||Mangaluru: PU colleges in coastal districts are baffled by the fourth circular issued by pre-university education department to conduct supplementary exams for failed/absent students. The second circular issued a few weeks ago had asked educational institutions to promote all failed first PU students without conducting exams. It had directed colleges to conduct examination for absentees after reopening. The institutions were also asked to give a minimum pass marks to failed students and issue certificates. “As per the second circular, we had passed all failed first PU students. The certificates were also issued. Some have left institutions and joined other colleges. Students promoted to next class are busy with online classes. Now, on what ground are we supposed to hold exams?” questioned a senior PU lecturer. The first circular had asked institutions to collect exam fees and hold exams for first PUC students failed/absent in February 2020. The second circular had asked to colleges to promote all failed students except absentees without conducting examination. The third circular asked institutions to conduct examination to first PU failed/absent students in 2019. The fourth circular contradicts the second circular. “Now, we are left in utter confusion and dilemma. The Deputy director of pre-university education (DDPUE) has to clarify on the same. In addition, why to issue such circulars without cross checking the previous one. It only adds to the problems the students and institutions are facing due to the pandemic,” said another PU lecturer. The last circular also states that even if the student fails after appearing for examination, he/she should be promoted. Speaking to TOI, DPUE director Snehal Rayamane clarified that supplementary examination will be held only for absentees and those who were not promoted earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pu-colleges-in-dilemma-over-new-circular-on-supplementary-exams/articleshow/78580613.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow continues to breathe ‘poor’ air||LUCKNOW: Several UP cities remained in the most air polluted list in the country for the second consecutive day on Friday. However, there was a fall in air pollution levels by 24 units in Lucknow though it still remained in the ‘poor’ category. Despite fall in the air pollution levels by 5 to 24 units, 7 UP cities were in the list of 10 most polluted in the country. Of 112 cities monitored by the Central Pollution Control Board, 20 were in the ‘poor’ air category.  With pollution levels almost touching 300, Baghpat with Air Quality Index of 290 was the most air polluted city nationally, followed by Haryana’s Ballabgarh and Bhiwadi of Rajasthan with AQI of 276 and 289, respectively. The remaining next six places till ninth rank were occupied again by UP cities with Muzaffarnagar (265), Bulandshahar ( 262), Meerut (251), Ghaziabad (248), Greater Noida (244) and Moradabad (241). The other cities to figure in the top 20 were Lucknow that witnessed a slight fall in pollution levels by 24 units in comparison with Thursday recording an AQI of 226. Lucknow continued to be in ‘poor’ air category for the 10th consecutive day. Hapur and Noida also crossed the 200 mark with AQI 210 and 206 respectively. Experts said the air pollution in UP cities will deteriorate further due to dry spell and fall in temperature. “By mid or end of October, the air quality of the city will shift from poor to very poor due drop in temperature, ,” said environmentalist Prof Venkatesh Dutta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-continues-to-breathe-poor-air/articleshow/78583401.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Plain clothes & masks: Actors’ new dress code||LUCKNOW: After Aishbagh Ramlila Samiti, other Ramlila committees in the city too have decided to go digital this year and have virtual Ramlila. In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and to avoid large gatherings, the audience will have to watch the performances on their mobile or television screens. The 58-year-old Mahanagar Ramlila Samiti, known for its musical event, will live-stream the performance on its official Facebook page. Artists will enact the Ramlila in ordinary clothes, without make-up or disguising themselves into the characters of Lord Ram, Sita, demon king Ravana, and others. “All the old artists will enact the play. Adhering to Covid-19 protocols, we will avoid change of clothes or make-up. The scenes will be enacted by them in their ordinary clothes with a face mask on. It will be a symbolic representation of the Ramlila,” said Mrityunjaya Pandey, a member, adding that this is the first time that Ramlila will be held without any audience. At Sri Public Bal Ramlila Samiti in Chowk, there will be no staging of Ramlila this time. The committee members have decided to perform the puja and other rituals to keep up with the tradition in the presence of 50 members of the committee. It will be followed by a short lecture on the epic play to be live-streamed on Facebook and YouTube. “Since we are not staging Ramlila and inviting any audience due to the pandemic, we will be narrating some of the scenes and history of Ramlila. Audience can connect with us via their social media accounts and listen to the lecture,” said general secretary Raj Kumar Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plain-clothes-masks-actors-new-dress-code/articleshow/78583408.cms||Aditi Singh
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||CMs must sign off on apex council meet minutes: KCR||HYDERABAD: Telangana government wants minutes of the Apex Council meeting to be finalised and released after getting clearances and signatures from chief ministers of both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao is believed to have told Apex Council chairman and Union minister for jal shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat during the October 6 meeting on sharing of Krishna and Godavari waters between Telangana and AP and also projects. “During the last council meeting held in September 2017, the Telangana government’s arguments were not recorded on Palamuru-Rangareddy Irrigation Project and Dindi Lift Irrigation Project properly. Since it is very important for all the purposes on water issues in future, this time, to avoid such problems, the CM had made it clear at the beginning of the meeting itself that the minutes should be recorded both in writing and videos and should be released after signatures of both CMs,” official sources in the CMO told TOI. Though the state government had assured that it would give letters on constituting water disputes tribunals for Krishna and Godavari waters separately as per section 3 of Act of 1956 (Inter-States Water Disputes), the governments wants to wait till the minutes are finalised. Sources said the Telangana government is giving top priority for Krishna water disputes tribunal award as AP is allegedly constructing projects on Krishna basin. The chief minister also informed the Union minister that the state government would withdraw the case on Krishna water disputes if the Centre constitutes the water disputes tribunal. KCR had already made it clear that the terms of reference (ToR) of the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT-2) should be made as per the section 89 of the AP State Reorganisation Act 2014 and allocation of water to projects should be done accordingly. With regard to Godavari water disputes tribunal, Telangana was allotted 967 tmcft of Godavari waters when the state was united and the state government is in no hurry to write a letter to the Centre for setting up the Godavari water disputes tribunal. “If AP government writes a letter to the Centre on this, we will also give a letter giving our opinion,” a senior official of the water resources department said. The government is also consulting experts if other states like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Odisha are brought under the purview of the Godavari water tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cms-must-sign-off-on-apex-council-meet-minutes-kcr/articleshow/78582974.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 10, 2020||Varanasi||Objectionable letters issued in name of Sankat Mochan Temple||VARANASI: In a matter of letters with objectionable content being sent in the name of famous Sankat Mochan Temple to religious institutions and monasteries across the country, the mahant of the temple, Vishwambhar Nath Mishra, has filed a police complaint seeking a through probe into the matter. “The matter came to light when undelivered letters started coming to the temple’s address in large numbers for a couple of days. The content of the letter is highly objectionable and derogatory against the Akshardham temple’s Swaminarayan sect,” the Mahant told TOI on Friday, adding that he has given a written complaint to the Lanka police with the bunch of such forged letters and has also informed higher authorities. “It seems to be an organised conspiracy to defame the temple. Since the letters bear the sender’s address as Mahant Sankat Mochan Temple, the matter hurts our reputation,” he said, adding that the matter should be investigated properly to expose the nexus. According to him, he also received phone calls regarding the letters, and he had to clarify that the letters were not sent by the temple. “We have received a complaint in this regard. The matter is being investigated,” said Lanka Inspector Mahesh Pandey. In this letter printed on an Inland letter card, the Akshardham temple of Swaminarayan sect has been termed as a threat to the Sanatan Dharma. The letter also discourages people from visiting the Akshardham temple in order to protect the Sanatana Dharma. Besides, the letter also makes an appeal to temple authorities to send these letters to other religious institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/objectionable-letters-issued-in-name-of-sankat-mochan-temple/articleshow/78581976.cms||Binay Singh
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Bail to riot accused: Credibility of witness cops ‘doubtful’||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court said that the “credibility” of two policemen “raised serious doubt” and granted bail to a riot accused after it came on record that these policemen who had identified the accused neither made a complaint when the incident took place on February 25, nor reported the matter to their seniors. “Till the recording of their statements by the investigating officer, they remained completely silent about the incident and blew the lid only on March 6, 2020 when their statements were recorded. It casts a serious doubt on the credibility of aforesaid witnesses,” said additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav. The counsel appearing for Irshad Ahmed argued that his client had only been booked as he was a resident of the neighbourhood, where the alleged crime took place. He argued that there was no material on record to justify the delay in arresting the accused pointing out that he had been in judicial custody from April 20 onwards. The prosecutor, however, opposed the bail plea stating Ahmed was accused in five cases of rioting being an “active member of a riotous mob instigated by principle accused Tahir Hussain”. It was contended that Ahmed had been duly identified by beat constables of the area in question, Vikrant and Pawan. “The CDR location of the applicant also confirms his presence at the scene of crime on the date of incident,” the prosecutor added. The court, however, took into account the fact that Ahmed hadn’t been seen in any CCTV footage or a viral video clip relating to the incident in question. The court order highlighted that he had not even been named in the FIR. “The investigation in the matter is complete and a chargesheet has already been filed. The trial is likely to take a long time. The applicant cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested,” it added. Ahmed was accordingly granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bail-to-riot-accused-credibility-of-witness-cops-doubtful/articleshow/78582980.cms||Aamir Khan
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Himalayan goat meat and fish service gets 50 orders within 2 days of its launch||Dehradun: The Himalayan goat meat and fish service launched in Uttarakhand two days ago has received over 50 orders since its launch. The officials said that the response has been ‘quite encouraging’ as people are reaching out for the meat and fish which is curated as per stringent parameters of quality control. The initiative which involves home delivery of Himalayan goat meat, branded as ‘Bakraw’ and Himalayan river fish, branded as ‘Uttarafish’ was launched by state animal husbandry and pisciculture minister Rekha Arya on Wednesday and is expected to boost incomes of nearly 70,000 goat rearers of Uttarakhand. The officials informed the Himalyan goat meat is a world class farm to fork modern meat hygiene systems by the Uttarakhand farmers’ cooperative federation. The branding of high quality meat will consolidate the livelihood of the farmers and the state economy. Kailash Varshney, a resident of Dehradun’s race course area, said “My son had ordered the Bakraw meat and we are amazed by the hygiene standards. During the times of Covid-19, many people, including our family, had stopped buying meat but as the government is promising high quality meat with home delivery services, it’s worth trying.” The minister for animal husbandry and pisciculture, Rekha Arya has said, “The Himalyan goat meat rearing and trout cultivation done by farmers in the hill districts will directly get benefitted under the initiative and increase the income of the families. The initiative will be also launched in other districts of the state, including Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar.” Talking to TOI, Dr Avinash Anand, CEO, Uttarakhand sheep and wool development board, said, “The biggest advantage of buying Bakraw meat is its assured quality and hygiene standards. We are trying to improve the services with every subsequent day. The idea behind running mobile vans for selling the branded meat is to reach out to maximum customers as people are still not preferring to move out and buy things. We are delivering the best quality and clean meat at the doorstep of the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/himalayan-goat-meat-and-fish-service-gets-50-orders-within-2-days-of-its-launch/articleshow/78580636.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan temple priest burnt alive: ‘Dying testimony will be crucial in investigation’||JAIPUR: The priest, who was burnt alive by five accused over a property dispute in Karauli’s Sapotra police station area on Wednesday morning, in his dying declaration said that Kailash Meena, the main accused threw petrol on him and set him on fire. Karauli SP Mridul Kachawa said, "The victim also named five accused. We have constituted teams to find the others".  The victim succumbed to his burn injuries on Thursday night at SMS Hospital in Jaipur where he was referred to. Cops have arrested the main accused and another person in the matter. The search is on for three others. The victim has been identified as 55-year-old Babulal Vaishnav. Kailash Meena is the main accused in the case. The incident happened in Bukna village in Karauli where Vaishnav served as the priest of Radha Gopal temple. Kachawa told TOI, “The incident happened after a land dispute.” According to officials, there's another version of the incident which claims that the priest set himself on fire. But his dying testimony against the accused will be crucial in the investigation. A case of murder under IPC Section 302 has been registered against the accused. According to the victim’s statement, he had been farming on 15 bighas of temple land along with his family which the accused had apparently been trying to grab illegally. On Wednesday morning around 10am, Meena along with four others came to the victim’s house where they had an argument. Meena then allegedly threw petrol on the priest and set him on fire. Sources told TOI that the land dispute had also reached the village panchayat which had asked Meena not to interfere and let the priest continue to live there. Following the priest’s death, protests broke out across the state and people of the Brahmin community agitated in front of the SMS Hospital where the victim took his last breath. Cops are keeping a strict vigil on the situation. ADG (law and order) Saurabh Srivastava told TOI, “There was no violence. After talks with protesters, the victim’s autopsy has been done. The protesters had demanded an investigation by officials from outside their local police station. We have agreed to it. The role of the local police will also be be looked into.” The victim’s body was handed over to the family on Friday and taken to Karauli. सपोटरा, करौली में बाबूलाल वैष्णव जी की हत्या अत्यंत दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण एवं निंदनीय है,सभ्य समाज में ऐसे कृत्य का कोई… https://t.co/RaXFwasnwD— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1602235970000Taking note of the incident, CM Ashok Gehlot condemned the murder on Twitter and said the government was with the victim’s family. He also promised to bring all the accused to justice. Meanwhile, BJP leaders attacked the state government and former CM Vasundhara Raje took to Twitter to allege that the crime graph in Rajasthan is growing. She also asked the Congress government to wake up from its slumber and punish the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/priest-burnt-alive-in-karauli-cops-arrest-2-accused-search-on-for-3/articleshow/78582976.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||CISCE schools prepare for class resumption on short notice||Kolkata: Schools affiliated to the Council for India Schools Certificate Examinations (CISCE) in Bengal may have decided to abide by the state government’s directive to reopen schools only after a go-ahead from CM Mamata Banerjee after Diwali, but preparations are on in full swing to keep the premises ready to welcome students and teachers back on campus. As per the SOP/guidelines for reopening, the schools will take written consent from parents before students are allowed to return to the campus. While attendance will not be enforced, online education will continue. “We plan to call students of classes between IX and XII, who shall be allowed to come only during a specified timing. Mostly, we shall encourage students to seek clarifications and attend practical classes. Regular tutoring will not be possible,” said a city school principal. The circular, which was issued by CBSE and endorsed by the CISCE, makes it clear that sanitization will have to be done at regular intervals. Hand-washing spaces will have to be installed, calibrated contact-less thermometers will have to be purchased and all school vehicles will also be sanitized every time before they start plying. “We are also planning to hold outdoor classes when the school reopens. Also, the seating distance will be 6ft. This apart, markings will be put in place and a complete ban on spitting will be introduced. If necessary, we shall also propose fines,” added another school head. Several prominent city schools are also strengthening the medical facilities and emergency requirements. Fr. Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco School, Park Circus, said dedicated medical facilities shall be put in place when classes resume. “We also have several prominent doctors who are the parents of our students. They have assured us that in case of any emergency, they shall provide assistance,” Fr. Mondal said. Similar views were shared by Sujoy Biswas, principal of Ram Mohan Mission School. “We have a tie-up with a local hospital. Now, as and when we plan to reopen the campus for students, I will initiate additional talks with the hospital to include certain additional medical facilities related to the pandemic,” he pointed out. Running the school in two shifts, introducing the odd-even formula, allow timetable that does not require all classes attend school every day, allowing classes with large student attendees in the auditorium, library or computer labs are some of the measures the schools are looking into. “Online admissions, no festivals or special events and holding morning assembly sessions in respective classes are to be put in place. We hope to resume academics in some form after Diwali, if the government permits,” said Nabarun De, principal of Central Modern School, Baranagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-schools-prepare-for-class-resumption-on-short-notice/articleshow/78580655.cms||Somdatta Basu
October 10, 2020||Bareilly||SHO suspended for ‘manipulating’ murder case as a suicide||Bareilly: When Atul Gupta was found dead on August 18, his son Shubham told police that his father had hanged himself at his Premnagar residence in Bareilly. The autopsy report, on the contrary, ascertained that Gupta died of “asphyxiation due to throttling or manual strangulation”. The autopsy report was, however, not enough for Premnagar police station SHO inspector Balbeer Singh to register a murder case, said police, so, taking serious cognisance of the matter, SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan suspended him for “negligence and attempt to convert a murder case into suicide”.The role of Shubham and other family members is under scanner as they did not lodge a further complaint and vacated the house — where Gupta had died — without informing police.The SSP said, “The SHO neither brought the matter to the notice of senior officers nor did he register a murder case. We have suspended him and registered an FIR under IPC section 302 (murder). Police are tracing the family which vacated the house secretly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sho-suspended-for-manipulating-murder-case-as-a-suicide/articleshow/78579482.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mathura Road from Bhogal to Ashram Chowk shut over the weekend for repairs||NEW DELHI: While PWD is constructing an underpass at Ashram Chowk, among the busiest intersections in south Delhi, Delhi Jal Board is simultaneously carrying out pipeline work on the Bhogal road, leading the traffic police to earlier allow vehicles to use only a truncated road space on Mathura Road between Bhogal and Ashram and vice-versa. It has now been decided that the carriageway going from Bhogal to Ashram will be closed to traffic from 10am tomorrow till 6am on Monday. In order to facilitate the construction of the underpass along the central median of Mathura Road, the two carriageways from Ashram to Bhogal and from Bhogal to Ashram were widened by removing the footpaths. But in doing so, the DJB pipelines that were located below the footpaths were exposed to the movement of the traffic on both the carriageways. SD Mishra, additional DCP, Traffic (VIP and Southern range), said, “Due to the load of the traffic along Mathura Road, the DJB pipelines started leaking at a number of places causing water logging on both the carriageways of Mathura Road. The resultant potholes and slush made traffic movement difficult and caused traffic jams.” Traffic police permitted DJB to carry out repairs 10pm to 6am from October 7 to 10 on the two carriageways on alternate days. While the repairs on the Ashram-Bhogal route is likely to finish on Saturday, no work could be started by DJB on the other carriageway. In order to ensure timely repairs of the water pipes and the quick restoration of Mathura Road, a joint meeting was called by Mishra’s office with representatives from BJB, MTNL and PWD. The meeting decided to put in effort to finish the work over the weekend. The traffic police’s diversion plan requires all vehicles going from Bhogal to Ashram to be diverted to Lodhi Road from Neela Gumbad in Nizamuddin. All vehicles coming from Bhogal T-point will be similarly diverted towards Neela Gumbad as will be those residing in Jangpura, Jangpura Extension, Bhogal, East and West Nizamuddin seeking to go towards Ashram. However, all residents staying in Jangpura, Jangpura Extension, Bhogal, East and West Nizamuddin and all vehicles going to and coming from Nizamuddin railway station will be able to commute on Mathura Road between Neela Gumbad and Bhogal flyover. Traffic officials said that in order to ease the way for commuters, boards informing about the diversions and indicating directions would be put up at select locations on the route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-mathura-road-from-bhogal-to-ashram-chowk-shut-over-the-weekend-for-repairs/articleshow/78582992.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Toddler who swallowed coconut gets new life||RAJKOT: Two successful lung surgeries gave a new lease of life to a toddler whose condition turned critical after swallowing a piece of coconut that he couldn’t bite into. The boy, Divyaraj Chudasama, was discharged after 17 days from Rajkot Civil Hospital whose doctors performed the complicated surgery. He was brought in a critical condition with severe breathing problems and coughing. The X-ray report revealed something that was stuck in his lungs and the CT scan report showed his condition was critical. The left side lung dwindled and was putting immense pressuring the right lung. “Due to the swelling in his lung, the trachea was blocked and he was required to operate. There was a risk that the child may become brain dead or his heart may stop functioning if we give anesthesia. As the oxygen level was drastically low during operation, so we had to perform surgery in two parts,” said Dr Sejal Mistry, associate professor of ENT department of civil hospital. The pus was first removed using a special machine by suction and thereafter the doctors had to take a break for four days because the oxygen level was nearly zero. The coconut was stuck in the right side of his lung. Later, they performed the second surgery and removed the coconut with the help of forceps, carefully ensuring that lungs and trachea are not damaged. “The surgery of this child tested our passion, but we are happy that we could save the child who was suffering for the last three weeks,” said Dr Mistry. Nimish Chudasama, the boy’s father, said, “The doctors assuraed us to to do their and we are thankful that now my child is out of danger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/toddler-who-swallowed-coconut-gets-new-life/articleshow/78581236.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Govt employees take pledge to follow Covid-19 guidelines||Dehradun: Government employees across Uttarakhand took a pledge on Friday to follow the guidelines and norms issued in wake of Covid-19. They also vowed to spread awareness among others as well. While chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat administered the oath to IAS officials and government employees in the secretariat, the head of departments did the same in their respective offices. CM Rawat said, “The number of Covid-19 cases have gone down in the last few days but we cannot drop guard. Everyone needs to be alert and follow the set guidelines.” He maintained that the government employees took oath to maintain two-yard distance, wear masks, and wash hands. “The employees also pledged that in case they detect any symptom of Covid-19, they would immediately seek medical attention,” CM Rawat said. The CM said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has laid thrust on increasing awareness on the issue and the “state government effort is to spread awareness among its employees, who would further pass it to their families and society.” Assembly employees took the oath before Prem Chand Aggarwal. In other government offices, DG Anil Raturi administered the oath to staff at police headquarters, Dehradun DM Ashish Kumar Srivastava did the same at collectorate, DIG Arun Mohan Joshi at SSP office, and Dehradun mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama at Nagar Nigam office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-employees-take-pledge-to-follow-covid-19-guidelines/articleshow/78580653.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 10, 2020||Vadodara||Barodians living among some of deadliest snakes||VADODARA: Crocodile isn’t the only reptile that Barodians are co-existing with over the last several decades. Very few citizens know that they are staying amid thousands of snakes, of which some are very poisonous. The city is home to a variety of snakes and pythons that have learnt to survive in the dense urban jungle. The forest officials said that between January 2019 and September 2020, over 4,850 snakes and pythons were rescued from the city as well as taluka areas. While 2,840 were non-poisonous, 2,012 were of poisonous variety. These reptiles were rescued by both forest officials as well as NGOs involved in wildlife rescue activities. “Despite being densely urban, the city offers a lot of ideal habitat for the snakes and pythons to survive and breed. Most reptiles have habitats in the fertile lands near rivers. Apart from Vishwamitri River that passes through the heart of the city, Vadodara also Mahi River and Narmada River passing from its outskirts,” said Nidhi Dave, range forest officer (RFO), Vadodara. “Hence, many reptiles are living in these fertile lands. The city is developing fast and urban residences have reached the outskirts where only plain lands existed. So the reptiles staying in these regions often crawl into the homes,” said Dave. She added that the snakes and pythons have adapted to their new habitats and learnt to co-exist with humans. “I have photographed a variety of snakes and pythons in urban areas like Vadsar, Manjalpur and Waghodia Road apart from outskirts like Sindhrot and Sevasi. The city has perhaps the highest population of snakes and pythons in the state as it earlier had a huge green belt that gave reptiles an ideal habitat,” said Harsh Mahajan, a naturalist who has been documenting reptiles over last two years. “With lot of residential colonies now coming up in the open fields on outer areas, reptiles are often found from homes,” Mahajan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-living-among-some-of-deadliest-snakes/articleshow/78580846.cms||Tushar Tere
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand’s Covid-19 death rate inches closer to national average with 14 more fatalities||Dehradun: For the second consecutive day, as many as 14 deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported from Uttarakhand on Friday. With this, the toll of the virus in the state reached 716 and the death rate shot up to 1.32%, which is barely 0.20% less than the national average of 1.52%. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the state), said that with 28 deaths in the last 48 hours in Uttarakhand, the Covid-19 death rate of the state has reached closer to the national average. “The four plain districts — Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital, and Udham Singh Nagar — have 75% of total cases but have reported 92% of the total deaths in the state. While Dehradun has reported almost half of the total deaths in the state, Chamoli is the only district which hasn’t recorded any Covid-19 death so far,” he added. On Friday, 704 fresh infections of coronavirus were recorded in the state, taking the case tally to 54,063. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that the maximum of 242 cases were reported from Dehradun on Friday, followed by 73 from Nainital, 70 from Rudraprayag, 66 cases each from Udham Singh Nagar and Pauri, 50 from Haridwar, 31 cases from Uttarkashi, 20 cases each from Bageshwar and Pithoragarh, 19 from Chamoli, 18 from Tehri, 17 from Almora, and 12 from Champwat. Meanwhile, the recovery rate of the state reached 84.6% on Friday with 1,239 people recovering from the Covid-19 infection. A total of 45,774 people have recovered from coronavirus infection in the state so far and around 8 lakh people were tested for the virus till Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-covid-19-death-rate-inches-closer-to-national-average-with-14-more-fatalities/articleshow/78580683.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 10, 2020||Business||LVB receives indicative non-binding offer from Clix||Chennai: Lakshmi Vilas Bank, on Thursday, said that it received an indicative non-binding offer from Clix Capital, while no agreements have been reached on the offer, which is kept under wraps. Further to the process of considering and evaluating the proposed amalgamation, the two parties met for the first time today to revisit discussions on the offer price, the bank said in a statement. “We want to speed-up the process and close the deal in the next 15 days. We will raise capital from the market parallel,” said Shakti Sinha, member of the committee of directors (COD) set up by the Reserve Bank of India to look after the daily affairs at LVB.An official spokesperson of Clix Capital said, “We have extended an indicative non-binding offer to the Lakshmi Vilas Bank’s board. We continue to engage with the board on the next steps.”With the bank’s September quarter results due to be approved by auditors, Sinha said, the bank’s board has submitted a list of statutory auditors and awaits the banking regulator to choose and appoint an auditor. In an unprecedented move irate shareholders of LVB ousted seven directors, including its MD & CEO and auditors at the AGM held last month, leading to uncertainty in the proposed amalgamation of Clix Capital and LVB. This led to an RBI-approved constitution of a committee of three independent directors to manage the day-to-day affairs of the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-receives-indicative-non-binding-offer-from-clix/articleshow/78569795.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 10, 2020||Allahabad||Illegal house owned by gangster razed||BENGALURU: Karnataka reported the highest face value of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) seized in India last year, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. The state’s Rs 4.8 crore haul accounted for 18% of the country’s tally. The state’s 2019 seizure was a whopping 179% more than the previous year’s haul. FICN with a face value Rs 7.9 crore were seized from 2016-2019. What’s a big concern is that a majority of the fake currency circulated in Karnataka was of Rs 2,000 face value. In 2019, 23,500 fake notes of Rs 2,000 — the highest in the country — were seized in Karnataka. Gujarat reported seizure of 14,494 fake Rs 2,000 notes and Andhra Pradesh 7,292. Sources in National Investigation Agency (NIA), however, said Karnataka is not a hub to circulate fake currency but people from small towns are being lured with huge commissions to push counterfeit notes into circulation. While networks, especially gangs from Malda, a town in West Bengal, are actively working across the country to push fake currency into circulation, even some locals have taken to the trade. They usually circulate such currency among daily-wage labourers working in sugar factories on the Karnataka-Maharashtra border or coffee estates in Chikkamagaluru region and in Bengaluru. The criminals try to cash in on lack of knowledge about currency note features, a senior police officer explained. A city police officer said some foreign nationals sell fake Rs 2,000 notes for a lower price. They get printers and other required material from Chickpet. “In July 2019, we caught a Cameron national who was printing fake currency. Investigation revealed the accused printed four fake Rs 2,000 notes on each page and sold each for Rs 400 among people from African countries living in Bengaluru. With less than Rs 10 investment, he was making Rs 1,600,” the officer explained. The officer said these notes were of a higher quality compared to the ones distributed by Malda gangs. Ulsoor Gate police station, a nodal police station for RBI to register fake currency complaints, has registered more than 80 cases in four years wherein banks had deposited fake currency notes of Rs 1.2 crore face value with RBI, said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-house-owned-by-gangster-razed/articleshow/78581999.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC polls to be deferred, order any time soon: Official||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) election, which was scheduled for the first week of November, will be postponed and an order in this regard is likely to be issued any time soon, Kiran Kurundkar, secretary of state  commission, said on Friday. “The state government told the commission that the situation was not conducive to hold elections in view of coronavirus. Covid cases are on the decline now, but the local administration’s entire machinery is still involved in the management of the pandemic,” Kurundkar told TOI over the phone . The election official said the civic body’s term ends on November 15 and that the government will appoint an administrator a day or two earlier. “We have already postponed the civic elections in Aurangabad, Navi Mumbai and Vasai Virar due to the pandemic. The terms of these civic bodies ended between April and June,” he said. Kurundkar said the actual announcement of elections is done after at least one- and-a-half-month preparation. “Sometime back, we had asked the KMC authorities to start primary works related to voter rolls. Recently, the government conveyed to us that the election needs to be postponed,” he said. “It is not sure for how long the election will be deferred, but it mainly depends upon the situation and preparation. We are unsure when this pandemic will end and there is no limit for the time duration for the postponement of the election,” said Kurundkar. Vijay Vankudre, head of KMC’s election department, said the drawing of lots for reserving the wards and preparing the electoral rolls could not be done due to the pandemic. “The drawing of lots needs to be done in public and the situation currently does not permit us to take any risks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/donekmc-polls-to-be-deferred-order-any-time-soon-official/articleshow/78582995.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Depression warning along north-coastal AP||Visakhapatnam: A low pressure formed over the Bay of Bengal on Friday and is very likely to develop into a depression by Saturday, according to the the India Meteorological Department. “As per our calculations, the depression will be concentrated over the central Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to move west-northwestward, which is the north-coastal Andhra Pradesh, and cross the same region during the morning of October 12,” S Stella, director, IMD Andhra Pradesh, said. Explaining the track of the latest low pressure system, IMD officials said the system formed Friday over the north Andaman Sea and its neighbourhood. From there, it is expected to move towards east-central Bay of Bengal and then west-northwestwards, before it intensifies into a depression, two stages below a cyclonic storm. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/depression-warning-along-north-coastal-ap/articleshow/78582999.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Waste-to-action: Kids’ park to be built from shipping containers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After Waste-to-Wonder Park at Sarai Kale Khan and Nandan Van at GK-I, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is planning a unique recreational facility for children where everything will be built out of discarded shipping containers. An existing two-acre park, on the main road between Ishwar Nagar and New Friends Colony, will be redeveloped as Concor-Nandan Park, and opened for public in two months. “We basically aims to take the concept of ‘waste to art’ ahead and create some intriguing play options, entirely different from conventional ones,” said SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti. “Our parks for children usually have nothing more than swings. Today’s kids are so fascinated by mobile or virtual games that these conventional playing equipment don’t excite them any more. So we took the challenge to create engaging and challenging facilities for them,” Bharti added. The civic agency has taken 12 discarded shipping containers from Container Corporation of India Limited, a public sector undertaking (PSU) under the railways ministry. The PSU will also bear the cost of the project under its corporate social responsibility head. “There will be equipment, which will excite and engage a child and at the same time check his/her physical strength and capability to solve puzzles,” said an SDMC official. “For example, the colourful structure of double wall-holla will inspire children of various age groups to discover different ways of exploring its undulating maze, full of colourful strips, twists and turns. The zigzag climbing ladder on artificial mountains will be another challenge.” Each equipment will be designed to easily engage children for 10-15 minutes, so that they can spend two-three hours here. “For safety, the entire play area will be rubberised, covered with net and double-coated with paint,” said the official. The height of each container is 8.5 feet and the width 8 feet. “This will give ample space inside to utilise each and every corner as well as top areas after retrofitting and modification. We will also take cues from missing points at Nandan Park,” said SDMC mayor Anamika Mithlesh. SDMC plans to create slides, lounge net, suspended swing, climbing tunnel, crawling maze, zigzag climbing ladder, banging ropes and mini hammocks. “I have asked officials to look for possibilities to develop such facilities at other places too. We don’t have funds to create them on our own, but there is always a scope for getting these projects funded,” said Nikita Sharma, SDMC parks and garden committee chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-to-action-kids-park-to-be-built-from-shipping-containers/articleshow/78583002.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Body of Haryana tourist found near Kolhukhet||MUSSOORIE: The body of a tourist from Haryana was found in the forests near Kolhukhet (about 15 kilometres from Mussoorie) on Friday evening. The police are investigating the matter as foul play is suspected. The deceased has been identified as Nikhil (22), a resident of Hansi, Haryana. He had come to Mussoorie along with two of his friends. Police officials said that the friends of the deceased have told the police that they had stopped at several places on the Mussoorie-Dehradun road and the deceased had mysteriously disappeared. His friends reported the matter to the police on October 9 when Nikhil didn’t contact them for two days. “We are probing the case from all angles,” said Devendra Aswal, station officer, Mussoorie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-haryana-tourist-found-near-kolhukhet/articleshow/78580699.cms||Anmol Jain
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Active Covid-19 cases down 39% since peak in UP||LUCKNOW: Active cases of novel coronavirus infection in Uttar Pradesh have declined by 39% since the peak on September 17. Against 68,235 cases at the peak, the number of active infections was 41,287 on Friday. With this, the situation as on date is now comparable to the situation on August 4. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also expressed happiness over the decline in the number of active cases—a measure of pandemic activity. “It took about 44 days for Covid cases to increase from 41,000 to reach the peak while the cases have subsided to the same level in 22 days,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. He also pointed out that for the past 22 days in a row the number of recovered cases has been more than new cases. On Friday, 3,249 new cases were reported, while the number of patients recovered was 4,424. As per the Covid bulletin, the total number of infections crossed 4.3 lakh, while the total number of persons recovered reached 3.8 lakh. Prasad stated that the recovery rate for UP had increased to 86%. The state also recorded the death of 48 persons, taking the total deaths to 6,293. ACS, information Navneet Sehgal said that reviewing the Covid-19 situation in districts with Team-11, the CM directed that all effective measures should be taken to break the infection chain. “The CM also gave instructions for special vigilance on the Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Varanasi besides strengthen treatment facilities,” he said. In another decision, the CM told officials to take stock of the situation in districts where the recovery rate was low and take steps to improve the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-covid-19-cases-down-39-since-peak/articleshow/78583422.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AQI improves slightly after wind changes direction||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Friday after the change in the wind direction in the morning. Overall AQI of Delhi was recorded at 202 in “poor” category but it is likely to improve to “moderate” category by Sunday. The capital’s air quality fluctuated from higher end of “moderate” to “poor” category on Friday as the capital’s AQI was 198 in “moderate” category by 11am but it later touched the “poor” range. Scientists at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said the air quality improved marginally during the daytime after the wind direction changed from north-westerly to south-westerly. Track the pollution level in your city“The wind was blowing south-westerly on Friday morning but it started changing the direction to north-westerly later in the day. As the south-westerly wind blows from Rajasthan side, there was slight improvement in the air quality due to less pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD. IMD has predicted that the wind is expected to again change direction to easterly by Monday. “When the changeover of the wind direction will take place, the air quality will further deteriorate, as the wind speed will slow down and may stop dispersion of pollutants. However, if the wind continues to blow from easterly side, there is likely to be marginal improvement in AQI from Monday to Wednesday,” said Srivastava. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said AQI is likely to improve to moderate category by Sunday. “The low pressure formed over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify and influence circulations in the north and central India. A shift in Delhi surface wind direction, northwesterly to southeasterly by October 12 is forecasted. This could influence air quality positively in the coming week,” said SAFAR bulletin on Friday. According to SAFAR, 250 fire counts were observed on Thursday around Punjab, Haryana and neighboring border regions. After three months, AQI of the capital was recorded as 208 on Wednesday, which falls in “poor” category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aqi-improves-slightly-after-wind-changes-direction/articleshow/78582994.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kanpur||Four arrested for looting liquor salesman||KANPUR: Four men were arrested for allegedly looting a liquor salesman of Rs 31,800 cash on Wednesday in Ghatampur area of the district. As per police, the arrested men revealed during interrogation that the loot was planned by Adarsh Yadav, son of a police constable who is currently posted in Jahanabad police station of neighbouring Fatehpur district. Adarsh is on the run along with one other aide. “Adarsh, along with Shatrughan Singh, Gaurav Agnihotri, Saurabh Jaiswal, Aman Dubey and Chetan, allegedly accosted and beat up the liquor salesman Sudhir Dikshit near Durga Ganj village under Ghatampur Kotwali police station, and snatched cash worth Rs 31,800 from him. The gang fled soon after,” they added. Ghatampur circle officer Ravi Kumar Singh told reporters, “Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested Shatrughan Singh, Gaurav Agnihotri, Saurabh Jaiswal and Aman Dubey from near a railway crossing. Rs 24,700 cash, a .315 bore firearm and two cartridges were recovered from their possession.” The CO said the main accused Adarsh and one of his aides Chetan are on the run. “A case was registered under relevant section of IUPC, and the four arrested were sent to jail. Searches by separate police teams are underway to nab Adarsh and Chetan,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-arrested-for-looting-liquor-salesman/articleshow/78582324.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 10, 2020||Delhi||EPCA chief takes stock of congestion at Anand Vihar||NEW DELHI: Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Friday inspected Anand Vihar, one of the 13 pollution hotspots, and gave directions to agencies for reducing traffic congestion. EPCA chairman Bhure Lal also discussed with officials the design of the new flyover, which is to be constructed between Road No. 56 and the Anand Vihar bus stand. Track the pollution level in your cityLal ordered to check illegal bus parking near Sulabh toilet, EDM Mall and near the wall on the UP border. It causes pollution in Delhi, he said. “From the Indian Oil petrol pump to EDM Mall, the service road has been closed. This road should be opened and the bus stop at road number-56 should be shifted behind the service road,” added Lal. The EPCA chairman ordered agencies to conduct a study for reducing traffic jam below the Telco flyover. He also asked agencies that the road leading to railway station and Anand Vihar bus stand should be constructed scientifically. Meanwhile, after Punjab, Haryana government has also informed EPCA that its custom hiring centres will provide equipment to small and marginal farmers for free to manage stubble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epca-chief-takes-stock-of-congestion-at-anand-vihar/articleshow/78583017.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi: Oppn unnerved by crackdown on mafia||Lucknow: Stepping up his attack on the Opposition over the Hathras incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said, people trying to trigger caste conflicts were driven by nepotism, corruption and tyranny. He was addressing BJP functionaries in bypoll-bound Malhani assembly seat in Jaunpur through video-conference. “They are disturbed when the government takes action against the mafia,” he said, accusing the opposition of trying to exact revenge on the government for its tough stand on crime. “We need not fear conspiracies, which actually exposes the Opposition and how they think about the poor, women, farmers and youth. They are hell bent on tearing apart the social fabric,” he said. Yogi said, their conspiracy to shackle the government from carrying out people-driven programmes would not succeed. “Those who don’t like smiles on faces of poor and prosperity of the state and country, are levelling baseless accusations,” he said. Without naming any political party, Yogi said, people who could not provide houses and toilets to the poor in last 50 years were trying to create fault lines in society and disturb peace. “Because of them, the country witnessed anarchy and rise of the mafiosi,” he said. Yogi said, when his government was trying to ensure safe return of migrants in the peak of pandemic, some political parties began hatching conspiracies. Referring to Congress-ruled Rajasthan, he said, “They provided registration number of scooters and scrap trucks in place of buses and fake numbers to ferry migrants,” he said. The CM said, the state was receiving investments aimed to generate employment. “Development would be carried out and nothing would stop his government from putting the state on the development path,” he said, adding division of society weakens development and sparks exodus. Yogi said, the pandemic gave the government a new viewpoint on using technology to carry out organisational work on a robust note. “The government carried out programmes in a phased manner and the results are obvious,” he said, reiterating that the government could convert challenges into opportunity.  “The threat of Covid-19 is not over yet. We have to take precautions and ensure BJP win all seats where bypolls are scheduled,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-oppn-unnerved-by-crackdown-on-mafia/articleshow/78583428.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Python bites boy||Mangaluru: A 10-year-old boy sustained injuries after he was bitten by a python on Wednesday. The victim, who is out of danger, is Sankalp G Pai, a class V student at the Canara Primary School, Urva. His father Gopalkrishna Pai, a bakery owner, told TOI that Sankalp visits the Urvi Krishna Math located near their house in Mannagudda to light lamps on this auspicious month. Like every day, he left home at 7 pm, and just before entering the place of worship, there is a stormwater drain that one has to cross. The mesh on top of it was broken. “My son had not seen the snake and while crossing mesh, the python caught hold of his leg. He tried to save himself by trying to push it with his other leg. After a struggle for about five minutes, and after biting him on his right leg, the python slithered into the drain. A snake rescuer was called, who found the nine-foot python in the drain. It was rescued and released in the wild,” he said. Soon after freeing himself from the snake, the boy told everyone in the neighbourhood that there was a snake near the drain, and asked people to be careful. He had not realised that it had bitten him. When his father noticed blood oozing out from his leg, Sankalp was rushed to a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/python-bites-boy/articleshow/78580710.cms||---
October 10, 2020||India||Key accused tried to rig TRPs of India Today, cops tell court||MUMBAI: One of the key accused arrested in the television rating point (TRP) manipulation scam, Vishal Bhandari, had asked some of the 'sample audience' to keep India Today channel on in their homes, the Mumbai police quoting his former employers stated in their remand application submitted in a court here. Police are looking for one Rocky who they allege asked Bhandari to rig the viewership of Republic TV. Police filed the remand application seeking custody of Bhandari and another accused, Bompelli Mistri. Both have been remanded in police custody till October 13. Four people have been arrested in the case so far. Bhandari was a relationship manager with Hansa Research, a firm contracted by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to place peoplemeters to monitor TV channels that are watched in households. In the remand application, police stated that during Hansa's internal auditing, they had recorded statements of a witness, Tejal Solanki, and a few others who said Bhandari had asked them to keep India Today channel on for at least two hours. Denying the charges, India Today said in a statement, "There is a malicious campaign right now by a few vested interests to drag the name of India Today group into the TRP scandal...What we are currently seeing is an attempt by RTV, the main accused in the ratings manipulation case, to deflect the blame to other networks to hide their own criminal wrongdoing." On the mention of India Today in the FIR, the statement said, "We had no prior knowledge of the FIR nor do we know or have dealings with the arrested accused." The statement also quoted city police commissioner as saying the police have found evidence to suggest Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema have been systematically manipulating the TRP system. The development came a day after Mumbai police issued a late-night clarification on Thursday saying that though India Today's name finds a mention in the FIR, they had not found any evidence against the channel. On Friday, police reiterated they had not found any evidence against India Today. The city police had on Thursday said they had busted a racket where three channels, including Republic TV, manipulated TRPs, a measure of viewership that advertisers use in their planning, and arrested four people. Police arrested Shirish Shetty, proprietor of Fakht Marathi, Narayan Sharma, owner of Box Cinema, Vishal Bhandari, and a private person, Bompalli Rao Mistri. Two of the accused were remanded in custody on Thursday. The remand application, quoting Mistri, said he used to pay Bhandari Rs 20,000 every month to manipulate the viewership in 8 to 10 households. Mistri also said Bhandari used to pay Rs 400 to 500 per month to households for watching Box Cinema and Fakht Marathi channels. Police said they’re looking for one Rocky who allegedly asked Bhandari to pay the household to keep watching Republic TV on a fixed monthly payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/key-accused-tried-to-rig-trps-of-india-today-cops-tell-court/articleshow/78583810.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP cops cited Delhi Police, intel report on ‘Oppn plot’||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Police in its affidavit before the Supreme Court has cited reports of Delhi police and intelligence agencies on how functionaries of some political parties reached Safdarjung Hospital shortly after victim’s death and provoked her family not to accept the 19-year-old’s body till their demands were met. Police have also attached a report from the state intelligence department dated September 29 which talked about how organisations associated with the Valmiki community, Bhim Army and Azad Samaj Party might gather in Hathras in large numbers to stage protests which might also turn violent. The report sent by the Delhi deputy commissioner of police of the south-west district to secretary in home department, Taurn Gaba, on October 4, states that as soon as the post mortem of the deceased started, a large number of people including dalit activist Udit Raj, Bhim Sena chief Chandra Shekhar Azad, and former Congress MP PL Punia reached hospital with their supporters. Thereafter, AAP MLAs Rakhi Birla started protesting. The police appealed to them to maintain peace but to no avail, the report says. “Those presebt there prevailed over the family not to accept the body unless their demands for justice were met. Some protestors were demanding that the chief minister should come to the hospital and assure the family. The family was under the influence of these leaders and the crowd had surrounded the family not permitting officials to talk to them,” reads the report of the Delhi police. The UP Police has also cited an intelligence report shared by the SP, law and order, on September 29. The report says that it received inputs that upon arrival of the victim's body in Hathras, her family members, supporters, and political organizations may refuse to organize last rites. There are reports that they would indulge in violent protests by keeping the body on the road, holding agitation and throwing stones, the input said. It also mentions that protesters may also block trains and indulge in burning of effigies and violence. Later, based on these reports, the UP Police got 19 FIRs lodged against 700 persons involved in the incident and termed it specific conspiracy. The SIT is still probing the case while the state goverment has recommended a CBI probe on October 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cops-cited-delhi-police-intel-report-on-oppn-plot/articleshow/78583441.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Allahabad||Inter-faith marriage: Cops told to produce woman in HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Kanpur Nagar to forthwith take out a Muslim girl, who entered into an inter-religious marriage, from the alleged confinement of her father and brother and produce her before the court on October 12. Hearing a petition filed by Shikha alias Sheeba and her husband Rohit Rathaur, Justice JJ Munir also issued notices to the father of the woman, directing him to file reply in the case. During the court proceedings, the counsel for the petitioner contended that it is not just about rescuing Shikha alias Sheeba from illegal confinement, but also saving her life and preventing her from becoming a victim of honour killing. On this, the court directed SSP, Kanpur Nagar to immediately release the woman from the detention of her father and brother and keep her in Nari Niketan till she is brought before the court on October 12, which is also the next date of hearing of the matter. According to the petitioners, Shikha alias Sheeba converted to Hinduism at an Arya Samaj Mandir of Kanpur Nagar on July 3, 2020, and then she married Rohit on the same day at the Arya Samaj Mandir, Rawatpur Gaon, Kanpur Nagar. Later, the girl’s father, Mukhtar Ali, lodged an FIR against Rohit. However, during investigation, she informed the police that she had left her parent’s house with her free will and Rohit had not taken her away forcibly. In the petition, it was alleged that the woman concerned is 22 years old, but in spite of her statement given to the police in favour of her husband, she was handed over to her father and brother by the station house officer (SHO) of Bilhaur police station of Kanpur Kagar. The court passed this order on October 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/inter-faith-marriage-cops-told-to-produce-woman-in-hc/articleshow/78582080.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Surat||Cyclists in Magdalla pedal in coal dust||Surat: It’s with much fanfare that the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) embarked upon the ‘cycle4change’ initiative under the smart cities mission in response to the challenges that the Covid-19 pandemic has thrown. Nevertheless, the avid cyclists are facing a bigger challenge in the form of severe coal dust pollution, while travelling towards Dumas and Magdalla.In the last few years, the stretch from Athwagate to Dumas beach has become the favourite track for hundreds of cyclists. However, the 300-metre patch starting from Magdalla port to the fly-over bridge at ONGC junction is the biggest nightmare, where cyclists are exposed to ill-effects of pollution. Dozens of transport vehicles loaded with coal from the Magdalla port drive past the main road connecting Magdalla to Vesu, spilling mounds of coal dust on the entire stretch from Magdalla to ONGC bridge. Despite various representation to the concerned authorities, the nightmare for over 7,000 cyclists still continues. “The road from Athwagate to Dumas beach is the only ideal track for cyclists. Our club members hit the road in the morning to avoid pollution, but the patch from Magdalla to ONGC bridge is ruining our cycling,” said Yogesh Patel, founder of Life Cycling Green Association. According to Patel, his association has represented the issues to the civic body, regional transport office (RTO) and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) since last one decade. The GPCB guidelines states that the coal handling unit shall ensure that all the trucks before leaving the storage yard shall be showered with water and covered with tarpaulin. “We have been carrying out regular inspection at the coal storage area at Magdalla port. However, it is the responsibility of the RTO, SMC and the traffic police to check the overloading of the trucks,” said Parag Dave, regional officer of GPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cyclists-in-magdalla-pedal-in-coal-dust/articleshow/78580756.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Admissions fully online, Delhi University reminds college applicants||NEW DELHI: Delhi University conducted another Open Day on Friday urging candidates not to come to colleges or the university campus as the admissions, starting on October 12, is fully online. The admission branch’s Open Day webinar was organised to clear “all possible doubts” of the candidates. Rajeev Gupta, dean of students welfare (DSW), reiterated that the admissions were completely online and “the purpose behind this Open Day was to make sure that people from across India do not come to colleges”. The DSW explained that “DU has been trying to make the admissions online for many years. Last year, we had tested ourselves by doing an entrance test online. So this year we were confident of conducting the whole process online. Plus, the corona pandemic has required that students don’t have to visit the university or colleges”. No candidate will be allowed to enter colleges, Gupta clarified. “Queries will be answered on the website and you can always call and mail the colleges,” he assured applicants. Shobha Bagai, dean of the admission branch, also told candidates that all their queries would be answered fast and they didn’t need to panic. During the webinar, a presentation was made on the admission process and how DU’s portal has a best-of-four subjects calculator that can help applicants find the subjects for which they are eligible. The webinar also had a step-by-step guide on how to go about the admission process — how to pay the fees and how applicants can get their doubts cleared. Bagai said “there are rumours that cutoffs are going to be high. But you (applicants) can always decide on the courses by looking at previous cutoffs”. The colleges will have to submit their final cutoff list by Saturday. Many colleges are, however, unsure about how to set the cutoffs. “We are yet to get any data from DU. Even the data has no value Jfor us as applicants have been given the option to select all courses this year. So it is tough for colleges to come up with a proper cutoff,” said principal S P Agarwal of Ramanujan College. While admission branch member Suman Kumar said “colleges can look at high scores in certain subjects and decide on those cutoffs”, Agarwal said it was better to look at general trends, the CBSE marks that students have scored, Jto decide cutoffs. “It is possible to say that the cutoffs would be high this year,” the principal said. Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava said they were looking at the institute’s earlier records to come up with cutoffs and would submit the list on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/admissions-fully-online-du-reminds-college-applicants/articleshow/78583029.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||‘Current jaal’ a big threat to Ganga dolphins||LUCKNOW: In good news, after ghariyals, sightings of Gangetic dolphins are increasing in the river Chambal, a 150km stretch of which from Agra to Etawah is a part of the National Chambal Sanctuary. Both dolphins and ghariyals are critically endangered. While the sanctuary is the biggest abode of ghariyals in the world, the Ganga river dolphin was declared the national aquatic animal in 2009. Recently, on Ganga River Dolphin Day on October 5, many threats the animal faces were highlighted. The biggest among them is the ‘current jaal’ or an extremely dense fishing net. It is used by villagers living along Chambal and Yamuna. According to conservationist Rajiv Chauhan, “It is called ‘current jaal’ locally because the sensation for the animal is like coming in contact with electricity. It can even kill dolphins. We had organised awareness programmes at 14 locations between Bateshwar in Agra till Prayagraj on the day and found that threats exist despite conservation.” Besides, the mammal is sought during fishing because oil extracted from its body is illegally used as a reliever for joint pain and as a bait to catch smaller fish. The practice has high incidence in villages in Jalaun along the National Chambal Sanctuary. “A dolphin is hung over a fire for its body to melt. That’s how the oil is collected,” said Chauhan. Commonly called ‘soons’ the fish is known to locals very well. When its oil is mixed with other oils and splashed on river water, it attracts smaller fish. “It is a practice used also in Bihar,” he said. Chauhan, who is working with the district administration of Etawah on a conservation programme called Namo Kalindi, said that a team of volunteers is being raised for a quick alert and response system against any such action against aquatic biodiversity. Earlier this week, the state government had launched a 24-hour helpline for rescue of aquatic animals including dolphins. The helpline will be operated by Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), India. TSA rescues five to six dolphins every year. But, these are the only ones the agency receives information about. The confluence of Chambal and Yamuna may have about 95 dolphins. Sightings are made throughout the year. Though dolphin population is increasing, the threats have not alleviated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/current-jaal-a-big-threat-to-ganga-dolphins/articleshow/78583456.cms||Neha Shukla
October 10, 2020||Kanpur||Ghatampur bypoll: No nominations on first day||KANPUR: No candidate filed papers on the first day of filing of nominations for the Ghatampur assembly bypoll. The last date of filing nominations is October 16. The election commission has appointed additional city magistrate (II) Kanpur Nagar, as returning officer for the byelection. Only five forms were sold on day one. Kuldeep Kumar (BSP), Ashok Paswan (Sabhi Janata Party) Surendra Kumar of (Bahujan Mukti Party) and two independents Dharam Prakash and Sumer Singh purchased nomination papers. Among the recognized political parties only the Samajwadi Party has so far declared its candidate. It is expected the other parties would declare their candidates at the last moment. Ghatampur assembly seat fell vacant due to the death of Kamal Rani Varun, who was minister for technical education in the Yogi government. She had won the 2017 assembly election on the BJP ticket from this reserved seat. The nomination fee for general candidate is Rs 10,000 and Rs 5000 for candidates contesting on reserved seats. The district administration has made elaborate arrangements for filing of nominations. The road between Chetna crossing and Sarsaiya ghat crossing has been barricaded. Only court employees are allowed to move on this road. District magistrate Alok Tiwari ,who is also the district election officer, had announced that any person without mask would be allowed to go inside the nomination room, only three persons, including the contestants, would be allowed to go inside for filing his or her nomination papers before the returning officer and Covid-19 protocol has to be followed during the nomination. Besides filing his or her caste certificate along with the nomination paper, a candidate has to disclose their criminal history, if any, mention details of loans taken from different banks and also details of their movable and immovable property. Independent candidates and candidates of recognized political parties of other states will have to provide signatures of ten proposers before filing papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ghatampur-bypoll-no-nominations-on-first-day/articleshow/78582266.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 10, 2020||Kanpur||Mental health conditions on rise due to Covid-19 pandemic: WFMH||KANPUR: The theme of the World Mental Health Day to be observed on Saturday (October 10) is ‘Mental Health for All: Greater Investment—Greater access’. The World Federation for Mental Health (WFMH) has chosen this theme at a time when the world is confronted by the unprecedented mental health problems being faced by people the world over due to the impact of Covid-19 pandemic. According to WFMH report, the worldwide pandemic arose against an already dire mental health landscape that saw mental health conditions on the rise across the globe. About 450 million people live with mental disorders that are among the leading causes of ill health and disability worldwide (WHO report). Dr Mahesh Kumar, nodal officer, mental health, said, “Covid-19 pandemic has changed our lifestyle. Several challenges such as health workers working amidst corona fear , online education for students and teachers, unemployment, and social separation of mentally ill persons are being faced by the people”. He said as there are all possibilities that mental health will require more psychological and social support, therefore, everyone should be aware of it. If any person is suffering from mental health, then never try to declare him as insane or make fun of him but instead help him, he added. Dr Chiranjeev, a psychiatrist, stated that little sleep, worry, uneasiness, tension, loss of concentration, suicidal thoughts, depression, isolation, loss of memory, using liquor to avoid anxiety etc might be the cause of mental illness. If any member of the family had any such symptoms, he/she must consult a doctor. Nilesh, an employee working in the mental health department, said that daily 8 to 10 people visit his department for counseling, and most have worries about corona . The nodal officer in his letter dated October 1, had directed all chief medical officers of the state to felicitate officials and workers in the programmes who had given their best services during the corona pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mental-health-conditions-on-rise-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-wfmh/articleshow/78582262.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 10, 2020||Varanasi||BJP leader Arjun Yadav shot dead in Azamgarh||VARANASI: A Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Kshetra Panchayat member Arjun Yadav (40) was shot dead by some unknown miscreants in Pawai police station area of Azamgarh district on Thursday night. The police have launched a manhunt to identify and nab the killers. According to reports, Yadav, a resident of Jaldipur village, owned a store of ayurvedic medicines near Pawai crossing. At around 9pm on Thursday night, he was returning after closing his shop when he some unidentified motorcycle-borne miscreants opened fire on him and fled the scene. Yadav sustained bullet injuries on his chest and fell on the ground. The news spread like a wildfire in the locality and people started gathering at the spot. Azamgarh SP (rural) Siddharth Kumar and Phoolpur CO Rajesh Kumar along with the police force reached the incident site after getting information. Meanwhile, the villagers and family members took Yadav to the local hospital from where he was referred to Phoolpur trauma centre after primary treatment. Later he was taken to the divisional hospital where doctors declared him dead. According to the police, the reason behind the killing is yet to be known. The matter is being investigated. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said that details are being gathered from family members to find the reason behind the killing. The assailants would be nabbed soon, said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-leader-shot-dead-in-azamgarh/articleshow/78581941.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Allahabad||HC restrains govt from compoundingillegal construction||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad High Court on Wednesday restrained UP government and all development authorities within the state from compounding any illegal construction pursuant to the Compounding Scheme, 2020, notified by the state on July 15, 2020. UP gvernment had issued Compounding Scheme, 2020, under which constructions, otherwise not permissible in building bye-laws, have been made compoundable. Hearing a writ petition filed by Mohd Meherban Ansari and three others, Justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra directed additional secretary of department concerned to file reply justifying the scheme. The court has fixed October 20 as the next date of hearing. The court observed, “A prima facie perusal of the Compounding Scheme, 2020, would go to show that the illegalities committed by violating the provisions of the UP Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 (Act of 1973) by raising illegal constructions are sought to be regularized upon payment of huge composition fee.” “The authorities of the state government are expected to act in furtherance of the object of the Act, so as to stop illegal constructions and not to encourage such illegal constructions upon payment of hefty amount. This would clearly discourage the honest citizens who ensure compliance of laws by obtaining prior permission as per the Act of 1973, inasmuch as they are subjected to stricter norms provided in the building bye-laws, while those who violate the law are allowed to raise much larger constructions, which is not even permissible in the building bye-laws,” the court further observed. “The Compounding Scheme, 2020, otherwise appears to be wholly beyond the scope of the Act of 1973 including Section 32. Section 32 only permits composition of offences and not permits raising of constructions contrary to the building plan. The compounding of development undertaken contrary to the Act of 1973 is therefore, prima facie, found to be clearly contrary to the aims, objectives and the provisions of the Act of 1973,” the court observed. The court directed the state government to communicate this order to all the development authorities in the state for compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-restrains-govt-from-compoundingillegal-construction/articleshow/78582043.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 10, 2020||Pune||4 held on charge of bid to kill man in Aundh||Pune: Four persons were arrested on Friday on the charge of attempting to kill a 23-year-old youth at Kasturba Vasahat in Aundh a day before because they did not like his act of resolving a dispute between some children on October 4. Senior inspector Anil Shewale from the Chatushrungi police said, “Akash Gaikwad and his mother, Durga, were on their way home on a scooter after meeting a relative. The four men intercepted their vehicle in a lane in Kasturba Vasahat. One of them, Rushab Gaikwad (19), started assaulting Akash with a sickle. Apprehending danger to his life, Akash abandoned his scooter and started running, leaving his mother behind. The four men chased and overpowered him.” Shewale said, “Rushab’s accomplices — Amir Shaikh (23), Akshay Adagale (23) and Sanket alias Abhishek Awale (19) — from Kasturba Vasahat also thrashed Akash. He suffered injuries to head, hands and back. The incident led to a commotion and fearing trouble, the assailants fled. Later, some people shifted Akash to the Sassoon hospital, where he is recuperating.” An offence under Section 307 (attempt to commit murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-held-on-charge-of-bid-to-kill-man-in-aundh/articleshow/78583032.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara adds 345 cases, 13 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara district registered as many as 345 fresh Covid-9 cases and 13 deaths since late night on Thursday. Almost half of the recent cases (119) were from Satara taluka. Of the recent cases from Satara taluka, 55 were from the town. Karad identified 59 new patients, of which, 12 were from the town. Wai and Pahltan recorded 26 and 23 new patients respectively. Solapur rural reports 216 cases, 3 deaths Solapur rural registered 216 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday along with three casualties. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in Solapur rural stands at 27,393, of which, 4,698 are currently active. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported 79 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-adds-345-cases-13-deaths/articleshow/78583033.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||‘Fashion industry has more to offer than just designing’||NEW DELHI: A career in fashion is not just about being a designer. The way the industry is changing, there are various options and opportunities available to students. This was highlighted by educators and industry stalwarts in a webinar organised by The Times of India on Friday. Sunil Sethi, president of Fashion Design Council of India, said, “There was a fashion famine in the country when the lockdown started. That is when we started with stock rooms after which designers got business. We then held India Couture Week online and fashion went through the required sea change. We are now getting ready to hold India Fashion Week and many have applied for the show. There was pent-up demand from customers. So, this is a good time for fashion education.” Nandita Abraham, president of Pearl Academy, was of a similar view saying that fashion doesn’t go away due to an illness. “It is the role of educators to look ahead. That is what we did at Pearl. We started online teaching in 2014 itself. We provided students kits to establish a home studio and sent them blocks. We all know this phase is temporary. The good thing is that the industry wants youngsters as they have a lot of ideas,” she added. She stressed that not knowing to sketch was not a hindrance in entering the world of fashion and encouraged aspirants to remain open-minded. Pervin Malhotra, education counselor, said, “Fashion has wider aspects. One can do virtual merchandising, fashion photography, digital marketing, makeup, and so much more. It is important to have business sense and soft skills to make a creative career.” He also highlighted how of late even those scoring 90% and above were looking at creative careers. Sethi added quality controller, show director and curator to the list of career opportunities in the industry. Antonio Maurizio Grioli, dean, Pearl Academy, said, “Students of engineering and other courses are some of our best postgraduate students. The pandemic has not affected the industry and education much. Christian Dior’s new look came up after the war. One needs to explore Indian art and craft further. Students should do what they love and not join the industry just to make money.” Abraham advised parents to do research on their children’s choices by connecting with the alumni, faculty members and students of an institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fashion-industry-has-more-to-offer-than-just-designing/articleshow/78583063.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Vadodara||Low cases, high discharges spike hopes||Vadodara: The city and district continued to show a downward trend in fresh cases in the past 24 hours ending on Friday evening bringing in much needed respite, while discharged patients’ numbers have also improved significantly. Against 112 new cases registered during this period, 116 were discharged from hospitals or home quarantine. With the new cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases registered in the city and district since the pandemic began went up to 12,838. The death toll due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death remained at 204 with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirming no more deaths. The total number of discharged cases went up to 10,856 with 116 more discharges from home isolation or hospitals. This has now left 1,778 persons in hospitals including 66 on ventilators or BIPAP machines. Another 168 patients were breathing with the help of oxygen support. The reduction in number of patients on support systems on Friday as compared to Thursday is being seen as a good sign. On Thursday, 77 persons were on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 189 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/low-cases-high-discharges-spike-hopes/articleshow/78580922.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Private operators told to run optimum Puja services||KOLKATA: The Public Vehicles Department (PVD) on Friday met the private operators of bus, cab and auto and asked them to run optimum services during the festive days. Even though the transport department officers could not anticipate the size of the crowd during the puja days under the pandemic situation, both police and transport department are to maintain the same scale of preparedness like that of previous years. On Friday, the PVD officers asked the operators to maintain their optimum service in absence of suburban train services. “People will be entirely dependent on public transport. This is why we asked them to maintain their service, particularly at night when the crowd would surge and travel demand would go up,” said Amitabha Sengupta, additional secretary, transport department. Bus operators, however, said they would scale-up or scale-down their operation on the basis of their assessment on the night of Chaturthi and Panchami. “Currently, 60% of our buses are running on the road because of non-availability of drivers and conductors. We will have to discharge our duty by running as many buses as possible,” said Tapan Banerjee, secretary, joint council of bus syndicates. Police officers attending the meeting informed the operators that said that full-fledged preparation will be on since Tritiya (October 19). Autos will be allowed to ply till 3pm. However, the timing can be stretched to 4pm if the size of the crowd remains small or manageable. Metered Cab and app-cabs service will remain optimum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-operators-told-to-run-optimum-puja-services/articleshow/78583718.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Towering structure at Delhi's Connaught Place to exhale clean air||NEW DELHI: Connaught Place will soon get an anti-smog tower to tackle air pollution in its vicinity. It has been cleared by the Delhi cabinet and will be built at a cost of Rs 20 crore, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. The tower is, however, not likely to be operational this winter, with the chief minister stating that the government hopes to complete its installation work in the next 10 months. Track the pollution level in your city“Two smog towers are being installed in Delhi, out of which one will be installed by the central government at Anand Vihar, and the second will be installed by Delhi government at Connaught Place,” he added. Anand Vihar is one of Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots. “The first smog tower in the world was installed in China,” said Kejriwal. While the CP tower is to be built on the same line, the technology will be different, he added. “In China, the smog tower sucks the polluted air from bottom and releases clean air from above. Our smog tower will suck the polluted air from above, and release the clean air from the bottom,” the chief minister clarified. The Delhi cabinet has sanctioned Rs 20 crore for the installation of this “first-of-its-kind” smog tower, he said. If successful, more smog towers will be installed across the capital, he added. Delhi government is likely to build the tower with the help of University of Minnesota and IIT-Bombay that recently signed an MoU with the Centre to construct its anti-smog tower. IIT-Delhi is also likely to provide expertise. The tower is likely to be around 20-metre high, but the height is not final yet, an official said. University of Minnesota recently installed an anti-smog tower in China, which is capable of processing 75 million cubic metres of air per day. Experts say depending on the size of a tower, it should be capable of improving the air quality within a radius of 500 metres to 1km around it. An official of Delhi Pollution Control Committee said the preliminary work, including site inspection, finalising a location and soil testing, had been completed. “We are now waiting for the process to assemble the tower to begin,” said the official. The Supreme Court in January asked for an anti-smog tower to be installed in Delhi by April 2020. But work was impacted due to the lockdown. Watch Delhi govt to set-up Smog tower to filter polluted air: Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/towering-structure-at-cp-to-exhale-clean-air/articleshow/78583097.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 10, 2020||Kolhapur||No order on time extension, Kolhapur shops shut by 7pm||Kolhapur: Traders in Kolhapur city shut their shops at 7 pm on Friday even as the confusion over extension of time to keep shops open persisted. On Thursday, the traders had met district collector Daulat Desai with the request to let shops remain open till 9 pm ahead of the Dasara and Diwali festivals. They had pointed out that the businesses had faced severe losses during lockdown and even the Ganesh festival went by without them being able to make some money. Though Desai had agreed to extend the shop timings, no order regarding this was issued until Friday evening. Ajit Kothari, the director of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries, said: “We asked the traders to shut their shops as per the earlier order. No revised order has been issued, though we expect one by Saturday. Many office-goers get time to go for shopping only after their office hours. Many citizens also want the shops to stay open till late.” The bars and restaurant owners too have demanded to allow them to do business till late. They too are waiting for the revised order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-order-on-time-extension-kolhapur-shops-shut-by-7pm/articleshow/78583060.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||Youth held on charge of robbing duo in Nigdi||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police arrested a 20-year-old youth on Thursday night on the charge of assaulting and robbing two men at Transportnagar in Nigdi. Pradip Ambilwade, the arrested suspect, attacked the duo with a brick and forced one of the victims to transfer Rs889 to him through Google Pay. Sub-inspector Rajesh More of Nigdi police told TOI, “Complainant Akash Kadam (22) of Dattawadi in Akurdi noticed the suspect’s name while transferring money online. We traced Ambilwade and arrested him on the charge of robbery.” “Kadam works as a pharmacist with a private hospital in Nigdi. On Wednesday night, Kadam and his friend Sandesh Patil had gone to Transportnagar for dinner. While returning home, they stopped along the road to answer nature’s call,” More said. The suspect arrived there, hit Patil with a brick and slapped the complainant. “He told them that he was the ‘bhai’ (don) of the area and demanded Rs1,000 from them,” More said. “Patil and Kadam were not carrying cash with them. The suspect then told them to transfer the amount in their bank account to him through e-wallet,” More said. He said that the complainant had only Rs889 in his bank account. “The suspect emptied Kadam’s account and fled from the spot,” More said. The duo went to the hospital as Patil sustained injuries in the assault. “They came to the police on Thursday and lodged a complaint. We immediately arrested the suspect,” More said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-held-on-charge-of-robbing-duo-in-nigdi/articleshow/78583064.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolhapur||CM inaugurates Satara jumbo hospital||Kolhapur: The state government has sanctioned Rs 45.59 crore for Satara district for Covid-related works, informed deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during a function where chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the jumbo hospital at Chhatrapati Shivaji museum in Satara on Friday. “The Pune revenue division has been sanctioned a total of of Rs 151 crore. The division has five districts but the highest allotment has been given to Satara district,” Pawar said. Speaking on the occasion, Thackeray cautioned people against becoming casual owing to various relaxations in the lockdown. He added that experience around the world shows that Covid cases go up after lockdown is relaxed. “The government was facing issues scarcity of health workers including doctors and nurses, but assured to take all the steps to meet the challenge,” Thackeray said. “We are going through a critical phase and everybody must follow the norms like wearing mask, social distancing and washing hands,” he added. Ajit Pawar asked the administration to check all hospital bills given to Covid patients are within about Rs 1 lakh. The new jumbo hospital, situated in Chhatrapati Shivaji museum, will have 234 beds with oxygen support and 52 ICU beds. It will also have four beds with dialysis facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cm-inaugurates-satara-jumbo-hospital/articleshow/78583069.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||BJP, Congress trying to weaken bahujan movement: Mayawati||LUCKNOW: Making an appeal for support during the upcoming assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, BSP chief Mayawati on Friday cautioned her supporters against Opposition parties and other organisations propped up by them who, she alleged, were trying to weaken the ‘bahujan’ movement. Speaking on the occasion of BSP founder Kanshi Ram’s death anniversary, Mayawati said that Opposition parties, specifically Congress and BJP, were trying to discredit BSP and were probably even working together towards this goal. She said that they were spreading rumours among her followers that BSP is constantly taking donations whereas, the party took funds from supporters only to be able to avoid pressure from industrialists and business houses. “We have so far taken financial help only from those within our party. Otherwise like BJP or Congress, we would not just get support from these big business houses but will also have to do their bidding when we come to power. In order to give them benefits, we will not be able to work for the upliftment of our own people. That is why we take money from our own people, even to make them contest elections,” she said, adding that this was being projected as a crime by other parties. She said her followers, and those of BR Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram must ask other parties and organisations which have come up in the name of Dalits, where they get their funds from, alleging that not only had they been propped up by Opposition against BSP but were also being funded by them to financially harm BSP. She also warned socially influential persons that BJP would be trying to embroil them in false cases but said that they should not be scared. “When BJP is in power, Congress calls us their B team and when Congress was in power, BJP called us their B team. Both use the same strategy against us but both parties have ignored the development of Dalits and harassed them. “However, if something happens to any woman from the community, then they stage political drama. Hathras is an example of this,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-cong-trying-to-weaken-bahujan-movement-maya/articleshow/78583465.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE teachers meet speaker Patole to press for tribunal in state||Nagpur: CBSE School Staff Welfare Association (CSSWA) office bearers met with state assembly speaker Nana Patole, to press for their demand of setting up a tribunal. President of CSSWA Deepali Dably claimed that Patole assured them to take up the issue during the forthcoming winter session in city. CSSWA has been demanding a tribunal for CBSE teachers as there is no platform for their grievances to be taken up. On October 5, Dably met with Patole and explained the problem CBSE school staff faced in getting their disputes resolved by authorities. Dably said while state board teachers can approach the local education department, CBSE teachers do not have any such mechanism in Maharashtra. TOI was the first to report about CSSWA in 2018, and the campaign it was spearheading to have a tribunal set up for aggrieved CBSE school staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-teachers-meet-speaker-patole-to-press-for-tribunal-in-state/articleshow/78591345.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA to repair 151 roads across five districts in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority has been entrusted with the responsibility of repairing 151 roads spread across five districts under the ‘Pathashree Abhijan’ project launched by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on October 1. The roads identified by the KMDA are mainly approach roads to the city spread across five districts, including North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Howrah, Nadia and Hooghly. According to senior KMDA officials, more than 70% roads are located in Howrah, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas and they directly lead to Kolkata. In Howrah, most of the roads fall under Howrah Municipal Corporation, Bally and Belur municipality areas and some roads fall under Uluberia area. Similarly in North 24 Parganas, KMDA has been entrusted with the responsibility to repair roads that fall under Barrackpore, Madhyamgram, and Bhatpara and in South 24 Parganas the roads mainly in Mahestala, Thakurpukur and Amtala area. Apart from that, there are some roads in Serampore, Sheoraphuli, Baidyabati, Bhadreshwar in Hooghly and Kalyani, Gayeshpur in Nadia, where repairing work will also be conducted. “We have received the list of roads that need to be repaired and maintained by us under the Pathashree Abhiyan project. We have started the survey to ascertain the exact length of these roads so that we can come up with the estimate of total expenditure that will be required for repair of these roads. We will then seek financial sanction from the state finance department and after we get the nod, we will float tender,” a senior KMDA official said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee launched the Pathashree Abhiyan scheme on October 1 during her recent North Bengal visit, where she announced that under this mission more than 7,000 stretches of roads comprising 12,000 kilometres across the state will be repaired in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-to-repair-151-roads-across-five-districts/articleshow/78583719.cms||Saibal Gupta
October 10, 2020||Goa||‘Government has no funds to set up hospital in Ribandar’||PANAJI: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate said on Friday that while there’s a need for a 24x7 medical facility at Ribandar, the state is not currently in a position to set one up, given the government’s fund crunch. Monserrate met a delegation of the Ribandar health care committee on Friday and agreed to their demand for a fully-equipped hospital at the old Goa Institute of Management (GIM) building. “I too want a full-fledged hospital, but it cannot happen right now. It will come stage by stage, because the government does not have money,” Monserrate told TOI. In his election manifesto, Monserrate had promised to set up a medical facility at Ribandar. He said that in order for a proper hospital with a casualty unit to be set up at the old GIM building, other government departments would have to be moved out. At present, Goa police’s crime branch and the Goa Lokayukta office are situated within the complex. “We will set up the hospital, but it requires time. The other departments have to be moved out. First let us start somewhere,” said Monserrate. Under the Smart City mission, Monserrate plans to set up a primary health centre which will function during the day. A delegation led by corporator Rupesh Halankar on Friday called on Monserrate and sought his intervention to restore medical facilities at the old building in Ribandar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-has-no-funds-to-set-up-hosp-in-ribandar/articleshow/78583093.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police name senior BJP leaders in rally FIR||KOLKATA/HOWRAH: A day after mayhem broke out in parts of central Kolkata and Howrah on Thursday, when BJP workers marched towards Nabanna and police made all attempts to stop the processions, officers at the Hastings police station on Friday registered an FIR against BJP national secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, party national vice-president Mukul Roy, MPs Locket Chatterjee and Arjun Singh and senior leaders, such as Bharati Ghosh, Jayprakash Majumdar and Rakesh Singh. In a separate FIR, the North Port police named some other senior BJP leaders for the violence on Howrah bridge. The Howrah Police has drawn up serious charges—non-bailable ones of attempt to murder and illegal possession of firearms—for bombing and for a 40-year-old man being intercepted with a 9-mm revolver. The Kolkata Police FIRs, in Hastings and North Port police stations, booked the senior BJP leaders for unlawful assembly, rioting, damaging public property and violating disaster management provisions. A city court denied bail to seven arrested BJP leaders and sent them to jail till October 12. In the North Port police station FIR, five persons were arrested but later, granted bail. The Howrah Police also arrested eight persons, including BJP Yuva Morcha leader Priyangu Pandey (32), under non-bailable charges of attempt to murder, illegal possession of firearms and other sections. Pointing out that the bombing targeting cops indicated a “larger conspiracy”, police said a 9-mm revolver was seized from Pandey’s aide Balwinder Singh, a resident of Punjab’s Faridkot. But Pandey’s lawyer Ajay Manna claimed, “Singh is a former service personnel who is Pandey’s private bodyguard. He has no links with BJP.” Manna alleged, “The gun licence that police claim is valid only in J&K’s Rajouri is untrue. In 2009, the licence was sanctioned for all-India use.” A Howrah court remanded Singh and Pandey in three days’ police custody; the six others were sent to prison for a fortnight. BJP youth wing activists, led by national president Tejasvi Surya, staged a sit-in before the Jorasanko police station on Thursday night, demanding an FIR be filed against cops for alleged unprovoked attack. The Howrah Police has refuted Vijayvargiya’s claim it was the cops who hurled bombs at BJP supporters. They said the tear gas shells hurled by police when the barricades were being breached, was being misrepresented. Police said 24 Howrah cops were injured and three of them had to be hospitalised. Reacting to the police claim, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “They have lodged case against 24 of our leaders and workers. Trinamool seems scared of the increasing support base of BJP. When our leader died in Hemtabad, we tried to attend his funeral. Police slapped cases against us even then. We have faith in the legal course and we will fight out the battle. The way they beat us, nobody does that to even the strongest of adversaries. Trinamool is trying to use police to stick to power. It is a signal of their end.” Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra said, “For Bengal BJP, poll countdown is about importing goons, arms and creating chaos.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-name-senior-bjp-leaders-in-rally-fir/articleshow/78583721.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||New courses on offer: Degree in biomedical engg, medical devices||Hyderabad: The Telangana government’s plan to set up a medical devices park in Sultanpur has turned medical devices and biomedical engineering into a lucrative career option with several institutions offering it as a course from the 2020-21 academic year. According to experts, the current market size of the medical device industry in India is estimated at $11 billion and is poised to grow to $50 billion by 2025. Medical devices park in Sultanpur will have 25 companies in a span of two years that would deal with manufacturing and research and development of medical devices. To meet and highly skilled human resource requirement of this industry, several educational institutions such as the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research and the IIT-H have introduced courses to provide training and carry out advanced research. NIPER has introduced master of technology in medical devices from this academic year for candidates interested in finding innovative solutions for the healthcare and pharmaceutical industries. “Course shall initially be offered with a batch size of 10 students. The course is designed to include topics related to biology, chemistry, mathematics, clinical science, engineering and also a one year project. The course has a good mix of theory and laboratory sessions,” said Srinivas Nanduri, dean, NIPER. “Biotechnology engineering graduates till date were limited to maintenance of medical equipment. The country lacks core biomedical engineers. Industry is largely looking at hiring biomedical engineers who would work on developing healthcare products,” said Prof Renu John, head of biomedical engineering department, IIT-H, adding that biomedical engineering being offered at IIT-H is a blend of biology and engineering. The bachelor of technology course in biomedical engineering introduced at IIT-H will train students to design medical devices, develop 3D images and and create bio-sensors on a chip||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-courses-on-offer-degree-in-biomedical-engg-medical-devices/articleshow/78582086.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Pipeline laid, but residents not willing to take water connection||Nagpur: Even after NMC’s water works department has completed pipeline laying works in Lakadganj zone to provide tap water to around 3,500 households, residents are happy with free water being supplied by 35 tankers and not opting to get water connection. However, the department has given the residents 20-day deadline and will stop water supply through tankers from November 1, sources said. The NMC is paying Rs25 lakh per month to tanker operators for around 300 trips daily, said a source from NMC’s water works department. Sources, however, said lobbying by tanker operators and interference by leaders are preventing the department from discontinuing the services of 35 tankers. Unless free tanker service is stopped, people won’t take connection. The pipeline work has already been completed a couple of months ago, said a source. Standing committee Vijay Zalke, who is also water works committee chairman, assured to look into the matter. Sources said there were around 9,790 properties in Lakadganj zone and since there was no pipeline network, the NMC had deployed 35 tankers which were making around 300 trips daily to supply water for years. To address this issue, the NMC had laid pipeline under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme and covered 25 areas including Girija Nagar, Gandhikuti Nagar, Mehar Nagar, Gulmohar Nagar, Rambhumi Nagar, Gharsagar, Raj Nagar, Vaishnodevi Nagar, Mahesh Nagar, New Om Nagar, Shyam Nagar, Ambe Nagar, Samata Nagar, Antuji Nagar, Tulsi Nagar and Abumiya Nagar. Of the total 9,790 properties, the NMC had approved applications by 3,021, but only 1,909 of them paid the civic charges and piped water connection was done for only 1,826. The water works department tried to convince the residents about disadvantages of getting less water through tankers and the fact that supply will increase if they take tap connections. “The civic body also informed them that their daily time spent on filling water will also be saved,” said the sources. But in vain. Most residents from these localities don’t want to pay water bills and do not intend to make initial investment. Sources also said nexus between tanker operators and leaders is preventing the NMC from stopping the tanker service. “Political pressure is being built to continue water supply through tankers,” said sources. In the past too, the department had faced similar issue in Hudkeshwar and Narsala. But there, the department discontinued around 97 tankers by strengthening water supply network. The move too had saved lakhs of rupees of the cash-strapped NMC. Currently, the NMC had been entrusting 222 tankers to supply drinking water in non-network areas. It is spending crores of rupees per month for the purpose. The highest number of tankers — 84 — were deployed for areas under Ashi Nagar zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pipeline-laid-but-residents-not-willing-to-take-water-connection/articleshow/78582125.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||This Navratri, no garba, only aarti in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: For the first time in the history of Gujarat, there will be no garbas during the nine nights of Navratri. The government of Gujarat early on Friday announced that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no permission will be given for organizing garbas this year at commercial venues or residential colonies. In the interests of public health, the government of Gujarat issued guidelines for public gatherings and festive celebrations during Navratri, Dussehra, Sharad Poornima, Diwali and New Year, effective from October 16. "Permission will not be given to organise sheri (lane) garbas or commercial garbas anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will only allow installation of the idol and pooja and aarti, that too only at open grounds. Touching the idol or distribution of prasad will not be allowed. Permission from the local administration must be sought before these," according to a statement issued by the state government. "More than 200 people cannot gather at any given place and proceedings must be completed within an hour. The standard operating procedure must be followed during this," the government further stated. The government decision did not come as a surprise as big players across Gujarat have already decided against holding garbas. "We had taken the decision much earlier to not organize Navratri garbas this year due to the pandemic. Moreover, with sponsorships dwindling over the past few years, chances of funding are also bleak," said Himanshu Shah of Soi Live Events in Ahmedabad. The situation in Surat is similar. Denny Nirban, an event organiser said, "Looking at the pandemic situation, I am strictly against public celebration of Navratri. I would advise youngsters that they could be risking the health of their parents and elderly people in their house over garbas." The government decision is a disappointment for garba enthusiasts, however, most favour safety over celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/this-navratri-no-garba-only-aarti/articleshow/78587211.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Vadodara||This Navratri, no garba, only aarti in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: For the first time in the history of Gujarat, there will be no garbas during the nine nights of Navratri. The government of Gujarat early on Friday announced that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no permission will be given for organizing garbas this year at commercial venues or residential colonies. In the interests of public health, the government of Gujarat issued guidelines for public gatherings and festive celebrations during Navratri, Dussehra, Sharad Poornima, Diwali and New Year, effective from October 16. "Permission will not be given to organise sheri (lane) garbas or commercial garbas anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will only allow installation of the idol and pooja and aarti, that too only at open grounds. Touching the idol or distribution of prasad will not be allowed. Permission from the local administration must be sought before these," according to a statement issued by the state government. "More than 200 people cannot gather at any given place and proceedings must be completed within an hour. The standard operating procedure must be followed during this," the government further stated. The government decision did not come as a surprise as big players across Gujarat have already decided against holding garbas. "We had taken the decision much earlier to not organize Navratri garbas this year due to the pandemic. Moreover, with sponsorships dwindling over the past few years, chances of funding are also bleak," said Himanshu Shah of Soi Live Events in Ahmedabad. The situation in Surat is similar. Denny Nirban, an event organiser said, "Looking at the pandemic situation, I am strictly against public celebration of Navratri. I would advise youngsters that they could be risking the health of their parents and elderly people in their house over garbas." The government decision is a disappointment for garba enthusiasts, however, most favour safety over celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/this-navratri-no-garba-only-aarti/articleshow/78587209.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||Ex-Santa Cruz MLA’s son to join Congress||PANAJI: Former Santa Cruz MLA Victoria Fernandes’ son Rudolfo Fernandes is all set to join Congress and may become the party’s face for the constituency. Congress has been looking for a replacement ever since Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes switched over to BJP. Congress office bearers, including opposition leader Digambar Kamat have been in touch with Fernandes for several weeks to convince him to join the party. Fernandes is likely to enter the party on Sunday along with his supporters. “I asked for time, since I have to talk to my supporters and the locals,” said Rudolfo, who attempted to win the Santa Cruz seat twice as an independent candidate. In 2012, Fernandes lost by over 2,000 votes to then Congress candidate Atanasio Monserrate. In 2017, Rudolfo got 5,262 votes while Antonio Fernandes won with 6,202 votes on a Congress ticket. Today, both Monserrate and Antonio Fernandes are with BJP. Victoria represented the constituency from 1994 to 2012. “When the Congress gave me this offer, I called certain prominent people and discussed it with them. Everyone knows how BJP is lying and cheating the Congress,” said Rudolfo. When asked if he would contest the upcoming elections, Rudolfo said that he would take that decision only after talking to his supporters and Congress supporters in the constituency. He said that he “liked” the discussions that he had with Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-santa-cruz-mlas-son-to-join-congress/articleshow/78583112.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Plastic park to come up near Kanpur, city in Auraiya||Lucknow: Two major projects of plastic industry are planned for the state. UP government has written to the Centre asking for permission for creation of a plastic park near Kanpur and a plastic city in Auraiya’s Dibiyapur. In a letter to the Union ministry’s department of chemicals and petrochemicals, additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development) Alok Kumar has explained that the demand of setting up a plastic city around Kanpur has come from industrialists and entrepreneurs themselves as they found it viable. Kumar said the state government had decided to set up a plastic park in Dibiyapur in 2013-14 but the project never received an approval from the Centre. The location was near a unit of GAIL and NTPC keeping in mind the need for plastic raw material by industries and NTPC as a source of continuous energy. A special purpose vehicle for the project, was set up in 2015, however, it failed to take off because the Centre did not give a nod, says the letter, a copy of which is with TOI. Now, the government has received clearance to sign an MoU with GAIL for renewal of the project. UPSIDA has identified a 130-acre land in Senpurab Para of which 60 acres can be given for the plastic park to industries department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plastic-park-to-come-up-near-kanpur-city-in-auraiya/articleshow/78583470.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||This Navratri, no garba, only aarti in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: For the first time in the history of Gujarat, there will be no garbas during the nine nights of Navratri. The government of Gujarat early on Friday announced that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no permission will be given for organizing garbas this year at commercial venues or residential colonies. In the interests of public health, the government of Gujarat issued guidelines for public gatherings and festive celebrations during Navratri, Dussehra, Sharad Poornima, Diwali and New Year, effective from October 16. "Permission will not be given to organise sheri (lane) garbas or commercial garbas anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will only allow installation of the idol and pooja and aarti, that too only at open grounds. Touching the idol or distribution of prasad will not be allowed. Permission from the local administration must be sought before these," according to a statement issued by the state government. "More than 200 people cannot gather at any given place and proceedings must be completed within an hour. The standard operating procedure must be followed during this," the government further stated. The government decision did not come as a surprise as big players across Gujarat have already decided against holding garbas. "We had taken the decision much earlier to not organize Navratri garbas this year due to the pandemic. Moreover, with sponsorships dwindling over the past few years, chances of funding are also bleak," said Himanshu Shah of Soi Live Events in Ahmedabad. The situation in Surat is similar. Denny Nirban, an event organiser said, "Looking at the pandemic situation, I am strictly against public celebration of Navratri. I would advise youngsters that they could be risking the health of their parents and elderly people in their house over garbas." The government decision is a disappointment for garba enthusiasts, however, most favour safety over celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/this-navratri-no-garba-only-aarti/articleshow/78582102.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bareilly||Asha workers protest against male doc delivering baby at Shahjahanpur govt med college||Bareilly: Several Asha workers staged a protest at the Shahjahanpur Medical College and Hospital after the video of a male doctor performing normal delivery of a baby went viral on Thursday evening. The Asha workers alleged that there were several women doctors and midwives present at the hospital but the administration still assigned a male doctor to conduct the delivery. The ASHA workers said village women would not come to the hospital if such a practice happened in future. They also threatened to boycott work if a male doctor delivered a baby again.Meanwhile, Dr Pooja Pandey, spokesperson of the medical college, said, “The protest is politically motivated as the government and Medical Council of India have authorised a male obstetrician for performing a delivery. The doctor in question is a senior surgeon. We can always assign the delivery to a woman a doctor if the patient specifically requests for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/asha-workers-protest-against-male-doc-delivering-baby-at-shahjahanpur-govt-med-college/articleshow/78578518.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 10, 2020||Pune||Costs keep mental healthcare needs hidden||Pune: Several healthcare institutions now have affordable programmes for employees, students and the middle class to access counselling, after mental health concerns, especially the cost factor, have become the elephant in the room in many households, in this pandemic. National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences and Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences, and organizations like Manav Foundation, Samaritans and Connecting Trust have launched a number of initiatives to make mental health more affordable and accessible. Prakriti Poddar, managing director at Poddar Foundation, said a counseling session can cost between Rs 200 and Rs 5,000 as there is no regulatory body to standardize rates. “The insurance regulator has mandated companies to treat mental illnesses on par with physical illnesses and provide reimbursement to patients seeking help. Higher institutions that offer courses on psychology and psychiatry also offer counseling and therapy services, including psyhopharamacology, which needs to be popularized. Telepsychiatry can help expand accessibility,” she said. Liyaan Sataravala, interim chief executive officer at Connecting Trust, said their free pan-India distress helpline provides a non-judgemental, non-advisory, confidential and anonymous listening service for those feeling stressed, distressed, and/or suicidal. “We receive an average of six calls a day, 180 calls per month, with people distressed about family issues during the lockdown, job-related anxiety, unemployment, business losses, triggering of mental conditions and other factors. The number of distress emails has tripled from 15 to 45 per month during this period,” Sataravala said. They have partnered with the Pune police and Sassoon General Hospital to launch the Suicide Survivor Support Programme for providing telephonic emotional support to suicide survivors. Lack of accessibility to qualified mental health professionals dictates costs. Psychologist Sumit Sharma said, “Government colleges should provide more slots for psychiatry. Underwriting norms in insurance policies, coverage of outpatient costs, disease classification, pre-existing conditions, and training of mental health professionals need more clarity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/costs-keep-mental-healthcare-needs-hidden/articleshow/78583101.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||Shelter for homeless in PCMC||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will inaugurate a shelter for the homeless on Saturday. According to civic officials, 240 people can be accommodated at the facility, which will also offer skill training to residents. The officials had earlier conducted a survey on the number of homeless people in the twin towns with the help of a private firm. Altogether 154 people were found to be homeless in the survey. Ajay Charthankar, deputy commissioner, PCMC, said that an NGO will look after the shelter facility, which will be available free of cost to residents of all ages. The residents will get breakfast, lunch, and dinner. “We will provide them skill training so that it can prove to be useful to them in the long run,” he said. M A Hussain, founder of NGO Real Life Real People, said that homeless people found in the survey will be brought to the shelter facility. “Even though we have a large accommodation facility, we will comply with all the safety guidelines of the Covid-19 laid down by the civic body. Female staff members will be there to look after female occupants,” he said. Hussain urged citizens to report homeless people to the corporation so that they can be brought to the newly-created facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shelter-for-homeless-in-pcmc/articleshow/78583087.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Protest over pending dues||Hyderabad: A protest was held by the representatives of all political parties in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), led by SCB VP, J Rama Krishna, demanding the release of Rs 80 crore worth pending dues, which the state government has to pay SCB for the past five years. Rama Krishna spoke that a proposal of initiation of legal action against Telangana government, to get these pending dues, will be placed before the SCB board meeting, to be held next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protest-over-pending-dues/articleshow/78582084.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Goa||Unregistered plastic-making industries may face closure in Goa||PANAJI: Industries and brands manufacturing plastic without registering with the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) may face closure in the state as the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has directed GSPCB to take action against such entities under the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) policy. “We will act according to the law,” GSPCB chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar said. CPCB chairman Shiv Das Meena in a letter to GSPCB stated that the board should identify the brands and producers operating without registering in the state. “The board shall take action against the defaulting units as per provisions of Plastic Waste Management (PWM) Rules, 2018, which shall include closure of their operations and levying environmental compensation.” Meena stated that several brands and producers who have applied for registration do not respond to queries raised by the board for long and are non-compliant as per provisions of PWM rules during this period. As per the rules, every producer must apply in Form-I to the state pollution control board for registration or renewal of registration and no person can manufacture carry bags, recycled plastic bags or multi-layered packaging unless the person has obtained a registration from the state pollution control board prior to production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unregistered-plastic-making-industries-may-face-closure/articleshow/78583104.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Surat||This Navratri, no garba, only aarti in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: For the first time in the history of Gujarat, there will be no garbas during the nine nights of Navratri. The government of Gujarat early on Friday announced that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no permission will be given for organizing garbas this year at commercial venues or residential colonies. In the interests of public health, the government of Gujarat issued guidelines for public gatherings and festive celebrations during Navratri, Dussehra, Sharad Poornima, Diwali and New Year, effective from October 16. "Permission will not be given to organise sheri (lane) garbas or commercial garbas anywhere in the state. During Navratri, the government will only allow installation of the idol and pooja and aarti, that too only at open grounds. Touching the idol or distribution of prasad will not be allowed. Permission from the local administration must be sought before these," according to a statement issued by the state government. "More than 200 people cannot gather at any given place and proceedings must be completed within an hour. The standard operating procedure must be followed during this," the government further stated. The government decision did not come as a surprise as big players across Gujarat have already decided against holding garbas. "We had taken the decision much earlier to not organize Navratri garbas this year due to the pandemic. Moreover, with sponsorships dwindling over the past few years, chances of funding are also bleak," said Himanshu Shah of Soi Live Events in Ahmedabad. The situation in Surat is similar. Denny Nirban, an event organiser said, "Looking at the pandemic situation, I am strictly against public celebration of Navratri. I would advise youngsters that they could be risking the health of their parents and elderly people in their house over garbas." The government decision is a disappointment for garba enthusiasts, however, most favour safety over celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/this-navratri-no-garba-only-aarti/articleshow/78587212.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||38,000 rural food processing units to be upgraded soon||LUCKNOW: With employment, especially in the rural areas, still being a challenge, the state government has fixed a target of upgrading nearly 38,000 small food processing units in the unorganized sector in the next five years. An official spokesperson of the state government said that the process is proposed to be carried out under the centrally sponsored PM Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises Scheme (PM FME Scheme) envisaging financial, technical and business support to the existing micro food processing enterprises. Official sources in the horticulture department said that the scheme would have 60% Central funding, while 40% would have to be borne by the state government. Sources said that the state government would take up individuals or groups of individuals under the scheme which is part of the Centre’s ‘Atmanirbhar Abhiyan’ (self-reliant scheme). The scheme envisages credit linked subsidy of 35% up to a maximum of Rs 10 lakh of the total project cost. The beneficiary would be required to pay 10% of the project, while the rest of the cost may be pooled in through loans from bank, officials said. Besides, the self-help groups (SHGs) and cooperative societies would be provided Rs 40,000 as an initial working capital. “The food products manufactured under One-District-One-Product (ODOP) or those which have a low shelf life would be given priority,” the official said. This will be apart from the setting up of five agro-processing clusters in districts like Kanpur (Rural), Mathura, Baghpat, Barabanki and Rae Bareli. The project is proposed to be assisted by PM Kisan Sampada Scheme, officials said. “This is a multi-dimensional rural centric approach in providing employment benefits to the rural populace and drive the rural economy,” he said. Uttar Pradesh, as a matter of fact, holds a leading position in total production of horticultural crop in the country. In fact, for more than 92% of small holding farmers, horticultural crop is the main source of higher income, employment and nutrition per unit area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/38k-rural-food-processing-units-to-be-upgraded-soon/articleshow/78583475.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Pandemic forces re-think on costly educational programmes||HYDERABAD: As students make their decision about which country to head to pursue their higher studies, many have been opting for destinations which nearly no tuition fees.  The pandemic has forced a re-think on expensive masters programmes at a time when job opportunities have shrunk across many countries. Germany, Italy, Norway and Austria are among countries which have large public institutes that offer Masters programmes that are low or free of cost. The universities that do charge, have nominal fees primarily to motivate students to complete their courses. Jayant Reddy who finished a Masters from the University of Vienna and is working as a web developer, does not regret heading to the country. “For me it was a life changing experience. While I had to pay for my living expenses and a nominal fee that is applicable to international students, the quality of education is among the best in the world.” Suresh K, who says he will be heading to the University of Oslo for his Masters, feels the cost was a clincher. “During the pandemic, I did not want to take a loan and head abroad without the guarantee of a job.” “The course fee usually ranged from 400 to 700 (Rs 35,000 to Rs 60,000 per semester) in cases where universities do charge,” says Rashmi Jain from consultancy Overseas Education Services, adding this is not even close to what is charged in other sought-after destinations. With minimal or no tuition, cost of living is usually under 650 (Rs 56,000) per month. Jeevan Reddy, founder, HOPE Overseas Education said, “we have seen the number of Indian students heading to Europe increase by 35% last year. The most preferred country remains Germany.” He also said that many “European universities are showing interest in entering into agreements with Indian universities for the Erasmus exchange Programme. Last year, around 640 students got Erasmus options from India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pandemic-forces-re-think-on-costly-progs/articleshow/78582079.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||No events, low footfall? Take the bookstore home||Pune: Rohit Jerajani lost some of the biggest sales channels of his books owing to the lockdown. Footfall at his prominent bookshop on Camp’s East Street dwindled, and events involving authors of new titles stopped. “There is always more demand for non-fiction titles, including books on management, especially from large corporate clients. Many people would attend the events organised by us with authors. There would be many orders for books. There are webinars now. People are also not coming to our store as much as they used to earlier,” Jerajani told TOI. Jerajani, and others in the business, used the mailing list to some effect, adding new titles every month. Most titles that saw traction related to management skills and self-help, including obtaining funds for start-ups. Titles about best practices in various countries are in demand, too. Moreover, several socio-political books such as collection of BR Ambedkar’s works on caste, or a new collection of essays and interviews of societal “rebels with a cause”, or about the Kashmir valley have piqued reader’s interest. As the US election approaches, there is a lot of demand for books devoted to the American polls, including the controversial Bob Woodward book Rage, based on 18 interviews with US president Donald Trump. “Our sale volumes are down but reaching out to thousands of corporate clients and regular customers help us maintain a constant stream of enquiries and sales. It’s not easy competing against e-commerce firms, but bookshops like ours provide the readers an assurance of buying a genuine book,” Jerajani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-events-low-footfall-take-the-bookstore-home/articleshow/78583109.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Machine to separate components of blood starts at civil hospital||Nashik: The apheresis machine used for receiving blood from a patient’s body and separating it into various components has been made functional at the Nashik civil hospital. The machine will help collect plasma from Covid-19 patients who have successfully recovered from the viral infection and will be administered to those who are critically ill and require the life-saving fluid. With Covid-19 cases spinning out of control in the the city and people succumbing to the viral infection, there was a clarion call to start plasma therapy for critically-ill patients. Though the civil hospital got the machine three months ago, the first machine had to be replaced due to technical glitches. After the new aphresis machine arrived in August, the civil hospital needed permission from the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for starting the process of plasma collection. Senior officials of the blood bank at Nashik civil hospital said that the apheresis machine has been made operational after obtaining the due permission from the various departments two days ago. Officials at the civil hospital said that many conditions have to be met before one can donate plasma for Covid-19 patients. The donation process can happen only if the donor has successfully recovered from the infection and has completed 21 days after discharge from hospital. Over the past two days, two cured Covid-19 patients had come forward for plasma donation but were not allowed to donate as they were told that they did not meet the pre-requisite conditions.Senior officials said that the plasma of a recovered patient could be given for treatment only on the prescription of a physician who is treating a Covid-19 patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/machine-to-separate-components-of-blood-starts-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/78578546.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||HC directs Disha kin to Censor Board||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Friday asked the father of Disha to first represent to the Centre and the Censor Board on film director Ram Gopal Varma’s new film on the death of Disha before seeking a restraint order against the filmmaker. Justice P Naveen Rao, who heard the petition of the aggrieved father, asked the Centre’s counsel to resolve the representation expeditiously if the petitioner chooses to make any such representation. The judge also sought to know from assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao as to what were the authorities from the Censor Board were doing in the matter. The ASG replied that he verified with the central authorities and said the petitioner had made no representation to the authorities on the matter till now. The father approached the high court questioning the state government and the Censor Board as to why they were not restraining Varma from making a film on the death of his daughter Disha. “When the courts are seized of the matter and when a judicial commission of inquiry being monitored by the Supreme Court is inquiring into the case, it is not proper to make such films,” he contended. He also sought a restraint order against the filmmaker from going ahead with the film.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-directs-disha-kin-to-censor-board/articleshow/78582123.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Shrikant Sharma: Punish agencies for power billing delays||LUCKNOW: Power minister Shrikant Sharma said on Friday that if electricity bills are not provided to consumers for more than three months then the recovery of unpaid meter readings will be done from billing agencies. Presiding over a meeting to review the consumer service, the power minister said that the department is committed to protect the consumers’ rights. Sharma expressed his anguish over UP Power Corporation Limited callousness in executing agreements finalised with the billing agencies. Sharma specifically pointed out delay in arrangement of downloadable bills in urban and rural areas. At the same time, the billing agencies could not collect mobile number, meter number and the GPS location of meters within the stipulated time. Taking strong note of the lapse, Sharma has sought a report from the UPPCL. He appealed to consumers to lodge their complaints in 1912 if billing agencies did not provide them bills on time. The minister said that applications loaded on Jhatpat connection and nivesh mitra portal be disposed of swiftly. Sharma also expressed his displeasure on UPPCL not bringing down line losses on selected feeders. He has been asking officials to bring down line losses below 15%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sharma-punish-agencies-for-power-billing-delays/articleshow/78583479.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||3 held for student’s go-kart track death||Hyderabad: A day after a 21-year-old engineering student succumbed to injuries suffered at a go-kart track at Gurramguda, Rachakonda police have arrested organisers and supervisor of Hasten Go-Karting agency for negligence. They have also been booked under the Disaster Management Act for resuming operations without permission. Around 7pm on Wednesday, K Varshini, 21, an engineering student from FCI Colony in Vanasthalipuram, along with her uncle, brother and cousins went to Hasten Go-Karting at Gurramguda to have fun. “While Varshini and her uncle Kiran sat in a two-seater vehicle, four of her cousins opted for single seat go-kart vehicles. Before starting, all the riders wore masks and they were given helmets. Kiran was driving the vehicle in which Varshini sat and in the second lap her hair got entangled in the wheels as the helmet came off. Varshini suffered severe head injury as her head rammed against the head rest and she succumbed while undergoing treatment at a local hospital on Thursday afternoon,” Meerpet sub-inspector (SI) Anantha Ramulu said. Based on a complaint lodged by Varshini’s brother Naga Praneeth, police had registered a case against the organisers of Hasting Go-Kart. After the death and preliminary probe, police had altered Section 337 of the IPC to Section 304-A (causing death due to rash or negligent act) of the IPC and also added Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “We have arrested two organisers of Hasten Go-Karting, M Kiran Kumar and G Lohith Reddy, and manager K Srikanth. The licence they obtained for operation of Hasten Go-Karting from Badangpet municipality ended in 2017. They have not obtained permission from police and have been illegally operating it post lockdown from September 28. We have written to tahsildar of Balapur to seal Hasten Go-Karting under Section 133 of the CrPC to prevent such incidents and unlawful activities. Accordingly, Hasten Go-Karting has been sealed by the tahsildar,” Meerpet inspector M Mahendar Reddy said. While the organisers and manager told police that the victim took off her helmet to click a selfie, the victim’s uncle Kiran, who drove the vehicle, said the organisers gave a helmet which was big for her, due to which it came off during the ride and her hair got entangled in the wheel. Police seized the vehicle, damaged helmet and damaged cell phone of the victim. “CCTV camera was there at the starting point and at one end of the track but there are no cameras to cover the entire ride,” the SI said. Several go-karting agencies are operating in the city at Kompally, Ghatkesar, Shamshabad, Gandipet and Necklace Road. While the Ghatkesar one is yet to reopen after the lockdown, the rest have resumed operations. Police said the organisers usually take permission from tourism department, municipal corporation, fire department and RTA before approaching them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-students-go-kart-track-death/articleshow/78582129.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Cabinet meet today, session on Oct 13-14||Hyderabad: The state cabinet will meet on Saturday to discuss and approve the bills that will be introduced in the special session to be held on October 13 and 14. The cabinet meeting, to be chaired by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, is also expected to discuss about the regulatory farming policy to be implemented during the summer season and purchase of paddy. The CMO said special session of the legislative assembly will be held at 11.30 am on October 13, while the council will meet at 11 am on October 14 to approve amendments to the GHMC Act and other bills. KCR will also hold a review meeting with agriculture and civil supplies departments’ officials at Pragati Bhavan at 2.30 pm on Saturday. He will discuss with the officials on regulatory farm policy for the next summer (yasangi) season and purchase of agriculture produce in villages. The meeting will take a call on what crops should be cultivated in the summer and their extent. “The Centre is importing maize on a large scale and this will have an adverse impact on maize grown within the country. Against this backdrop, a decision should be taken on cultivation of maize in the state,” CMO said. “Procurement centres were set up in the villages and farm produce was purchased last summer. The coronavirus threat still exists. Hence, the rainy season agriculture produce should also be purchased in the villages by setting up the procurement centres,” the CM said and directed the officials to set up 6,000 procurement centres to ensure the farmers do not face any problems in selling their agriculture produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cabinet-meet-today-session-on-oct-13-14/articleshow/78582131.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT students flock to Japan for internships||Hyderabad: Several students from IITs across the country are interning with Japanese firms. They say a country as technologically advanced as Japan would be a great first step in their careers. “I have heard a lot about the excellent work culture in Japan. It is a great opportunity to intern with them,” said Buereddy Varuni, a third-year electrical engineering student from IIT Hyderabad, who just got a confirmation for a summer internship with a Japanese tech firm. Varuni said Japan is known for its advanced research in the areas of robotics and software, something she would like to explore. Agreeing, Sathwik Reddy, a third-year computer science student at IIT Hyderabad, said “I have been selected by a top Japanese firm. My institute has encouraged an understanding of diverse cultures and even had a course on Japanese culture for us. This piqued my interest in pursuing this internship opportunity.” One estimate suggests that Japan needs approximately 2 lakh engineers immediately.  B Ramakrishnan, Group CEO, TMI Group, said, “We have partnered with Willings Inc to bring top talent from IITs into Japanese organisations.” Toyoaki Machida, the CEO of Japan-based Willings Inc, said, “Despite the current pandemic, we have delivered pre-placement talks in IITs. Over 1,000 students are undergoing the process to be selected. We hope to increase the internships in the years to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-students-flock-to-japan-for-internships/articleshow/78582111.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||Changes to IPB Act will be notified: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that changes to the Investment Promotion Board (IPB) Act will be notified in next eight days to make it simple for investors to invest in the state.  Sawant said that the government had decided to bring changes in the act as IPB had less powers. “Amended act would be notified in next eight days and then meeting would be called,” Sawant said Sawant said that he was not able to introduce single-window clearance for industry because of Covid pandemic. “Covid situation is getting stable in the state and I have started focusing on investment and industry,” he said. Sawant said that in next 15 months, government will fill the vacant vacancies in government departments. He also said a lot of private companies have come up in the state and they will also start recruitment. Incidentally, the next assembly elections are 14-15 months away. Sawant said that the government wants Goa to become educational hub IT industry should come but people are opposing. “If industries do not come to Goa then people will not get the jobs,” he said TOI had reported that to transform IPB into a true single-window system and make it easier for investment projects to obtain permissions, the state had begun identifying steps to amend the Goa Investment Promotion Act. One of the key proposals that the industries department is considering is the possibility of deemed approvals if departments do not dispose off permissions within a stipulated time frame.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/changes-to-ipb-act-will-be-notified-cm/articleshow/78583115.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Attempt-to-murder charge in Anandapur incident||Kolkata: Cops on Friday filed a 250-page charge sheet against Abhishek Pandey, 34 days after braveheart Nilanjana Chatterjee was seriously injured while trying to save a 31-year-old bank official from allegedly being assaulted inside his sedan. The charge sheet was filed in the Alipore court.The accused has been charged with attempt to murder, along with multiple other charges.The Anandapur police has also moved the court seeking its permission to submit a trial against the bank official under IPC sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender), 203 (giving false information respecting an offence committed) and 199 (false statement made in declaration, which is by law receivable as evidence). “The bank official had concealed information. As a result, the cops filed a FIR based on false information. Hence, we thought it prudent to seek directions about her from the court,” said an officer.According to sources, the charge sheet has evoked sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 338 (Causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 354 (molestation).Police sources said they decided to retain the section involving molestation despite the bank official stating in her statement before the magistrate that it was a case of “misunderstanding”. “We have stated how we found that her clothes were partially torn and there were injury marks on her body. Even though she was the accused’s fiancé, the fact remains that she was assaulted inside the car,” said an investigator. The detective department had helped the local police in every stage of the investigation.The original FIR had evoked Section 308 (attempt to culpable homicide), but it was dropped for the stricter attempt-to-murder section. “The victim’s family has always believed it was an attempt on her life,” stated an cop, saying the investigators agreed with their conclusion. “If my wife had fallen (after the car hit her), on the roadside instead of the drain, she could have died. We had been consistently asking for this section,” said Deep Satpati, Chatterjee’s husband.Chatterjee said she was extremely happy and relieved. “We are indebted to the chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the commissioner of police, the officers involved with the probe and the media,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/attempt-to-murder-charge-in-anandapur-incident/articleshow/78583723.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||No physical inauguration, light shows & concerts this Puja: Cops||Kolkata: There cannot be any deviation from the 11-point Durga Puja guidelines already laid out, the Kolkata Police brass told all organizers at the coordination meeting on Friday. Given the anxiety surrounding the festival, police have told organizers that all pandals will have to compulsorily keep three sides or the top open. Police officers of each police station will be visiting each pandal, followed by senior cops. In his introductory remark on Friday, police commissioner Anuj Sharma iterated the need to keep pandals free of crowds, use sanitizers and masks and keep pandals open and airy. Speaking to the commissioner, certain central Kolkata organizers sought easing of some restrictions — like permission to allow musical bands in the procession — for “all those who wait for this time of the year and are in extreme financial stress in this pandemic”. The cops, however, said there was no scope for any deviation this year. “There cannot be a compromise with the decisions taken earlier at the chief minister’s meet,” said a senior police officer. Police on Friday also insisted that all inaugurations be done virtually. They also asked organizers to ensure that no judge comes to the pandals after 3pm and that there is no attempt to hold any concert. Local police will coordinate with the north division and Port division to ensure time slots are given to organizers to ferry idols to pandals. Police also reminded organizers that nothing can be done that will lead to crowding at the gates and that the exits must be bigger than the entrances. This will include no light shows that might lead to revellers opting for an evening darshan rather than in the morning. “This year, there cannot be any peak time. Each time is a peak time,” said an officer. Time slots will be given to organizers on four immersion dates — October 26, 27, 28 and 29. On their part, most organizers accepted the suggestions saying they will be careful this year. That organizers are putting the crowd circulation on the top of the agenda became clear from the kind of help they sought from the administration. While College Square wanted a stretch of road to be repaired to ensure quicker circulation, Hindustan Park has called for an additional drop gate to control the flow of crowd. Naktala Udayan Sangha asked the administration to ensure proper lighting near the school gates located at the rear of the pandal and to trim the grass there to allow pandal hoppers move seamlessly. “We are as worried about the circulation as the cops are. The only motto this year is not to allow crowding,” said a representative from Behala Natun Dal. The senior cops are likely to begin their inspections from Monday. The divisional and local police-level coordination meetings will continue. “For pujas held in alleys, we want them to set up bigger barricades that will make crowd control easier. Several of them have promised us that they will conduct thermal screening at the entry point and no one will be allowed to enter with fever. Wearing masks will be made mandatory and hand sanitizers will be distributed. Space for setting up these things is what we will look at during our inspections,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-physical-inauguration-light-shows-concerts-this-puja-cops/articleshow/78580827.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 10, 2020||Surat||Awesome avians! 22 new bird species discovered in Gujarat||Surat: Pull out your binoculars and SLRs to venture into the wild. For, bird lovers can chance upon sighting winged species never seen before in Gujarat.If vultures are diminishing and the spectacular Great Indian Bustard is on the verge of extinction, as many as 22 new species of birds have been recorded in the state that is famed for its flamingoes that have made several cities and villages their permanent homes.What’s more exciting? Out of the 22 new birds, three were recorded for the first time in India. These were Namaqua Dove, Ehrenberg’s Redstart and European Honey Buzzard. One of the birds - yellow-breasted bunting - that was documented with photographs from Pariej near Kheda in 2019 - is the first record in the entire western India in nearly 115 years, said renowned ornithologist Prasad Ganpule. This is now listed as ‘critically endangered.’Such interesting details about new birds have been revealed in the updated checklist for the birds of Gujarat - ‘Second update to the Gujarat checklist: March 2020’ paper written by Ganpule. This has also been published in ‘Flamingo Gujarat,’ a bulletin of Gujarat birds brought out by The Bird Conservation Society, Gujarat (BCSG).Out of the 22 new species, as many as 11 were reported from Saurashtra and Kutch. The checklist prepared in 2014 was last updated in December 2017 when there were 583 specices in Gujarat. Now, the total number of species in the state has increased to 609 which includes 22 new records sighted since then,” Ganpule told TOI.The checklist will help bird watchers, forest department and conservationists to design strategies for their protection and conservation based on the current status and distribution of these birds.Ashok Mashru, member of BCSG’s executive committee, said, “The bird watching community is growing in Gujarat and they are out in the field during all seasons. This has helped in more sightings and adding new records. Moreover, there are much better cameras available which give high quality photographs to identify birds correctly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/awesome-avians-22-new-bird-species-discovered-in-gujarat/articleshow/78580926.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Man killed in hit-&-run on Pune highway||Nashik: A 45-year-old pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run case in the Nashik Road area on the Pune highway on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as Shivaji Trimbak Khedekar, a resident of Shinde village behind the Marathi school. His elder brother, Bhikaji, who lodged a complaint with the Nashik Road police, said that at 9.30 pm, Shivaji was walking towards his home on the service road along the Nashik-Pune highway. An unidentified motorist speeding from the Shinde toll plaza on the service road knocked him down from behind. He ran the vehicle over Shivaji, who suffered serious head injuries and injuries on other parts of the body. He later succumbed. Meanwhile, the motorist escaped from the spot and has not been caught yet. The police have registered an offence against the unidentified person and are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-killed-in-hit-run-on-pune-highway/articleshow/78578602.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Minister sets example, adopts feeder in native village Gantholi in Mathura district||LUCKNOW: To send a strong message that public sector units can be transformed without opting for their privatisation, energy minister Shrikant Sharma has set an example by minimising line losses at a feeder in his native village Gantholi in Mathura district. The transmission and distribution losses at the Jatipura feeder at his village have been brought down to 28.3 per cent from a massive 72 per cent within three months and in the next two months, his target is to restrict it to single digit. Appealing to public representatives to adopt feeders to bring down transmission and distribution losses, Sharma said that he has already adopted nine feeders in his home town Mathura and not only the Gantholi village feeder, but all the remaining ones are also showing a substantial decline in line losses. “On an average, there has been a decline of 6.5 per cent in line losses in all the nine feeder,” said Sharma while talking to TOI. To bring down line losses and plug leakages in the transmission and distribution network, the energy minister has been campaigning for a foolproof billing process and recovery. He has not only asked UPPCL staff to adopt feeders, but also requested MLAs, MPs and other elected representatives to do the same in their respective areas. On his part, the minister holds ‘chaupal’ at his village and motivates villagers to pay their bills. Sharma has asked the UPPCL staff to motivate consumers to clear their bills so that smooth power supply can be ensured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-sets-example-adopts-feeder-in-native-village/articleshow/78583481.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Face recognition tool reunites UP boy with parents after 5 years||Hyderabad: A 13-year-old autistic boy who went missing from near his house in Uttar Pradesh five years ago was traced to a Child Welfare Home in Assam by the Darpan face recognition tool of Telangana police. The boy was finally reunited with the family. With the help of Darpan face recognition tool, developed by Telangana police, 13-year -old Som Soni, son of Ghanshyam Soni, of Handia in Prayagraj, Uttar Pradesh who was missing since July 14, 2015, has been traced to Child Welfare Centre (CWC) at Goalpara in Assam recently. “Immediately, we informed the concerned station house officer (SHO) of Handia police station, Uttar Pradesh. Parents of the missing child were informed and they rushed to CWC in Assam to identify the child. It was an emotional reunion,” additional DGP women safety, Swati Lakra said. The missing boy was spotted on July 23, 2015 at Golpara in Assam by local police and was later admitted into the local Child Welfare Centre. Telangana state police use Darpan to match missing childrens photographs with the photos of children lodged at various child homes across the country. “Efforts are on to trace as many missing children across India through Darpan tool,” said Swati Lakra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/face-recognition-tool-reunites-up-boy-with-parents-after-5-years/articleshow/78582144.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||‘White paper on power, coal next week’||Panaji: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Friday said that he will come out with a white paper on power consumption in the state and on coal handling by next week in view of the opposition to the new power transmission line at Mollem. Cabral said that he will release a video to show how earlier power transmission lines have not damaged the environment. “I will prove that what NGOs are saying is totally wrong,” Cabral told reporters. He said that every year power demand increases in the state by 5%. If we don’t get a new power line after some time we will have to start power shutdowns in the state. The minister said that it will take at least three years to complete power transmission line. On Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha’s opposition to double tracking, Cabral said that he will come out with white paper on transportation of coal over ten years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/white-paper-on-power-coal-next-week/articleshow/78583119.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Soon, Manjira water to flow into 2 lakh water taps in upscale areas of Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Manjira water will soon flow into nearly two lakh water taps in upscale areas of the city, five GHMC peripheral circles and tail-end areas of Cyberabad. Areas which will get Manjira water are Jubilee Hills, Banjara Hills, Somajiguda, Marredpally, Ameerpet, SR Nagar, Yousufguda, Secunderabad and Secunderabad Cantonment. Soon after Manjira reservoir got copious inflows due to bountiful rains, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board swung into action.  “As part of Water Board’s plan, officials launched a trial run on Manjira water supply system, which went defunct for the last one-and-a-half years after the reservoir had dried up,” a senior HMWS&SB official told TOI. He said in a couple of days, Manjira water would first reach the city at Hydernagar and then would be distributed through Water Board’s service reservoirs located at Patancheru and Lingampally. Initially, the Water Board had planned to supply 24 million gallons of water from Manjira to refill the gap of nearly 100 km length of water pipeline system to study the leakages. “Then, quantity will be gradually increased,” a senior HMWS&SB operations wing official said. For almost one-and-a-half years, a majority of city residents did not get Manjira water due to the barrage drying up. “We compensated with Godavari and Krishna water supply through reverse umping system to avoid inconvenience to users,” the official said. Manjira water will also quench the thirst of Cyberabad and Greater Hyderabad municipal peripheral circles like Patancheru, KPHB, Ramachandrapuram and Qutbullapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/soon-manjira-water-to-flow-into-2l-water-taps-in-upscale-areas/articleshow/78582139.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 10, 2020||Pune||Temperature rise by 2° to trigger longer monsoons, more rainfall||PUNE: An online panel discussion on the nature of monsoons in the region and the state said that monsoons have been lengthening over the past few years, with rainfall expected to increase in the long term, as decadal variations as well as the impacts of climate change take effect. The panel was hosted by the environmental civic engagement platform Bhavatal. D Sivananda Pai, head of climate services and research at India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune, and Jeevanprakash Kulkarni, former senior scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Metrology (IITM), presented some findings over the years, including long-range data and their analysis. Pai observed that no significant trend has been observed in India’s monsoon over the years, including largely falling into long-term epochs. But there are local factors that have impacted the rainfall in the state and the surrounding areas, in varying degrees of significance. “In the south-central part of India, including Maharashtra, there has been an increasing trend in frequency and intensity of rainfall over the past few decades. On the west coast, in Konkan and Goa, there has been an increasing trend in frequency, but slightly decreasing in terms of intensity. In Marathwada there have been wide decadal variations, and the rainfall has been less, and will continue to be so for the next few years,” he said. He added that the southwest monsoon is leaving various parts of the country, including in Pune and surrounding areas, later than usual. Kulkarni said because of climate change and other factors, longer-term rainfall in many parts of India will increase, as average temperatures are projected to rise by over two degrees in the next few decades. “The report commissioned by the ministry of earth sciences earlier in the year observed that rainfall in the longer term will increase in large parts of India in varying amounts as temperatures increase. That is also true in case of Maharashtra, including central Maharashtra and Marathwada,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temp-rise-by-2-deg-c-may-trigger-longer-monsoons-more-rainfall/articleshow/78583121.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 10, 2020||Trichy||631 new cases in central TN, 529 in south||Trichy: The central districts of the state recorded 631 fresh cases on Friday, an increase of 72 compared to Thursday, taking the overall cases to 57,751 including 4,330 active ones. There were only two deaths but the increase in cases was notable in Tiruvarur, Ariyalur and Nagappattinam districts. Meanwhile, the ten southern districts registered 529 new cases and 11 deaths while the overall tally rose to 1,16,429 including 4,478 active cases, 1,10,037 recoveries and 1,914 deaths. Tiruvarur district which had 51 cases on Thursday saw 113 on Friday while Thanjavur registered 240 cases to take its tally to 13,348, the highest in the region since the outbreak. Its positivity rate of 8.6 was also the highest among the eight districts in the region. Trichy district had the second highest tally of 11,225 cases with the addition of 81 fresh cases. Pudukottai had the third highest fresh cases of 69 taking its tally to 9,781. Perambalur maintained its low numbers and saw only seven cases with a total of 1,961 so far. The death toll plunged to two from nine on Thursday, with a total toll of 768. A 57-year-old man from Ariyalur died on October 7 and a 58-year-old man from Thanjavur on October 8. The most number of cases in the southern districts was reported in Kanyakumari (96), followed by Madurai (93) and Tuticorin (77). All 10 districts continued to report less than 100 fresh cases. With 821, Kanyakumari continues to lead the active cases in the southern region while Madurai (750) overtook Tirunelveli (725) to come second on Friday. Cases in Tuticorin were just beginning to see a decline, falling to as much as 35 on Tuesday, when it recorded 77 on Friday. The total Covid-19 deaths on Friday rose to 11 with Ramanathapuram recording three, Dindigul and Theni two each and Madurai, Tenkasi, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli one each. Ramanathapuram district, which is consistently reporting less number of Covid-19 cases and active cases dropping to 155, three deaths were recorded. The district’s death rate is above the state and regional average at 2.2%. All 11 victims had various co-morbid conditions. The death rate in the southern region is at 1.64%. Except for Tirunelveli (72) and Theni (64), all other districts — Dindigul (44), Sivaganga (27), Ramanathapuram (22), Virudhunagar (20) and Tenkasi (14) — reported only less than 50 Covid-19 cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/631-new-cases-in-central-tn-529-in-south/articleshow/78582145.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Sergeant ‘shoved & pushed’ by convoy cops||Kolkata: A Kolkata Police sergeant, returning from work in plainclothes, was reportedly abused and pushed around by Bengal police guards when the officer raised his voice after a car in a convoy, accompanying an alleged Trinamool leader in South 24 Parganas, hit him. The incident took place in Behala on Friday afternoon when Somnath Ghosh, a sergeant with the Diamond Harbour Road traffic guard, was returning to his barrack on his motorcycle after finishing his duty. As he was crossing Behala 14 No. bus stop, a car in a convoy reportedly hit his bike from behind, throwing him to the ground. Not much injured, as he went to confront the driver, multiple men—some in camouflage uniforms—reportedly alighted from the vehicle and began abusing and shoving Ghosh around. As some local auto drivers and shopkeepers, who came to his rescue, identified him as a traffic sergeant, the men reportedly retreated and drove away. Witnesses said while shoving and pushing Ghosh around, the men claimed to be guards of Jahangir Khan, Falta panchayat samiti sabhapati, also a senior All India Trinamool Yuva functionary.Ghosh was taken to a hospital for emergency medical treatment. Later, a case under Motor Vehicles Act was lodged against unidentified persons. “I was riding my bike when a car hit me from behind. I didn’t receive much injuries. The men left the area quickly after shifting me to one side of the road,” Ghosh told TOI. Khan told TOI when the incident took place, his car, along with the front pilot vehicle, had already reached the Taratala crossing. A guard in the tailing pilot vehicle alerted him about the incident. “The guard told me a private vehicle had entered the convoy, when one of the cars in an attempt to avoid a collision, veered left and slightly skidded and hit the biker. The biker, along with some locals, had held the car and my personnel at the spot and I had to send my front pilot vehicle to their rescue. When we learnt about the incident, the guards have personally apologized to the policeman and the matter has been sorted,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sergeant-shoved-pushed-by-convoy-cops/articleshow/78583739.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Transsexual cop tries to end life||Trichy: A transgender woman police constable from Pudukottai district attempted suicide by consuming hand sanitizer at the police recruitment school at Anna Nagar in Trichy on Friday. Samyuktha, 25, was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) where doctors said she was out of danger. Trichy district police said that Samyuktha, who was recruited to the police department recently, was undergoing training at the school. Police sources said, after recording her statement, that Samyuktha tried to commit suicide due to mental agony. They said she did not mention any reason as to why she did it. No case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transsexual-cop-tries-to-end-life/articleshow/78582141.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Govt to set up 10 trauma care centres on ORR||HYDERABAD: According to the data with the traffic police, about 49 accidents occurred on the ORR, claiming over 20 lives, in just six months this year. To reduce such fatalities and enhance early response mechanism, authorities are setting up 10 trauma care centres on the road. “The trauma care facilities will be set up at important intersection points out of the 19 interchange stations from Gachibowli to Shamshabad and Patancheru to Pedda Amberpet,” said a health department official. Ten new Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulances were added to the ORR. “Ambulance services and trauma care centres are the need of the hour considering the number of accidents that take place on ORR almost every day. They will help improve response time and save lives,” said Ashok Palle, Telangana State 108 Employees’ Union president. Each ALS ambulance is equipped with airway support equipment, cardiac life support, cardiac monitors and a glucose-testing device. Taking to social media, MAUD minister KT Rama Rao said, “Life support ambulances to provide medical assistance on Hyderabad’s ORR within minutes. Each ambulance will have two trained paramedical staff to administer advanced medications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-set-up-10-trauma-care-centres-on-orr/articleshow/78582150.cms||Moulika.KV
October 10, 2020||Trichy||BDU allows research scholars to get co-guide in nearby institutions||Trichy: Liberalising its part-time PhD norms, Bharathidasan University (BDU) has allowed scholars employed in other states and countries to get a co-supervisor from a nearby government institution or university. Usually, the guide has to appoint a co-supervisor at their place of work. However, many are unable to find a co-supervisor within their organisation. Easing the norms will allow the candidate to look for co-supervisors from the same discipline in the nearby institutions and help them pursue PhD. There are roughly 1,000 candidates who have registered for part-time PhD programme with the BDU.“It was a long-pending request from students and supervisors as many candidates working in IT companies and other organisations could not find a co-supervisor of the same discipline with in their organisation,” said registrar G Gopinath. He cited the example of a senior vice-president of Microsoft working in the US, who wanted to do PhD in BDU, but was unable to find a co-guide or co-supervisor, which was delaying the PhD programme. Relaxation of norms will help the candidate approach a nearby government institution or university. The candidate needs to get a letter of official guideship from the respective university and it should be forwarded by the head of the institution. The co-supervisor should attend the departmental research committee (DRC) and doctoral committee (DC) meetings in person or through online. A senior faculty from BDU said that easing of norms should not have been restricted to government institutions alone. “It would have been better had the BDU research committee considered reputed private institutions or universities for the candidates to look for his or her co-supervisor,” said the faculty member. Research director S Muthusamy could not be reached despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-allows-research-scholars-to-get-co-guide-in-nearby-institutions/articleshow/78712066.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot market falls short of premium cycles||Rajkot: With Covid teaching everybody a lesson on fitness, premium cycles have suddenly robbed the limelight from many a high-end machine. Going by market statistics, the demand for cycles in the premium segment has increased by 30 to 40 percent in Rajkot, which is also registering a tremendous shortage in the market. Rutu Bhojani, a Zumba instructor, who brought a hybrid cycle three months ago, feels that she has been lucky as her acquaintances are still waiting to get theirs. Nouveau enthusiasts are going for cycles with gears that come for anything between Rs 15,000 and 30,000. “Many people in my group are complaining that they are still waiting to get their choice of premium cycles. I cycle three days a week for 35 to 40km and have achieved the highest record of pedalling 80km in one day,” said the Zumba instructor who has been lifting weights for the past six years. Everything closed down during the lockdown and not wanting to miss out on her exercise regime, Rutu started cycling with a group. According to the dealers in bicycles, demand in both premium and non-premium segments rose by 30 to 40 percent during lockdown and post lockdown period. “We are not getting premium cycles here as the manufactures in Punjab aren’t getting imported gears and other components mainly from Japan. . These component manufacturers will not take fresh orders till February next year,” said Aniket Ruparel, who owns a cycle showroom near Nana Mauva. Another dealer who owns a shop on Tagore road, Amit Tank said, “There are customers who even want to pay in advance to register their names in the waiting list. However, I can’t take advances as I cannot assure delivery sans any assurance from manufacturers on how soon they can make stocks available again.” President of Rajkot Cycle Club, Divyesh Aghera said, “Looking at the many benefits of cycling, people who were into gymming have also got diverted towards cycling during the lockdown. Even after unlock, people are still preferring to exercise on cycles than go back to the crowded gyms. The shortage of premium cycles is not only in India, but a world problem at present.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-market-falls-short-of-premium-cycles/articleshow/78581268.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Top 4 Europe firms in fray to build 13km Ayodhya ropeway||Ayodhya: While construction of Ram temple picks up pace with brisk movement of carved marble to Ramjanmabhoomi premises, the state government is hammering out a blueprint to install a modern ropeway infrastructure straddling 13km from the airport to key tourist points in the town for seamless movement of pilgrims to the sprawling temple premises. Four leading European ropeway-and-ski lift manufacturers have been shortlisted to implement the Rs 1,000-crore venture, considered a giant leap to decongest the ancient city crisscrossed by lanes and bylanes and make it ready for 1-crore pilgrim footfall when the temple comes up. Austrian company and world’s leading ropeway manufacturer Doppelmayr Garaventa, French firm Poma Ropeways, Swiss company Bartholet and Italy-based Leitner Ropeways are in the fray to construct the circular ropeway, said, Ayodhya municipal commissioner Vishal Singh. “Bolivia’s La Paz is a model where ropeways transformed a crawling transport system into a fast-paced city,” he said. Indian firms don’t have the technology to create a robust cabling system and passenger safety comes first, he said. “We do not want a mishap in the holy city”, he said to a query on why foreign companies are being roped in. The preliminary blueprint suggests that each cable car would accommodate 16 passengers with 3,000 commuters in each direction at a time. Ropeway stations would be set up at the airport, bus stand, Saryu banks, Ram Statue, Hanumangarhi, and Ramjanmabhoomi. “Maintenance cost is low and this would expedite pilgrim movement to the temple. The government will finalise the contract after due tendering process,” said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/top-4-europe-firms-in-fray-to-build-13km-ayodhya-ropeway/articleshow/78583490.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Police file fresh FIR in overseas job cheating case||Trichy: The city crime branch (CCB) police on Thursday filed a fresh first information report (FIR) in a four-year-old case pertaining to the cheating of Rs 7.5 lakh from a couple of people on the promise of getting them job in Canada and Australia. T Saravanan of Jayaramapuram in Ariyalur, Indirani from Villupuram and D Murasoli from Perambalur were booked on charges of criminal breach of trust, cheating, forgery and criminal intimidation under sections of IPC, based on a complaint from S Subramanian of Thanjavur district. Saravanan approached Subramanian in December 2015 offering to get employment for his son S Sathishkumar and his nephew R Subramanian of Jayaramapuram in Canada and Australia. They fell for the lucrative job offer and Subramanian arranged money and contacted Saravanan.Saravanan introduced Subramanian to Indirani who was running a travel agency in Villupuram. Following their promise to arrange the jobs, Subramanian started paying money to them in instalments through cash and bank transactions till April 2016. Finally, the duo also introduced Subramanian to Murasoli stating that he will take care of the visa formalities for Canada and Australia. In total, Subramanian paid Rs 7.5 lakh to the three people. Citing the visa process for Canada, the trio also took Sathishkumar to Mumbai in March 2016 but the process dragged on. Realising that they were cheating him, Subramanian managed to retrieve the passport of his son from them. Later, the trio also issued a fake visa to Subramanian’s nephew Subramanian. Subsequently, Subramanian asked the trio to return the passport and the money, but the gang threatened him with dire consequences and refused to oblige. Initially, the case was probed by the district crime branch in Thanjavur. During the four years of investigation, DCB found that the cash transaction was done in Trichy central bus stand area also. So, they transferred the case to CCB Trichy for further investigation. Inspector V Jothimani of the serious crime squad of CCB, Trichy city took up the investigation. She said on Friday that they will start the fresh investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-file-fresh-fir-in-overseas-job-cheating-case/articleshow/78582152.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||29-yr-old woman assaulted over noise pollution||Hyderabad: A 29-year-old woman was allegedly assaulted by her neighbour during an argument over noise pollution at Attapur on Friday. The complainant, Kavitha, alleged that her neighbour attacked her with an iron rod causing her an injury on the head. Kavitha went to hospital and after first-aid lodged a complaint with the Rajendranagar police. A police patrolling team went there and made the woman stop the loud music. However, after the police left, she again started the songs and music. “An argument broke out between the woman and her neighbour. In a fit of rage, he attacked her with a spade causing injury on the head. We registered a case against him,” the inspector said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/29-yr-old-woman-assaulted-over-noise-pollution/articleshow/78582156.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Goa||Heavy rain forecast on Monday, Tuesday in Goa||PANAJI: The India meteorological department (IMD) has forecast isolated heavy rainfall in Goa on October 12 and 13. They have attributed the reason for the showers to a low pressure area that has formed over Andaman sea. This low pressure area is expected to intensify into a depression in the coming days and cross North Andhra Pradesh coast on October 12. Associated with this, the wind pattern over the state may also change such that moisture and cloud formation can be expected. “There is a likelihood of gradual increase in rainfall distribution over Goa in the coming days, and on October 12 and 13, isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely.” the IMD said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-forecast-on-mon-tues/articleshow/78583128.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Hunger strike by neta father-son for garbage lifting||YAVATMAL: Father-son municipal councillor duo has launched hunger strike in front of the civic body’s administrative office demanding lifting of garbage in the city regularly and to maintain cleanliness. The agitating councillors are Salim Sagwan from ward no. 9 and his son Shaijad Shah Sagwan, who represents ward no.8. The father-son duo has alleged that for the last six months, garbage lifting is not being done regularly resulting in the city becoming a mosquito-breeding ground. “Even after written complaints to chief officer Sunil Ballal, district guardian minister Sanjay Rathod, MLA Madan Yerawar, collector MD Singh and others, nobody paid any heed to our requests,” said Salim. The contract for garbage lifting is given to a Latur contractor, who has sub-contracted the task to a local contractor Om Tiwari. Bills for the work are regularly drawn despite garbage is not being removed, claimed the councillors. Salim also alleged nexus between the contractor and the MC officers. “We have given five days ultimatum to the CO to clear the garbage heaps and if it is not done, we shall resort to an indefinite hunger strike,” said Shaijad. Taking note of the hunger strike by two sitting councillors, Rathod summoned a joint meeting of the MC chief Kanchan Chaudhari, CO Sunil Ballal, councillors Chandu Chaudhari, Amol Deshmukh, Gajanan Ingole, Vijay Khadse, SDO Aniruddha Bakshi, naib tehsildar Ajay Gahukar etc and directed them to act immediately. Chaudhari admitted that ‘ghanti-gaadi’ used for garbage collection is not visiting the wards regularly and whatever garbage is collected is thrown anywhere as it is convenient to the cart pullers. The minister also directed the CO to keep a regular watch over the contractor, his logbook and muster of the employees. The responsibility should be entrusted with an employee and he should be held responsible for any lapses, said Rathod. He has also instructed the authorities to revive garbage dumping yard at Savargaon village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hunger-strike-by-neta-father-son-for-garbage-lifting/articleshow/78582175.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Chopping of tree irks residents, urge authorities to fine Rs 10 lakh||HYDERABAD: Another tree in Banjara Hills has been chopped in the past few days. The incident took place on Road no 10, where a huge tree was suddenly found missing by those frequenting the area. “A fully grown tree gives us 740 kg of oxygen and is also sequestering carbon in the atmosphere. At least Rs 10 lakh fine should be announced to discourage this practise,” said environmentalist Kaajal Maheshwari. Activist Harish Daga, who first brought the axing of the tree on Road no 10 to light, said, “Those responsible for this murder must be asked to plant more trees at the same location. Permission for such felling must not be granted.” Daga said late last year he had raised the issue of another tree being felled right across the street on the same road. Pointing at the spot, he said, “Now that spot has been made concrete and there is not even a stump to prove a tree existed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chopping-of-tree-irks-residents-urge-authorities-to-fine-rs-10-lakh/articleshow/78582149.cms||Uttara Varma
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Case filed against ex-bank manager for issuing Rs 2.6cr loan by forging papers||Trichy: A case has been filed against a former branch manager of the Corporation Bank in Trichy for issuing loans to the tune of Rs 2.61 crore to a couple by forging documents.City crime branch (CCB) inspector Nanjil Kumar filed a first information report (FIR) on Thursday against P Robert Regan, former manager of the KK Nagar branch of Corporation Bank, C Venkatesh, a builder from Anna Nagar, his wife Kiruthiga Devi and few others, based on a complaint from the zonal manager of the bank, Pramothkumar Reddy. In his complaint, Reddy said that Venkatesh, Kiruthigadevi and few others had obtained Rs 2.61 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY), new corp general credit card business loan and corp housing loan between April 2017 and March 2019. PMMY loan was alone given to 22 applicants during the period. The zonal manager accused Regan of being hand-in-glove with Venkatesh and others for sanctioning loans by forging documents. The inspector said that Regan released the loan taken by the owner of a building to Venkatesh without the former’s knowledge. The real beneficiaries of the PMMY scheme were also unaware of the loan sanctioned in their name. “In both cases, the people whose names were misused for taking loans were unaware of the loans and they came to know only when they got notices from the bank to repay the loan amount. When they approached the bank, the scam was unearthed by the bank authorities,” Kumar told ToI. A search is on for Regan, Venkatesh and Kiruthiga who are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/case-filed-against-ex-bank-manager-for-issuing-rs-2-6cr-loan-by-forging-papers/articleshow/78582147.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Commercial complex work in Puthur to gain pace||Trichy: The relocation of the fish market to Kasivilangi is expected to expedite the ongoing construction work on the airconditioned commercial complex-cum-mall in Puthur. The fish market will be razed down in the next few weeks to make way for the complex. Corporation officials said the delay in relocating the market was delaying the overall progress of the commercial complex, estimated to cost Rs 20.2 crore. Though the proposal was to replace the fish market with the complex, only a portion of the work on it could be taken up due to the delay in commissioning the Kasivilangi market. “We will demolish the remaining fish market and expedite the basement work. The duration of the project is two years,” a senior Trichy corporation official said. The commercial complex to come up with 50,000 square feet space will have shops on the ground floor and first floor while the second and third floors will have food courts and multipurpose halls. The relocation of the fish market has also come as a huge relief for Puthur and Officers Colony residents. “The main relief will be from the unsanitary conditions that prevailed here. The seepage of wastewater from trucks carrying frozen seafood was forcing us to keep our windows closed always,” S Senthil, a resident of Officers colony said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/commercial-complex-work-in-puthur-to-gain-pace/articleshow/78582181.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Mumbai, Gondia bound trains to resume from CSMT Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Train services from Kolhapur’s Chhatrapati Shahu Majaraj Terminus will resume with Maharashtra Express-leaving for Gondia on Sunday. In addition, the Mumbai-bound Koyna express will also start its daily service from Tuesday. On the other hand, the Kolhapur-bound Mahalakshmi express will leave Mumbai on the same day. The Central Railways (CR) has declared the schedule of eight interstate trains on Thursday. Bookings for same have been started both online as well as offline. Railway officials have appealed to people to book tickets online instead of approaching the station to avoid rush at booking counters. Kolhapur railway station manager A I Fernandez said, “The pre-booking service for passengers has been started. Only those having seats booked will be allowed entry inside the railway station premises. We will ensure social distancing among passengers at all times. We are yet to get the standard operating procedure to be followed to avoid Covid transmission during travel.” With the train services to Mumbai resuming, people have finally heaved a sigh of relief. The Mumbai-bound train will have two sleeper class coaches, one 3-tier AC coach, two AC chair car coaches and ten second class seats. The Gondia-bound Maharashtra Express will have nine sleeper class coaches, two AC 3-tier, one AC 2-tier and 5-second class coaches. Railway officials said that people usually travel to their hometowns during this time of the year as this is the beginning of festivities. The weekend trains are almost full every year between Dussehra and Diwali. Similarly, those travelling to Sangli every day will benefit the resumption of train services. The Mysore and Ajmer bound trains will be resumed from Miraj junction from next Tuesday next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mumbai-gondia-bound-trains-to-resume-from-csmt-kolhapur/articleshow/78583127.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Vadodara||Fewer new cases, but number of patients under treatment on the rise||Vadodara: While the number of new Covid-19 cases may have seen a decline, the number of active cases – both in hospitals or home isolation – has been on the rise consistently. At the other end, the number of patients on oxygen support and BIPAP machines or ventilators went down significantly. Since September 20, the number of new cases reported daily has shown a southward trend from 135 cases on September 19, the new cases came down to 112 on Friday. At the other end, the number of patients under treatment went up almost consistently. On September 19, there were 1,422 active cases and on Friday these stood at 1,778. The trend has perplexed many even as sources in hospitals as well as the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) claim that the number of hospitalised patients has gone down significantly. A source said that there was possibility of some discrepancy in the data of Covid-19 cases that were being treated at home or were in home isolation. Otherwise, there was no explanation for the number of active cases remaining high despite numbers in hospitals going down. A VMC official said that the data was not alarming as it was evident that whoever was at home was either asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. “We hope that even these numbers will start reducing gradually,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fewer-new-cases-but-number-of-patients-under-treatment-on-the-rise/articleshow/78580944.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 10, 2020||Bareilly||Asha workers protest against male doc delivering baby at Shahjahanpur govt med college||Bareilly: Several Asha workers staged a protest at the Shahjahanpur Medical College and Hospital after the video of a male doctor performing normal delivery of a baby went viral on Thursday evening. The Asha workers claimed that there were several women doctors and midwives present at the hospital but the administration still assigned a male doctor to conduct the delivery. The Asha workers said village women would not come to the hospital if such a practice happened in future. They also threatened to boycott work if a male doctor delivered a baby again.Meanwhile, Dr Pooja Pandey, spokesperson of the medical college, said, “The protest is politically motivated as the government and Medical Council of India have authorised a male obstetrician for performing a delivery. The doctor in question is a senior surgeon. We can always assign the delivery to a woman a doctor if the patient specifically requests for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/asha-workers-protest-against-male-doc-delivering-baby-at-shahjahanpur-govt-med-college/articleshow/78578581.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||East-West passes milestone as tunnel links Kol with Howrah||Kolkata: The pandemic might have cast a temporary gloom on several sectors but the East-West Metro project seems to be chugging ahead successfully, passing yet another milestone. East-West workers and engineers clapped and cheered around 3.30pm on Friday and five minutes later, white, foamy grease of the TBM’s cutter-head gushed out of the concrete (diaphragm wall) at the southern end of the under-construction Sealdah Metro station. At 4.18pm, the entire rounded portion collapsed and the breakthrough was achieved as the tunnel boring machine (TBM), Urvi, looking like a giant beetle, punched the diaphragm wall. The eastward tunnelling, which started in Howrah Maidan in February 2016, finally ended, linking Kolkata with Howrah. The 1m-wide diaphragm or ‘D-wall’ in engineering parlance, that integrates the station with the tunnel, was long built for Urvi’s arrival. But Urvi, which has built 2.45km of the 10km eastward tunnel, has undergone a tumultuous journey. Its twin, Chundi, hit an aquifer on August 31 last year, causing largescale subsidence in Bowbazar. The project was stalled for five months. Urvi restarted its journey only after the high court gave an order in February.The entire Metro station area, being built 17m under the Sealdah railway station, was filled with dust. Water had to be spayed continuously. The TBM’s monotonous sound grew louder as it slowly punched the D-wall. By 4.30pm, the entire cutter-head’s diameter emerged. One by one, the tunnelling team members, construction manager Ashraf Ahmad, TBM engineer Abir Mitra and others climbed out of the machine. They belonged to ITD ITD-Cementation, contractors of the last leg of the 2.45km Esplanade-Sealdah tunnelling. Among the spectators were Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi, who video-graphed the episode, and Railway Board member Pradip Kumar, who had flown down from Delhi. The eastward tunnel includes a 520m stretch below the Hooghly riverbed and extends to the 5km elevated Salt Lake stretch. Friday’s breakthrough by TBM-S616 aka Urvi has also joined two of India’s busiest railway stations, Howrah and Sealdah. The 16km East-West Metro, currently operational only on a truncated 7km stretch between Sector V and Phoolbagan, when completed, will link Howrah Maidan with Salt Lake.Between the twin tunnels, there have been seven more breakthroughs. Biswanath Dewanjee, chief engineer, Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), implementing agency of the Rs 8,575-crore Metro, said, “We have had six open and two hidden breakthroughs.” The tunnel section from Subhas Sarovar to Phoolbagagan was done in July 2012, the Sealdah- crossover-Phoolbagan stretch in June 2013, Sealdah crossover-Sealdah station bit in Feb 2014 and the one from Howrah to Esplanade in May 2018. “Today’s breakthrough was undoubtedly the most meaningful one,” Manas Sarkar, MD, KMRC, said. “Urvi has passed below 170 buildings and there were 670 weak structures in its influence zone,” said Rupak Sarkar, vice-president, ITD ITD-Cementation.Urvi will now be placed at the mouth of the westward tunnel and will dig 800m till Bowbazar’s Durga Pithuri Lane. It will be dismantled, re-assembled, refurbished and re-started around December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/east-west-passes-milestone-as-tunnel-links-kol-with-howrah/articleshow/78583740.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Non-payment of salaries: Teachers beg for alms||Hyderabad: Private teachers from several schools in the state organized a bhikshatana programme, on Friday, as part of the Bharosa Yatra held in all districts of Telangana. As part of the programme, they begged for alms in various constituencies and gave the money to teachers living locally. “Until now, we have covered 13 constituencies in the state. At each constituency, we managed to collect between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 and gave the money to local teachers’ body so that they can help private teachers who are in need,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum (TPTF) under whose aegis the protest carried out. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/non-payment-of-salaries-teachers-beg-for-alms/articleshow/78582196.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||2 students die in collision on ORR||Hyderabad: Two engineering students, who were travelling in car, died in a head-on collision while they were going on the wrong route on Outer Ring Road at Narsingi in the early hours of Friday. Narsingi police said three engineering students, Pradeep (26), Vishwanath (24) and Sandeep (24), had gone to Hayathnagar in a car. “From Hayathnagar, they started their journey to Nagarjuna Sagar. They took ORR at Hayathnagar. After realizing that they were lost, the driver Pradeep took a U-turn and headed in the wrong route,” Narsingi police said. They ended up colliding head-on with one Lashkar Ali’s car. Police suspect that the students’ car was travelling at a high speed. Pradeep and Vishwanath died while Sandeep escaped with injuries. Similarly, Ali and his family members alsosuffered injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-students-die-in-collision-on-orr/articleshow/78582193.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Ordnance factory, BDL to get Manjira supply||Hyderabad: Defence organisations like Ordnance Factory Medak (OFM) and Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) will soon get Manjira water. Thanks to Manjira reservoir reaching the full tank level and heavy inflows from the catchment areas, the Water Board has decided to supply water to OFM and BDL. The board ensured water supplies to all the non-domestic consumers, including major industries in Patancheru, Jeedimetla, Medak and Sangareddy, by running tankers in the last one-and-a-half years. As per the HMWS&SB’s records, 180 non-domestic consumers (industries) have been getting Manjira water for more than three decades. “The Water Board had lost revenue to the tune of Rs 150 crore in a span of one-and-a-half years due to stoppage of Manjira water supplies,” a Water Board revenue wing official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ordnance-factory-bdl-to-get-manjira-supply/articleshow/78582191.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 10, 2020||Pune||MSRTC’s inter-state services record 30% rise in passenger load||(With a graphic matter)Pune: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s inter-state services, which resumed mid-September, has recorded more than 30% rise in passenger load.Officials said that in view of the upcoming festive season, the number of buses and destinations outside the state will be increased.“The inter-state buses had an average footfall of 15% to 20%. The numbers have now gone up to more than 50%. However, it is difficult to say whether passengers are using the services for leisure travel,” a senior official of the Pune division of the state transport body told TOI.The official added that from one bus per destination, the transport body has increased the number to two for most destinations. “For example, we earlier had just one bus going to Panaji, Bidar, Gulbarga and Bijapur when the services began. Now, there are two buses to these destinations. There are other destinations like Indore and Surat where one bus is running. One bus to Vadodara was started on Friday. We plan to increase the number of destinations later this month and in November,” the official said.For the festive season, MSRTC plans to run an additional two buses to Panaji in Goa. Also, more buses will be started for places like Bijapur and Ganagapura (Karnataka). “A large number of passengers are travelling to places like Bidar, Gulbarga and Panaji. While permission has been given to run buses at full capacity, we are careful and allowing passengers wearing masks to enter the buses,” another official said.The official added that October and November months are very important. “People travel to their home towns for Dasara and Diwali and we are in the process of identifying more routes. The buses will be increased as per demand. We are looking to increase the number of buses to Surat, Indore and Vadodara,” the official said.Inter-state buses from PunePanaji: 2 busesBidar: 2 busesGulbarga: 2 busesGanagapura: 2 busesBijapur: 2 busesIndore: 1 busVadodara: 1 busSurat: 1 busTentative plan for festive season* Running four buses to Panaji* Increasing the number of buses for Bijapur, Ganagapura and Baramati* Planning operation from Pune to Hyderabad* Planning buses for Bengaluru and Mysore* Increasing overall number of buses for inter-state and inter-district transportation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtcs-inter-state-services-record-30-rise-in-passenger-load/articleshow/78583144.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 10, 2020||Pune||Diligent property taxpayers likely to get special discounts in next bill||Pune: Diligent property taxpayers in the Pune civic limits are likely to be rewarded in the form of a special discount on the levy in the next financial year.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is contemplating to offer these timely taxpayers a rebate in the next municipal budget. Nearly 15% of the general tax would be waived as a token of appreciation for their diligent payment.The step is being considered after the recently announced amnesty scheme for defaulters raised questions about the intention of the civic body. Civic activists and a group of elected members expressed displeasure about the scheme, stressing that the PMC had breached the trust of sincere taxpayers by offering special consideration to tax defaulters.Around 80% of the fine would be waived under the amnesty PMC’s amnesty scheme launched on October 2. The defaulters can avail the scheme till November 30.Against this backdrop, a group of corporators demanded that genuine property taxpayers should also get some concession in tax in appreciation of their diligence. The criticism prompted the consideration of a special discount scheme for regular taxpayers.“The special concession can be given based on the previous records of the taxpayers and their consistency in payments. At least 15% special discount must be given. If those who pay the tax sincerely are not rewarded, a wrong message will go to society. The tendency to default on tax payment will continue,” said Aba Bagul, the leader of Congress in the PMC.He said his party would initiate steps to ensure that the genuine taxpayers got special discount in their next property tax bill. It would underline the importance of diligence in paying municipal taxes, he added.A senior PMC official said, “The special tax relief can be given after taking permission from the standing committee and the general body. If it has to be made a permanent feature, a policy has to be framed.”Hemant Rasane, the chairman of the PMC standing committee, told TOI, “The aim behind the amnesty scheme is to make sure that the defaulters pay their dues. The civic body can earn around Rs1,000 crore from this scheme. Such a scheme has become the need of the hour because of the reducing income of the PMC because of Covid-19.”He said the PMC had put a cap on the amount of tax default to be considered under this scheme. Only needy people unable to pay the tax because of weak financial condition can get the benefit under it. Any decisions about schemes for other proposals and taxpayers would be taken in due course of time, he added.(GRAPHIC TEXT SAVED IN P/COMMON: PMC tax rebate graphic text)Size: 5/6 cm x 3 colsHL: TOKEN OF APPRECIATIONThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is planning: to reward the timely taxpayers in the next financial year15% rebate in their property tax in the next fiscal is on the PMC radarTHE TRIGGERThe step is being considered after the recently announced amnesty scheme for tax defaulters raised questions about the intention of the civic bodyCivic activists and a group of elected members claimed that the PMC had breached the trust of sincere taxpayers by offering special consideration to tax defaultersWAY FORWARDThe special concession can be given based on the previous records of the taxpayers and their consistency in paymentsPermission from the PMC’s standing committee and the general body has to be takenA policy must be framed to make it a permanent feature||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diligent-property-taxpayers-likely-to-get-special-discounts-in-next-bill/articleshow/78583139.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Finally, Trichy gets modern fish market at Kasivilangi||Trichy: The city corporation’s modern fish market at Kasivilangi on Kulumani road was commissioned on Friday for wholesale and retail fish sales which were so far being conducted at the congested Puthur fish market. The new market was built to relocate the Puthur market in the heart of the city which will be closed permanently from Saturday. The civil work at Kasivilangi was initiated in 2016 at an estimated cost of Rs 3.32 crore. Situated in the peripheral ward, the market was also supported financially by National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB). Fund crunch and administrative reasons delayed the progress of the work in the past four years. As it was completed recently, the fish market was put to use for wholesale fish traders initially on Friday at a low-key event. The market has provisions for 32 shops including 25 for retail sales, auctioning hall and seven wholesale shops. Further, to accommodate more traders, Trichy corporation has initiated work to add 22 more retail fish stalls within the market complex. With RCC walls and galvanised roofing sheets, the additional shops will be completed within three months, officials added. “Narrow approach roads in Woraiyur that lead to the new market are a concern. Since our trucks visit the market in the early hours, it should not be much of a trouble,” G Madhavan, a fish vendor said. While the area of Puthur fish market is only 30,000 square feet, the new market is spread over 1.5 acres with auction zone alone accounting for 20,000 square feet. The fenced market gives more space for vendors to park trucks unlike in Puthur where they were parked on residential roads. “Fresh cement concrete platforms have also been laid to accommodate more vehicles. Fish traders have more facilities at Kasivilangi than Puthur market,” a senior official with Trichy corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/finally-trichy-gets-modern-fish-market-at-kasivilangi/articleshow/78582192.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Trichy||VAO suspended for graft||Ariyalur: Village administrative officer (VAO) V Rani was suspended on Friday for fraudulently issuing patta for a land belonging to a primary health centre in Kadugoor. The patta was granted to V Dhanavel, the suspended VAO’s brother. Based on complaints received from locals, an inquiry was carried out by the revenue department officials which exposed the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vao-suspended-for-graft/articleshow/78582209.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||HC directs CBI for counter on case against Hyderabad GST official||HYDERABAD: Justice K Lakshman of the Telangana high court on Friday directed the CBI to file its counter explaining whether it followed the mandate given by section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act before filing a criminal case against Hyderabad GST commissionerate superintendent BS Gandhi. The section deals with who should accord sanction to proceed against government officials. Senior counsel B Adinarayana Rao argued the case of Gandhi, which is that the Union finance minister accorded sanction to commence criminal proceedings against him while the competent authority to do so is the GST commissioner. CBI counsel K Surender told the court that CBI booked criminal cases against Gandhi and a deputy commissioner of GST wing for resorting to extortion and collecting bribes from traders. “The protection available to officials under 17-A is not available here because what they were doing is not discharge of their official duties but sheer extortion,” the CBI counsel said. “Since the finance minister is the competent authority for according sanction for booking corruption case against a deputy commissioner, the CBI obtained the sanction from the finance minister for both the deputy commissioner and for Gandhi, who is below her rank. One can make out a grievance if the sanction was obtained from a lesser authority. On the contrary, we obtained the sanction from the highest authority in their department,” the CBI counsel added. He also informed the court that CBI has filed a separate disproportionate assets case against Gandhi for receiving bribes of Rs 26 lakh from Indu Shyam Prasad Reddy in the Indu Housing Board chargesheet of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy assets case. He brushed aside the allegation made by Gandhi that CBI is acting with vengeance against him because he pointed out certain lapses committed by CBI in the Indu Housing Board case. The case was posted to Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-directs-cbi-for-counter-on-case-against-hyd-gst-official/articleshow/78582230.cms||M Sagar Kumar
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Engg student ends life over poor scores||Hyderabad: An engineering student committed suicide in his house in Jagtial district on Thursday due to poor academic performance and family problems. The deceased was, B Ram Prasad, 20, a native of Gambhirpur village in Kathlapur mandal, was an engineering student of a private college in Karimnagar. According to police, Ram Prasad failed in multiple subjects in first and second year exams. He was also disturbed about his elder sister’s love marriage, Kathlapur police said. On Thursday, family members of Prasad grew suspicious as he did not come out of his room. They used force and broke the door latch. “Prasad hanged himself to the ceiling fan. In the suicide note, Prasad mentioned that he was upset with his life and specified that his elder sister should not come to see his body. However, family members said that he was upset about poor performance in academics,” police said. A pall of gloom descended on the village with the suicide of the young student. Police shifted the body of Prasad to a local government hospital for postmortem. After the autopsy, the body was handed over to the family. A case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-student-ends-life-over-poor-scores/articleshow/78582224.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Trichy||‘More women should become entrepreneurs’||Trichy: Trichy range DIG Z Annie Vijaya urged more women to take up entrepreneurship to succeed in life and termed entrepreneurship as a tool for empowerment. She was speaking after inaugurating women entrepreneurship development forum at Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, Trichy. She expressed hope that the forum started by Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) will encourage more women to take up entrepreneurship. Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute is a constituent college of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) in Trichy. It runs EDII-funded technology agri business incubation forum (TABIF) at Navalurkuttapattu, Trichy. TABIF offers various services like mentoring, technical assistance, establishing business and market linkages and providing co-working space for the members. P Masilamani, dean, Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College said that this forum will be a pioneer guiding forum for the women, who have a business idea and an intention to start a business. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-women-should-become-entrepreneurs/articleshow/78582233.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Staffer at HAL’s Nashik unit held for spying for ISI||MUMBAI/NASHIK: The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Thursday arrested an assistant supervisor at defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL)’s facility near Nashik for spying. The accused, Dipak Shirsath, was allegedly providing classified information about Indian fighter aircraft to a handler in Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Shirsath, a lower-rung employee whose job entailed inspection of materials, is suspected to have been led into a honeytrap by the handler. Information handed over by him was linked to the manufacturing unit and other prohibited areas of the facility located at Ozar, 20 kms from Nashik. HAL Nashik makes SU-30 MKI aircraft. It is also engaged in overhauling both MiG 21 and SU-30. The arrest comes a week after police at Deolali Camp, near Nashik, arrested a youth, Sanjeev Kumar, 21, for taking photos in the prohibited Army area and sending them to a WhatsApp group in Pakistan. Kumar, who was arrested a week ago, worked in Nashik. He was booked under the Official Secrets Act. Shirsath, 41, was arrested by the Nashik unit of ATS, which was tipped off when his activities drew suspicion. “During the interrogation, it was revealed that Shirsath was in touch with someone in ISI and was supplying information about Indian fighter aircraft, along with information related to HAL, the aircraft manufacturing unit at Ozar, and the prohibited areas inside the manufacturing unit to someone in ISI,” said an ATS source. When asked if Shirsath was lured into a honey-trap by the ISI, a senior officer declined to comment saying the probe was at an initial stage. He used to chat with his handler through WhatsApp, said police. “Shirsath came in touch with the person he was supplying information to through social media,” said ATS deputy police commissioner Vinay Rathod. The ATS Cyber cell said he was sending messages, photos and sensitive material to a handler in ISI. “He used to chat with the contact person through other social media platforms as well,” added an officer. Police are scanning his social accounts. When asked if Shirsath was promised money in return, the ATS officer said they were probing all angles. Police are likely to analyse Shirsath’s bank account as well. Shirsath joined HAL in 2004 and worked with the quality control department. He was a lower-rung employees whose job entailed inspection of materials. “He is a non-officer, and was very temperamental,” one source said. Another source said: “He had been recently handed an internal transfer based on his work and he had not taken it well. He was seen to be unstable, and always felt that he was being targeted.” However, the defence PSU did not release any details of the person officially. “...As the investigation is on, we have no comments to offer,” HAL spokesperson Gopal Sutar told TOI. The aircraft manufacturing unit at Ozar has several prohibited areas. The unit carries out overhaul of MiGs and Repair and Overhaul (ROH) of Su-30 MKI aircraft. Cops are examining if Shirsath shared any information about Tejas, the Indian-made light combat aircraft. He has been booked under sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Official Secrets Act, 1923. “We have seized three mobile handsets with five SIM cards and two memory cards from him. The seized items will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for examination,” said an officer. Shirsath was produced before a court and remanded in police custody for 10 days. (With inputs by Chethan Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/staffer-at-hals-nashik-unit-held-for-spying-for-isi/articleshow/78583494.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Congress declares five more candidates for UP byelections||LUCKNOW: Congress party has put the bet on regional leaders for the upcoming UP assembly bypolls. Party’s central election committee on Friday announced the candidates for five of the eight seats on which byelections will be held on November 3. Of the eight seats, the election on Suar seat has been postponed by chief electoral officer, UP. Dr Kamlesh Singh has been fielded from the Naugawan Sadar seat while Sushil Chaudhri has been given the ticket from Bulandshahr. Former NSUI leader Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi will contest from Deoria seat. The party has picked Mahila Congress leader Sneh Lata Babli for the reserved seat of Tundla while Kripa Shanker has been given the ticket from Ghatampur reserved seat. Earlier, Congress had announced the candidates from Bangarmau and Suar seats. On these seats too, the party had reposed faith old loyalists. Meanwhile, the candidate from Bangarmau seat, Aarti Bajpai, has begun campaigning for the bypoll. The candidate for Malhani seat is expected to be declared in a day or two. Though the names were finalized by the All India Congress Committee, the selections were made by seat specific committees formed by the party on September 16. Separate committees are being formed to oversee the campaigning on the seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/congress-declares-five-more-candidates-for-up-byelections/articleshow/78583495.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Locals protest delay in building service road for NH in Trichy||Trichy: The Federation for Retrieval of Trichy-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Road on Friday staged a demonstration condemning the delay in facilitating a service road for the Trichy-Thanjavur national highway. The absence of a service road on the 14.5km stretch between Palpannai and Thuvakudi is resulting in several accidents. Based on public interest litigation (PIL), the Madras high court in 2019 had directed the NHAI and Trichy district administration to lay the service road within six months. Condemning the delay, residents supported by opposition parties staged a protest at Ariyamangalam in which Thiruverumbur MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi participated. “District administration and revenue department should publish the 3D notification as per NHAI Act and commence the land acquisition within the next 15 days,” S Sakthivel, organiser of the federation said. The protesters also sought the authorities to immediately compensate the owners of the land to be acquired and to conduct an inter-departmental meeting to address the bottlenecks. They threatened to intensify the protests if the authorities do not expedite the work. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-protest-delay-in-building-service-road-for-nh-in-trichy/articleshow/78582226.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Contract lecturer loses his job, commits suicide||Warangal: A 55-year-old contract lecturer committed sucide after losing his job and running into financial problems during the outbreak. He consumed pesticide in Warangal Fort on Friday to end his life. The deceased was identified as M Mahender, a resident of Shiva Nagar in Warangal. Mahender had worked as a part-time lecturer in Government Junior College in Mulugu. He did not get salary for the last seven months as the college remained closed on account of the pandemic. Mills Colony inspector J Ravi Kiran said that a case has been registered. Cops shifted the body to MGM Hospital for post mortem. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/contract-lecturer-loses-his-job-commits-suicide/articleshow/78582229.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 3 cops jailed for carrying liquor in SP’s escort vehicle||PATNA: One policeman is evading arrest while three others have been arrested for allegedly trying to smuggle a bottle of liquor in the escort vehicle of Madhepura SP. The SP was on a field visit when they attempted to smuggle the liquor bottle from Chausa police station to a constable in Madhepura town late on late Wednesday night. SP Yogendra Kumar said police moved the court on Friday to seek an arrest warrant against police constable Amar Kumar Singh who is evading arrest. “He had appeared only once before police for interrogation,” the SP said, adding, home guard Shashi Kumar, an escort vehicle driver, constables Vikesh Kumar and Sonu Kumar were forwarded to judicial custody on Thursday after their arrest on Wednesday night. “All three constables have been suspended. A letter has been written to the authorities concerned for dismissing the home guard from service,” he said. Kumar further said he has also written to the DIG on Thursday for disciplinary action against Chausa police station SHO JP Chaudhary. “Besides I have also issued orders to file charge sheet in the case against all accused as soon as possible for initiating a speedy trial,” he said. The SP said he received a tip-off about liquor hidden in his escort vehicle soon after leaving Chausa police station on Wednesday night during an inspection. “We were going to another police station when I received the information. Besides my official and escort vehicle, three other vehicles were with me including one each of Udakishunganj SDPO and circle inspector,” SP said. The vehicles were brought back to Chausa police station premises, and the escort vehicle was searched, leading to the recovery of the IMFL bottle from below the driver’s seat. “From CCTV camera footage, it became clear that the escort vehicle driver was hiding something below his seat,” the SP said. He said Udakishunganj circle inspector Prem Kumar Yadav lodged FIR against all the accused with the Chausa police station on Wednesday night itself. Yadav said after interrogation, it surfaced that constable Sonu provided the IMFL bottle to Shashi and Vikesh for handing it over to Amar. “Amar is a constable posted in the technical cell of the Madhepura district police,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-cops-jailed-for-carrying-liquor-in-sps-escort-vehicle/articleshow/78582258.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon’s Covid turnaround: Now it is among districts with best recovery rate||Nashik: Jalgaon district in north Maharashtra has shown that coordinated efforts of officials and doctors, building key infrastructure and public participation in the fight against Covid-19 can bring results. Barely a month ago, on September 17, the district was dealing with 10,000 active Covid-19 cases, and the health infrastructure here was under tremendous pressure. It sparked serious concerns within the state government when a Covid-19 patient was found dead in the government hospital, five days after she was reported missing. The situation was so worrisome that two Central teams visited the district to suggest containment measures. The latest data from the health department, however, shows that Jalgaon ranks second among the state’s districts in terms of good Covid-19 recovery and doubling rates. The adjoining district of Dhule continues to top the chart in these two categories.The data for three consecutive weeks shows that the doubling rate of cases in Jalgaon has increased from about 34 days on September 20 to 105 days on October 4. The recovery rate too have improved from around 76% to over 86% during that same period. Currently, the district has fewer than 4,000 active cases.Since the spread of the infection was across the district, the authorities ramped up the health infrastructure with help of private entities. NGOs too were roped in to set up Covid treatment centres in rural parts to ease pressure on hospitals in Jalgaon city. Authorities said an aggressive awareness campaign and setting up of oxygen beds at every 20 km helped ensure quick and timely treatment for patients, and at the same time, reduced the load on hospitals in cities. Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut told TOI: “The team work of the local government agencies and the efforts of doctors and other health staff that have given results. However, we cannot be complacent since there could be spike at any time if we lower our guard.” The administration has continued with aggressive testing despite the drop in cases. They are conducting 2,500 tests a day.In the meantime, Dhule continues to have a healthy recovery rate and the authorities said things are under control. Even Nandurbar district has registered a healthy recovery rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaons-covid-turnaround-now-it-is-among-districts-with-best-recovery-rate/articleshow/78578611.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Sound operators, tent decorators seek relief package||Nashik: Tent decorators and sound operators, who play a crucial role in any social gathering, have demanded that the state government announce a rehabilitation package for them as they have been rendered jobless given the sanctions imposed on gatherings in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The association of mandap decorators and sound operators in Nashik district affiliated to the All Maharashtra Tent Dealers’ Welfare Organisation has appealed to the government to relax norms on gathering of people. Hundreds of employees working with tent decorators, flower decorators, light decorators, banjo party, Dhol Tasha, sound systems and event management earn their living by rendering their services during social events. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, there has been a ban on such events thereby making it difficult for the employees to make ends meet. The association presented a memorandum to district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal requesting him to ask the state government to allow more people to attend social gatherings so that various programmes can be held and employees can earn their living. “Currently, maximum 50 people are allowed in an event. The government should raise the bar to 500 people so that hosts will take the services offered by the service providers and the employees working under them can earn their living,” said members of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sound-operators-tent-decorators-seek-relief-package/articleshow/78578618.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Kids pay homage to banyan tree set on fire in Trichy||TRICHY: Students of a government high school in Unaiyur in Trichy district paid homage to a 100-year-old banyan tree which was reduced to ashes a few months ago after being set on fire by miscreants. A few half-burnt branches are all that is left of the tree that used to be home for birds besides accommodating many honeycombs. Locals suspect that someone from the village could have used fire to drive away the bees from the honeycombs which could have caused the fire. “The remains of the tree stand testimony to the bad practices in society and the need to teach our children compassion for nature. We thought it would be appropriate to let the children catch a glimpse of the remains of the tree,” said the school headmaster, S Sarkunan. The event was organised ahead of International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction. Students paid floral tribute to the tree and took oath to respect nature and protect it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kids-pay-homage-to-100-yr-old-banyan-tree-destroyed-in-fire/articleshow/78582257.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 10, 2020||Goa||MLA Rohan Khaunte calls for review of Covid deaths||Panaji: Deaths of several Covid-19 patients without comorbidities within hours of hospitalisation is alarming and requires an urgent review, said Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte. He further asked the state government and medical professionals to investigate if the deaths were caused due to failure of the home isolation protocols. Khaunte said the lack of basic amenities at government-run hospitals and the lack of beds may prompt people to seek treatment too late, leading to fatalities. “A medical investigation is warranted on such cases and the details of the circumstances that lead to deaths within 24 hours of admission into hospitals needs to be put in the public forum,” Khaunte said.  Since the start of October, at least three more young lives have succumbed to the pandemic while more than seven persons died despite being free of comorbidities. Sawant has attributed these deaths to a delay in seeking treatment.  “There’s every possibility that these cases are on the rise due to the wrong propagation of home treatment advocated by the health department with announcement of providing home isolation kits. There’s been a serious failure in creating proper awareness regarding home isolation and treatment, which maybe why people are seeking hospitals treatment very late into the infection,” Khaunte said. Khaunte also said that Sawant has shifted his focus from the pandemic and is instead busy with the BJP’s political affairs. “After the chief minister’s Delhi visit followed by the Union minister’s Goa visit, the chief minister and the health minister seem to have put Covid control on the back burner as party politics and corporate agendas take centre stage,” Khaunte added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khaunte-calls-for-review-of-covid-deaths/articleshow/78583179.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Will ailing power corporation be able to deliver in 3 months?||LUCKNOW: Over 15 lakh employees of the loss-making UPPCL are now facing a tough situation -- to take their performance several notches up in three months to exorcise the bogey of privatisation. As per the pact between the state government, which is in favour to privatise the state-run power behemoth to cut its losses, and the UPPCL employees, the move has been deferred till January 15, 2021. On their part, UPPCL employees have agreed to improve their functioning by increasing revenue collection and ensuring adequate power supply. They have also taken a vow to offer a corruption-free environment to consumers. The agitating staff signed an affidavit, seeking three months’ time to deliver desired results failing which they would not be in a position to oppose the government’s privatisation move. The enormity of this pledge could be gauged from some plain statistics. The annual loss of the power corporation is to the tune of Rs 85,000 crore. It purchases power worth Rs 58,000 crore every year and if the cost of maintenance and loan repayment for the same is also included, the amount reaches to whopping Rs 77,000 crore per year. Against Rs 58,000 crore which is spent on purchasing power every year, the UPPCL would have to recover at least Rs 50,000 crore in the current financial year. However, the fact is till September 2020, only Rs 18,000 crore has been recovered. It means that in the remaining six months of the current financial year, the corporation would have to realise Rs 32,000 crore. While the recovery in September has been just Rs 4,200 crore in the remaining six months if the target has to be achieved the corporation would have to increase its monthly collection to Rs 5,400 crore. State finance minister Suresh Khanna is in favour of the move, while on the other side, energy minister Shrikant Sharma, who is not satisfied with the functioning of private power distribution companies as well, wants more time before rushing for the move. A status report prepared by Khanna on the state of the energy sector in the state has painted a poor past and a challenging future for UPPCL staff who have announced to collectively work with the state government for shedding their past and usher in an era of ‘achche din’ for the energy sector. For increasing revenue collection, the UPPCL would have to address the issue of poor recovery in urban areas that stands at around 72% and less than 18% in rural areas. The state government has already cautioned the corporation that the recovery percentage has to be around 90%. For this, a Sharma has not only roped in SHGs and NGOs, but has also requested over 80 MPs, 390 MLAs and MLCs and over 60,000 village pradhans to organise recovery melas (camps) in their respective areas with the help of UPPCL staff and motivate consumers to clear their dues. The minister has also appealed to UPPCL employees to join him in saving the sinking ship. On several occasions, Khanna, during his discussions with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, has emphasised that the corporation should not become a burden on the government. It should strengthen its own resources failing which the state government would be compelled to execute its plans. Both Khanna and Sharma have appealed to UPPCL trade union leaders to show results in three months otherwise the state government will have no option but to go ahead with its privatisation step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/will-ailing-power-corporation-be-able-to-deliver-in-3-months/articleshow/78583499.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 10, 2020||Trichy||Ex-MKU registrar to be senate rep on BDU VC search committee||Trichy: Former registrar of Madurai Kamaraj University V Alagappan was elected unopposed as the senate nominee to the three-member vice-chancellor search committee of Bharathidasan University on Friday.TOI had reported on October 5 the possible nomination of Alagappan to the search committee. He was nominated at the special meeting of the senate convened on Friday. BDU had initiated the selection process of its next VC on October 1 by convening a special meeting of the syndicate.S Mohan, retired professor of Alagappa University, was unanimously made syndicate nominee after S Sekar, principal, Meenakshi Ramasamy Arts and Science College, Ariyalur proposed his name at the senate meeting. There were talks of a possible candidate to be fielded by Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA) against Alagappan. A senior TNGCTA member said that they chose not to field a candidate after learning about the credentials of Alagappan. “We were assured that the interests of government college teachers will not be compromised during the selection process,” said the member. With the election of both syndicate and senate nominees over, the committee will be complete once the government appoints its nominee.The government nominee, who will also be the convener of the committee, will head the panel and start the VC selection process. The committee will then call for applications for the post of vice-chancellor. After scrutiny of the received applications, 10 candidates will be shortlisted for interview out of which the committee will select three. Names of the three candidates will be sent to the governor who will select the vice-chancellor. The tenure of the incumbent VC, P Manisankar, ends in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ex-mku-registrar-to-be-senate-rep-on-bdu-vc-search-committee/articleshow/78582243.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 10, 2020||Mumbai||NGT junks plea against CRZ nod to MTHL||MUMBAI: The principal bench of the NGT on Friday paved the way for work to proceed on the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) connecting Sewri with Nhava-Sheva by dismissing a challenge to a 2016 coastal regulation zone clearance granted by the environment ministry. The NGT said the CRZ clearance had several important riders as safeguards for “the protection of mudflats, mangroves and flamingos habitat” . Work on the 22km sea bridge connecting Sewri in Mumbai with Nhava-Sheva in Uran had started in April 2018. Estimated to cost Rs 18,000 crore, the MTHL is expected to be completed by 2022. The decision by a bench headed by chairperson Justice AK Goel was in an appeal filed by Worli resident Dileep Nevatia against the CRZ nod given to Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL). The appeal was pending before the NGT western zone for four years and was transferred to the principal bench in Delhi this year. Nevatia, arguing in person via video-conferencing, said that the project, first proposed in 1992, would “gravely impact Mumbai and Navi Mumbai coastal ecology” and had been approved “in violation of the Environment Prevention Act” and the rules and notifications of 2006 and 2011 on Environment Impact Assessment (EIA). He claimed that the trans-harbour link would destroy the temporary habitat of migratory birds, including 2,000 flamingoes and 15,000 lesser flamingos, at the Sewri mudflats. He pointed out that the CRZ map submitted by the MMRDA neither disclosed that the bay area of Sewri including mangroves and mudflats are called ‘National Wetland Atlas: Maharashtra’, nor considered the impact of the MTHL on the bay. Senior counsel Raju Subramanian for MMRDA and Saket Mone for the state and its coastal zone management authority, however, stressed how the infrastructure project was of immense “public importance” and would reduce the distance between the island city and main land by 15km, thus cut travel time and fuel consumption and, consequently protect the environment by reducing air pollution. While granting the CRZ clearance, the ministry had sought compliance of specific conditions that include MMRDA’s duty to “ensure immediate restoration of mangroves on the identified areas through the Mangroves Conservation Cell, Mumbai.” Both the MMRDA and state government said they are complying with the conditions and have begun compensatory mangrove plantation, spaced out piers, ensured mudflats are not disturbed during construction of temporary jetty, and appointed ‘bird monitors’ to keep flamingos from harm’s way. The other conditions are for MMRDA to explore the possibility of increasing the distance between two piers of viaduct in the mudflat area—over 50m—to minimise disturbing the ecologically crucial bird habitat in Sewri, . The Sewri end of the jetty should be used for transportation of construction material to avoid disturbing the mudflats and no reclamation is permitted in the CRZ I and CRZ IV areas. The MMRDA also has to instal noise barriers of 3m height on both sides of the sealink passing through the mangroves and mudflat areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ngt-junks-plea-against-crz-nod-to-mthl/articleshow/78583496.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Collector summoned over lake squatters||Hyderabad: The HC directed district collector of Nirmal to appear before court on October 12 to explain as to why he has been consistently failing in protecting lakes from encroachments. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy grew furious when they noticed lack of initiative on the part of district collector while hearing a PIL filed by K Anju Kumar Reddy of Nirmal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collector-summoned-over-lake-squatters/articleshow/78582242.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||SOT arrests nine for running IPL betting racket, seizes cash||Hyderabad: Sleuths of the Special Operations Team (SOT) of Balanagar, along with Alwal police, busted an IPL 2020 cricket betting racket and arrested nine offenders on Thursday night. Police seized Rs 9 lakh from the possession of the accused. Acting on specific information, the sleuths raided a mobile shop at Bhoodevi Nagar, Alwal. Police arrested bookie N Naresh (30), who owns the mobile shop, and eight punters. Two other bookies — Yogesh and Santosh — and punter Julee are absconding. Police also seized nine mobile phones from the possession of the accused. Naresh, the prime accused, has been organising cricket betting for the last four years with the assistance of Yogesh and Santosh, Balanagar DCP PV Padmaja said. Naresh invites the punters to his shop and collects the betting amount either in the form of cash or through e-wallets. “After collecting a minimum amount of Rs 10,000 from punters, the bookie informs them about bet criteria and accepts bets. After the end of the match, the account of each punter will be settled,” the SOT police said. People can alert Cyberabad police on betting activity at phone no. 9490617444.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sot-arrests-nine-for-running-ipl-betting-racket-seizes-cash/articleshow/78582263.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Madurai||HC quizzes Centre on classical languages||Madurai: Are Pali, Prakrit, Arabic and Persian classical languages? Have they been declared so? If declared, on what basis have they been referred to as classical languages?Bombarding the central government with these questions, Madras high court has given the Centre time till October 28 to submit a report answering the queries.The court has also sought to know as to who was the official responsible for issuing a notification leaving out post-graduation in Tamil as qualification to apply for the PG Diplomar course on archaeology at at Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology of ASI at Noida.Refusing to believe that it was an inadvertent error, and suspecting that it was a deliberate act, a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice B Pugalendhi directed the central government to submit a report identifying the erring official who had issued the notification and explaining as to what action is to be taken against the officer.The issue relates to the admission notification inviting online application for the diploma course saying persons with a master's degree in ancient or medieval Indian history/ archaeology/ Indian classical languages such as Sanskrit, Pali, Prakrit, Arabic or Persian were eligible to apply for the course. After the notification triggered an uproar, amendments have been issued making masters degree in any notified classical language would be qualification for applying for the course.The present petition was filed by advocate S Ramesh Kumar of Sivaganga district for a direction to include PG in Tamil as a qualification. In response, assistant solicitor-general L Victoria Gowri said the institute issued a corrigendum on October 8 stating that masters in all classical languages notified by the central government such as Tamil, Sanskrit, Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam, Odia, and Pali, Prakrit, Arabic, among others, are eligible for applying to the course.The judges, reiterating their earlier concern that unless authorities are cautious while dealing with the language issues, voices of chauvinistic elements would be strengthened, said the notification fiasco showed the incompetence of the official who did it without any knowledge of Indian classical languages.The judges pointed out that only after voices were raised and after the petition was filed highlighting omission of classical languages, a corrigendum was issued. They, however, observed that the government could not be faulted for the mistake of one or two officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-quizzes-centre-on-classical-languages/articleshow/78583155.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 10, 2020||Madurai||HC asks DSP to probe death of Tenkasi farmer, 70||Madurai: Madras high court on Friday directed the concerned jurisdictional deputy superintendent of police (DSP) to investigate the case, in which a farmer died due to alleged custodial torture by forest officials in Tenkasi district.The court was hearing a petition filed by Palammal of Vaagaikulam, who sought a CB-CID probe into the custodial death of her husband, Anaikkarai Muthu, 70. She had also sought to conduct a re-postmortem.Justice G R Swaminathan directed the DSP to take over the investigation and further directed to complete the investigation and file a final report in the case as expeditiously as possible. The judge observed that the inclusion of the charge under Section 302 of the IPC would depend on the findings in the postmortem report. The judge directed to furnish the copy of the first and second postmortem report to the investigating officer and disposed of the petition.The court had earlier directed to conduct re-postmortem, since the earlier postmortem was conducted during the night hours by violating the norms.It maybe recalled that Muthu was picked up by the forest department officials for inquiry as he had allegedly electrified his fence to protect the crops from wild animals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-dsp-to-probe-death-of-tenkasi-farmer-70/articleshow/78583157.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Frequent power cuts jolt those working & studying from home||Nashik: Citizens working from home and students attending online classes are having a tough time due to frequent power supply disruptions over the past week. Citizens said the power interruptions — sometimes lasting just a few minutes several times a day, at other times, stretching over hours — have been reported from College Road, Gangapur Road, Nashik Road, Ambad and Satpur areas. “Minor interruptions of 5-10 minutes several times a day take a toll on my work. We have ‘live’ interactive sessions with international clients and the power interruptions make communication difficult,” said Sandesh Kamble, an IT company employee.There is an argument that mobile data and laptops can be used for online work and education, but that is not possible for everybody and at all times.“I can afford only one mobile phone. I use it for my work and the desktop is used by my children. The power failure puts them out of the ‘online classes’ and even teachers do not allow them re-entry as the class gets disturbed. I want uninterrupted power supply for which I pay my dues regularly,” said Madhuri Kulkarni, a mother of two and resident of Gangapur Road.The Maharashtra State electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officials denied that there were major power failures in the city over the last few days, barring two cases where there were transformer issues. “Any power interruption for more than 15 minutes is scaled up and the record shows there were, at the most, five cases every day,” the officer said referring to the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) for Nashik city.The officer said that during pre-monsoon works, tree branches are trimmed but they grow rapidly during monsoon and cause power interruptions. “We, therefore, carry out power outages on Saturdays to clear the same,” the officer said. Vilas Deole, a consumer activist, pointed out that the company only recorded the interruptions with longer durations and limited only to substantial numbers of consumers being affected. “A small area affected does not come up in SCADA and hence the data is half reliable. Besides, several interruptions on regular basis are more irritating than the longer ones. The officials need to look into the same at the earliest,” Deole said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/frequent-power-cuts-jolt-those-working-studying-from-home/articleshow/78578631.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||ICMR’s changing testing policy proved disastrous: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday was critical of the changing stance of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on Covid-19 testing and termed it “disastrous”. When the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala was hearing the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and the lockdown, the advocate general was making submissions about strengthening of health infrastructure and ramping up Covid-19 testing, which the government had earlier resisted strongly, citing the ICMR’s restrictive policy. While the advocate general was making these submissions, Justice J B Pardiwala commented, “The ICMR policy has proved to be a big disappointment. It did not respond when we questioned the rationale of its policy.” The advocate general, who was defending state government’s restrictive Covid testing policy tooth and nail citing ICMR guidelines, immediately told the high court that the body had similarly changed its stance on whether or not to wear masks. When Justice Pardiwala reiterated that he was inquiring about ICMR’s policy on testing, the government law officer said ICMR’s policy on masks was another example of its shifting stance and supported the judge’s comment by saying that ICMR’s policy kept changing. The judge finally said, “The ICMR policy on testing proved to be disastrous.” Earlier, irked by the restrictive testing policy, the HC questioned whether diagnosis is a fundamental right of a citizen. Meanwhile, on HC’s inquiry about the Covid situation in different cities, the state government asserted, “Situation in Gujarat is now under control and sufficient infrastructure has been developed to deal with the pandemic.” As soon as the government claimed that the situation is under control and health infrastructure has been strengthened, the judges read out a TOI report published on Thursday about depleted human resources in the health department. The high court asked the advocate general to take up the issue of vacancies for doctors at government hospitals, particularly in rural areas. The court ordered that a detailed report be placed by November 27 on availability of human resources at government hospitals in the state. Meanwhile, the HC also asked the government to place a report on the functioning of V S Hospital and about fire safety preparedness at Sola Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icmrs-changing-testing-policy-proved-disastrous-hc/articleshow/78582325.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Madurai||HC: Can’t tolerate corrupt practices in judicial system||Madurai: Corrupt practices in the judicial system can never be tolerated and it is worse than that of corruption in public departments, and the judiciary has to strengthen its vigilance wing as the existing system is insufficient to crush the corrupt practices, the Madras high court has observed. The court added that frequent surprise visits and inspection in the judicial departments and premises are needed.Referring to corruption as a devil in the society, justice S M Subramaniam observed that corrupt practices in various forms are prevalent in the public departments for the implementation of beneficial schemes and GOs, and it is painful that the higher officials are absolutely insensitive in controlling such practices.“The department of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) should be strengthened to a greater extent to ensure periodical surprise inspections and raids are conducted to deal with the corrupt practices in public services. Adequate number of men and women of integrity and honesty must be engaged for this purpose,” said the judge.The judge observed that while pointing out the corrupt practices in government departments, the court has to endorse the fact that the judiciary also is not exempted from such practices. The consciousness of this court would not permit it, if it fails to mention the increasing corrupt practices in the judiciary department as well as on the court premises.The judge made the observations while dismissing a petition filed by N Ulagaraj challenging his punishment of compulsory retirement awarded on charges of accepting a bribe for registering a sale deed when he was working as an office assistant in the registration department at Tirunelveli district in 2004.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-cant-tolerate-corrupt-practices-in-judicial-system/articleshow/78583156.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras ‘forced cremation’: 5 from family to depose in HC||AGRA/LUCKNOW: The Hathras victim’s family will appear in the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on Monday to give their statements on the “forced cremation” of their 19-year-old girl who was allegedly gang-raped and died two weeks later at a Delhi hospital. The Lucknow bench had taken suo motu cognizance of the incident. “Five of us will be appearing in court. The administration asked us how many from our family would like to be present for the hearing on October 12,” the victim’s elder brother told reporters after giving consent to the district administration. Besides him, his younger brother, sister, mother and father will appear. “The administration has promised full security when we travel to Lucknow.” A team of district officials, including sub-divisional magistrate and tehsildar visited their home and took their written nod on court appearance in police escort. The high court had asked the Hathras district judge to ensure family members of the deceased can appear to record their version of what had happened. State and district authorities were also asked to extend all help and security the family needed. “We are inclined to examine as to whether there has been gross violation of fundamental rights of the deceased victim and her family,” the court had said on October 1, a day after the victim had been cremated at 2.40am in her village without any family present. On Friday, deputy inspector general of police, Shalabh Mathur, was sent to Hathras on Friday to take stock of the situation on instructions of DGP HC Awasthy The girl’s brother, meanwhile, said the family will not immerse the ashes till justice was delivered. “Not until we get justice and are sure that the body that was cremated was that of my sister. We were not even allowed to see the face.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-forced-cremation-5-from-family-to-depose-in-hc/articleshow/78583503.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram schools may open for classes VI-VIII from October 15||GURUGRAM: After partially reopening schools for students of class 9 to 12 for ‘doubt-clearing’ sessions, the state government is contemplating reopening them for students of classes 6 to 8 as well from October 15. The state education department is holding a series of consultations and discussions to explore the possibility and feasibility of re-opening schools. Officials said the department is seeking views from health experts and holding discussions with the administration to assess the ground situation of the Covid-19 spread. A series of meetings are lined up this week and if there is a consensus, the department may soon issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) for students of class 6 to 8 to attend schools. “We are actively holding consultations and reviewing the status of the schools that partially reopened for students of class 9 to 12 last month. Teachers and schools are also taking views of parents. Based on these discussions, we’ll compile a report and forward it to the government,” said a senior education official. Once the government gives its approval, the department will release the standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools and students of class 6 to 8. Earlier this week, state education minister Kanwar Pal had announced that the education department is mulling over the decision. “If everything goes as per plan, the students of these classes can consult their teachers from October 15 onwards,” he said. Last month, the government allowed all government and private schools to partially open their premises for the guidance sessions. Students were asked to get written consent from their parents and stick to the time slot provided by their school to attend the schools. All schools were directed to ensure staggered entry of students inside the campus and follow all the Covid-19 related norms like thermal screening, hand sanitisation, and mandatory wearing of masks for both students and teachers. The much-awaited plan of partially reopening the schools, however, received a tepid response in the state. “Parents aren’t willing to send students to school, at least not this year.Only when we all have confidence that we have gained control over the pandemic, parents will send their kids back to schools,” said the principal of a leading private school in the city. Watch Gurugram: Govt mulls to reopen schools for class 6-8 from Oct 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/schools-may-reopen-for-classes-6-8-from-october-15/articleshow/78583176.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
October 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Veggies costly, pulse prices also soar ahead of festivals||PUNE: The coming festive season may be subdued in nature because of the Covid-19 pandemic, but the kitchen staples during the period are likely to burn a hole in your pocket. Prices of vegetables are already high with onions costing Rs50 a kg, while retail prices of pulses have recently registered a steep spike. There’s been a Rs30 increase in tur dal price in the last 15 days, with the staple crossing the Rs100 per kg mark in retail markets (see box). Retail price of’ mung dal has also crossed the Rs100 per kg mark, from Rs96 a few days ago to Rs106. Dhaval Shah, director of Jairaj Group in the Gultekdi wholesale market, told TOI, “The festive season is likely to create a further spike in pulse prices. Heavy rainfall in parts of Maharashtra, such as Latur, Jalgaon and Akola, as well as several places in Karnataka are one reason for the shortage in pulses and the consequent price rise. Also, there is a huge demand for protein-rich foods like pulses because of the Covid-19 pandemic.” He said, “The demand for pulses has increased by about 30-40% in the past few months. The rise in ‘tur dal’ prices has been especially steep. The price increase is generally about Rs10-15 per kg. This time around, it has increased by Rs30 in the wholesale as well as retail markets. Prices of other pulses have gone up too in the face of an increased demand for pulses and a shortage of about 20-25% as per rough estimates.” Shortage in chana dal is being experienced since more than a month now.The variety of the pulse has seen massive consumption during the past few months, especially from households as well as due to food donation kits distributed during the Covid-19 pandemic. Ambemohar rice prices are also high with the wholesale rate rising to Rs85-95 per kg, as against the earlier Rs45-55/kg. Hanuman Unecha, a retailer in Gokhalenagar, said, “Prices of gram flour have gone up in the face of chana dal rate rise. A kg of gram flour now costs Rs90 in the retail market, as against Rs80 a fortnight ago. With the festivals coming up, we do not expect a fall in pulse prices. In fact, the prices may further increase. Also, the current shortage can be attributed to the demand from restaurants increasing with the government allowing dine-in services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veggies-costly-pulse-prices-also-soar-ahead-of-festivals/articleshow/78580957.cms||Neha Madaan
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||OFB corporatisation trapped in Industrial Disputes Act||NAGPUR: The talks held before the Central Labour Commission on Friday between representatives of unions and ministry of defence are expected to put on hold both government’s move to corporatize the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and the indefinite strike planned from October 12. It has now been decided that meetings will be held between unions, secretary, defence production, and expert group of ministers. A decision was also taken that till the conciliatory proceedings go on, the employer will also abide by the section 33(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. This means it cannot go-ahead with any move that is disputed. In turn, the unions too will not proceed on the strike. TOI has a copy of the meeting’s minutes. There were concerns that the strike may hamper the country’s defence production at a time when there is tension along the Chinese front. The Department of Defence Production had written to the unions saying that the strike was illegal, to which the unions had responded. There are 41 ordnance factories across the country engaged in making a wide range of products from bullets to howitzers. Governed by OFB, the factories are currently a government department. There are plans to convert it into a public corporation which is expected to improve its functioning. Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, said that section 33 (1) means if the unions cannot strike work, even the employer — the department of defence production in this case — cannot go ahead with any move which is disputed. The disputed matter in this case is corporatisation of the OFB. C Srikumar, general secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation, said that corporatisation has now become a matter of industrial dispute jurisprudence. “If the direct talks fail, then a failure report will have to be generated. After that the matter has to be referred for further adjudication. Till then, both corporatisation and strike against corporatisation will have to wait,” said Srikumar. It is expected that the entire process will put corporatisation on hold for a substantial time. In the meeting which was held through videoconferencing, unions said the ministry of defence had unilaterally decided to corporatize the OFB despite the assurances given by various defence ministers and secretaries. The unions argued that corporatisation will affect the service conditions of thousands of workers, in turn impacting the defence production. The defence ministry representatives said corporatisation does not mean privatization and the interests of employees will be safeguarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ofb-corporatisation-trapped-in-industrial-disputes-act/articleshow/78582269.cms||Shishir Arya
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Teen tutor beaten to death over relationship with girl in Delhi||NEW DELHI: An 18-year old tutor was thrashed to death by a group of youths in northwest Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar on Wednesday night. Prima facie the cause of the altercation was the teen’s relationship with the girl which her family found untenable. On Wednesday evening, some of the girl’s relatives met the boy and set upon him with sticks and rods. When he fell unconscious, he was taken to hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. The hospital informed police about the case. Since the accused and the victim belong to two different communities, additional police force was deployed in the locality to prevent things from degenerating into a law and order crisis. Preliminary investigations revealed that the teenager, Rahul Rajput, was friendly with a girl in the neighbourhood against the wishes of her family members. Police said the group that attacked the boy included the brother of the girl, Mohammad Raj, 20, a relative Manwar Hussain, 20, and three of their friends, who are minors. The five have been apprehended for the murder. According to the cops, Rajput was pursuing his studies from National Institute of Open Schooling while also tutoring children of the area in English. Vijayanta Arya, DCP (Northwest), said on Friday, “On Wednesday around midnight, we received a call from BJRM Hospital about a boy who was admitted in an unconscious condition and who had later died during treatment though he had no visible injury marks on his body. The doctor opined that rupturing of the spleen had caused the boy’s death. Based on the statement given by Rahul’s uncle, Dharampal, we registered a case for murder.” Recalling the incident, the father, Sanjay Rajput, said his son had been called by the group in the evening, who pretended to be enquiring about the English tuition classes. “The boys then hustled him to another lane and started thrashing him. The locals informed us and we rushed to help Rahul. There were at least seven men beating him,” said the father. “Around a month ago, the girl had called Rahul on the mobile phone and my wife had warned her not to call again. Both of them were studying at an NGO earlier and must have become friends then. She hadn’t ever come to our home when I was there.” He added that some people had informed him the girl had visited Rajput a day before the incident. Sanjay Rajput said his son had a fever and wanted to get himself tested for Covid. The girl had accompanied him for the testing, which proved negative. “Even if the girl’s family had an issue, my son was young and they could have slapped him or told us. But killing him could not have been the solution,” said the distraught father. “All I want is that the people who killed my son should never be released from jail. They have ruined my family and taken away my son. I don’t have anyone now to lose, but there are others like my son who shouldn’t suffer.” The family of the girl lives a few lanes away from the Rajputs. Sources claimed that the girl helped the cops identify the accused. “I had never seen the girl. I first saw her at the police station when the cops pointed her out to me,” said Sanjay Rajput.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-tutor-beaten-to-death-over-relationship-with-girl/articleshow/78582308.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nashik||No new trains for Bhusawal divn till 2024||Nashik: Central Railways (CR) general manager Sanjeev Mittal on Friday said the Bhusawal division is unlikely to see the start of any new train before the year 2024 because operations has crossed the saturation point and critical projects like expansion of infrastructure are likely to be completed by then. “The current infrastructure was overburdened with the running of existing trains. We have enough time only to carry out maintenance of the tracks and running an additional train would be like compromising with safety,” Mittal said, while speaking to reports on the sidelines of the passing out parade of course-VI of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) from Zonal Training Institute (ZTI). He said the railways has set a deadline of 2024 to revamp the system across the country and Central Railways is part of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-new-trains-for-bhusawal-divn-till-2024/articleshow/78578662.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||4 Covid deaths in Yavatmal & Akola, 2 in Wardha||WARDHA: A 65-year-old man from Samudrapur and a 70-year-old woman from Arvi died due to coronavirus during treatment on Friday. Also, 69 new patients were detected in the day while 96 got discharged after recovery. The Covid toll has reached 156 after the two casualties on Friday. Out of 594 reports received on Friday, 69 (including 23 women) were positive, taking the total Covid cases in the district to 5,297. The new cases detected are Wardha 46, Hinganghat 6, Ashti 5, Karanja 4, Deoli and Selu 3 each, Arvi and Samudrapur 1 each. As on date, 3,182 patients have defeated coronavirus, while 1,959 patients are undergoing treatment. YAVATMAL: The district reported four Covid deaths on Friday, while 96 new patients were detected in the day and 44 discharged. Of the four deaths, two are from Yavatmal city while two are from Darwha. According to ZP health department sources, 611 patients are under treatment. A total of 9,016 Covid patients have been recorded in the district so far, whereas 7,808 got recovered and discharged. AMRAVATI: As many as 279 patients won their battle against coronavirus on Friday even as 188 new patients walked into Covid Hospital for treatment. This took the recoveries to 12,617 for a rate of 85.78% while the caseload swelled to 14,712. According to a civil surgeon office report, the day also saw two deaths that took the toll to 326. Both the deceased were males aged 50 and 37 from Ganpatinagar and Ankita Vihar localities of the city. This left 1,769 active cases that included 711 under treatment in city, nine in Nagpur and 1,049 in home isolation. AKOLA: Only 19 new patients were detected in a day in Akola district, which is lowest in last many days. Total 85 patients recovered in the day and were discharged. However, four deaths on Friday increased worries for Akola. All four deceased were men between 35 and 77 years of age from different parts of the district. They were admitted between September 23 and October 7. With this, Akola’s toll reached 253. Total cases in Akola are 7,760, with 6,780 of them recovered. Now, 727 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: Total 52 new Covid cases were reported in the district while 165 defeated Covid-19 on Friday. Figure of recoveries was higher than new cases for 10th consecutive day. No death was reported on October 9. The district has 84.76% beds vacant in Covid hospitals. Now, Gondia has 7,753 cases, with 6,933 of them recovered, and 106 deaths. Total 714 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: Apart from 28 new cases and 28 recoveries, Washim reported 4 deaths in a day on Friday. These deaths had happened earlier in the month but were reported on Friday. Due to these four deaths, Washim’s Covid-19 toll surpassed 100-mark and reached 102. The district has total 4,896 cases, 4,108 recoveries, and 661 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: The district reported 125 new cases of Covid-19 in a day on October 9. This took total caseload of Gadchiroli to 3,743. Out of these, 2,765 have recovered which hints at 74% recovery rate. With no death reported in a day, Gadchiroli’s toll is unchanged at 21, while 957 patients are under treatment here. BULDHANA: Out of 397 reports received in a day, 55 tested positive for Covid-19 in Buldhana taking the caseload of district to 7,969. Total 181 patients recovered in the day, which took recovery count to 7,240. A 72-year-old man from Nandura tehsil died during treatment which took Buldhana’s toll to 105. With this, total 624 patients are under treatment in the district. BHANDARA: The district has seen 106 new cases, 153 recoveries and 2 deaths on Friday. This took the district’s caseload to 6,590, with 4,986 recoveries and 155 deaths. The district now has 1,449 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal-akola-2-in-wardha/articleshow/78582322.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 10, 2020||Madurai||HC issues norms on land survey, slams bribe culture||Madurai: Observing that it is very unfortunate that officials are demanding bribes even for doing their duties by forgetting the fact that they are paid salary by the government, the Madras high court has issued a series of guidelines with regard to survey of properties.The court was hearing a petition filed by Asaithambi, who sought to forbear the authorities from conducting repeated surveys of the property owned by him at Ponmeni village in Madurai district. There was a civil dispute between the petitioner and another person, Mahendran over the property.“We are now in the era of global digitalization and by use of advanced technology / machinery, the survey could be easily done, so as to bring the issue to a logical end with the satisfaction of both parties,” justice S Vaidyanathan observed. Hence, the judge directed the tahsildar to depute an honest surveyor to survey the said property in the presence of both the parties within two months.“Some of the surveyors think that they are inducted into the revenue department to accumulate wealth for themselves and not to generate revenue for the government,” the judge added. The judge issued guidelines to be followed by the authorities in respect of survey of the properties in future: On receipt of charges towards survey, the survey should be completed within 30 days, else the cost of application shall be returned to the parties along with recovery of a sum of Rs 2,500 from the salary of the concerned officials.The judge said that departmental proceedings should be initiated against such officials and they could be placed under suspension and even dismissed from service for their misconduct and dereliction of duty, so as to deprive their entire gratuity and terminal benefits under the head ‘moral turpitude’, for failing to perform their duties. Adverse remarks against such officers should be entered in their service register to deprive their future promotions and such officials shall be displaced to a non-sensitive post.The authorities shall make use of drone technology in order to conduct accurate surveys of the property, which will throw light with regard to encroachment on government lands, said the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-issues-norms-on-land-survey-slams-bribe-culture/articleshow/78583160.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 10, 2020||Pune||Two men steal Rs 4.4 lakh cash from ATM in Hinjewadi||Pune: Two persons opened the display panel of a cash dispensing unit of a public sector bank’s automated teller machine (ATM) in Hinjewadi using a duplicate key and stole Rs4.4 lakh, police said. “In the early hours of September 29, two men entered the ATM kiosk at Shivaji Chowk in Hinjewadi and began withdrawing money with the help of debit card. A few minutes later, the duo opened the display panel of the cash dispensing unit with a duplicate key and disconnected the internet connection of the machine so that the transactions could not be traced back to them,” sub-inspector AB Hingole of the Hinjewadi police explained. The officer said the theft came to light around two days ago, when the agency tasked with managing the bank’s ATM units recorded some fault in that particular cash dispensing machine. “We have got the details of the debit card used by the duo to withdraw the cash. We are working on some clues to crack the case at the earliest,” Hingole added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-men-steal-rs-4-4-lakh-cash-from-atm-in-hinjewadi/articleshow/78580972.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||Sand mining racket busted, 31 booked||Rajkot: An illegal sand mining racket was busted in Morsal village of Sayla taluka in Surendranagar on Thursday. Surendranagar local crime branch (LCB) along with the state mines and mineral department seized two earth movers and 16 dumpers worth Rs 3.40 crore and booked 31 persons for the crime. A team of officials from Surendranagar LCB, the state mines and mineral department and Surendranagar regional transport office (RTO) raided the bed of Bhogavo River where the illegal excavation of sand was allegedly under way. “When we raided the spot, four dumpers drove away from the spot. However, we managed to seize 16 dumpers and two earth movers. The RTO officials had accompanied us as the dumpers involved in the crime had no registration number plates,” said Deepak Dhol, inspector with Surendranagar LCB. Those booked included dumper owners and their associates.Also booked were the owners and drivers of the earth movers — Jaga Jograna, Sangram Ratakalia, Bijal Morsal and Ajay Dhoralia. “We are yet to assess the worth of illegally excavated sand. However, it is believed that it may run into crores of Rupees,” said an official from the state mines and mineral department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sand-mining-racket-busted-31-booked/articleshow/78581294.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||T'gana: Jolt to Congress as 2 leaders join TRS in run-up to Dubbak poll||HYDERABAD: On the day when the Election Commission issued notification inviting nominations for Dubbak by-poll, TRS gave a jolt to Congress by wooing two local leaders K Venkat Narasimha Reddy and B Manohar Rao into its fold. While Narasimha Reddy was the front runner for Congress from Dubbak, Manohar Rao was a senior party leader who had served as the constituency in-charge in 2008. Both the leaders have joined TRS along with a large number of their followers. The attack by TRS came in less than four days after Congress shocked the ruling party by announcing the name of Cheruku Srinivas Reddy as its candidate when the local leader shifted loyalties for the Dubbak by-polls. While the TRS, Congress and BJP, the three main political parties, are claiming that they are seeing cadre defecting in the run up to the elections, Srinivas, Narasimha Reddy and Manohar have been the biggest turncoats yet. Welcoming Narasimha Reddy and Manohar, state finance minister T Harish Rao charged Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy of insulting women by casting doubts over Solipeta Sujatha’s abilities to continue the development works in the constituency. “Top Congress leaders who are now in Dubbak will return to Hyderabad once the election is over. But TRS leaders Sujatha, Venkat Narasimha Reddy, Manohar Rao and myself will always be available for the people of Dubbak. Do you want to vote for people who will leave you after polls or those who would stay with you even after the by-election,” Harish Rao asked? In a counter-attack, Congress MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy said that people know of the regard Uttam Reddy and Congress gives to the women. “The post of home minister was given to Sabitha Reddy. There were nearly half a dozen women ministers in the previous Congress government. The first term of TRS government did not have a single woman representative, while they were included in the second term only after pressure exerted by Congress and women’s organisation on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao,” Jayaprakash Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jolt-to-cong-as-2-leaders-join-trs-in-run-up-to-dubbak-poll/articleshow/78582328.cms||Roushan Ali
October 10, 2020||Madurai||Farmers up against conducting online grievance meeting||Madurai: Farmers have opposed the district administration’s move to conduct the farmers’ grievance meet online. The last time the meet was held in the district was around seven months back.On Thursday, the district administration announced that the meeting would be held online on Tuesday (October 13) and arrangements would be made for farmers to participate from the offices of the assistant director of agriculture in each block.“I fail to see why a meeting which can be conducted following Covid-19 prevention norms cannot be held even as Assembly and Parliament sessions are held,” said Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers Association president N Palanichamy, adding that places of commercial activities were flouting norms dangerously but the officials did not seem to bother about it.“We know what the result would be if we have to tell agriculture officials our queries and they in turn tell officials who are with the collector and then get an answer,” he said. “Although farmers can join individually with their own devices, less than 10% of the regular attendees have smartphones or computers.”“There are many things to be discussed like the PM Kisan scheme as we still know that key people behind the crime haven’t been booked, inferior quality of fertilizers and lack of availability of seeds among others and all these can be done only in person,” he added.In a petition sent to district collector Dr T G Vinay, Periyar-Vaigai planning committee member G Murugan said they had submitted petitions to the PWD and agriculture department officials, but they had not been heeded to. “Virtual meet would be a waste of time and would not be productive. Hence, this meeting should be conducted offline,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-up-against-conducting-online-grievance-meeting/articleshow/78583177.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||No event, idol installation on roads during festivals: UP government||LUCKNOW: Fearing the advent of a second wave of Covid-19 in the festive season, the state government has issued a detailed advisory on organising public events. This year, no celebrations or installation of idols will be permitted on roads and crossings while no event will be allowed in containment areas. All venues for social, cultural and religious events will have to have an isolation room or area where, if a person is suspected of having Covid-19, they will be kept there till examined by a health team. In a detailed notice issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari, directions have been issued to all district administrations, divisions and police department to ensure that Covid protocols are followed from October to December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-event-idol-installation-on-roads-during-festivals-govt/articleshow/78583507.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 10, 2020||Surat||Gujarat’s shore a treasure for new birds discovery||SURAT: Pull out your binoculars and SLRs to venture into the wild. For, bird lovers can chance upon sighting winged species never seen before in Gujarat. If vultures are diminishing and the spectacular Great Indian Bustard is on the verge of extinction, as many as 22 new species of birds have been recorded in the state that is famed for its flamingoes that have made several cities and villages their permanent homes. What’s more exciting? Out of the 22 new birds, three were recorded for the first time in India. These were Namaqua Dove, Ehrenberg’s Redstart and European Honey Buzzard. One of the birds - yellow-breasted bunting - that was documented with photographs from Pariej near Kheda in 2019 - is the first record in the entire western India in nearly 115 years, said renowned ornithologist Prasad Ganpule. This is now listed as ‘critically endangered.’ Such interesting details about new birds have been revealed in the updated checklist for the birds of Gujarat - ‘Second update to the Gujarat checklist: March 2020’ paper written by Ganpule. This has also been published in ‘Flamingo Gujarat,’ a bulletin of Gujarat birds brought out by The Bird Conservation Society, Gujarat (BCSG). Out of the 22 new species, as many as 11 were reported from Saurashtra and Kutch. The checklist prepared in 2014 was last updated in December 2017 when there were 583 specices in Gujarat. Now, the total number of species in the state has increased to 609 which includes 22 new records sighted since then,” Ganpule told TOI. The checklist will help bird watchers, forest department and conservationists to design strategies for their protection and conservation based on the current status and distribution of these birds. Ashok Mashru, member of BCSG’s executive committee, said, “The bird watching community is growing in Gujarat and they are out in the field during all seasons. This has helped in more sightings and adding new records. Moreover, there are much better cameras available which give high quality photographs to identify birds correctly.” Experts say that the checklist is sure to increase as the 1,600 km long coastline is yet to be explored fully. The Arabian Sea can have many pelagic birds, which are those sea birds that spend maximum time away from the mainland and on the ocean (e.g. albatross). These birds spend time on the ground only while nesting. “Visiting the coastal areas requires several permissions due to security reasons, but we did embark on some trips off the coast two years ago. Chances are high of finding new birds,” said Uday Vora, an ardent bird watcher who retired as chief conservator of forests, Gujarat. Once pelagic birds are recorded, it can be expanded into a properly designed activity network involving fishermen and coastal community who can be benefitted commercially too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarats-shore-a-treasure-for-new-birds-discovery/articleshow/78581000.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Madurai||Road fatalities dip by 24% in rural Madurai||Madurai: Number of deaths due to road accidents in Madurai rural police limit have come down by 24% till September this year, compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Police say that the steep fall in the number of deaths was due to the lockdown and strict enforcement of traffic rules.Totally 150 people have died in road accidents this year till the end of September, compared to 198 in the corresponding period last year. This year, 975 accidents have been reported, as against 1,273 accidents last year in the first nine months. In Madurai district police limit, while the average road fatality in a month is anywhere between 15-20, road deaths came down to just two in April this year. Totally 15 deaths were recorded in March and 10 in May, according to the district police data. When the lockdown was eased gradually, the number of accidents and deaths started increasing proportionally. June and July months recorded 20 road deaths each, while 29 deaths were reported in September. Madurai district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar said that steps are being taken to bring down accidents. Vehicle check is being conducted frequently during peak times. “Police attached with patrol vehicles have been informed that responsibility will be fixed on them if an accident takes place involving a stationary vehicle in their respective areas,” he said.Additional deputy superintendent of police (ADSP) S Vanitha said that reason behind the sudden spurt of accidents could be because people would have lost touch on their vehicles during the lockdown. Quite a few incidents were due to slippery road when the district witnessed rain, she said.With more efforts underway to prevent accidents, road deaths will come down in coming months, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/road-fatalities-dip-by-24-in-rural-madurai/articleshow/78583169.cms||V Devanathan
October 10, 2020||Madurai||Pon is frustrated as he is sidelined, says minister||Tuticorin: Frustration over neglected by the BJP and people in his constituency is forcing former Union minister and senior BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan make unnecessary comments on the alliance for the 2021 assembly elections, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju, said. Interacting with reporters at Kalugumalai in Tuticorin district on Friday, Raju was responding to a question on Radhakrishnan’s comment that BJP’s alliance with the AIADMK was for the general election in 2019 and they could form an alliance with the AIADMK or DMK or lead and alliance or go it alone in the forthcoming elections. “The party high command or state president can talk about the alliance. Murugan is the president of that party in Tamil Nadu. He has issued a statement that their alliance with AIADMK is strong, after Radhakrishnan made the remark,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pon-is-frustrated-as-he-is-sidelined-says-minister/articleshow/78583170.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Corporation to hold camps for street vendors||NEW DELHI: To stop illegal tehbazaris, North Delhi Municipal Corporation plans to hold camps in different areas under its jurisdiction wherein people can get their names enrolled in municipal records after getting mutation done, paying the necessary fees and submitting all documents. Officials said while no new tehbazari was allowed to be sanctioned after 2007, as per a Supreme Court order, people who got these street hawking allotted before 2007 and later transferred to family members, friends or other persons for some reasons need to get the changes done in municipal records. Or else these vendors will be considered illegal. “There has been a long requirement for systematising the tehbazari system. While a policy in this regard is yet to be finalised, we are giving opportunity to those who got tehbazari from another person (who obtained it before 2007) to get them transferred on their names officially after paying the mutation fees. They can get their structure legalised so that they won’t live under the fear of losing their ownership or facing other action,” said the leader of House Yogesh Verma. The camp will start from next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-to-hold-camps-for-street-vendors/articleshow/78582334.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Pune||PM Narendra Modi to give property cards online to Puneite, 5 others||PUNE: Vishwanath Mujumale from Kondhanpur, a village in the Khadakwasla assembly constituency, is among the six citizens in the country who will receive their property cards via video-conferencing from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. The other five are from Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Modi will also interact with each of them for three minutes. The state had initiated a drone survey for the scheme to issue property cards which has been replicated in the country. The scheme encompasses a significant land ownership reform that could improve finances for rural property owners, and end property disputes that have gone on for years, sometimes decades. The land in rural ‘abadi’ areas, used for residential purpose, has been demarcated using the latest survey methods with help from the ministry of panchayati raj, states’ revenue departments and the Survey of India. “The objective of this scheme is to provide an integrated asset verification solution for rural India,” state revenue officials said. Title deeds can be leveraged by their holders as financial assets for loans. There will be a record of properties in the rural areas. As of now, such records do not exist in most places. Local revenue officials and those from other allied departments have drawn up a record of the ownership in the presence of the villagers. Maharashtra settlement commissionerate officials, who carried out the drone surveys and demarcated the land ownership, said due to the absence of any of ownership records or demarcation of ‘abadi’ land, there were disputes over possession, drainage, or boundaries. The litigants go to court for settlement which takes long and sometimes transcends generations. “Such mapping and delivery of property cards will reduce court proceedings,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pm-to-give-property-cards-online-to-puneite-5-others/articleshow/78580982.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||OFB corporatisation trapped in Industrial Disputes Act||Nagpur: The talks held before the Central Labour Commission on Friday between representatives of unions and ministry of defence are expected to put on hold both government’s move to corporatize the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and the indefinite strike planned from October 12. It has now been decided that meetings will be held between unions, secretary, defence production, and expert group of ministers. A decision was also taken that till the conciliatory proceedings go on, the employer will also abide by the section 33(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. This means it cannot go-ahead with any move that is disputed. In turn, the unions too will not proceed on the strike. TOI has a copy of the meeting’s minutes. There were concerns that the strike may hamper the country’s defence production at a time when there is tension along the Chinese front. The Department of Defence Production had written to the unions saying that the strike was illegal, to which the unions had responded. There are 41 ordnance factories across the country engaged in making a wide range of products from bullets to howitzers. Governed by OFB, the factories are currently a government department. There are plans to convert it into a public corporation which is expected to improve its functioning. Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, said that section 33 (1) means if the unions cannot strike work, even the employer — the department of defence production in this case — cannot go ahead with any move which is disputed. The disputed matter in this case is corporatisation of the OFB. C Srikumar, general secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation, said that corporatisation has now become a matter of industrial dispute jurisprudence. “If the direct talks fail, then a failure report will have to be generated. After that the matter has to be referred for further adjudication. Till then, both corporatisation and strike against corporatisation will have to wait,” said Srikumar. It is expected that the entire process will put corporatisation on hold for a substantial time. In the meeting which was held through videoconferencing, unions said the ministry of defence had unilaterally decided to corporatize the OFB despite the assurances given by various defence ministers and secretaries. The unions argued that corporatisation will affect the service conditions of thousands of workers, in turn impacting the defence production. The defence ministry representatives said corporatisation does not mean privatization and the interests of employees will be safeguarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ofb-corporatisation-trapped-in-industrial-disputes-act/articleshow/78583141.cms||Shishir Arya
October 10, 2020||Business||Interest rates on home loans above Rs 30 lakh likely to drop||Interest rates on home loans above Rs 30 lakh will become cheaper, with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) making it less expensive for banks and finance companies to extend big-ticket home loans. The biggest reduction is expected in home loans of over Rs 75 lakh. At present, home loan rates are linked to loan size. Rates are lowest for loans up to Rs 30 lakh and rise with the size of the loan. For example, State Bank of India charges 7% on loan up to Rs 30 lakh and 7.25% on loan between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 75 lakh. The interest rates on loan above Rs 75 lakh is 7.35%. Similarly, Punjab National Bank has kept it at 7.15%, 7.25% and 7.30% to 7.40% in the three slabs of loans. HDFC Limited also charges differential rates of 6.95% on loan up to Rs 30 lakh and 7.05% on above that. Most of the large lenders charge 5 basis points lower where there is a woman borrower involved. The progressive increase in rates is because of capital requirements that rise with the size of the loan. At present, a bank has to maintain capital only 35% of the prescribed capital for home loans up to Rs 30 lakh. It is 50% where the loan size is between Rs 30 lakh and Rs 75 lakh and 75% for loans over Rs 75 lakh. Unlike an unsecured personal loan, which requires bank to maintain 100% of the prescribed capital, lenders are allowed to have lower capital for home loans as they are considered safe because of the security. Besides loan size, capital requirements also depend on the loan amount in comparison to the value of the property, which is also called the loan-to-value (LTV). If the homebuyer brings 20% of the property value, as his own contribution, and borrows the remaining 80%, the capital requirement for the bank is less and this gets passed on to the customer in the form of lower rates. In its credit policy on Friday, the RBI said that henceforth up to March 2022, the capital requirement will depend on only LTV and not on the loan size. “Loans shall attract a risk weight of 35% where LTV is less than or equal to 80%, and risk weight of 50% where LTV is more than 80% but less than or equal to 90%.” A senior banker said that the interest rates on big-ticket size home loans are likely to align with the lowest home loan rates, which are currently at around 7%. Capital-starved public sector banks, in particular, would be keen to extend big-ticket loans as the cost of servicing them is lower in comparison to small size loans. Watch Interest rates on home loans above Rs 30 lakh likely to go down||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/interest-rates-on-home-loans-above-rs-30-lakh-likely-to-drop/articleshow/78583872.cms||Prabhakar Sinha
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Senior inspector, 6 others booked for parading minors semi-naked||Nagpur: Seven personnel of Jaripatka police station, including senior inspector Khushal Tijare, have been booked under Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, for allegedly parading five minors in semi-naked condition last month. If proven, the charges can lead to imprisonment up to even 10 years and fine up to Rs five lakh. City police chief Amitesh Kumar has assigned the crime branch investigation into the case. Apart from Tijare, offences under sections 74 (exposing the identity of minors) and 75 (assaulting, abusing minors) of the JJ Act have been registered against sub-inspector Vijay Dhumal, naik police constables Laxman Chaure, Mukesh Yadav, Roshan Tiwari, Daga and Sushil Mahajan at Jaripatka police station. Tijare is due for retirement in October end. Complaint was filed by ACP Parshuram Karyakarta who the CP had appointed to conduct an inquiry immediately after learning about the incident. Videos of the five minors being paraded on Jaripatka cement road in underwear and without mask had gone viral on social media. The cops were also seen caning the minors whose arms were tied with ropes. It is learnt, the CP on the same day had warned all officers on an official social media group against repeating such actions. Kumar said the inquiry revealed the concerned personnel were at fault, following which offence was registered. “Necessary administrative action would follow,” he said while labelling the action of Jaripatka police as “unfortunate” and “unprofessional’. Jaripatka police had rounded up the five minors on September 23 in connection with an armed robbery at a bar on the previous day. A video of the minors creating ruckus at the bar had also gone viral. After picking up the minors, having several past records, Jaripatka police allegedly thrashed them in the custody before parading them in front of the bar they had robbed. The Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) too had taken cognisance of the incident. After recording statement of the minors, the JJB had sent them for medical examination as they complained of torture in police custody. Following intervention of the JJB, family members of three minors had lodged complaints against the cops at Jaripatka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/senior-inspector-6-others-booked-for-parading-minors-semi-naked/articleshow/78582336.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 10, 2020||Madurai||10% of 9.8L women screened in 8 yrs diagnosed with breast cancer||Madurai: Doctors and health officials in Madurai district stressed the importance of early screening of the disease to ensure speedy treatment and full recovery, as part of World Breast Cancer awareness month which is being as observed as Pinktober. Woman above 30 years of age can approach the nearest Primary Health Centre (PHC) or government hospital for breast cancer screening.According to data from the district health department, as many as 9,75,337 women have been screened for breast cancer since 2012 in the district. While 10,322 out of them, roughly 10%, were diagnosed with breast cancer, 474 women are currently undergoing treatment. “In every block, at all PHCs and government hospitals, screening for breast cancer is being done. At the ground level, anganwadi workers are also creating awareness. The screening is being done for both healthcare workers and general public. A ‘pink corner’ with a board carrying detailed information about breast cancer is also being set up at all PHCs to create awareness,” said Dr KV Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services, Madurai.Private hospitals are also creating awareness about breast cancer for Pinktober with various campaigns. Dr BKC Mohan Prasad, surgical oncologist, urged the public to be aware, educate themselves and come forward for screening for breast cancer without fear. “It must be noted that 90% of lumps in the breast are not cancerous. There are also often various misconceptions that breast cancer cannot be cured without removing the breast or that treatment leads to loss of hair etc. We now have advanced technology and if the cancer is detected early the cancerous lump can be removed without need for removal of the breast,” he said.He added that regular screening every year is recommended for women above 40 years of age if their close relative was diagnosed with breast cancer and in general for women above 50 years of age. Symptomatic women, however, should consult a doctor immediately for screening. “The cost of treatment is also nothing to be feared. The treatment is available in government facilities for free and is covered by various health insurance schemes,” said Dr Mohan Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/10-of-9-8l-women-screened-in-8-yrs-diagnosed-with-breast-cancer/articleshow/78583183.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Cops crackdown on rule breakers, book 122 people||Nashik: As many as 122 people were booked by the Nashik city police on Thursday under various sections of the Bombay Police Act for failing to abide by the rules applicable in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey said that the action has been initiated after promulgating Section 144 of the CrPC in the city. Of the 122 people, four were booked for not maintaining social distancing, 11 were booked for making rush in different shops while 107 were slapped with fine for not wearing face masks in public places. All of them were booked under Section 110/117 of the Bombay Police Act . Pandey said that earlier this month, police had promulgated Section 144 of the CrPC across the city on the request of NMC Commissioner Kailash Jadhav in view of the rising rush of people in market places. Subsequently, Pandey instructed officials of all police stations to take action against people who fail to abide by the rules, take them to police station, register an offence and then take them to the court. Pandey also said that every police personnel would get Rs 100 per case if the person concerned is fined by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-crackdown-on-rule-breakers-book-122-people/articleshow/78583182.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 10, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Protests rage as 19-year-old is acquitted of rape, murder of girl||MADURAI: Expressing shock over the acquittal of a 19-year-old youth of rape and murder charges in Dindigul district, hairdressers across the state downed their shutters on Friday seeking justice for the 12-year-old girl, who belonged to their community. Congress MP Jothimani and PMK leader Ramadoss on Friday asked the state government to go for an appeal against the verdict. The 12-year-old girl was found dead in her house on April 16, 2019. Postmortem revealed that the girl was raped and murdered, following which the case was resgistered under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code and 5(m) (penetrative sexual assault on a child) read with 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Police arrested the 17-year-old boy from the locality for committing the crime and lodged him in a home for children in conflict with the law. The case was tried at the fast track mahila court in Dindigul in which 35 witnesses were examined. On Tuesday, sessions judge S Purushothaman acquitted the accused citing failure by the prosecution to prove charges against the accused beyond reasonable doubts. While a couple of key witnesses had turned hostile, the judge also categorically pointed out flaws in the investigation and evidences presented by the prosecution that had resulted in the acquittal. The judge observed that this is despite autopsy report proving that the girl had been raped and murdered. Agitated over the verdict, AIDWA members protested at the court. On Friday, Dindigul district secretary of the women’s body Rani said that advocates have come forward to conduct the case free of cost when they go for an appeal in the Madras high court. “We want the police to properly present the case before the court and ensure that the girl gets justice,” she said. Karur MP Jothimani on Friday submitted a representation to the Dindigul collector asking the government to appeal against the verdict. She held the police responsible for the acquittal and accused the state government of showing slackness in handling such heinous crimes and recalled instances such as the Pollachi rape case where the victims are yet to get justice. Expressing shock, PMK founder Ramadoss in a tweet, appealed to the government to appeal the verdict and get justice for the girl. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protests-rage-as-19-year-old-is-acquitted-of-rape-murder-of-girl/articleshow/78583181.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Hi-tech surveillance to curb illegal mining||LUCKNOW: To check illegal mining, the government has initiated a slew of surveillance measures including installation of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) cameras on all major routes through which transportation of minerals takes place. RFID technology uses radio waves to read and capture information stored on a tag attached to an object—mining vehicles in this case. In an order issued to all district magistrates on October 1, director, mining and geology, Roshan Jacob said steps to curb illegal mining should be put in place on priority. She sought installation of bullet varifocal camera (camera having lens with variable focal length in which the focus changes with variation in focal length and magnification) and Automatic Number-Plate Recognition camera that uses optical character recognition on images to read registration plates to create vehicle location data. Jacob has also directed installation of Internet Protocol (IP) camera, a digital video camera that receives control data and sends image data via IP network. She said the IP camera could be installed at key points like police check posts, and integrated with a command centre. The order said mini-command centres be constituted in all district headquarters linked with the pan-tilt-zoom camera for surveillance. The department has also pitched for round-the-clock surveillance to keep tabs on the movement of vehicles used for transportation of minerals. The department has roped in UPDESCO for installation of mine gates and check gates to keep a close watch on illegal mining. The move comes two days after Jacob conducted a surprise inspection of UP-Madhya Pradesh border in Banda and found some vehicles loaded with minerals passing through without requisite papers. Some vehicles carrying minerals illegally were seized and FIR lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hi-tech-surveillance-to-curb-illegal-mining/articleshow/78583510.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 10, 2020||Madurai||High intensity rain, fewer rainy days the trend in Madurai now||Madurai: Madurai is experiencing a change in rainfall pattern with the average rainfall of over 40 days in previous years being received in less than ten days this year. This was due to high intensity rainfall on certain days, as on October 6 when the city received 11% of its annual rainfall of 800mm to 850 mm in about five hours.Environmental engineer from the centre for urban water resources (CURE), Dhan Foundation, S Lokesh said that it could not be determined if this was due to change in weather pattern or as a result of the impact of climate change. “On October 6 this year, the district received 90 mm of rainfall between 5pm to 10pm, according to the rain gauge at the Madurai Airport (source: Regional Meteorological Centre) ,” he said.Lokesh added that we were experiencing the shrinking of rainy days from the average of 40 days to less than 10 days for the past five years. The logic is that when the number of days increases, it facilitates infiltration so that the groundwater level goes up. It is low intensity rainfall that really benefits the groundwater table and biodiversity.However, when there is high intensity rainfall, it is important that rainwater harvesting structures including storm water drains and tanks are kept ready to collect runoff water, which can help in recharging groundwater level. The steps taken by the Madurai corporation to desilt the water bodies, supply channels and storm water drains have been beneficial. Even during high intensity rainfall, many tanks in the city like the Vandiyur tank, Sellur Tank, Milakaranai tank,ponds in Iravathanallur, Othakadai were able to hold water. Retired PWD engineer S Suthanthira Amalraj, said that it is a fact that the rainy days are decreasing, but the rainfall is intense. Adaptation to the present rainfall pattern is a must to benefit from it. Rainwater harvesting structures were a must to store runoff water. Otherwise intense rainfall could lead to flooding. “It is not clear if the climate change alone is the cause, it is unusual and I have not seen such rain so early in the year to be so intense in the last decade,” he said. Usually, the northeast monsoon begins between October 10 and 15, but this rain is advanced and it is crucial that it rains in the last three months of the year for tanks to fill up, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-intensity-rain-fewer-rainy-days-the-trend-in-madurai-now/articleshow/78583180.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||No Covid death in Chanda after 37 days||Chandrapur: The district witnessed no Covid death on Friday after 37 days and the toll remained at 180. It was on September 1 when no Covid death was registered in the district. The total Covid casualties in the district include 171 from Chandrapur, three from Gadchiroli, three from Yavatmal and one each from Bhandara, Buldhana and Telangana. Meanwhile, 141 new Covid patients were detected during the day taking the total to 11,764. Discharge of 69 patients raised the total recoveries to 8,436, leaving 3,184 under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-covid-death-in-chanda-after-37-days/articleshow/78582339.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lockdown cheer: 37% dip in UP road deaths||LUCKNOW: Road accidents and resultant casualties witnessed a sharp dip in Uttar Pradesh this year, thanks to Covid-induced lockdown. Between April and August, the accident rate fell dramatically by 41% while deaths came down by 37% compared to last year. However, chief minister Yogi Adityanath acknowledged it will be a challenge to keep the figures down next year too. In a review of UP State Road Safety Council on Friday, he raised several concerns, including effective traffic enforcement to keep the fatality count down, saying “this come out of a sense of durbhavna rather than sadbhavna”. He pointed out that movement of overloaded vehicles was continuing due to the culture of vasooli (extortion). “Before we launch a crackdown, we must begin a sensitisation drive. It’s necessary to create awareness and challans are not the solution. Put up creative hoardings to drive home the message, not faces of politicians which defeat the purpose,” the CM told officials. He directed officials to kickstart an awareness programme throughout the state through hoardings and public address systems. He asked the information department to work closely with the transport department to address drunk driving, talking on cell phones while driving, over-speeding and driving on the wrong side. “The campaign should take place at every level, even in schools. Create master trainers at each level,” the CM said. He also said, a special drive should be carried out over the next week, before schools reopen to check fitness of vehicles. The CM also emphasised on women’s security, citing cases on roadways buses. Highlighting causes that trigger accidents, the CM said, road engineering must be factored in while laying the tarmac, citing Yamuna Expressway where clocked several accidents raising questions over road engineering. “Ensure there are no roadside encroachments. If no underpasses are provided, villagers will break barriers to cross roads,” he said. The CM also expressed dissatisfaction with the progress of the Smart City project, saying local bodies were not serious about implementation of the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lockdown-cheer-37-dip-in-up-road-deaths/articleshow/78583508.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 10, 2020||Pune||The Starry Night’s swirls bind van Gogh to displaced kids||PUNE: Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh lives in the imagination of children deprived of formal schooling in rural Kolhapur. The Starry Night, one of his most famous creations, dominated by a moon- and star-filled night sky, is their favourite. The children are from families displaced by floods and dam construction in Dhakale, Golivane, Sonarli, and Mangaonwadi hamlets. They have taken to the Dutch master’s style and come up with their own interpretations after volunteers from Insight Walk, an Ichalkaranji-based NGO, showed them his paintings. Some have come up with their own interpretations of the masterpiece, and a few have attempted to re-create van Gogh’s self-portrait painted in the year 1889. Founder Saket Jain said, “We introduced the kids, who are part of our after-school intervention programme, to van Gogh’s paintings in the impasto style, but gave them the freedom to explore.” The NGO runs the after-school skills programme at four centres. The impasto style in The Starry Night is a technique where oil paints are laid on a canvas in a manner where the texture of the brush or the painting knife is clearly visible in layers. “They have painted animals and birds in the impasto style, juxtaposing their surroundings with their vivid imagination,” Jain said. The kids’ paintings also reflect climate change, droughts and destructive floods. The NGO hires only Dalit and tribal women for the fellowships. They implement the project, teach painting and allied farming techniques. “Nearly all of them are school or college dropouts. Some are agricultural labourers. They were forced to quit education to provide for their families, while others were married early. The children see the women as role models,” he added. A community kitchen garden,that the children are engaged in, is designed like the famous painting, with seeds and vegetables. Jain said, “The garden was already there, but the kids and the fellows decided to make it look like the painting. It helped parents in the lockdown months. The authorities gave grain and vegetables, but the garden kept the community, mostly out-of-work farm and eatery workers, going with the essentials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/the-starry-nights-swirls-bind-van-gogh-to-displaced-kids/articleshow/78581020.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Day 2: NU scores zero as papers postponed due to server snag||Nagpur: Exposing tall claims made by the Nagpur University administration, the remote server developed a snag during the online exams on Friday. The problem couldn’t be rectified till evening, leading to postponement of all papers scheduled for the day. A circular by Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable to colleges mentioned that the remote server developed technical snag during the exams. Those who could not appear in the exams on Friday can give the papers on any Sunday or a suitable date, the note said. “Due to server problems, we have deferred all the papers slated on Friday. In the first shift, about 550 out of 3,500 to 4,000 students managed to complete their MCQ tests. Even they can appear for re-exam whenever it is conducted,” Sable told TOI. The university has come under fire from various quarters due to the exam fiasco which has put thousands of final year students in a quandary. For the second day in a row, students complained that NU helplines and its officials were not responding to their calls. “I received hundreds of calls from worried students since morning. NU administration has miserably failed to check the software and app before using it directly for exams. At least they should have thoroughly tested it. They are playing with the lives of thousands of students,” said MNS general secretary Hemant Gadkari. The first session was held smoothly. Trouble started during philosophy paper in the second phase of examinations. Students were unable to connect to the server. Same problem persisted in the third and fourth phases. Like Thursday, NU helplines were flooded with numerous calls from distressed students and also from their college teachers and principals. However, helplines too stopped responding as they too were unaware of what exactly happened. Students were left frustrated when even their teachers and principals didn’t pick up the calls. Many of them vent their ire on social media, while blaming the NU administration for playing with their lives. A senior NU official told TOI that they should have ideally opted for the Marathwada University pattern of simultaneously conducting online and offline exams on the same day to avoid such disasters. “If students face some difficulties like slow net connectivity, technical snag or server problem, they can immediately appear in offline exams at stipulated centres designated by the university. It will save them from harassment like what’s happening in NU,” he said. When MNS spoke with the BoEE director, he admitted the technical snag but offered a justification that even NU was not experienced in holding such online exams and therefore, all these problems were cropping up. “He assured that examinees wouldn’t be put at any loss. Besides NU, the government, and particularly education minister Uday Samant, should share the blame for this mess. They forced all traditional universities to conduct online exams, despite being fully aware of the fact that it was impossible to arrange it in such a short span,” said Gadkari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-2-nu-scores-zero-as-papers-postponed-due-to-server-snag/articleshow/78582364.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Loan fraud case: Raju’s firm paid Rs 22cr to ghost company||Hyderabad: The CBI investigation into the Rs 826 crore loan fraud case of rebel YSRC MP K Raghurama Krishnam Raju has revealed that one of the companies to which Rs 22 crore has been paid does not exist at the address it was registered. CBI in the FIR on October 6 said Sokeo Power Private Limited against which Rs 22 crore was adjusted was found to be non-existing. “The company has not filed any claim during the corporate insolvency resolution (CIR) process. This can be construed as illegal and non-disclosure by the company with respect to the alleged payment to Sokeo Power,” CBI said. The investigating agency said the company was not in the given address. “Had the dues been valid, the company would have filed its claim in the capacity of an operational creditor with the resolution professional in the CIR process,” it said. CBI investigations found that Rs 126 crore recoverable from a customer Tangedco was adjusted against the amount payable to various vendors and additionally Rs 177 crore recoverable from related parties were also adjusted against the amount payable to various parties for which there was no valid confirmation. The company submitted confirmations for 12 vendors to the tune of Rs 114 crore, but failed to submit the adjustment of balance sum of Rs 51 crore to them, including Sokeo. However, as per ministry of corporate affairs records, Sokeo Power is still active and has registered the address at KPHB. Ind-Barath Power Infra Ltd, owned by the MP, also failed to submit documents for adjustment of Rs 16 crore related to Sree Saastha Minerals Private Limited. The company claimed that it had taken unsecured loans from some parties, including Sokeo Power. It also claimed that the unsecured loans were adjusted with receivables from its holding company Ind-Bharat Power. The central bureau of investigation alleged that there was no proper record or documents to indicate the actual payments. In fact, the liability is still standing in the books of the holding company. This has resulted in paying unsecured loans in preference to secured lenders, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loan-fraud-case-rajus-firm-paid-rs-22cr-to-ghost-company/articleshow/78582371.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Young IAS officer dies of Covid-19||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: A 35-year-old IAS officer, who was currently posted as deputy secretary with the finance department in Tripura, passed away on Friday evening while being shifted to a super speciality hospital in Pune. He was under treatment for Covid-19. Authorities at the Pune hospital told TOI that the officer was being shifted from a private hospital in Aurangabad for treatment but had passed away by the time they reached. He was brought dead to the hospital, hospital administration said. The officer was from 2015 batch and hailed from Parbhani district. His batch mate and IPS officer Sandeep Ghuge said the officer did his graduation in BTech (food technology) from Parbhani, following which, he appeared for MPSC exams and went on to get selected as deputy collector. He then appeared for UPSC exam and went on to become an IAS with Tripura cadre. Owing to the lockdown, he could not meet his parents for the past few months and had taken 15-day leave to visit them. He reached his home in Parbhani last week, said Ghuge. During the stay, the officer went for a swim in a well in their farm. Thereafter, he fell ill and was found to have pneumatic infection. He was immediately admitted to a private hospital in Parbhani, but saw little improvement in his health condition. He was referred to Nanded, Ghuge said. In an attempt to get better treatment, he was brought to Aurangabad and considering his deteriorating health conditions, he was rushed to Pune on Friday but was declared brought dead by the hospital in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/young-ias-officer-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/78583188.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 10, 2020||Goa||No money to repair, don’t dig roads: Luizinho Faleiro||PANAJI: The state should not dig up existing roads or undertake infrastructure projects, such as new water and sewerage pipelines, until the government has sufficient money to complete the projects and repair the roads, Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro said. The Congress MLA lashed out at the PWD and the Goa Sewerage and Infrastructural Development Corporation for the poor quality of roads, not just in Navelim, but across the state. “The sewerage department should stop breaking roads for the next three years. When the government is bankrupt, when the coffers are empty, they should not break the roads unless and until they have the money to redo the roads,” he said. The former chief minister blamed the state government authorities for faulty engineering, pointing out that certain roads in Navelim had to be repaired 22 times. He also said that despite floating a tender 18 months earlier to hot mix the highway in Navelim, the work order has not been issued. The MLA further said that despite the new sewerage lines laid in Navelim, residents have not been given sewerage connections. “PWD engineers cannot repair our roads despite repeated attempts. For the last seven years, the sewerage department has been breaking roads, but till date they still can’t understand how to repair them,” he said. Faleiro has also lent his support to the ongoing agitation against coal transportation, widening of the national highway and the South Western Railway’s double-tracking project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-money-to-repair-dont-dig-roads-luizinho/articleshow/78583225.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi businessman uploads video about blackmail before killing self||NEW DELHI: The alleged suicide of northwest Delhi businessman Aman Baisla, who died after uploading a video on Facebook on September 29, has created a flutter on social media. With his friends and family starting a campaign for him on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, the hashtag, “Justice for Aman Baisla” was trending on Friday. Police said on Friday they had filed an FIR and investigations were under way. “The case against the accused name in the video by the deceased has been registered under Section 306 of Indian Penal Code related to abetment to suicide,” said Gaurav Sharma, DCP (Outer North). The cops also disclosed that they had questioned the people mentioned by Baisla in the video, which itself has been sent for forensic analysis. Before taking the extreme step in Sector 11, Rohini, 22-year-old Baisla uploaded a 35-minute video on Facebook, which later found its way to Instagram. The video titled 'The Last Truth' went viral on social media. In it, Baisla accused a Haryanvi singer and a woman friend of blackmail and harassment. He also alleged the woman had not returned the money he had loaned her. The video also had a reference to late actor Sushant Singh Rajput: “When SSR didn't get justice, how would I get it?” During preliminary questioning, the accused maintained that the woman’s father had invested Rs 5 lakh at 1% interest in Baisla’s business in 2018. The woman opted out of the business in 2019 and started working with another friend. The woman said problems began after this. According to his family, Baisla feared he would be framed in a fake case of rape by the woman. The family alleged the woman had borrowed Rs 2.5 lakh from the deceased some years ago and another Rs 5 lakh later. She recently asked him for Rs 10 lakh more, they claimed. The young man ran a business of supplying hotel amenities and toiletries. He left home for his workplace on September 29 but never returned. The family launched a frantic search and went to his office to find his body hanging there. Police received a call around 1am and the body was taken to a hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The postmortem was conducted the next day and Baisla's father filed a police complaint the same day accusing three people, including the woman, of being responsible for his son’s death. The father cited the content of the video uploaded on Facebook in the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bizman-uploads-video-about-blackmail-before-killing-self/articleshow/78582872.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Surat||Avoid gatherings for aarti, IMA suggests||Surat: With the state government banning garbas during Navratri and allowing only aarti with strict implementation of Covid-19 norms, the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Surat chapter has taken to social media asking residents to stay away gathering during aartis. IMA office-bearers have been circulating messages on the social media platform ‘I don’t support 200 people Navratri celebration and gathering at aarti. Still Covid not over’. The IMA stated that there was no point in allowing aarti at housing societies as it would only allow the people to gather at one place, violating the social distancing norms and resulting into the spread of the virus. Dr Parul Vadgama, immediate president of IMA (Surat) told TOI, “I don’t understand why the government has allowed aarti with gathering of upto 200 people. This is not going to serve the purpose and will create more problems for the people. It is our humble request to the residents to offer aarti in their houses and avoid gathering in the residential complexes and societies.”Dr Vadgama added, “It is a welcome move by the government for not allowing the sheri garba and commercial Navratri celebrations across the state.”Dr Vinesh Shah, medico-legal expert and senior office-bearrer of IMA said, “In a residential complex having more than 6,000 people, it would be difficult to hand-pick 200 people for aarti. When the Navratri celebrations have been put off, there is no need for allowing the people to gather for aarti.”Dr Chandresh Jardosh, IMA State president told TOI, “Aarti is not complete without the distribution of prasad. It is a religious customs and people will follow it when they are allowed to perform aarti in the open grounds. There are chances of people getting infected during the time of prasad distribution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/avoid-gatherings-for-aarti-ima-suggests/articleshow/78581046.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||Goan teen’s essay on rape grabs spotlight in Paris||PANAJI: At a time when the heinous Hathras incident has shocked the nation, a Goan girl’s essay on rape has been shortlisted by the Paris-based Youth & Political Club. Fifteen-year-old Malika D’Cunha essay was picked out of the 53 works contributed by students from various nations for the Youth and Political essay competition. Malika, a student at Mumbai’s Cathedral and John Cannon School, is collaborating with Society for Nutrition, Education and Health Action (SNEHA) for an in-depth study of violence against women. Her essay will be judged by a four-member jury, which includes former French president Nicolas Sarkozy. Malika is the daughter of Indian Navy Commodore Sanjay D’Cunha, who hails from Curtorim, and Genevieve, who hails from Assagao. Cmde D’Cunha is the former commanding officer of INS Mandovi and is presently stationed in Mumbai with the Western Naval command. “I think women get raped not because men want sexual pleasure but because they want to humiliate women,” said Malika. In her essay, she said rape takes away women’s right to safety and equality. As part of phase two of the competition, which is a knock-out phase, Malika has to find solutions to the social issue of rape. Working with SNEHA, which was started by Armida Fernandez, Malika is collecting inputs and trying to find ways to address violence against women. The Goan girl is competing against Danbi An from South Korea, Lucas Teixeira Lopes from Brazil, Ava Bergeaud-Marko from the UK, Aminath Shaha from the Maldives and Clement Goy from France. Her final report, which has to be submitted by October 17, will be judged by Sarkozy, president of the NGO, Innocence en Danger Homayra Sellier, acclaimed journalist Christine Ockrent and economics professor David Schulman. Every finalist needs to prepare a 10-minute presentation elaborating on how to solve the social issue they chose to address. “Rape is a serious issue, as every person has the right to remain safe. Many woman carry pepper sprays in their handbags so that they can escape from their hideous rapist. Men do not walk around with pepper sprays,” said Malika, who wants to become a lawyer. According to Youth & Political Club, three winners will be picked by the jury. They will gain access to a fund to efficiently launch their organisation or association to implement the theoretical solutions they have developed in their report. The first-place winner will receive a grant of 1,000 euros, whilst the first runner-up will receive a prize of 500 euros and the second runner up will be awarded 250 euros.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-teens-essay-on-rape-grabs-spotlight-in-paris/articleshow/78583186.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat becomes part of e-Sanjeevani OPD initiative||Ahmedabad: Gujarat on Thursday became part of the national e-Sanjeevani OPD initiative, where persons can register and get connected to experts through video calls for medical consultation.CM Vijay Rupani during the launch said the initiative would reduce the load on hospitals and OPDs. “The initiative will prove most beneficial with social distancing being maintained to treat Covid-19 patients,” he said.Nitin Patel, deputy CM and health minister, said the service is location-neutral and will prove a boon for those at locations far from big hospitals. “We are planning to extend its scope to medical colleges and young doctors,” he said.City and state-based health professionals said there is a reduction in footfalls at OPDs due to the fear of Covid. “Of course, when the condition requires attention, one must consult doctors at the hospital, but the service is primarily for common ailments and screening to provide quick assistance,” said Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-becomes-part-of-e-sanjeevani-opd-initiative/articleshow/78582426.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||4 Covid deaths & 96 new patients in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: The district reported four Covid deaths on Friday, while 96 new patients were detected in the day and 44 discharged. Of the four deaths, two are from Yavatmal city while two are from Darwha. According to ZP health department sources, 611 patients are under treatment. A total of 9,016 Covid patients have been recorded in the district so far, whereas 7,808 got recovered and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-covid-deaths-96-new-patients-in-yavatmal/articleshow/78582374.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||Goa govternment ‘will look into’ gap between DDSSY caps, pvt hosp rates||PANAJI: Reacting to the discrepancies in rates for Covid treatment notified under the amended Deen Dayal Swashtya Seva Yojna (DDSSY), chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that “the government will look into the matter”. On Thursday, the government amended the DDSSY scheme to cover Covid. With this inclusion, patients will now be able to avail Covid treatment from an empanelled private hospital under the scheme. For a private hospital to raise a bill, a referral letter from a government hospital and a copy of the positive Covid-19 test should be provided by the hospital. For moderate Covid patients, the fees have been fixed at Rs 4,600 per day, which includes Rs 1,200 for bed rent, Rs 800 for investigations, Rs 2,000 for supportive treatment, and Rs 600 for doctors’ consultation fees. For Covid patients in severe condition, the charges have been fixed at Rs 6,600 per days, which includes Rs 1,200 for bed rent, Ts 800 for investigation, Rs 2,000 for supporting treatment, Rs 600 for doctors’ consultation fees and Rs 2,000 for ventilator. Last month, the government capped the rates that private hospitals can charge for Covid treatment. Only four private hospitals in the state have reserved some beds for Covid patients. With the capped rates being much higher than the Covid packages under the DDSSY scheme, it needs to be seen if private hospitals will accept patients under the scheme. Reacting to an allegation that some private hospitals are charging more than the rates capped by the health department, Sawant said that the government hasn’t received any such complaints so far. “The complaints have to be made either to the director of health services or health secretary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-will-look-into-gap-between-ddssy-caps-pvt-hosp-rates/articleshow/78583193.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Schools’ association warns of legal action against education department||Nagpur: A pan-Maharashtra schools’ association has warned the education department of legal action if it forms an enquiry committee against it by including parents as members. Unaided Schools Forum (USF), a Mumbai-based association wrote to the state education department saying any committee cannot have “outside” members. SC Kedia, honorary secretary of USF said, “The education department can inspect records of schools but they have no right to form an enquiry committee in which outsiders or the parents are part of any such committee where parents are members. It is illegal and not permissible under the law.” He added that such a proposal was doing the rounds in Nagpur and Nashik. “It was being done at the behest of a few political leaders. They plan to undertake enquiries of few schools since they do not entertain their illegitimate demands,” said Kedia. He warned that if education department went forward with such committees, then USF will take legal action. “We will approach the high court to set aside such committees,” said Kedia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-association-warns-of-legal-action-against-education-department/articleshow/78591912.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Shivbhojan Thali has 30L takers each month||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: Approximately two crore people, which is the entire population of Mumbai city, have been taking the benefit of the subsidised meal scheme of the state government every month. State food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal said that the one-time meal scheme — Shivbhojan Thali — started by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has received tremendous response, with nearly 30 lakh people benefiting each month. The scheme was launched on January 26 this year and was initially being offered only at the district headquarters. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the government extended the scheme to the taluka level. It also reduced the charges the citizens have to pay for the meal — from Rs 10 per plate to Rs 5 per plate. The state government had started the scheme of Shivbhojan thali to ensure the poor people, farmers, labourers, migrant labourers, students, get at least one meal when they go to the district or taluka headquarters for their work, classes or examinations. The scheme is the brainchild of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who had included this in his election manifesto. Non-governmental organisations working on ‘no profit, no loss’ basis, facilitating the meals. Under the scheme, the state government foots the bill of Rs 45 per plate in rural areas and Rs 30 per plate in urban areas, while the beneficiary has to pay at the most Rs 5 per meal. The same rate will now be charged till March 2021. BOX: A FULL PLATE Month Beneficiaries January 80,000 February 4.7 lakh March 5.8 lakh April 25 lakh May 33.8 lakh June 31 lakh July, August, AVG 30.3 lakh September||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shivbhojan-thali-has-30l-takers-each-month/articleshow/78583190.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Vadodara||Orchestras catch e-bus to entertain music lovers online||Vadodara: One of the many changes that Coronavirus pandemic effected around the globe was the speed of digitization which has now spread across platforms — from legal to business and education, even medical and music too. It being the new normal, orchestras and music concerts in the state too have gone online in right earnest. Studios and lives on social media and video streaming platforms have replaced auditoriums, ticket sales or passes for most performers. They are now busy charting out their virtual programmes to ensure that their fans do not miss them and they too don’t miss out on earnings.From keeping live audiences enrapt with their rendering of Rafi, Kishore or Mukesh’s scintillating hits, singers have graduated to virtual audiences that not only listen, but even comment on performances.Sanjeev Solanki, who is himself a singer, said that the barriers of time and geography have been broken in the new post-Covid world. “I started a studio in my music academy to cater to such needs. We operate on a not-for-profit mode and charge only expenses to give a platform so that the singers and musicians earn some money,” he said.Solanki sang ghazals suiting a party mood for audience acros seven seas in the USA at 5.30am, who saw it live. “While they were nursing drinks in their hands, we, in India at that time were buying our morning cup of milk,” chuckled the singer.Many, however, believe that sponsoring such programmes is a better way to support artistes than hurt their self esteem by giving them aid or ration kits. Singer Jayendra Shah said, “A live programme costs around Rs 25,000 to Rs 40,000 including the fees paid to musicians and singers. Some sponsors or music aficionados can easily contribute this amount and help keep the artistes’ morale up.”Trustee of the Shaikar Jaikishan Foundation based him Ahmedabad, Chirag Patel, said that they had started online events during lockdown to provide some entertainment to people during the difficult times. “From solo performances using karaoke systems during lockdown, to events with multiple artists later, we organised 36 such events. These were particularly appreciated by senior citizens who found good entertainment when they had to stay home,” he said. Patel added that online concerts could be a game changer. “The cost to organise them is very low and people can see them at their convenience. They also have control on the quality of sound as they are home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/orchestras-catch-e-bus-to-entertain-music-lovers-online/articleshow/78580987.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||At 1,243, state records lowest one-day tally in 43 days||Ahmedabad: In the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Friday, the state reported 1,243 Covid-19 cases, taking Gujarat’s total to 1.49 lakh. This was the second day straight that the state recorded fewer than 1,300 cases and the lowest one-day tally in 43 days. The new cases included 264 from Surat, 180 from Ahmedabad, 132 from Rajkot, 122 from Vadodara, and 95 from Jamnagar. The total number of cases in Ahmedabad is now 38,646, Surat, 31,581, Vadodara 13,229 and Rajkot 10,545. The state also reported nine Covid deaths, taking its death toll to 3,550. These deaths included three each from Ahmedabad and Surat, and one each from Banaskantha, Rajkot and Surendranagar. The death tolls of Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot reached 1,841, 795 and 148, respectively. A total of 1,518 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of Covid patients who have recovered to 1.29 lakh. The discharges included 311 from Surat, 216 from Ahmedabad, 114 from Vadodara, and 112 from Rajkot. The number of active in the state is now 16,203. Active, discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat now make up 10.9%, 86.8% and 2.3% of total cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-1243-state-records-lowest-one-day-tally-in-43-days/articleshow/78582405.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Families of corona warriors to get benefits under MA and MA Vatsalya Yojana||Gandhinagar: The state health and family welfare department on Friday passed a resolution, extending benefits of the Mukhyamantri Amrutam (MA) yojana and MA Vatsalya yojana to families of those corona warriors who died while on duty, irrespective of their income.Under the MA yojana, up to five members of a family living below the poverty line are entitled to cashless hospitalization and treatment worth Rs 5 lakh per year. This facility has been extended to other low income families under the MA Vatsalya scheme.The family members of all government-employed corona warriors, including municipal corporation, municipality and government grant-in-aid institution employees will be extended benefits of the MA scheme irrespective of their income.The resolution said that families of corona warriors who died while on duty can get MA cards made following due procedures and they will not be required to submit any proof of income while applying for the MA card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/families-of-corona-warriors-to-get-benefits-under-ma-and-ma-vatsalya-yojana/articleshow/78582416.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid takes toll on crematorium ops at two major burning ghats||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation is struggling to keep its crematoria services normal following the rapid spread of Covid-positive cases among its staffers posted at city’s major crematoriums. The virus has also infected some of the civic employees posted at burial grounds, said sources in the KMC health department. According to a KMC health department official, around 12 KMC employees at Keoratola and Nimtolla crematoriums have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past one month. Among the civic employees, working at Keoratola burning ghat, who have tested positive and sent to home isolation, are two sub-registers, two data entry operators, an administrative staff and a security guard. At Nimtolla burning ghat, apart from a couple of sub-registers, three other employees engaged in the crematorium services also tested positive for the virus. Since these two major crematoriums take maximum load (70% of the bodies are cremated there every day), the civic body is finding it difficult to run normal services at these burning ghats. “We are trying to engage new staffers in lieu of the existing ones who are often being sent to home isolation. But replacing the experienced staffers sometimes becomes an uphill task,” said a senior KMC health department official. According to a source at Keoratola crematorium, two of its senior sub-registers have been spending an isolation period at home. “They have been replaced by two others. But the pace of work has slowed down,” said the source. A sub-register is one who is in-charge of a crematoria and coordinates with other staffers for cremation and handing over death certificates to families of the deceased. Besides sub-registers, the virus has also infected data entry operators at Keoratolla, making it difficult for the civic body to continue with the normal services. Despite KMC’s efforts to protect its staffers from getting infected since the old complex of Nimtolla burning ghat was turned into a Covid-designated crematorium, the infection did not spare the employees engaged in the new complex, which has been separated from the old complex. The KMC health department is also focusing on its burial grounds after a senior official at Topsia Hindu burial ground was infected with the virus recently. According to a KMC health department official, the civic body was worried to find that several of its staffers, engaged in non-Covid crematoriums, were being infected. “At a time when we were keeping a vigil on our staffers at our Covid-designated crematoriums, we were concerned to find that the infection is spreading among our employees working at non-Covid crematoriums,” said a KMC health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-takes-toll-on-crematorium-ops-at-two-major-burning-ghats/articleshow/78582400.cms||Saikat Ray
October 10, 2020||Nashik||NMC survey finds 70K comorbid cases||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased the pace of the health survey being carried out in the city and has, so far, covered 14 lakh of city’s roughly 19 lakh residents. During the survey, the civic health teams have found around 75,000 people with comorbidities — including 35,000 suffering from hypertension and 26,000 diabetics. Therefore, as per the survey, roughly 5% of the residents have been found to have comorbid conditions. The NMC also detected 527 Covid-19 patients during the survey that was started in the last week of September under the state government’s My Family, My Responsibility programme. “Initially, the survey was slow and we were able to cover only 1.59 lakh people in the first week ending on September 30. We detected 221 Covid-19 patients and 5,000 others with comorbid conditions,” an NMC official said. “But the survey has now picked up the pace and has covered 75% of the total population. Our objective is to find suspected Covid-19 cases along with comorbid patients in order to break the chain of coronavirus. The survey will also help us know the health pattern in the city along with the number of comorbid and critical patients with severe diseases. This will help us chalk out better health schemes,” he added. The city, which recorded the first Covid-19 patient on April 6, had only 49 cases till May 19. There was a sudden rise in the number of Covid cases thereafter. A major spike was witnessed in September as over 50% of all Covid-19 patients in the city were reported during this month alone. “Early detection and timely treatment helped us bring down the death rate of the city from 4.8% on June 30 to 1.4% now. Moreover, the recovery rate of Covid patients has also increased from 42.6% to over 91%,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-survey-finds-70k-comorbid-cases/articleshow/78578766.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||2 Covid deaths, 69 new cases in Wardha||WARDHA: A 65-year-old man from Samudrapur and a 70-year-old woman from Arvi died due to coronavirus during treatment on Friday. Also, 69 new patients were detected in the day while 96 got discharged after recovery. The Covid toll has reached 156 after the two casualties on Friday. Out of 594 reports received on Friday, 69 (including 23 women) were positive, taking the total Covid cases in the district to 5,297. The new cases detected are Wardha 46, Hinganghat 6, Ashti 5, Karanja 4, Deoli and Selu 3 each, Arvi and Samudrapur 1 each. As on date, 3,182 patients have defeated coronavirus, while 1,959 patients are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-covid-deaths-69-new-cases-in-wardha/articleshow/78582412.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman beaten for not selling ganthiya||Ahmedabad: A woman snacks vendor on Friday filed a complaint with Sabarmati police alleging that three men, who were her regular customers, had beaten her and her husband and also damaged her handcart in the D Cabin locality as she didn’t sell them ganthiya. Aruna Sadhu, resident of Geetanjali Flats in D cabin, said that she along with her husband Mahesh Sadhu sell different Gujarati farsan (snacks) like khaman, ganthiya and patra between 6.30am and 8pm in the D Cabin locality. She downs shutters at 8pm every day on instructions of cops who allegedly make the shopkeepers and other small businesses close early to avoid coronavirus spread. On Thursday evening, when she was about to close her stall, three accused persons whom she identified as Savai Mulchand, Kumudchandra Popatlal and Jashwantsingh Khumansingh came there and asked for ganthiya. She told them that she had closed for the day and there was no ganthiya left. This irked the men who began abusing her. One of the three men kicked Aruna’s handcart and it fell and her snacks items fell on road. Then, the trio began thrashing her and as Mahesh intervened, they also beat him severely. Aruna alleged that the three men forcibly took money which she kept in a drawer in her cart and began pushing her cart to take it away. Her husband pleaded to leave them their cart . The trio left the cart but threatened Mahesh and Aruna not to not run their business in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-beaten-for-not-selling-ganthiya/articleshow/78582437.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: US guest flies away, local economy sees downswing||KOLKATA: The colourful American Wood duck at a Howrah pond, which had kept shutterbugs from around the state flocking to the water body, leading to a boost in local economy, has suddenly disappeared from the area. Neither birders, locals nor local administration have any clue about its whereabouts. The duck — a north Carolina waterfowl — that had never been seen before in the country suddenly made its appearance at Bally Ghoshpara Bakpukur water body in the first week of August, garnering social media fame as hundreds of prying onlookers, birders and professionals, including amateur photographers, from far off places turned up on the bank of the water body, 20-km away from the city, from early morning till evening. They took out photographs of the bird in different moods. But just like its unexplained appearance, the exotic bird disappeared and it was not seen anywhere in the neighbourhood in the last four weeks. “The duck generally used to stay in the middle of the pond in the morning and at a corner of the pond, which has a cluster of water hyacinth, in the evening. But from the second week of September, it has suddenly disappeared. It was a pride for our area and several people had even stopped bathing in the pond to ensure it was not disturbed. I just hope it is safe and hasn’t been smuggled or slaughtered,” said Raj Koley, who lives close to the pond. While there is no sighting record of the bird — non migratory in nature — from the Indian wild before, experts said it was bred in captivity somewhere nearby. It somehow escaped and came flying to the pond in Bally. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee said he believes the bird had flown itself somewhere else in search of a mate. “It is a common nature of such birds to shift habitats. I had personally visited the pond and had also instructed our local Panchayat officials to ensure proper safety of the bird. But we couldn’t capture the bird as it was against the law. An animal can be captured only if it is injured, rescued or poses a threat to human life. This bird was perfectly fit and I believe it has flown away somewhere else,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/us-guest-flies-away-local-economy-sees-downswing/articleshow/78582443.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 10, 2020||Goa||Goa ‘1st to launch’ free kits for Covid patients in home isolation||PANAJI: More than three weeks after announcing the distribution of Covid kits, the government on Friday launched free distribution of Rs2000-worth kits that will be given to patients opting for home isolation. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said Goa is the first state in the country to distribute such kits to home-isolated patients. The kits containing tablets, masks, sanitizer, gloves, etc.will be distributed through primary health centres and urban health centres. On an average about 300 patients opt for home isolation daily on testing positive for Covid-19 in the state. Speaking after the launch, chief minister Pramod Sawant said, “These days more people are opting for home isolation and Covid care centres are half empty. The government is planning its best to standardize post Covid-19 management services as well. As of Friday, he said 3,500 people were in home isolation in the state.” Rane said that the home isolation monitoring kits have been made available since poor patients cannot afford to buy a kits worth Rs 2,000. “The Directorate of Health Services (DHS), with the help of auxiliary nursing midwifery (ANM) and multi- purpose health worker (MPHW) and Goa Electronics Ltd (GEL) make 2,600 phone calls daily to check the saturation level of each patient in home isolation. These calls also help doctors to take decisions on patient treatment. The state has acquired best models to manage the spread of pandemic and continue to do so,” he said. “Health services have digitised health records which has brought a paradigm shift in patient monitoring. It has helped in early intervention and preventing the possibility of a cytokine storm,” Rane said. Earlier, Sawant too said health services was doing a wonderful job of monitoring patients in home isolation, even as India Medical Association (IMA) – Goa, has opted out of the arrangement, worked to help government doctors in keeping tabs on patients in home isolation. When asked why IMA had backed out, he said that he was not aware why the association is no longer helping monitor home isolated patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-1st-to-launch-free-kits-for-covid-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78583199.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||School reopening will be delayed beyond Oct 15: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the reopening of schools in Goa for students is expected to be delayed beyond October 15. He said that education officials have been asked to carry out consultations with stakeholders, and only after that will a decision be taken on the Unlock 5.0 guidelines permitting students back on campus. “I have instructed the education secretary and director of education to consult managements of schools, parent-teacher associations and the headmasters’ association over reopening of schools for classes X and XII, and submit the reports. Following this, a decision will be taken,” Sawant said. On Friday, the directorate of education (DoE) already began the consultation process. The first meeting was held with representatives of different associations of high school and higher secondary school heads and teachers. “Education officials were told that the conditions are not favourable to let students into schools,” said one attendee. “Associations did not commit to any date from which they would be agreeable to reopening institutions for students.” Teacher and headmaster associations, however, told DoE that it must come out with a plan wherein schools can allow physical guidance for students who are unable to attend online classes due to severe internet connectivity issues. “Association members have also asked the directorate for clarity on how reevaluation of students for the first term should be carried out, now that physical classes are unlikely to resume any time soon. Online evaluation methods are likely to be considered to resolve this issue,” said a source. Next week, director of education Santosh Amonkar is expected to hold separate meetings with managements of South Goa and North Goa schools, after which a report will be prepared for submission before the chief minister, who is also education minister. “Education officials said they favour phase-wise reopening of schools. As and when schools are opened to students, Class X and XII students will be called in first. Then it will be Class IX and XI students who will be allowed back on school premises. Officials also said that not more than 8 to 10 students may be seated in a class as part of the SOPs on school reopening,” said a source. The associations put the ball in DoE’s court where SOPs are concerned, asking the directorate to frame uniform SOPs to be followed by all schools. The Goa headmasters’ association, all Goa secondary school teachers’ association and higher secondary school teachers’ associations were among those which were part of Friday’s consultations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/school-reopening-will-be-delayed-beyond-oct-15-cm/articleshow/78583212.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 10, 2020||Nashik||Early grape harvest season begins in Satana taluka||Nashik: Farmers in Satana taluka are sending around 10 tonnes of grapes daily to north India as the early harvest season has started in this grape-growing belt of Nashik district. According to grape growers, the early harvest on 6,000 acres of total 2 lakh acres in the district is expected to increase by the first week of November. Generally, the regular harvest begins in the second half of January and it is at its peak in the second half of January and by February-end. Grapes are, however, available by April-end. Khandu Shevale, a grape grower and exporter, said, “The early harvest usually begins in the second half of September, but it was delayed this year by about a fortnight due to the heavy rain in August and September. “Presently, the early harvest is taking place at only about one percent of vineyards. It will, however, increase in the first half of November,” he said. Shevale said the prices are low as compared to last year. The produce is being sold for Rs 60-65 per kg as against Rs 80-90 during the same period last year. Abhiman Deore, another farmer, said, “I have vineyards on 16 acres and 1.5 acres of which are ready to harvest. I am planning to start harvesting in a day or two and finalise the deals with one two traders.” The total area under grape plantation in Maharashtra is 3.5 lakh acres, including 2 lakh acres in Nashik district. Of the total grape vineyards, only 10% is meant for export while 3% for making wine. Nashik district contributes 90% of total grape exports from Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/early-grape-harvest-season-begins-in-satana-taluka/articleshow/78578772.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Advocate beats up CA||Ahmedabad: A chartered accountant, 38, resident of Vastrapur and with office in Navrangpura, filed a complaint of causing hurt and criminal intimidation against an advocate from the Thaltej area on Thursday, alleging the advocate beat him over a construction dispute in a commercial complex at Navrangpura. In his FIR with Navrangpura police, Sumit Mehrotra states that he has an office in Sutaria complex in Maharashtra society in Navrangpura. He said that he planned to make a cabin for security personnel and to install CCTV cameras for security in the commercial complex for which he had taken permission of other members of the complex. When he was monitoring the construction work of the security cabin, the accused, advocate Vimal Shah, rushed there and began abusing and beating Mehrotra. Some security personnel rescued Mehrotra and called up police control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/advocate-beats-up-ca/articleshow/78582466.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||Ammonia leak at Cuncolim fish plant leaves 1 dead||MARGAO: A 22-year-old industrial worker died after inhaling ammonia gas that leaked out from a cold storage unit of a fish processing plant at Cuncolim industrial estate on Friday. The incident occurred at ‘Quality Foods’ around 3am. The workers affected were those who were asleep in the guest house of an adjoining industrial unit. Sources in the fire and emergency services said that by the time the fire brigade reached the spot, factory personnel had managed to control the leak to a great extent. Sources said that the gas spread from the fish processing plant to an adjoining tools manufacturing unit, ‘Taparia Tools’, where many industrial workers were sleeping after the end of their night shift. Four of the industrial workers who were found suffocating were shifted to Hospicio hospital, Margao. One of them, Krishen Kumar, a resident of UP, was declared brought dead, while another who was found to be critical was referred to the Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim. Two others were stated to be out of danger and were undergoing treatment at the hospital. Cuncolim PI Therron D’Costa said that the gas leakage occurred from one of the float valves of the cold storage unit. The incident has brought to the fore the need to have health and safety standard operating procedures in place at the Cuncolim industrial estate. Pointing out that this was the second time that such an incident has occurred in the same industrial unit, the Cuncolim industries association has demanded that necessary preventive and corrective measures be put in place at the fish processing plant before the unit is allowed to reopen. “I have spoken to the chief inspector of factories and boilers,” said Abhay Keni, president of the association. “I have urged him to conduct a thorough investigation into the cause of the incident and to take stern action against those found guilty of violating safety standards.” Chief inspector of factories and boilers Vivek Marathe told TOI that the incident will be further probed. “We will do more investigations on Tuesday,” he said. “Statements have to be taken. We have not sealed the plant but we have prohibited utility operations which require the use of ammonia. Show cause notice and further action will be taken after the investigation is complete. First, we have to check the maintenance logs and see if it is a maintenance lapse, and check the health and safety of the workers and the plant.” The association has also pointed out to the “heavy bad smell” of rotten fish that pervades the entire estate late evening. Voicing apprehension that this could be because of the discharge of effluents into open drains by fish processing plants, the association has urged the Goa state pollution control board to take necessary action at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ammonia-leak-at-cuncolim-fish-plant-leaves-1-dead/articleshow/78583214.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Self-defence training for girls||Ambala: Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhary has launched a self-defence training programme, named ‘Meri Bhavna Karyakram’, for the girls of rural areas of his constituency. The programme will be conducted in association with the Haryana Sports Karate Association. “Our daughters are capable, but by not giving them equal opportunities, we make them weak. The programme is aimed at training our daughters in the art of defending themselves in adverse situations,” said Varun. The programme will be held from October 17 to December 31 in several villages of Mullana constituency in collaboration with the Haryana Sports Karate Association. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/self-defence-training-for-girls/articleshow/78582445.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee Road flyover not to start opposite SFS Cathedral||Nagpur: Residents of Gaddigodam can finally heave a sigh of relief as National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has cleared MahaMetro’s revised design of Kamptee Road double decker flyover. Now, the flyover will start between Patni Automobiles and LIC Square and not opposite SFS Cathedral. The initial design envisaged the flyover beginning opposite the Cathedral. Residents of Gaddigodam opposed it tooth and nail as they feared for the lives of churchgoers and schoolchildren. There are several schools near the Cathedral. The residents met Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who asked MahaMetro to revise its design. A senior MahaMetro official said that the new design would save some money as land acquisition cost will be less. The cost of the flyover is about Rs550 crore. “Now, NHAI will have to ask Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to acquire land for the flyover as per revised design. Some six or seven buildings will have to be partially razed,” he said. NMC will have to acquire about 2,700 square metre land at the cost of about Rs50 crore. NMC had planned to approach the state government for bearing 70% cost of land acquisition. The Devendra Fadnavis government had launched Nagari Utthan Mission in this regard. Due to cash crunch, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has put all such proposals on hold. Consequently, NMC will have to pay Rs50 crore from its own pocket, which seems difficult. The MahaMetro official said that in case NMC is unable to cough up the amount the flyover will remain incomplete. “We will construct the entire structure except the ramp near LIC Square. Construction on the remaining portion is even otherwise going on. The incomplete flyover will not affect the construction of Metro viaduct as it had been cleared about a year ago by NHAI,” he said. Father Patrick of SFS Cathedral said that he and other residents of Gaddigodam were very happy over the decision. “I am thankful to minister Gadkari for keeping his word. He had been assuring us all the time that the ramp would be shifted and that has happened,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-road-flyover-not-to-start-opposite-sfs-cathedral/articleshow/78582448.cms||Ashish Roy
October 10, 2020||Mumbai||2-drug combo is not clinically superior: Pharma co||Mumbai: A FAITH trial evaluated the possible superiority of a combination of Umifenovir and Favipiravir and found no significant clinical benefit over the Favipiravir monotherapy when it came to Covid patients with moderate symptoms. Glenmark Pharmaceuticals announced the results on Friday. The trial with antivirals Umifenovir and Favipiravir is the second clinical study after the Favipiravir monotherapy trial earlier this year, which led the company to receive emergency use authorisation for the latter. As per the results that Glenmark presented to the regulator, the study showed no superior clinical outcomes. The FAITH study enrolled 158 hospitalized patients with moderate Covid-19 in India. The study’s primary end point (clinical outcome measured) was time taken from randomization to clinical cure — defined as resolution of baseline clinical symptoms of Covid-19 and a two-point improvement on the WHO Ordinal Scale for Clinical Improvement in 28 days. Median time to clinical cure improved by only one day (seven as compared to eight) in patients who received the antiviral combination, which was not statistically significant. Dr Monika Tandon, senior VP and head of clinical development, global specialty/branded portfolio, Glenmark Pharma, said, “The latest findings confirm that the addition of Umifenovir does not show any incremental benefit in clinical outcomes. Thus, the Favipiravir therapy along with supportive care, remains a suitable and effective choice for mild to moderate Covid-19 infections.” In June, Glenmark became the first company in India to receive manufacturing and marketing approval for FabiFlu as part of an accelerated approval process, considering the emergency situation of the pandemic in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-drug-combo-is-not-clinically-superior-pharma-co/articleshow/78583216.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||PCI warns colleges to follow intake limits||Ahmedabad: The Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) has sent a circular to all the universities, state pharmacy councils and tribunals in the country, warning them that slots in the admission process this year will be only allowed in the categories as sanctioned by PCI. The Central Council of the PCI had in a meeting earlier this year noted that pharmacy institutions were admitting students in various categories like Tuition Fee Waiver/Economically Weaker Section/J&K seats over and above the sanctioned intake by the PCI, said sources. As a result, the Central Council decided that if the state government or the statutory admission making authority has allotted the said seats over and above the sanctioned intake by the PCI, the PCI may consider such excess admissions subject to submission of documentary evidence, according to the recent letter by PCI. The council has also warned that it can cancel such seats and take action against the institution, said sources. Admission process has begun in pharmacy courses in the state. During this process, seats are reserved in the colleges in TWS, EWS and other categories. The council’s circular to each university warns that seats allotted in each category are given as supernumerary. Hence, if some seats are empty, they cannot be transferred to other categories. In case such seats are not filled, they will remain vacant and not be filled by other category candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pci-warns-colleges-to-follow-intake-limits/articleshow/78582449.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘A friend of Sikhs, Paswan wanted justice for them’||JALANDHAR: Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder Ram Vilas Paswan had to throw his son, a two-year-old Chirag Paswan, from atop the wall into a cloth held below as his family fled the house with former Bihar chief minister Kapoori Thakur when a murderous mob came for an injured old Sikh asylum seeker on November 1, 1984, after the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. In January 2002, Paswan gave Nanavati Commission graphic details of the attack on his official residence, 12 Rajendra Prasad Road, during the Sikh massacre of Delhi. The family and aides scaled the servant-quarter back wall. “An old Kapoori-ji injured himself in climbing down a drain pipe,” he said. Paswan was the last to escape. Chirag had turned 2 only a day earlier, on October 31. The Sikh asylum seeker was not lucky. Paswan told the Mishra and Nanavati Commissions: “The old, injured Saradar-ji could not run along with us. The mob threw him alive into burning garage before they torched a car and a scooter in the house.” Remembering Paswan as a great human being, and a friend of Sikhs, senior advocate H S Phoolka, pursuing the 1984 cases, said: “Paswan wanted justice for the Sikhs.” Phoolka recalled: “When the Nanavati Commission was appointed (in 2000), Paswan was coal minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. I went to him and he agreed readily to appear before the commission and record his statement.” Phoolka posted a video tribute to Paswan on his Facebook wall and told TOI that a picture of Paswan’s burnt house was first in the massacre’s 10-day mobile photo-memorial sent from Jallianwala Bagh to Parliament. When the killing started after Indira’s assassination, Paswan, Kapoori Thakur, former PM Chaudhary Charan Singh, and Sharad Yadav had even met the President to apprise him of the situation and requested him to speak to the-then home minister, P V Narasimha Rao. In both his statements, Paswan remembered calling up Rao twice from Rashtarpati Bhawan and President Giani Zail Singh telling him that he was helpless. After a desperate effort to save the Sikhs by calling on the President and trying to reach the home minister, Paswan returned to his house and found this injured Sikh who had taken refuge. Later, Chaudhary came over with his rescue force along with Sharad Yadav and took Paswan to his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/a-friend-of-sikhs-paswan-wanted-justice-for-them/articleshow/78582442.cms||IP Singh
October 10, 2020||Shimla||In Himachal Pradesh, gun licences fall in HC firing line||SHIMLA: Finding that gun licences were issued at mere asking and without verification, the Himachal Pradesh high court has given the licensing officers four months to review all the cases. Baddies had built armories in the name of self-defence. Dismissing the petition of a Hamirpur resident against the cancellation of his arms licences, the division bench of justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua marked it as a case in point. The bench ruled: “Henceforth, no arms licence shall be granted or renewed in case the applicants do not meet the parameters. The Arms Act coordinates the rights of citizens with the necessity of maintaining law and order. Firearms should not come into the possession of anti-social elements… to brandish as status symbol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/in-hp-gun-licences-fall-in-hc-firing-line/articleshow/78582452.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Exam app not foolproof, drop online mode: Students slam NU||Nagpur: Students, teachers and senate members came down heavily on Nagpur University (NU) over its failure to conduct online exam smoothly on the second day also on Friday. Though the university has done away with the problematic one-time password (OTP) needed to log-in to start the paper, there was still no end to students’ sufferings on Day 2. The torturous experience evoked sharp reactions from different quarters questioning NU’s intent and preparedness despite tall claims by its officials. Senate member Manmohan Bajpai said the Pariksha app is not foolproof. “If at all the university wanted to conduct the exam, then it should have been with full preparation after assessing all kinds of problems. We didn’t protest and understood it was the first day for university too. The same login problem continued today also. In kneejerk reaction, the OTP was removed, but now risk of unfair means has increased,” said Bajpai. Senate member Sarita Nimbarte said complaints about the app are not new, but persisting ever since it was introduced a month back. “But nothing has been worked out. Until the app is not ready, NU should not go ahead and call off the exams. The daily problems are sad and hurt the reputation of NU. The agency responsible for this must be taken to task,” she said. National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) activist Aamir Noori warned of agitation if the problems persist. A professor of English said students are getting a wrong message and daily problems will create confusion. “Colleges and students are being blamed. The app should have been user-friendly, which it is not. They (authorities) should have well thought about it. On the first day, authorities said only remote areas faced Internet problem, but even students in Nagpur city were unable to open the app,” she said. The professor added it has turned out to be a farce. “There is absolutely no seriousness. There is no communication from the university and all information we are getting is through newspapers only,” said the professor. A BSc biotechnology student from Kamla Nehru College said she and her classmates are upset. “My exam was from 1.30pm to 2.30pm, but couldn’t log-in till 5pm. I had updated the app. A friend had told me about the update. It was my first paper. Yesterday, I learnt about the OTP. Today, I am confused whether to study for tomorrow’s paper or not. I had taken leave from my new job only for the exam,” she said. Another student said, “I am studying, but exam is not happening. They ask us to keep trying for 30 minutes. Next paper is tomorrow. How can I focus on next paper after such a bad day,” he murmured. A BSc computer science student from Gondia’s DB Science College said the idea of online exam must be dropped. “Exam must be held at college. It feels bad when you work so hard but are unable to perform,” said the student, who is a farmer’s son. A professor from Institute of Science asked if university had assessed how many students were interested in online exam. The professor also questioned the rationale behind the marking scheme. “An impressive exam structure has been made to appeal all students, who can’t oppose it. Meritorious students stand to lose from this system,” he said. The university wants only quantity and not quality, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/exam-app-not-foolproof-drop-online-mode-students-slam-nu/articleshow/78582478.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University yet to decide on vacant commerce seats||AHMEDABAD: Almost two weeks after completing the fourth round of admission for Gujarat University affiliated commerce colleges, the authorities are yet to take a call on the large number of vacant seats this year. No decision has been taken whether to conduct another round of admission or entrust the colleges with the task to fill the seats on merit basis, said sources in GU. At the end of the fourth round of online admissions for commerce courses at Gujarat University, 12,633 seats lay vacant. In the fourth round, 2,899 candidates had been enlisted of which 2,797 were allocated colleges by the admission committee. Out of the total 40,744 seats, 28,111 seats have been filled so far, said sources in the admission committee. Faced with the challenge of filling up the large number of vacant seats in commerce colleges after three rounds of online admissions, Gujarat University had decided to conduct a fourth round only for the 11,000-odd candidates who could not secure admission in the earlier rounds as they could not get the college of their choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-yet-to-decide-on-vacant-commerce-seats/articleshow/78582479.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nashik||1,001 patients recover in Nashik||Nashik: The district has reported 796 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 405 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 84,370. As many as 1,001 patients were discharged from across the district on Friday, of which 456 patients were from the city. Of the 14 people who succumbed to the infection in the district on Friday, three were from Nashik city. The death toll stands at 1,498 in the district including 795 in the city. The district has 8,760 active cases, of which 4,185 are in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1001-patients-recover-in-nashik/articleshow/78578787.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Bareilly||Seven youths molest, grope girl, 16, sitting with boyfriend, cops arrest 4 & the lover also||Bareilly: Seven youths allegedly groped and molested a school girl, 16, and one of them filmed the assault over his mobile phone and later uploaded it on a social media platform in Sheeshgarh area of Bareilly. The alleged incident took place on September 21 and the video clip was uploaded on October 7, after which the girl and her family approached police and filed a case. All the seven accused have been booked, police said, adding that the girl’s “boyfriend”, with whom she was sitting on a deserted spot when the assault took place, has also been booked as she is a minor. In between the assault and the uploading of the video clip, the girl spent sleepless nights. According to her family members, she was skipping meals and was very restless. But she didn’t tell her family members about the incident as the accused had warned her against it. The girl also said that she had even attempted to end her life. Police have now registered an FIR under IPC sections 354 (sexual assault on a girl to outrage her modesty), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) along with POCSO Act, against six identified and one unidentified person. The boyfriend of the girl has also been made an accused in the case and he has been arrested by police along with four other accused. In the video shared by the girl’s father with police, the accused could be seen purportedly touching her abruptly and forcing her to show the face to the camera. The girl, all this while, is seen begging them not to shoot the video. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “Seven local youths molested her and even shot a video to harass her. The FIR was registered immediately after the family contacted us. We have arrested five accused. The boyfriend of the girl is also made an accused because the girl is a minor. The rest of the accused will be arrested soon”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-youths-molest-grope-girl-16-sitting-with-boyfriend-cops-arrest-4-the-lover-also/articleshow/78576692.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Sr advocate objects to Lathar’s likely appointment as DGP||Udaipur: A senior advocate in Udaipur has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot raising objections on the prospect of senior IPS officer Mohan Lal Lathar’s likely appointment as the new director general of police (DGP). Hari Singh Bhati in his letter said that a special leave to appeal criminal petition is pending against Lathar at the Supereme Court in connection with a case where he is accused of administering third degree torture to an innocent man in a murder case. “In 2000, hotelier Girdhar Bhandari was shot dead. Lathar was posted as the SP in Udaipur then. At the SP’s order Bhati’s son Nakul Singh Bhati was lifted from his home and kept at different police stations of the city. His son was tortured to that extreme extent that he had to confess a crime that he had not committed. The incident had drawn flak from the civil society and the Rajput community that had staged protest and flagged a movement for justice,” he said. Bhati said that an FIR was registered at the Bhupalpura police station against the SP and other cops under Sections 342, 330 and 323 of the IPC, but the police department did not take any action on the complaint and let the officers scot free. The case is now being heard by the Supreme Court after Bhati filed a SLP (6497-6502) in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sr-advocate-objects-to-lathars-likely-appointment-as-dgp/articleshow/78582464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Six persons file nominations on first day after EC notice; scrutiny to be on Oct 17||HYDERABAD: With the Election Commission issuing a notice on Friday for the Dubbak byelection, six persons filed their nominations on the first day. Calling themselves ‘kaliyugu pandavulu’, five of those who had decided to join the poll fray said they were entering the contest to highlight the unemployment problem and also to demand the inclusion of Covid-19 treatment under Aarogyasri scheme by the state government. Burra Ravi Teja, Kota Shyam Kumar, Meesala Rajaswamy, Mothe Naresh, Silveru Srikanth and Revu Chinna Dhanaraju filed papers with the returning officer (RO) at the tahsildar office in Dubbak. Dubbak assembly constituency RO B Chennaiah issued the notice for the election in which it was mentioned that the nominations could be filed between 11 am and 3 pm up to October 16 on days other than public holidays. Scrutiny of nominations will be taken up on October 17 and withdrawals, if any, will be by 3 pm on October 19. The election will be held on November 3 from 7 am to 6 pm. District SP Joel Davis advised the contestants to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India while filing their nominations. Rowdy-sheeters under Dubbak, Bhoompalli and Mirdoddi limits were summoned to the Task Force office and warned against resorting to crimes. TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha broke down while campaigning in the constituency on Friday. The bypoll was necessitated following the death of her husband Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy in August. “If he was alive, he would have continued to serve you,” she said as she got emotional while speaking to people. Senior BJP leader AP Jithender Reddy, who is campaigning in Dubbak, questioned as to why there was no development in Dubbak while Gajwel and Siddipet were developed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-persons-file-nominations-on-first-day-after-ec-notice-scrutiny-to-be-on-oct-17/articleshow/78582468.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||High-flow oxygen device a boon for Covid patients in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Doctors in Kolkata, treating Covid-19 patients, are increasingly using high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) to manage those with acute respiratory distress, instead of putting them on mechanical ventilation immediately. Many doctors are of the opinion that HFNC is making a difference in Covid treatment as it is yielding better outcome among select patients. The state government has already procured 410 HFNC deployed for the treatment of Covid patients at different government facilities. The state health department is also procuring more such devices. “Standard oxygen therapy is done through a nasal prong, a normal oxygen mask or a non-breather mask, whose delivering capacity ranges between 2 litres of oxygen per minute to about 15 litres of oxygen per minute. But an HFNC can deliver up to 60 litres of oxygen per minute,” said a critical care specialist, Samik Mandal, attached with the Covid CCU at Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (IBDG) Hospital. In some patients, the normal oxygen support is not enough to maintain optimum oxygen saturation level. In such cases HFNC has proven to be extremely efficient. “HFNC acts as a bridge between the conventional oxygen therapy and the mechanical ventilation. A much simpler method that is cheaper than mechanical ventilation, this therapy is making a lot of difference in Covid treatment,” said Abhinandan Mondal, a critical care specialist looking after Covid patients at IBDG. Another advantage, doctors said, is that a patient under HFNC can eat, drink and talk unlike when one is put on mechanical ventilation. The expert team on Covid management protocol has also been advising doctors to use HFNC on patients who are not responding well to standard oxygen therapy. “We will be getting 300 more HFNCs and and an equal number of ventilators,” said a senior health department official. While a ventilation costs about Rs 10 lakh a piece, an HFNC costs just around Rs 4 lakh. Currently, the state government is using 410 HFNC against 790 ventilators for Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-flow-oxygen-device-a-boon-for-cov-patients/articleshow/78582482.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||400 Covid beds to be set up at GMCH on war-footing: Collector tells HC||Nagpur: After an ultimatum from the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court to augment bed facility for Covid-19 patients in view of severe shortage witnessed in September, collector Ravindra Thakare stated that directives have been issued to set up 400 beds at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on a war-footing. In an affidavit submitted to HC, the collector informed that the District Level Committee (DLC) has distributed works in this regard and issued directives to various stakeholders for early completion via short term e-tendering. After beds are readied, medicine and consumables worth Rs3 crore would be made available immediately, the affidavit stated. The affidavit was filed in a suo motu PIL based on a TOI report where Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed as amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid-19 patients in the city, the collector informed that till August 3, there were 8,406 positive patients which jumped to 78,012 by September 30. This increase is nine times in just one and half months. The number of deaths due to Covid-19 was 292 till August 8, which increased to 2,510 till September 30. “In September last week, the daily average Covid patient detection was about 1,700 per day in rural and city areas. Also contact tracing of these patients is undertaken by the authorities. The district administration started making available medical kits for suspects in rural areas in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) jurisdiction,” the affidavit stated. After HC’s directives on September 29 for augmenting beds, collector convened a meeting of all stakeholders on October 1. The decision in this regard was actually taken when health minister Rajesh tope visited GMCH. These 400 beds would be in addition to 600 already reserved for Covid patients and would also consist of ICU and HDU. For setting up these new beds, the DLC agreed to allocate Rs3 crore for consumables and medicines. It was also decided to provide Rs6.32 crore for purchasing medical machineries, Rs1.70 crore for laying oxygen gas pipeline and Rs70 lakh for various construction and electrification works. All these funds would be procured from the District Planning Committee (DPC), as per the affidavit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/400-covid-beds-to-be-set-up-at-gmch-on-war-footing-collector-tells-hc/articleshow/78582497.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Ex-husband molests woman||AHMEDABAD: A woman,30, from Gulbai Tekra locality on Thursday filed a complaint against her former husband alleging that he molested her frequently while pressuring to marry him again. The woman stated to GU police that she had married the accused around 18 years ago when she was just a 12-year-old. She had a son, now 15, from her marriage. She divorced the man in 2013. The man married another woman later but his second wife left him a couple of years later. Then he began pursuing the complainant again to marry him. On August 26, the accused beat her so severely that she had to be hospitalized. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-husband-molests-woman/articleshow/78582485.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nashik||MIDC appoints team to review CETP project||Nashik: The Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has appointed a team, including officials from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute (NEERI), to review the proposed Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) project. The teams will also check the possibilities of effluents being released into the drain water lines of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) following primary treatment in the proposed CETP in order to reduce pollitoon. A decision in this regard was taken during a virtual meeting that was attended by MIDC CEO P Anbalagan, NMC commissioner Kailas Jadhav, MPCB officials and directors of Nashik CETP Foundation (NCF). The CETP project is yet to take shape for the past three years owing to lack of funds. The CETP is to be constructed for over 100 plating units in Ambad industrial estate of MIDC for treating and recycling of the effluents. The detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared and the project is suppose to cost around Rs 20 crore. The stakeholders will share 25% of the cost, while the MIDC and MPCB will share 70% and 5% cost of the project respectively. The stake-holders have already raised the funds of their share for the proposed CETP project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/midc-appoints-team-to-review-cetp-project/articleshow/78578804.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Smoke billows from fields, admn blamed of inaction||Mohali: Imposition of penalties, registration of criminal cases and issuing notices has not proved to be a deterrent for farmland owners indulging in stubble burning. With the arrival of the paddy harvesting season, white and thick layer of smoke clouds the Zirakpur area due to stubble burning. Residents living in the vicinity of such fields complain of choking, chest pain, asthma problems, throat aches and smell of smoke from clothes hanged for drying. Residents have also complained that thick smoke also gets into their houses if they keep the window open. Abhijit Bose, a resident of Zirakpur, said, “Fields are burnt after the paddy harvesting. No farmer in this area is following the laid-down norms. They are just not bothered to follow the Government rules. Fields across the Sanauli village are on fire from the past one week and there has been no respite. Smoke enters our homes and has made it difficult for us to breathe.” S K Dhiman another resident said most of the fields on the Nagla road belong to small-time farmers and they might not be aware of the environmental hazards and are habitual of burning the straw after harvesting. Navjit Singh Miglani said, “This is a yearly feature and residents bear the brunt. Choking, chest pains, asthmatic problems, etc. are some of the issues that we have been living with. The administration only makes announcement and the same has been ineffective.” Though, the Mohali administration has prepared a three-point strategy to check stubble burning in the district, but the residents doubt the effectiveness of the same. Pertinently, the land with red entry is difficult to sell or mortgage. Mohali was third in the state last year among the districts which recorded least stubble burning incidents. In 2019, 82 people were penalised to the tune of Rs 2.55 lakh and seven FIRs were registered. Residents of areas in Mohali district, where stubble burning has become a menace, had also raised their concern on the recent statement of the Punjab government for not including Mohali in the top eight hot-spots of stubble burning in the state. Residents said those living in the housing societies along the fields are made to suffer as paddy and straw are burnt here after harvesting twice in a year. They said the Punjab government has always given step-motherly treatment to the residents of Mohali, especially Zirakpur, Derabassi, Majri and Mullanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/smoke-billows-from-fields-admn-blamed-of-inaction/articleshow/78582484.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 10, 2020||Goa||Mortality rate from April to Sept similar to last year: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that there is no variation in mortality rate between the six month period of pandemic and the six months preceding it. “I have compared the figures obtained from the department of planning and statistics and I will share it with you,” he said. About 95% of the patients who died due to Covid in Goa had comorbid conditions and 5% were brought in late for treatment, he said. The delay in treatment was on part of the patient, Sawant said when asked whether some deaths could have been avoided. He was speaking at a function held to launch Covid kits for home isolation patients. “If a patient is rushed late to the hospital, he or she may be given injectable drugs or plasma therapy, but it may not be of much use,” he said. Therefore, we have started conducting death audits, the chief minister said and added that the deaths may be getting highlighted as Goa is a small state. Sawant said the 12-year-old boy who died last month after contracting the virus, was undergoing cancer treatment. “I was shocked to hear about the death of the young boy and had called Goa Medical College dean Dr S Bandekar to inquire about him,” he said. The eight-month-old baby, who died due to Covid, was suffering from a genetic disorder called glycogen storage disorder type 111. Sawant said one should not ignore the fact that 150 natural and Caesarean deliveries were carried out at the ESI Hospital, Margao, and the mothers and children are safe and healthy. No casualties were recorded during these child births, he said and added that the doctors have even carried out a Caesarean on a Covid positive woman. “People should look at such positive stories. Many patients with co-morbid conditions have recovered from Covid-19 and are living a very healthy life,” the chief minister said. He said one of the patients known to him stayed for over ten days at the ESI hospital. He had a kidney ailment and received dialysis thrice a week. “The patient has recovered and gone home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mortality-rate-from-april-to-sept-similar-to-last-year-cm/articleshow/78583220.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||PEC to conduct BTech, MTech exams twice||Chandigarh: The Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be university) may conduct the examination for 2020-21 B Tech and 2019-20 M Tech batches twice to facilitate those who will not be able to appear in November. In a meeting with the student council representatives, which was held on Friday, the issue was raised by students living in far-off areas and those whose parents are not permitting them to come on the campus to appear in physical examination as announced by the institution, considering the pandemic situation. During the meeting, PEC director Dr Dheeraj Sanghi, while addressing the students, who raised the issue, clarified that no student will be forced to come on the campus to appear in the examination. He said he asked the student council representative to hold an internal meeting in which they would discuss all the issues which the hostellers were facing and prepare a report on what could be an alternative solution. He said it was decided that by Wednesday, the student council would come up with a plan, which would then be discussed and a final approval will be given. Students also showed concern over benefit of internships to those who appear in the exams in November. To this Sanghi said there was a marginal benefit to them, but in this situation, a similar pattern cannot be adopted for all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pec-to-conduct-btech-mtech-exams-twice/articleshow/78582510.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Presi alumni succour for Amphan-ravaged boipara||KOLKATA: Owners of 300 temporary book stalls in College Street, which were damaged by Amphan, were invited by the Presidency Alumni Association on Friday to receive a first installment of relief. The Association had started a ‘Save Boipara’ project after the Amphan devastation to help these stalls get a new lease of life. On Friday, 300 of the 500-odd book stalls that do not have a permanent structure and were worst hit by the cyclone, received cheques and stocks of old books. This is an ongoing project and the second installment will be given in December. Help poured in from the alumni of the erstwhile college, now university, after the association appealed through its ‘Save Boipara’ project and publicized a bank account where the funds would be collected. Soon, nostalgia and donations started coming in from alumni, while The State Bank of India also came forward to help. Each stall owner has been given Rs 1,300 and a collection of old books. “First it was the lockdown and then the Amphan that took our life breath away. The lockdown kept us away and we could not come to save our books, many of which were rare. With generations of Presidency students we share a unique bond and we are grateful that the association has not forsaken us in this hour of despair,” said Pratap Das, owner of Lokenath Book Stall and the spokesperson on behalf of the stalls. There are 9 units to which the stalls are affiliated. “The old book stalls of College Street are part of the Presidency ecosystem and a very large part of our lives too. We are happy to do this bit,” said Sutirtha Bhattacharya, president of the association and also the chairman of West Bengal Power Regulatory Commission. “We will continue with this project up to December and would like to distribute the second installment then,” said vice-president Bivas Chaudhuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presi-alumni-succour-for-amphan-ravaged-boipara/articleshow/78582524.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 10, 2020||Kochi||Mullaperiyar Dam turns 125||Idukki: October 10 marks the 125th anniversary of the opening of the Mullaperiyar Dam which was built following an agreement made between the erstwhile Madras presidency and Travancore king. The decision to divert the Periyar River was made as several parts of Tamil Nadu were facing acute water shortage during drought seasons. According to the official British documents, the dam construction was a huge challenge to Scottish Major John Pennycuick, who was supervising the project. The road from Cumbum to Kumily, now part of the Kottarakkara- Dindigul NH was constructed for bullock carts to move the equipment to the dam site. When expenses shot up it is said that Pennycuik sold his entire ancestral property for completing the dam works which began in 1886. Today, as one travels from Kumily to Tamil Nadu one can see a huge statue and memorial of Pennycuik at Lower Camp on TN border, in addition to many others, set-up in the state to honour him. Every year they are decorated with flowers. In 1895, the queen nominated him a Companion of the Most Exalted Order of the Star of India. He died on March 9, 1911 at Frimley, a small town in Britain. The dam construction has helped several Tamil Nadu districts to prosper but questions started arising over the safety of the dam in the 1960s. Ever since, people in the downstream areas have been living under fear. “The reality is that we spend sleepless nights. Young men in the village do not even get brides,” said Puthenurakkal PN Sebastian, a resident of Vallakkkdavu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mullaperiyar-dam-turns-125/articleshow/78581459.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||Rape survivor’s son’s plight melts Morbi cops, adopt boy||Rajkot: Having revealed its humane face and creating lasting impressions in peoples’ minds during the trying times of lockdown, Morbi cops have not ceased their beneficial role even after the unlock. This was once again highlighted when the police didn’t waste time in securing the future of a destitute child, the son of a vagabond mother with learning difficulties who was made a mute spectator to a ghastly crime committed on the woman in Halvad of Morbi district recently. Oblivious to the heinous crime, the four-year-old played in the room where his mother was being raped — a shocking detail that came out in the video which the perpetrators had made that day. While the barbarity numbed the civil society, cops, including Morbi superintendent of police S R Odedara, too couldn’t stay unmoved by the scene. “While his mother was being raped, oblivious to this ghastly incident, the four-year-old boy was playing nearby in the same room. The innocence of the child was not corrupted by the crime. He had no role in it. Then why should we let the minor boy suffer?” said Odedara, while talking to TOI. Not getting an answer to the question that kept tormenting him, Odedara then decided to something good for the child. “As part of the society we must do something. It was then that the idea of his adoption occurred to me,” said the officer who soon approached range inspector general of police Sandeep Singh, on the matter. “Singh told me to speak to the director general of police Ashish Bhatia, who immediately endorsed it and also said that not just him, but police should also take care of his mother,” Odedara said. Morbi police officially adopted the child and are also going to open a bank account in his name. While they are yet to christen him with a name, the police will take care of all expenses of his up-bringing and schooling till the child turns into a youth. “We will also arrange for the treatment of the boy’s mother,” says Odedara. At present, the boy and his mother are living at a shelter provided by an NGO. Earlier, Morbi local crime branch (LCB) had arrested Mahendra Rathod (20) and Haresh Jadav (28) for the crime. While Rathod had raped the woman, Jadav filmed the entire crime being committed inside a dilapidated traffic police chowky in Halvad and later made it viral on social media on October 2. Jadhav later told the police that he saw what was happening inside the chowky from outside and had only shot the video. Police later traced the brother of the woman, who had to live on the footpaths in Chotila, Wankaner and other towns with her son after her husband deserted her, and made him a complainant in the rape case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-survivors-sons-plight-melts-morbi-cops-adopt-boy/articleshow/78581307.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Finance secy to look into issues faced by computer instructors||CHANDIGARH: Acting on the complaint of computer instructors who were relieved by the UT education department, the ministry of labour and employment has directed the UT finance secretary to look into the complaint and examine the matter. An email in this regard was sent to Ajoy Kumar Sinha, UT finance secretary. It was on October 1 that 163 senior and junior computer instructors working in various government schools of the UT, Chandigarh since 2008, were relieved by the education department without any prior notice. The decision not only left the computer instructors shocked, but invited criticism from the entire school fraternity. Many complaints in this regard have been filed at the PMO. The computer instructors had also not been paid salaries from past four months, following a dispute with the contractor, who had been given their contract four months ago. The response from the ministry has given a ray of hope to the computer instructors. “The way education department is treating the matter, we had lost all hopes. But the response from the ministry has given us a positive sign,” said a computer instructor. The letter by the ministry of labour stated that, “You are requested to examine the matter, take necessary action to resolve the dispute and inform the complainant.” The aggrieved instructors had complained to UT administrator V P Singh Badnore and BJP state president Arun Sood, seeking their intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/finance-secy-to-look-into-issues-faced-by-computer-instructors/articleshow/78582500.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad officials told to ensure regular water supply||Aurangabad: District guardian minister Subhash Desai on Friday told the officials in the district to ensure that people are not faced with drinking water problems as almost all the water bodies and dams here have 98% of stocks.He said the officials concerned should make an effective plan now so that people don’t face water supply-related problems. The meeting was attended by the district collector and the municipal administrator.Desai asked the officials concerned to ensure that residents get adequate clean drinking water. He pointed out that due to heavy rainfall, all the water bodies have got adequate stocks, but the officials are still required to plan judiciously and achieve the target.He also took note of the Khuldabad municipal council’s water supply scheme proposal and ordered the district administration to ensure that the process for the project is completed soon.Officials, including district collector Sunil Chavan, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, ZP chief executive officer Mangesh Gondawale, additional collector Anant Gavhane and superintendent engineer of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran Ajay Singh and superintendent engineer of Command Area Development Authority R P Kale updated the minister on the water situation in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-officials-told-to-ensure-regular-water-supply/articleshow/78578810.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Over 2,300 healthcare staff infected by Covid, 75 dead; nurses worst hit||NEW DELHI: A report prepared by the committee of experts headed by Dr VK Paul from Niti Aayog has revealed that till date 2,324 healthcare workers have been affected by the novel coronavirus in the city. The report was submitted to Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday. Of the affected healthcare workers, 23% were doctors, 34% nurses, 15% paramedics, 18% Group-D staff and 10% other employees. Also, 75 such workers, including 14 doctors, died due to Covid-19. The report, however, did not give separate figures for government and private facilities. “The increasing mortality in healthcare workers is detrimental to maintaining the morale of these Covid warriors,” stated the committee, advising the government to undertake all efforts to prevent infection in hospitals and laboratories and among field workers engaged in surveys in containment zones. A source at Lok Nayak said that the infection rate among healthcare workers there was negligible and only three employees, including one doctor, had died so far. “The protection of healthcare workers fighting the virus on the front line is of utmost importance to us because the recovery of patients depends on their health,” the source added. An official at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital said no healthcare worker had died and only one security guard had succumbed to Covid-19. Health minister Satyendar Jain said since healthcare workers were the pillars in the government’s battle against Covid, the AAP government had always kept their health, protection from infection, psycho-social support and comfort on high priority. “We are the country’s only government to provide Rs 1 crore compensation to kin of deceased healthcare staff,” he said. The committee of experts had recommended providing healthcare workers safety gear, periodic refresher training, fortnightly shift followed by quarantine, monitoring infection rate on a weekly basis, psycho-social counselling and regular audit of facilities, including hospitals and laboratories, for infection prevention and control. “Delhi government has provided healthcare workers and field staff adequate and quality safety gear and training is organised periodically for their protection from infection,” Jain explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-2-3k-healthcare-staff-infected-by-covid-75-dead-nurses-worst-hit/articleshow/78582492.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Activists want work on Bengaluru- Chamarajanagar rail line to begin||BENGALURU: After the Union Cabinet cleared the much-delayed suburban rail project, activists and passengers are demanding the Centre and state commence work on the 142km new line between Bengaluru and Chamarajanagar via Kanakapura, Malavalli and Kollegal. While the original plan was to extend the new line from Chamarajanagar to Sathyamangalam in Tamil Nadu (260km), it was scrapped because of the elephant habitat in Sathyamangalam forests. The Union railway ministry had sanctioned the project at an estimated cost at Rs 297 crore in 1996. However, the TN government and Central Empowered Committee didn’t grant nod for a survey in the forest area. In 2013, the railway board decided to take up the project between Bengaluru and Chamarajanagar at a cost of Rs 1,382 crore. The railways approved it after Karnataka government agreed to give land free of cost and agreed to bear 50% of the project cost. However, it did not take off mainly due to land acquisition issues. The estimated cost meanwhile, increased to around Rs 1,960 crore. The project is likely to complement the Bengaluru suburban rail project and improve connectivity to Bengaluru Rural. It’s also expected to reduce traffic congestion on Bengaluru-Mysuru road. Pruthvi Reddy, a rail activist, said: “This new line from Bengaluru to Chamarajanagar passes through Kanakapura, Malavalli and Kollegal, taluk headquarters which lack rail connectivity. The project will considerably reduce travel time between Bengaluru and Chamarajanagar. Despite being resanctioned in 2013, it has not made any progress because of less pressure from state politicians. The government should acquire the land without any delay.” South Western Railway officials said the government is yet to acquire land and hand it over to them. “The project has been kept in abeyance by the railway board as acquisition of 1732.2 acres of land is awaited. The process has been delayed by the Karnataka government,” said SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya. Kapil Mohan, principal secretary, infrastructure development department, said: “We are ready to provide land for this line if the railways bears 100% of the construction cost, but they feel the project is not feasible since it goes only till Chamarajanagar.” SWR sources said the project may be scrapped if the government continuous to delay land acquisition. “The project won’t be viable once the land acquisition cost increases further,” said an SWR source. Neither rlys nor govt interested “This project is crucial for Karnataka since it’s an alternative route between Bengaluru and Chamarajanagar without touching Mysuru. This would also boost the economy and tourism in Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagara, Mandya and Chamarajanagar. But neither the railways nor the government has shown interest. While railways is yet to allocate adequate funds, the government is not taking steps to acquire land. Ideally, this line should connect Sathyamangalam and Mettupalayam (Coimbatore). But it won’t happen without the Union environment ministry and Tamil Nadu government nod - KN Krishna Prasad, member, Karnataka Railway Vedike||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/activists-want-work-on-bluru-cnagar-rail-line-to-begin/articleshow/78580741.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University to cut MBA, MCA seats||AHMEDABAD: The state’s largest varsity – Gujarat Technological University (GTU) — has decided to cut large number of seats in colleges that run masters’ degree courses including MBA, MCA, ME, MPharm courses due to infrastructure issues, inadequate management and staff shortage. As many as 540 seats have been recently reduced for the MCA courses offered by the GTU affiliated colleges. Similarly, over 300 seats have been cut in the case of the ME programme. “The university is conducting a thorough examination of infrastructure facilities including the staff availability as per council rules in various colleges affiliated with the university,” said a GTU official. The varsity conducted inspection and announced that 4,813 seats of different colleges would be reduced. These included 540 MCA seats across 16 colleges associated with the GTU. According to GTU registrar K N Kher, the decision to reduce the seats was taken after it was found that some colleges did not have adequate staff and did not meet other necessary infrastructure requirements. These seats will be re-approved in the coming days if the colleges overcome the shortcomings and notify the university about the same in a time bound manner, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-to-cut-mba-mca-seats/articleshow/78582509.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Vadodara||Pandemic shoots down archer’s Olympic dream||Vadodara: She was eyeing a medal in the archery world cup and participation in the Olympics, but the Covid-19 pandemic shot down her dreams. The pandemic ensured that this tribal archer from Pancmahal district had to wait for at least one more year to participate in both the world cup and Olympics. Not willing to sit back, the archer shot arrows on target in the verandah of her house in Bor village of Ghodhamba taluka to continue her practice. Premila Baria had made it to the final list of eight women archers from whom the three-member archery team from the country was to be selected for the Olympics. Even as the trials for the selection of this the Olympics were going on, she was picked up for the archery world cup in Guatemala in April. The world cup as well as the Olympics have now been postponed to 2021. “I was eyeing a medal in the world cup and was even confident of making it to the archery team for the Olympics. Out of the seven trials for the selection for the Olympics, three had been completed. From eighth place, I had climbed up to the sixth place,” Baria said, adding that with her performance improving after each trial, she was hoping to finish among the top three. Baria added that a major handicap that she was facing was equipment as her bow and arrows were worn out. She was given world class equipment by the Panchmahal district administration in March. “My performance has improved significantly with the new equipment,” Baria said. Baria pointed out that the training camp for the archers has resumed at Pune this month and would go on at least till Wednesday. But before this she used to practice in her verandah. “I used to get only 10metres length there, but had to make do with it as it was not safe to practice in the open,” she said. Baria has been a promising archer since she started winning in the Khel Mahakumbh in the state and even at national level. At the international level, she won an individual silver medal and a team bronze at the Seoul International Youth Archery Festa, 2016. She was also picked up for the Asia Cup in Bangkok last year. Baria, who competes in the recurve, had started learning archery in the ‘ashramshala’ where she studied. Senior coach of the district coaching centre at Godhra, Pratap Pasaya, is confident of Baria participating in the Olympics. “She had to practice for shorter distance at home, while others had good practice facilities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pandemic-shoots-down-archers-olympic-dream/articleshow/78581016.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||World Mental Health Day: Schools launch ‘Manodarpan’||Chandigarh: The Covid-19 pandemic has led to closure of schools, new system of online classes, restrictions on outdoor activities, etc. has led to stress and anxiety among many students, which calls for psychosocial support. In this context, a mental health week is being observed on the occasion of the World Mental Health Day on October 10, 2020. Upon asking schools and parents about how students were doing mentally and the common answer was that most of the students feel frustrated. This is one of the major reasons that parents have agreed to send children to school after October 15. The CBSE has issued guidelines on helping students with mental health. The ministry of education has undertaken ‘Manodarpan’ initiative, covering a wide range of activities to provide psychosocial support to students, teachers and families for mental health and emotional wellbeing. The city schools have asked counsellors to stay in touch with students. Prabhjot Kaur, a government school-based counsellor, said, “Parents have been worried about their children’s mental health. Children have become aggressive and get irritated easily.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/world-mental-health-day-schools-launch-manodarpan/articleshow/78582487.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Srinivas to file nomination on Oct 15||Hyderabad: Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy will file his nomination on October 15 for the Dubbak by-polls. All India Congress Committee in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore will hold a review meeting with the party leaders regarding the polls on October 12. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srinivas-to-file-nomination-on-oct-15/articleshow/78582523.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Book duty-free items from home, collect at Delhi airport when you travel||NEW DELHI: There’s good news for international flyers as Delhi Duty-Free Services Pvt Ltd (DDFS) on Friday announced the official launch of its unique online Click & Collect facility at Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA). This facility, which completed a successful trial run over the past few weeks, allows all international passengers — both departure and arrival — to pre-book their products and collect it on the day of travel. This online platform, a joint venture of Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), Aer Rianta International through its subsidiary Yalorvin Limited, and GMR Airports Limited, will make buying easier and safer during the Covid pandemic, said an official. Passengers wanting to utilise this facility will first have to register themselves on the DDFS website, www.delhidutyfree.co.in. For online shopping of liquor, one will have to accept a disclaimer as per the government policy that they are above 25 years of age. The buyers will then have to key in their travel and passport details following which they can select their products from among liquors, tobaccos, make-up and skin care, perfumes, confectioneries and other travel retail exclusives on the website. The passengers can place their order well ahead of their scheduled travel by making online payment, for which they will be issued a receipt. The products will have to be collected from the DDFS store at IGIA after showing the receipt on the day of travel. An airport official said that much like conventional online shopping, passengers can also find special discounts and promotions on confectioneries, alcohol and other premium items on the website. “During the pandemic, online shopping has become a ‘new normal’, and this facility will be a step forward in providing enhanced passenger experience at the airport,” said an official. According to a Google Analytics report of the website, it’s witnessing 1,53,000 new users monthly who check product availability, prices and promotions. “Delhi Airport has been a hub of experiences. Travellers are shifting from impulse purchases at the airport to planned purchases, with consumers researching online beforehand and buying from e-commerce sites as this is the safest and most preferred mode of shopping,” a DIAL spokesperson said. “We continue with our commitments to provide an enhanced passenger experience at Delhi airport,” the spokesperson added. “The launch of this digital platform ensures passengers safety, too, with the Covid outbreak all over the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/book-duty-free-items-from-home-collect-at-airport-when-you-travel/articleshow/78582514.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Complaint against Umrer Municipal Council for driving out stray dogs cruelly||Nagpur: The Umred Municipal Council has come under the scanner for alleged illegal relocation and cruelty on stray dogs. Around 15 days back, local animal activists spotted a man carrying a pregnant stray dog on his motorcycle in an extremely brutal manner. The man had also allegedly damaged one of the eyes of the animal. When the activists enquired, they found out that the man was working on the directives of Umred Municipal Council which had reportedly issued tender for catching and relocating the dogs outside the city limits. According to animal activists, this is illegal. “As per the rules formed by central government, dogs have to be released at the same location after carrying out sterilization. In Umred, cases of cruelty on stray dogs were on a rise as many owners of Saoji restaurants have domestic chickens and they would mind presence of dogs in their vicinity,” said animal activist Karishma Galani. Based on the pictures of the injured female dog that went viral, Susanna Jham of Shyamali Foundation in Nagpur registered a first information report at Umred police station. Galani filed complaints to Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI), state animal husbandry department and Member of Parliament Maneka Gandhi, who is also the chairperson of animal welfare organization People For Animals. Responding to the complaint, AWBI recently wrote a letter to Nagpur district collector, senior superintendent of police and Umred Municipal Council stating that issuing tender for relocation of stray dogs in forest area was illegal. “This is a very serious violation of provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, Animal Birth Control (Dog) Rules, 2001, and directives of the Supreme Court,” it stated adding that killing of animals was also a serious offence. Citing the rules, the board stated that sterilized dogs should be re-released in the same area from where they are caught. “Releasing them in a new area may lead to man and dog conflict which will ultimately create hostile environment for both,” it said. The board has directed the concerned authorities to investigate into the matter and submit action taken report immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/complaint-against-umrer-municipal-council-for-driving-out-stray-dogs-cruelly/articleshow/78582527.cms||Manka Behl
October 10, 2020||Patna||Shocker for Chirag in middle of a make-or-break election battle||PATNA: Chirag Paswan, son of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan, is arguably in the toughest situation of his life with the demise of his father in New Delhi on Thursday evening in the middle of the crucial Bihar election. Chirag now not only has to helm his party without his father by his side to guide but also has to carry forward senior Paswan’s political legacy amid the rebellion started by him against former allies in the NDA, especially JD (U). Fulfilling the responsibilities as a son, 37-year-old Chirag has been away from Battleground Bihar even as he has blown the bugle for battle against his father’s ‘friends’, including CM Nitish Kumar, as well as Lalu Prasad’s RJD in the Opposition. On several occasions, Chirag has written to his party men regretting his absence in the ensuing Bihar polls as he had to be with his father, who was battling for his life owing to cardiac and other ailments since mid-August. With his father’s demise, Chirag now has the mantle to carry the legacy of one of the tallest socialist and Dalit faces in the country. Having opened the rebellion against ally JD (U) and the subsequent ‘public abandonment’ by BJP in the Bihar polls, Chirag also seems to be a man waging a lonely and long-drawn battle against the old warhorses. However, Patna-based political observer and economist Shaibal Gupta is of the view that Chirag and LJP may not be that lonely and benefit from the sympathy of supporters as well as party workers. “LJP was established by Ram Vilas Paswan and he maintained the stature of a national level leader with good rapport with all political parties. His demise is most likely to generate sympathy for Chirag as well as LJP. LJP will be the net gainer as party workers, as well as supporters, will consolidate. However, much of it will depend on how Chirag emerges in his own right and to what extent BJP supports him over the next few weeks,” Gupta told TOI. LJP national spokesperson Sanjay Saraf echoed a similar view. “Ram Vilas Ji’s demise is a great loss for not only LJP but for the entire country as a great leader has left us. The party was already working as per his guidance and we will all work even harder to succeed in his vision of a developed Bihar. All party workers are in pain with his demise but we will rise even higher,” Saraf said. In his last days, Ram Vilas had put his weight behind son Chirag. In an emotional tweet made on September 11, Ram Vilas had said he was happy that his son Chirag took proper care of him during his illness and also dealt with the affairs of the party. “I stand firmly by every decision of his (Chirag). I am confident that the youthful thinking of Chirag will take the party and Bihar to new heights,” senior Paswan had tweeted. Managing his responsibilities between party affairs and hospital over the past few weeks, Chirag said even on Thursday, while releasing the first list of LJP’s 42 candidates for Bihar polls that he is unable to be with his partymen because of his father’s health but he will be with them as soon as health improves. LJP party workers were seen shedding tears at the party’s Patna office on Thursday evening after hearing about Ram Vilas’s demise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shocker-for-chirag-in-middle-of-a-make-or-break-election-battle/articleshow/78562563.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Most police station chiefs lose Sunday offs||Aurangabad: Putting an end to the decades-old tradition of police station chiefs and other senior police officers taking their weekly off on Sundays, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has issued directives asking the police station chiefs to avail of their weekly offs on weekdays, instead of everyone being off on Sundays. Following the directive, two deputy commissioners of police (each heading a zone) have prepared a fresh list of police station chiefs’ weekly offs. “All the station chiefs availing their weekly offs on the same day may have an impact on the police’s response to any untoward incident or crime. It may eventually result in a law and order situation,” reasoned the order. The decision has not gone down well with some inspectors. However, senior officers justified it saying that all the police station chiefs being off on the same day leaves all the police stations headless for 24 hours every week. An officer recalled a recent violent group clash within the limits of Jinsi and Kranti Chowk police stations that took place on Sunday. The police station chiefs were not immediately available to respond to the situation. Only after police commissioner Gupta went to the spot, did the other senior officers, including deputy commissioners heading the two zones and the respective station chiefs, rush to the spot. Gupta could not be reached for his comments. Aurangabad city has 17 police stations divided into two zones. Zone-1 has eight police stations, while Zone-II has nine police stations. In Zone-II, Cidco police station inspector Ashok Giri and Mukundwadi inspector Sharad Ingle have been allotted Monday; MIDC Cidco inspector Vithal Pote and Satara inspector Surendra Malale have been allotted Tuesday; Jinsi inspector Vyankat Kendre and Jawaharnagar inspector Subhash Patil have been allotted Wednesday; Osmanpura inspector Dilip Tare has been allotted Thursday; Mukundwadi inspector Sudhakar Bavkar has been allotted Saturday; while Harsul inspector Sachin Ingole and Pundaliknagar inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne have managed to retain Sunday offs. Authorities in Zone-I said similar orders are ready and will be issued later in the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/most-police-station-chiefs-lose-sunday-offs/articleshow/78578836.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man booked for rape bid on minor stepdaughter||KOTA: A 40-year-old man was booked under sections of IPC and Pocso Act for allegedly attempting to rape his 15-year-old stepdaughter on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday at his rented house in Nayapura area of the city. After receiving a complaint, police sent the minor survivor for medical examination on Friday morning and her statements are likely to be recorded before a magistrate on Saturday. The accused was taken into police custody. The survivor, accompanied by her mother, approached Nayapura police station on Thursday evening and lodged a case of attempt to rape against her stepfather, circle inspector Bhawani Singh said. A case of attempt to rape under Sections 376/511 of IPC and under various sections of Pocso Act were registered against the accused, he added. According to the complaint, the incident occurred when the survivor was asleep with her mother and younger siblings at her house. The accused allegedly undressed the minor and attempted to rape her, meanwhile, her mother, who was sleeping in the same room, woke up and rescued the minor girl, the CI said. The accused is a daily wage labourer, who currently works at a tea stall in the city and is also reported to be an alcoholic. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused had attempted to rape his minor stepdaughter in the past as well. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-booked-for-rape-bid-on-minor-stepdaughter/articleshow/78582522.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Market complexes hope stars will shine upon them too when movie halls open||NEW DELHI: Deserted corridors, stray dogs idling at the amphitheatre, shuttered stores and ‘available for rent’ posters on many shop fronts — south Delhi’s Basant Lok market, once the haunt of eager buyers, is today a pale shadow of its former self. Bittu Chaudhary, a shoe salesman, said hardly three or four customers came the whole day nowadays. While he attributed the disappearance of shoppers to the Covid-19 pandemic, he added that the closure of PVR Priya cinema in the complex had made it even more difficult to do business. “On weekends, we wouldn’t even have time to rest. People came to watch movies and then did some shopping and dining too,” said Chaudhary. With cinema halls now permitted to run at half capacity, there is hope now of a revival in markets like Basant Lok. Vijaypreet Singh Lamba, president of Basant Lok market up-gradation and maintenance committee, said that Priya cinema was as important to the market as movie theatres in shopping malls around which retail and food outlets were anchored. “Commercial complexes like Basant Lok, Janakpuri or Nehru Place need the cinema complex. Priya pull consumers for our market,” said Lamba, ruing the pandemic closure that has hit entertainment and eateries in such areas. The relaxations in the lockdown haven’t eased the worries. “We aren’t getting even 10% of vehicles that we did earlier. This is despite all shops having reopened. Our income is indirectly linked to the cinema hall,” said the parking lot manager Kailash Yadav. The local traders’ association was also happy at cinema halls being finally allowed to renew operations. The situation is no different in another iconic cinema complex of south Delhi. PVR Anupam near Saket has been under renovation for a year and most outlets at the market have felt the heat. Raju Singh, a tea seller at the market for 15 years, claimed his income halved in October last year when the renovation began. “The lockdown eroded the rest. All I can now do is to wait for the revamp to be over before I can hope of an upturn in my livelihood,” Singh said. Nageshwar Singh Thakur, head of Anupam Shopping Arcade Association, claimed that 65% of the footfall at the market could be attributed to the PVR Anupam cineplex. “When people come to watch movies, other trades also benefit,” he maintained. Md Shakeel is trying to compensate for the reduced earnings from his decorative items business by switching to selling face masks. At Yashwant Place in Chanakyapuri, employees of eating joints chase you frantically, waving menus, doing everything to add even one customer to their dwindling daily clientele. The Chanakya, the cinema complex there, has not opened since March. “Our business is not directly linked with the cinema hall because well-off come to movie complex which has shopping and food outlets. But we did get the young crowd wanting food, especially at night,” explained Mohammad Ali, owner of a small eatery. The Russian market at Yashwant Place, so called because it has catered to mainly Russian-speaking clientele for over 50 years, is fairly popular among foreigners from other countries too. And people from the embassies, government quarters and residential bungalows dropping in for a movie shopped at the market for quality fur coats, leather jackets and jewellery. “But with the restrictions on international flights and non-operation of the cinema hall, our market is on the decline,” reported Sushil Kumar Jain, president of the leather market association. Most shopkeepers here have manufacturing units elsewhere in the country, but with dwindling business, many have been forced to give back the possession of licensed stalls to New Delhi Municipal Council. “With little consumer demand and no support from the government, we have no option but to shut down our units or lay off workers,” said Jain. There are no movie halls at the Sector 9 market in RK Puram in south Delhi, only eateries. It isn’t surprising then that Dilip Chauhan of Laidback Cafe says business is limited, though it picks up marginally on weekends when some shoppers come. He did express hope though that with cinemas being allowed to run, markets anchored to movie halls will benefit. “While restaurants and hotels were given permission to resume operation from August, business will not pick up in most complexes unless cinema halls start running,” noted Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/market-complexes-hope-stars-will-shine-upon-them-too-when-movie-halls-open/articleshow/78582519.cms||Paras Singh
October 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Nutritious ration kits distributed to 3,000 balwadi students||Aurangabad: Guardian minister Subhash Desai on Friday inaugurated a food kit distribution programme at the district collectorate and nutritious food kits were distributed to around 3,000 balwadi students. The minister appreciated the move by Canpack India and Annamrita Foundation who took the responsibility for the nutrition support of children in the kindergartens run by the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Sudashan Potbhare of Annamitra foundation said that the civic body runs around 90 balwadis where about 3,000 children are studying. “Due to the prevailing pandemic and eventual lockdown, these kindergartens were closed. Even the meal programme was stopped. Therefore, municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey and Iskcon Annamrita Foundation decided to make efforts in these directions and approached Canpack India, Aurangabad, which readily agreed to extend its active cooperation under its CSR fund,” he said. “Each kit includes wheat, rice, pulses, nutritious grains, spices, oil, soy nuts, soap, biscuits for around two months after which we expect the balwadis to reopen and function normally,” he added. Other than Desai, the programme was also attended by MLC Ambadas Danve.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nutritious-ration-kits-distributed-to-3000-balwadi-students/articleshow/78578822.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nashik||SUK Shinoli campus to start coursesfrom Jan ’21||Kolhapur: Various courses for the Marathi-speaking students of the border areas will start from January 2021 on the Shinoli village campus of Shivaji University-Kolhapur, said minister of higher education Uday Samant. Samant reviewed the varsities preparations for conducting exams. The university has given the students two options: To appear for the exam online or appear physically at the exam centres to write the test. “We are developing an education complex on half-acre land at Shinoli. I have asked the stakeholders, especially the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti, to tell us the requirements of the Marathi-speaking students of the border areas.” He added that libraries will be allowed to reopen across the state soon. He said an in-principle approval to open the libraries had been given, however the government is waiting for the SOPs to be finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/suk-shinoli-campus-to-start-coursesfrom-jan-21/articleshow/78578832.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Boutique owner booked||Ahmedabad: Naranpura police on Thursday booked a woman, who runs a boutique in the area, for not wearing a mask and not making customers wear them. The FIR registered by a ‘She’ team member of Naranpura police states that the boutique owner, Nikita Shelat, 43, a resident of Navrangpura, allegedly threatened police personnel saying they were harassing people and she obstructed them in their duty. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/boutique-owner-booked/articleshow/78582531.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Mritunjay-Naura group grabs all seats in Punjab University||CHANDIGARH: Mritunjay-Naura group, with a backing of three-time winner Rajesh Gill group, made a clean sweep in the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (Puta) elections. This is the fourth time that the group has bagged all posts. All the candidates fielded by Khalid-Sidhu group lost. Total votes polled were 520 out of 627, which makes around 83% voter turnout. Presidential candidate Mritunjay Kumar polled 276 votes and defeated Mohammad Khalid, who bagged 235, with a margin of 41 votes. For the past two years, Mritunjay, from AC Joshi Library, has been holding the post of Puta vice-president and he had contested for president’s position for the first time. Khalid, who was contesting for the second time for the president’s post, had won the elections in 2012 and served the one-year tenure. He is in the faculty of evening studies. Mritunjay-Naura group’s secretary candidate Amarjit Singh Naura got 274 votes, defeating MC Sidhu, who got 240 votes. There was a difference of 34 votes. The group’s treasurer candidate Nitin Arora won with the highest margin of 112, defeating Samarjit Sihotra. Joint secretary Sarvnarinder Kaur got 288 votes and won with a margin of 74 votes against Anupam Bahri, who bagged 214 votes. Vice-president candidate Supinder Kaur secured 268 votes and won by a difference of 26, defeating Amit Chauhan, who managed 242 votes. Professor Vijay Nagpal, returning officer, said Covid-19 did not impact the polling much, as 83% turnout was recorded. He said in the past, the average percentage hovered between 90% and 95%, and this time only three were denied right to vote due to their being Covid-19 patients and the rest had other reasons for absence. Mohammad Khalid said the senators pressurized voters, who have to get a number of their issues resolved in the senate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mritunjay-naura-group-grabs-all-seats/articleshow/78579927.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Man loses job in Delhi during lockdown, returns to village & feeds poison to kids||Nainital: A 45-year-old man was admitted to a hospital along with his three children after he tried to kill his children and then himself. According to police, the man is a resident of Almora district and had returned to the village from Delhi after losing his job during the Covid-19 lockdown. The children are said to be stable, but the man is still critical. On Thursday night, the man fed poison to his three children - two sons and a daughter - as well as his two cattle and then consumed the same poison. However, alert neighbours and relatives came to their rescue and rushed the family to the hospital. “The man had returned to his native village in Almora and was living with his three children. He had lost his job and was of late completely dependent on agriculture and his cattle. His wife, however, is said to be in Delhi," a police official said. "After the incident, the man along with his children were first taken to the local hospital and then referred to the base hospital where they are now receiving treatment. The cattle meanwhile have died,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-loses-job-in-delhi-during-lockdown-returns-to-village-feeds-poison-to-kids/articleshow/78578861.cms||Prashant Jha
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Woman looking for job upgrade duped of Rs 28 lakh in an elaborate set-up||NEW DELHI: A 29-year-old woman, while working as a deputy manager with a leading firm, started looking for a new job in July and got an offer allegedly through a well-known job portal. A person, claiming be to a human resource (HR) manager from the job portal, subsequently made a VOIP call to her and, in the next few weeks, lined up interviews with “top bosses” of a leading real estate firm. The woman, a resident of Malviya Nagar, was told she had cleared the interviews with flying colours and had been “hired” for a senior managerial position with an exorbitant package. During online completion of documentation, she was asked to sign a stringent bond or pay a security of Rs 28 lakh, which was equivalent her few months’ salary. She paid up only to realise on her “joining day” that she had fallen prey to a group of thugs. After she approached police, an extensive IP detail record analysis was conducted and the numbers the crooks used to contact the victim were tracked. After analysing details of call records and bank accounts, police raided the address given to buy a SIM and open the bank accounts, but it was found to be fake. The cops got a photo from the bank and used their local sources to trace one of the culprits. “The holder of the accounts where the money was transferred was finally arrested from Sector 122 in Noida. He is a security guard who had let the fraudsters open and use his accounts,” said DCP (south) Atul Thakur. The guard, Pinkesh, told the cops that his friend had helped him open six bank accounts and introduced him to another member of the gang. They were apparently working for a foreigner. Police conducted raids in Delhi and Noida but both managed to flee. The guard said he used to be alerted by gang members after the money was deposited in an account, police said. After withdrawing the amount, he would alegedly hand it over to them against a 10% commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-looking-for-job-upgrade-duped-of-rs-28l-in-an-elaborate-set-up/articleshow/78582529.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Assets cases against Jagan, Naidu taken up||Hyderabad: The trial courts in Hyderabad on Friday took up the disproportionate assets cases against AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and former CM N Chandrababu Naidu and posted them to October 12 and October 21, respectively. While the CBI special court took up the cases against Jagan and assured his lawyers of considering their plea for a virtual hearing, the ACB court said it was hearing the case against Naidu filed by NTR’s widow Lakshmi Parvathi and adjourned the case. The ACB court also took up the note-for-vote case involving Congress MP A Revanth Reddy and MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah and others and adjourned the case to Monday for further hearing. The CBI court took up the hearing in OMC illegal mining case that has mining baron and former Karnataka minister Gali Janardhan Reddy and Telangana education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy as accused in it and posted the case to October 12. The courts in all these matters made it clear that they are under instructions from the courts above to complete trials in legislator cases in an expeditious manner and hence the hearings would take place on a day-to-day basis. Some of the ED cases connected to these cases too were posted to October 12. The pleas of the advocates for long adjournments were rejected. However, their concerns over crowding of courts during the pandemic were taken note of by the judges. Till a virtual solution is found, physical hearing would go on a regular basis, it is said. It may be recalled some of the ministers and MLAs, who took part in separate Telangana statehood movement, have also appeared before the trial court for their role in rail roko agitations. Former MP Kavitha, ministers KT Rama Rao and 14 others were acquitted in the rail roko cases in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assets-cases-against-jagan-naidu-taken-up/articleshow/78582547.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot govt has failed to curb crime & corona, says Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia||JODHPUR: State BJP chief Satish Poonia on Friday said infection of crime was more heinous than corona and the state government had no clear intention or planning to deal with the spurt in crime. Poonia said, “Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has made remarks about crimes in other states but not about crimes in his state. Tackling crime was not a priority of his government where the motto of police is now ‘trust in criminals, fear in common persons.” Referring to crimes against women in the state, he said the state had shot to second place in the country and first on the index of rape/gangrape with minor girls. Questioning Gehlot’s ability to deal with the ever-increasing crimes, Poonia said with the chief minister himself being the home minister, Congress has not been able to find a suitable person for the post even after two years. Sharing the crime data of the state, Poonia said the BJP would ask the government to release a white paper on crime and seek clarification about all the incidents of crime against women, police action therein and steps by the government for protection and rehabilitation of these victims. Taking a dig at the claim of unity by the Congress, Poonia said they are united by hands, not by hearts and there was a huge gap which could not be plugged. “Congress was united by hands and not by heart. The MLAs of the party have constantly been blaming the ministers for not listening to them. Entire party is divided and its organizational structure has crumbled with no district units,” said Poonia. He said the Congress was heading towards a big division in the state and Gehlot would be the Bahadur Shah Zafar of Congress in Rajasthan.“Since the ‘patch-up’, Gehlot and Sachin Pilot have neither been seen sharing a common platform nor seen conversing on any occasion,” he said. He also condemned the state government for not only failing in containing the spread of corona but also hiding the reality from people by data jugglery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-govt-has-failed-to-curb-crime-corona-says-poonia/articleshow/78582533.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||2 morning walkers exercising on road killed in hit-and-run||Chandrapur: Two youths out for morning walk were killed in a hit-and-run incident near Kharkada village in Bramhapuri on Friday. The deceased identified as Prashant Sahare, 18, and Rhoit Chatte, 18 were regular morning walkers. While they were doing exercise by the roadside near Vidya Rice Mill, an unidentified vehicle crushed them and fled. The duo died on the spot. Bramhapuri police have registered a case against the unidentified vehicle driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-morning-walkers-exercising-on-road-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/78582545.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Strike by Ayurveda doctors goes statewide||Nagpur: Resident doctors from Ayurveda faculty, who are on strike for last three days for their various demands, on Friday got support from their colleagues across the state. The district administration is yet to take any concrete action regarding their demands. The residents, who are working on pandemic duty at par with counterparts from modern medicine faculty, are not ready to call off their strike until they get written assurance from the authorities. The doctors are on a dharna at the Government Ayurvedic College in the city. “Started from Nagpur, the strike will now take place in other parts of Maharashtra. It started in Osmanabad on Friday, Nanded will follow from Saturday while resident doctors in other government Ayurvedic colleges will issue strike notices soon,” said Dr Sumit Marathe, president of Maharashtra Association of Ayurvedic Resident Doctors (MAARD). “We are working without stipend since last four months. We are fed up of oral assurances. We now want written assurance from none other than director of AYUSH department,” said Marathe. The Ayurveda doctors said discrimination and secondary treatment are their main issues. Recently, residents working in government medical colleges and dental colleges were approved Rs10,000 incentive other than salaries, but Ayurveda doctors were not given this benefit. Their theory examinations are scheduled in January which means practical exams are likely to be held in December. As per rules, they must get 45 days preparation leave (PL) on the lines of residents of modern medicine faculties. But administration is not ready to allot leave/relief to them, claimed doctors. “Dean as well as the district collector are giving oral assurances since October 7. But not a single paper came out to fulfil any of our demands. We have no option but to continue with the strike,” said Marathe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/strike-by-ayurveda-doctors-goes-statewide/articleshow/78582551.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Jobless Haryana teacher rides 7,500 km to spur fightback||ROHTAK: When Vajinder Singh, 35, from Rohtak lost his job in a private school, he did not lose heart. Instead, he decided to do teach others in a different way and came up with his version of “Motorcycle diaries”. He embarked on a motorcycle trip, covering several states like UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan in 73 days, and disseminated the message of staying strong in the times of pandemic amid job losses and farm crisis, and not give up hope. He covered over 7,500 km beginning his journey on July 26 and returned home on October 6, managing to interact with nearly 25,000 people in the rural hinterland across 7 states. Vajinder Singh, who is a postgraduate in political science from MDU Rohtak, said seeing the fear of Covid-19 pandemic among the people, he thought of doing something. "With bare minimum belongings in my backpack, I hopped on my bike to meet farmers and people living in remote areas of the country. I never knew that I would be able to go that far, but after receiving overwhelming response on Facebook, I kept riding further and meeting more people to urge them on the importance of staying strong," he added. He said he did not accept any donation from anyone who wished to contribute on seeing his efforts but enjoyed the hospitality of people in Jharkhand and Odisha who let him stay the night at their houses. "In Uttar Pradesh, I had to stay at eating outlets at night, but in other states, people give me room at a common place or in their houses. They did not even have pucca houses but opened their hearts and homes to me when I told them I had come from Haryana to urge them to raise their voice for employment, health services, quality education and saving farmers," he added. The journey was a learning experience for him, too. He saw that unlike Haryana and Punjab where farmers have concrete houses and can afford education and health services for their family, the condition in rural areas of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha is grave. He said that people in villages do not have clothes to wear, fight for two square meals and do not have modern farm equipment for agriculture, but are not cowed down by the onslaught of drought or floods. Vajinder Singh said in many of the states he visited, including the Naxal-hit Chhattisgarh, women are the bread-earners, running small shops, farming or working in the fields. The people he encountered during his motorcycle travels were amazed when they came to know his mission and promised to raise their issues on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jobless-hry-teacher-rides-75k-km-to-spur-fightback/articleshow/78582546.cms||Sat Singh
October 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad sessions court acquits farm worker of rape||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad additional district and sessions judge SS Bhishma recently acquitted a 32-year-old farm worker in a rape case while citing ‘improvisation’ in the statements of witnesses apart from “not recording statements of the witnesses” named in the FIR. Kautik Weldode was arrested in October 2016 on the charges of raping a divorcee, who, according to her relatives, has learning disabilities, in Sillod taluka. The accused has been in jail since his arrest. As per the prosecution, the woman’s 14-year-old neice saw her being allegedly raped by the suspect and walked for one-and-a-half hours to nearby hills to inform her mother. As soon as they along with some relatives arrived at the house, the suspect reportedly fled. The prosecution examined nine witnesses, including two medicos from the Government Medical College and Hospital, but failed to examine the psychiatrist who had examined the mental status of the woman. Defence lawyer Akshay Radikar contested: “Several of the close relatives of the complainant reside in the neighbourhood, then why the minor girl walked such a long to call her mother. Moreover, the prosecution did not examine any of the witnesses who reached the spot. The psychiatrist was also not examined by the prosecution, making it difficult to establish her mental health at the time of the incident.” The court held that there is no prima facie evidence of rape against the accused. The victim was not examined before the court and also that her mental illness has not been proved by the prosecution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-sessions-courtacquits-farm-worker-of-rape/articleshow/78578869.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Include medical officer interns in recruitment process: Rajasthan high court||JODHPUR: Providing relief to applicants for the post of medical officers who are interning presently, the high court has directed the state government to allow them to provisionally participate in the recruitment process and accept their forms in offline format. Listing the matter for next hearing on October 16, the court also made it clear that the results of these petitioners might not be declared without permission of the court. Petitioners' counsel Nitish Bagri said they had been interning at different medical colleges and the Rajasthan Medical Council had issued a provisional registration certificate/receipt to all the petitioners, while the permanent registration certificate would be issued only after completion of one year of internship. “But the respondents imposed a supplementary condition, whereby candidates could only be termed as qualified if they furnished permanent registration certificate issued by the Rajasthan Medical Council, on or before the examination date, October 13, 2020,” Bagri said. Arguing that this supplementary condition was contrary to the previous recruitment notification by the respondents for the same examination in 2018, as there wasn’t any such supplementary pre-condition then, Bagri said that this condition would render many of them ineligible for the recruitment process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/include-med-officer-interns-in-recruitment-process-hc/articleshow/78582541.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kolkata||Oct rain slows down traffic in central Kol||Kolkata: The city on Friday experienced localized rains that caused waterlogging in some parts. While south Kolkata received light showers in a couple of neighbourhoods, some parts of north Kolkata received heavy rainfall. The waterlogging hit traffic in some parts.Rainfall patterns recorded by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation drainage pumping stations threw up a stark difference between the north and the south. The data showed that while the Ballygunge drainage pumping station recorded as little as 10mm rains between 2pm and 3pm, Thanthania and Maniktala drainage pumping stations recorded 60mm and 40mm rain respectively during the same period. “As a result, large parts of north Kolkata, including Thanthania, Amherst Street, College Street, MG Road, Maniktala, Kankurgachhi and Belgachia, were waterlogged,” said a KMC drainage department official.Waterlogging led to traffic disruptions in several areas, such as Chittaranjan Avenue, MG Road, Strand Road (towards Howrah bridge) Rabindra Sarani (towards MG Road) and JL Nehru Road (towards Dorina crossing), confirmed the traffic department of Kolkata Police.Sources in Alipore Met office said local thunderclouds had triggered the rain in some parts of the city. Met office said that there was a lot of moisture incursion currently pushing up cloud formation. Hence light to moderate rain was expected during the weekend. “Though low pressure had formed over the north of the Andaman Sea, it will not have any direct impact on our region. The thundershowers on Friday resulted in localized rain,” said GK Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Center, Kolkata. Even as some parts of the city received sharp showers, Alipore recorded only 4.4mm rain. Weather scientists said the uneven rain pattern was because the rain was triggered by local cloud formation. “Usually monsoon withdraws from our region by October 11. But this time it is likely to be delayed by a few days. In the meantime, we shall continue to get few spells now and then,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oct-rain-slows-down-traffic-in-central-kol/articleshow/78582540.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 35-year-old commits suicide along with two children in Nagaur||JAIPUR: A 35-year-old man along with his two sons aged 5 and 7 years committed suicide by jumping into a tubewell in Nagaur’s Mundwa police station area on Friday evening. The deceased were identified as Rameshwar Meghwal and his sons Tejaram and Vineet. Mundwa SHO Baldev Ram told TOI,” “Around 4:30 pm, the man took his two children and jumped into the tubewell in a field while his wife along with others was working just few metres away. At present, we do not know the reason behind the suicide as Meghwal left behind no note.” According to officials, the bodies were found when a local went to drink water from the well and found that its lid was open. Meghwal’s shoes were also kept on one side. “Meghwal wrapped his mobile phone and his tobacco in a towel which he kept some distance away from the suicide spot. The family is not able to tell us any reason that made Meghwal commit suicide along with the children. They claimed that there was no domestic dispute or financial constraints which could have made him take this step”, added the SHO. Cops claimed that they will question the family again once they came out of the shock and will also go through the victim’s mobile phone to find leads in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/35-yr-old-commits-suicide-along-with-2-children-in-nagaur/articleshow/78582552.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kochi||Covid: Ernakulam to be split into 4 zones, 1 hospital in each to be upgraded||KOCHI: With the number of Covid-19 cases going up, the district administration is planning to divide Ernakulam into four zones. “One hospital in each zone will be upgraded into a facility which can cater to the specific needs of Covid-19 patients,” said district collector S Suhas. The authorities are also planning to enhance the infrastructure facilities in government hospitals to cater to the growing needs. “The number of cases is increasing. Our objective is to identify Covid-19 patients at the earliest and provide them proper healthcare,” Suhas added. The plan is to prevent death due to the pandemic as much as possible. As per the strategy, more swabs samples will be collected from those with symptoms or having contact with Covid-19 patients. When more patients are to be shifted to the main Covid treatment centres suddenly, it may lead to collapse of the system. Moreover, shifting all patients from different parts of the city to a certain Covid hospital may cause delay in providing proper treatment for the patients. So, taluk hospital at North Paravur, general hospital at Muvattupuzha, district hospital at Aluva and Karuvelipady taluk hospital will be converted into centres where patients can be shifted first if they develop any complications. However, patients without much symptoms or complications will continue to stay at their homes. “After giving immediate care at these centres, patients will be shifted to Covid hospitals. There will be all facilities including that for providing oxygen support at the hospitals in these four regions,” an official with health department said. “These four centres will continue to offer non-Covid treatment. Patients will be shifted to Covid hospitals after giving immediate medical care. This will help prevent complications which may arise out of delay in getting proper treatment,” the official said. There will be a special wing at the emergency units of these hospitals to take care of Covid-19 patients. Authorities have also started taking steps to increase the participation of private hospital in providing Covid treatment. “As part of the move, many of the private hospitals in the district have agreed to provide treatment to Covid patients under Kerala Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP). As of now, private hospitals have earmarked more than 300 beds for the purpose. We have started sending patients to private hospitals as well. Now, around 30 beds at different private hospitals are occupied by patients who avail the benefits under KASP,” an official with the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ekm-to-be-split-into-4-zones-1-hosp-in-each-to-be-upgraded/articleshow/78579951.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer constable solves month-old murder case||AJMER: A constable posted at Shrinagar police station of the district cracked a month-old murder case of a woman and arrested two accused on Friday. The murder was committed to get the jewellery of a 56-year-old woman, Chuki Devi, who was alone at her house in Nulakha village of the district. Initially, there was no clue about the missing jewellery from the house, but constable Mahender Pal cracked the case. SHO Prabhu Dayal said, on August 27, police got information that an old woman was found dead in her house and her hands and legs were tied. Son of the deceased Suresh, who lives in another village, had lodged a report of murder and police sent the body to JLN Hospital. The postmortem report revealed that the woman died because of suffocation. Suresh was not aware about the missing jewellery of his mother as there was no sign of break-in at the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ajmer-constable-solves-month-old-murder-case/articleshow/78582558.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 5k new cases, 31 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 5,145 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,44,864, even as the toll rose to 6,159 with 31 more people succumbing to the disease. As many as 6,110 Covid-19 patients recovered on Friday and were discharged. There are currently 47,665 active cases in the state with 6,91,040 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery of 92.8%. All districts have now achieved at least 90% recovery rate with Anantapur leading the table at 97%. The state so far tested 64.2 lakh samples, including the 70,521 people tested on Friday. The overall case positivity rate came down to 11.6%, while the mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%. As per government data, of the 33,000 beds available at the nearly 217 government and private Covid-19 hospitals, only 11,070 beds are occupied, i.e., 66% of all beds. Among them, 3,141 of 4,530 ICU beds are available. Of the 17,280 oxygen beds, only 6,081 beds are occupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-5k-new-cases-31-deaths/articleshow/78582570.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Factory owner held in Chandigarh for faking murder and robbery||HISAR: Hansi police arrested a factory owner of Data village in Hisar who allegedly faked his murder in a “robbery” incident. Ram Mehar (35), who was arrested from Chhattisgarh, had executed his ‘death’ plan when his family complained to police that some robbers had burnt him alive inside his car near Mahjat village in Hansi on Tuesday night and looted Rs 11 lakh. Now, police are investigating whose body was burnt in the car. Hansi SP Lokendra Singh said the arrest was made possible because of the help of cyber cell and crime cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/factory-owner-held-in-cgarh-for-faking-murder-and-robbery/articleshow/78582569.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid recovery rate jumps from 55.26% to 88.6% in 40 days||CHANDIGARH: With the novel coronavirus cases continuously declining, the recovery rate has increased from 55.26% to 88.6% in the city. The caseload was 4,155, with 1,859 active, as of August 30. The recovery rate improved to 64.03% on September 15, 83.01% on October 1, 87.7% on October 8 and 88.6% the next day. In the middle of June, the recovery rate of the city was highest in the country at 85.51%. Since then, cases had started increasing. From August-mid, the recovery figures became higher as compared to fresh cases. At the same time, the daily growth of cases has reduced from 5.1% — the highest in the country — on August 26 to 1% as of October 7. The growth rate — at which the total reported cases grow on a daily basis — is lower than the national average of 1.2%. However, neighbouring state of Punjab has a less growth rate of 0.9%, whereas Haryana stands equal to Chandigarh with 1%. Health experts said as there is social stigma attached with the coronavirus, people sometimes willingly not come forward for tests — one of the reasons for the decreasing trend of the growth rate. They suggested people should come forward if they develop symptoms. “Timely diagnosis will ultimately help in reduction of mortality rate as well,” they added. Recently, a team appointed by the ministry of health and family welfare had made some key observations and recommendations for the city after analysing its testing strategy and contact tracing. The team had highlighted problems in testing in Chandigarh, particularly in the south zone, as the area has the maximum cases and containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-recovery-rate-jumps-from-55-26-to-88-6-in-40-days/articleshow/78579956.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Plea for speedy disposal of PIL seeking de-registration of SAD||JALANDHAR: An application has been filed at the Delhi high court for expeditious disposal of a 2010 PIL seeking a direction to the Election Commission (EC) to set aside the registration of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) as a political party. Citing that petitioner Balwant Singh Khera is in his mid-80s and not in the best of his health, the plea has sought expeditious disposal of this “very important matter” during his life-time. Alleging that SAD continues to exploit religion in politics, the application has also pointed out that elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) are due in three months in January 2021 and Akali Dal could continue to exploit religion in politics in these elections as well, “unless the instant matter is heard and adjudicated upon within time”. The application has mentioned that through an earlier order on February 19, 2019, the court had allowed the petition for expeditious hearing of the matter and listed it for hearing April 3, 2019. But thereafter, the matter was adjourned repeatedly and it got further delayed over the last six months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Khera, a social worker and political activist, who was also chairman of Malta Boat Tragedy Probe Mission, has been pursuing the issue since 2004, first with EC and then in 2010, he filed a PIL in the Delhi high court. Following an advice by the court, a fresh and consolidated petition was filed in 2018 and pleadings are complete in the case. Later, another social worker Om Singh Satiana also joined him in the petition. The petitioners have claimed that the SAD’s registration was obtained based on a fraudulent undertaking of secularism given to the EC by SAD. Their petition stated that SAD doctored a document labelled as its “Rules and Regulations” in order to project that it was complying with S29A of the RP Act, which mandates undertaking of secularism to be registered as a political party, though the party uses its old constitution of 1974, which is a non-secular document to qualify as a religious party and contest elections to SGPC and DSGMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plea-for-speedy-disposal-of-pil-seeking-de-registration-of-sad/articleshow/78582574.cms||IP Singh
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Shabbir gives Rs 50k to Moinabad girl’s kin||Hyderabad: Former Congress minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir on Friday gave Rs 50,000 to the family members of a girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in Moinabad. The girl’s sister and brother along with relatives called on Shabbir Ali at his residence. Ali said he would bear the education expenses of the girl’s sister if any NGO takes up the responsibility of providing her with basic education. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shabbir-gives-rs-50k-to-moinabad-girls-kin/articleshow/78582601.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Ayurveda doctor held for illegal abortion gets bail||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently granted bail to an ayurveda doctor, who was arrested by the Ahmednagar police in June 2020, for the illegal termination of the pregnancy of a woman at his nursing home. The Ayurveda practitioner, Shankarprasad Gandhe, had earlier approached the Ahmednagar sessions court seeking bail but it was rejected. He then approached the HC through lawyer Joydeep Chatterjee. The Ahmednagar taluka police had raided the Gandhe Hospital and registered an offence against Gandhe under sections 312 (causing miscarriage), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. Chatterjee pointed out to the court that the woman, who was about four months pregnant, was advised a sonography test by the primary health centre, Jakhangaon. She went to a hospital in Pune on June 19, 2020, where she underwent the test. The radiologist reported that there was a deformity to the spinal cord and brain of the fetus and it was incorrigible and incurable. He handed over the sonography report to the woman, who left the hospital. She told the police that on June 21, 2020, she had severe pain in her abdomen and, therefore, she visited the hospital of Gandhe. She has also stated to the police that after examining her, Gandhe told her that the foetus had died in the womb itself. He advised the woman and her mother either to go for further treatment in a private hospital or civil hospital. But they refused as they could not afford expenses of a private hospital and didn’t want to go to the civic hospital amid Covid-19 pandemic. “In the meantime, her condition aggravated and the foetus began to come out and the doctor had to save her life and there was no time for formalities concerned,” Chatterjee said. Taking note of these arguments and perusing the record, Justice V K Jadhav granted conditional bail to Gandhe and observed ``prima facie, it appears that the provisions of Sections 312, 313 and 315 of the Indian Penal Code are not applicable to the present set of facts. It is true that prima facie, it appears that the applicant is not a “registered medical practitioner” in terms of provisions of Section 2(d) of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. However, it further appears that the applicant, in good faith of saving the life of the woman, got her admitted in his hospital and further treated her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ayurveda-doctor-held-for-illegal-abortion-gets-bail/articleshow/78578897.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 10, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Police arrest 2 murder accused from hideouts||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police arrested two youths who were allegedly the masterminds behind the murder of a 36-year-old man, who was stabbed to death at Kayyalappadi near Nedumbassery. The accused who had gone into hiding after allegedly committing the crime last Sunday were arrested on Friday. The arrested have been identified as Basil Puthenveetil, 26, and Vinu Mani, 22, of Vappalassery. Police had earlier arrested another accused Manu Mani and two others, Ajay K Sunil and Vipin Ashli, for assisting their escape. The deceased Antony alias Jissmon as well as the arrested were accused in several cases. The gang allegedly attacked him to settle old grudges, police said. “Antony was summoned to the spot by the gang on the pretext of settling some financial disputes. He came in a jeep and the gang took out the key of the vehicle and then attacked him. After stabbing him, the accused split into two groups and went into hiding,” said police. Following the incident, Nedumbassery police had registered an FIR under IPC Section 302 for murder. The accused were nabbed from their hiding place on Friday by a special team constituted by Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick. The probe team consisted of DSP G Venu, inspectors P M Baiju, Sony Mathai, sub-inspectors Regeesh Kumar, Baiju R, Sufi Radhakrishnan, ASIs Balachandran, Shahir CA, SCPPs Rony Augustine, Suresh Babu, Jissmon, and Rahul K R. Police sources said they are looking into the antecedents of the accused to find the exact reason for the murder. The accused had connections with ganja rackets and this angle is also being probed, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-arrest-2-murderaccused-from-hideouts/articleshow/78579957.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Avoid singing, play recorded songs at pandals & temples to prevent Covid-19 spread: U’khand govt||Dehradun: The new standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Uttarakhand health department states that recorded devotional music or songs must be played as far as feasible and choirs or singers’ groups should not be allowed during puja and in festive pandals to contain the spread of Covid-19. In case of a closed venue, temperature of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30°C, relative humidity in the range of 40-70%, and re-circulation of air has to be avoided to the maximum possible extent, the SOP adds. “For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD (Central Public Works Department) shall be followed which emphasise that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30°C, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%, re-circulation of air to be avoided to the extent possible, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible, and cross ventilation should be adequate. Also, in religious places, touching of statues/idols / holy books etc. shall not be allowed. In view of potential threat of spread of infection, recorded devotional music/songs may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed. Community kitchens/langars/ann-daan, etc. at event venues should follow physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing food,” says the SOP. The SOP further added that “since gatherings of people for religious worship, fairs, rallies, exhibitions, cultural functions, and processions, among others, increase during the festive months of October, November, and December, it is important that necessary preventive measures are followed during such events to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection.” “To contain the spread of coronavirus, no festivity events shall be allowed in containment zones. Also, persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home. This applies to the event managers and staff as well,” reads the order. It adds that the administration and the concerned authorities must identify spatial boundaries and prepare a detailed site plan with arrangements for thermal screening, physical distancing, and sanitisation, among others, at the venue where a gathering is expected. “There should be pre-planning for specific days and times when the rush in pandals and in markets peaks in case of festivals that run for a week or for a couple of days. The planning for such events should specifically factor this so that crowds are regulated and managed to ensure physical distance and frequent sanitisation. Volunteers should be appropriately stationed to ensure thermal scanning, physical distancing, and wearing of masks. In case of rallies and immersion processions, the number of people should not exceed the prescribed limit and proper physical distancing and wearing of masks must be ensured and there must be an ambulance service at the event venue,” read the order. Additionally, personal discipline is also advised by the government in which individuals have been asked to maintain a minimum distance of six feet in public places as far as feasible to reduce the risk of Covid-19 transmission. Use of face covers/masks is mandatory and people should also practice frequent hand washing and respiratory etiquettes, which involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing of the used tissues properly,” added the guidelines. Apart from social distancing and medical care, every festival site must have a designated isolation room/space for isolating any person found symptomatic during events/shows/rallies till the medical help is available. Organisers should preferably ensure multiple and separate entry and exits for visitors. For movement in the venue, the number of visitors inside the event venue shall be restricted in accordance with the order issued by the Union ministry of home affairs from time to time. Seating and eating arrangements must also ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/avoid-singing-play-recorded-songs-at-pandals-temples-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-ukhand-govt/articleshow/78578905.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath helicopter service starts, 890 use chopper on first day||DEHRADUN: Chopper services in Kedarnath started on Friday with around 890 people availing of the service on the first day. Officials of Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA) said they had received bookings for nearly 2,500 pilgrims for chopper rides to the Kedarnath shrine in the last five days. The bookings had opened on October 5. Chief executive officer (CEO) of UCADA Ashish Kumar Chauhan said that people taking the helicopters are not counted in the daily limit of pilgrims to the shrine, which is capped at 3,000. Chief executive officer of Devasthanam Board, Ravinath Raman, added, “Those who come on helicopters do not stay in the temple area and hence, are exempted from the daily limit. We expect a maximum of 400 people to avail the helicopter service for Char Dham every day.” Watch: Chopper services in #Kedarnath started on Friday. https://t.co/2tJBTegQck— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1602305728000“The charge for a helicopter ride to Kedarnath temple from Gupatkashi is Rs 7,750, Rs 4,720 from Phata, Rs 4,680 from Sirsi and Rs 5,950 from Govindghat. These are two-way charges. Bookings for one-way rides aren’t available online and have to be done on the spot,” he added. Watch: Chopper service in #Kedarnath https://t.co/yoBEJiERmV— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1602305821000The rate for the chopper rides was reduced last year. In 2018, a ride to Kedarnath from Phata would have cost Rs 6,700, while the one from Sirsi would cost Rs 6,350. The next year, these were reduced to Rs 4,798 and Rs 4,940 respectively. This year, the rates have further gone down. This year’s Char Dham Yatra has been a truncated one. The pilgrimage was opened from July 1 and after Covid-19-negative certificate was no longer needed to enter the state, the number of pilgrims started picking up. According to Raman, a total of 119,890 people have registered for the Char Dham yatra and 74,000 have visited the shrines so far this year. Last year, more than 38 lakh pilgrims had travelled to the Char Dham shrines. Watch: Chopper services in #Kedarnath startUCADA Officials said they had received bookings for nearly 2,500 pilgr… https://t.co/IBQpKArl2J— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1602306585000Watch Uttarakhand: Kedarnath chopper service begins, 890 pilgrims avail facility on first day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedar-heli-service-starts-890-use-chopper-on-first-day/articleshow/78579965.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||54 succumb, 2,165 fresh cases in region||Chandigarh/Shimla: A total of 2,165 fresh Covid cases and 54 deaths were on Friday reported from the adjoining states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Thursday, with highest 1,250 new cases surfacing in Haryana and maximum 35 deaths taking place in Punjab. A total of 829 persons were tested positive in the last 24 hours in Punjab, where the overall death count now stands at 3,773, while the virus has infected 122,459 people so far. As many as 1,333 patients were also discharged in the last 24 hours. With 1,08,533 people getting well so far, the state’s recovery rate further improved to 88.62% and the active rate dropped to 8.29%. Haryana on Friday recorded 1,250 fresh cases and 14 deaths due to the virus, taking the death toll to 1,562 and the overall count of positive cases to 139,932, out of which 10,830 cases are active. A total of 127,540 patients have been discharged after treatment in the state so far, taking the recovery rate further up to 91.14% and increasing the time taken for doubling of the cases to 36 days. A total of 2,156,747 persons have been tested to date. Meanwhile, Himachal Pradesh on Friday reported 86 positive cases and five Covid deaths, while 156 patients were also declared cured. With the latest figures, the state’s tally of positive cases has reached 16,864, of which 3,029 cases are active. So far, 238 patients have succumbed to the virus, while a total of 13,793 patients have recovered. In all, 14 patients also moved out of the state. Among the latest fatalities, two patients died in Shimla district and one death each was reported from Bilaspur, Kinnaur and Sirmaur districts. The fresh cases reported during the day included 21 from Kullu district, 18 from Mandi, 16 from Kangra, 10 from Shimla, six each from Solan and Chamba, five from Sirmaur, three from Hamirpur and one from Una district. The districts that reported recoveries on Friday included Solan (43), Shimla (28), Sirmaur (23), Bilaspur (23), Una (17), Chamba (10) and Hamirpur (3). Till the day’s close, total 318,279 people were tested for Covid-19, of which 300,949 tested negative, while the results of 466 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/54-succumb-2165-fresh-cases-in-region/articleshow/78582602.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||US woman in Rishikesh raped by travel agent||RISHIKESH: A 37-year-old American woman was allegedly drugged and raped over several months by a travel agent in Tapovan in Rishikesh. According to police, a search operation has been launched for the accused, who originally hails from Allahabad (UP), after the woman’s complaint on Thursday. Her statement has been recorded and a medical exam conducted, said police. In her complaint, the woman, who has been living in Rishikesh since 2017 and works as a teacher, said the abuse began after she first met the accused three months ago. “She was drugged and raped by the man. We are collecting evidence, including CCTV footage and call detail records,” said SHO Muni-ki-Reti police station R K Saklani. The woman has also alleged that she was under pressure from the accused’s father, a retired Army officer, to “settle the matter”. A team has been formed to arrest the accused and it is conducting raids at several places, said Saklani. The accused has been booked under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-woman-in-rishikesh-raped-by-travel-agent/articleshow/78578920.cms||MS Nawaz
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Auli-Joshimath ropeway reopens after over 6 months||Dehradun: The Auli-Joshimath cable car service resumed operations after over six months on Thursday. Around 13 people took the ropeway while 44 tourists rode chairlifts on Thursday and Friday, officials said. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the ropeway was closed on March 21. “While three people took the ropeway on day one, the rest rode it on Friday. The price for ropeway is Rs 1,000 per person and for chairlifts, closed units known locally as “Gandolas”, it’s Rs 500 per person. Most of the users are locals, although a couple of people also arrived from Delhi and UP,” said SDM Joshimath Anil Chanyal. “At 4km, the ropeway is one of the longest in the country. It is a major attraction for people visiting Auli, as it offers majestic Himalayan views,” he added. Located 3,010 meters above the sea level, Auli is known for being a skiing and paragliding destination and is visited by a large number of tourists between November and February, when there is snowfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/auli-joshimath-ropeway-reopens-after-over-6-months/articleshow/78579982.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Town planning reforms to weed out corruption||Amaravati: To give a big push to the growth of real estate, the state government has introduced several reforms in town planning rules and regulations. All approvals and monitoring of unauthorised structures will be done only through web-based applications in a bid to cut down corruption. A Web-GIS and mobile application solution for unauthorised constructions/constructions made in deviation to the sanctioned plans and unauthorised layouts has been developed. The state government has dispensed with the post verification in online building permission system. As per the new regulations, once a file is scrutinised by the system online and upon payment of requisite fee, the approved plan and proceedings will be generated online by the system as a sanctioned plan. The same can be downloaded by the applicant. Thereafter, the applicant is permitted to commence construction as per the approved building plans. “The applicant is responsible for any misrepresentation or suppression of facts while submitting such plans for approval and such approval order is deemed to be cancelled and liable for action as per the provisions of the relevant Act,” said municipal administration and urban development secretary J Syamala Rao. He said action will be taken on the concerned Licensed Technical Person (LTP)/builder for black listing. Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) will develop an online module to take care of actions taken on LTPs/ Builder. In order to have effective supervisory checks on all town planning activities by the concerned personnel, in all urban local bodies (ULBs) and development authorities, building plan/layout plan approvals, occupancy certificates, BPS, LRS, TDR issues, enforcement actions on unauthorised constructions and layouts, redressal of citizen grievances, master plan preparation and implementation are made mandatory. The DTCP will develop a centralised online module to select files at random for inspection and to upload and monitor the inspection reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/town-planning-reforms-to-weed-out-corruption/articleshow/78579975.cms||Samdani MN
October 10, 2020||Kochi||Christmas decor: 3 Kochi women among crochet queens to win world record||KOCHI: The delicate art of crocheting, a needlework done by interlocking looped stitches with a hooked needle, is usually a skill used to make gifts and items for home decor. But for the 350-odd members of Mother India Crochet Queens (MICQ), a charitable trust, crocheting was a way to set a Guinness World Record. The team has won the Guinness World Records for the largest display of crocheted Christmas decor by making 66,158 pieces in Chennai. And among these women, three were from Ernakulam, who together have contributed around 500 crotchets for the record event. The three Malayali participants were Aureen Noronha, Nickey Anna Samuel and Rashmi Rose John and all of them have received the Guinness World Records certificates citing their participation in the event. Though the event was held on September 15, 2019, the Covid-19 has affected the certificate handing over ceremony. Following this, the certificates were couriered to them and a commemorative ceremony was held online on Sunday, wherein all the participants were felicitated. Noronha works as a physics and math teacher at The Charter School, Pukkattupady, and Samuel is an entrepreneur working through an online platform. John works as an art teacher at the senior secondary section of Choice School, Tripunithura. Crocheting is a hobby they have pursued since childhood and it is still a passion for them amid their busy schedules. “We joined MICQ in 2015 and the journey so far has been interesting. The theme was Christmas decor and the items crocheted include stars, cribs, Jesus, Mary, Joseph, the kings, camel, cows, angel, etc. It took me around five months to complete 150 crochets that were exhibited at the event in Chennai,” said Noronha. It was Subhashri Natrajan, the founder of MICQ, who coordinated the event. The materials completed were then couriered to Chennai and Natrajan along with her team members arranged all the collections and displayed it at SRM College on September 15 last year. “The special guest from the Guinness counted the crochets we all made that spread across a huge wall space, floors and tables. After the counting was completed, he declared that the team have entered the book of records,” said John.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/xmas-decor-3-city-women-among-crochet-queens-to-win-world-record/articleshow/78579981.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||‘I might be 90, but at heart, feel like a 20-yr-old’||Often described as a ‘Walking encyclopedia on Dehradun’, veteran Doon-based author Raj Kanwar, who turned 90 this week, has seen and chronicled the Doon valley like perhaps no other -- capturing the tumultuous times of India’s partition to the unpredictability of the present Covid-19 pandemic. Even as he inches towards the century mark, Kanwar, who recently released ‘Dateline Dehra Dun’, a book that encapsulates all that makes up the Doon valley, still puts in an eight-hour work schedule and is working on two other books. Excerpts from a conversation with Abhijeet Singh: You were born in Lahore and then came to Dehradun as a teenager. It has been a seven and a half decades’ association with the city. How would you define this relationship? From a small quaint town, Dehra Dun has slowly grown into a larger town. In a way, the town and I grew in a togetherness of sort, and I seriously felt as if the town was my sibling. Over the past 70 years, Dehra Dun and I seem to have developed inextricable and somewhat unusual ties, more like an umbilical cord. In the 1950s, it was a quaint, little sleepy town. It was renowned -- in a manner of speaking to use a cliché -- for its ‘green hedges and grey heads’. Green hedges were the lush foliage that dotted its landscape and made Dehra Dun one of the greenest places in India. The grey heads here symbolised the retired senior civil and defence officials who chose the town as their ‘Last Refuge’ because of its salubrious climate and peaceful ambience. It embraced ONGC in 1956 which sowed the seeds of a unique culture and local economy. The city re-oriented its charm by accommodating the needs of Russians who worked in the factory. I recall that the shopkeepers of Paltan Bazaar would keep rate cards and other display boards in the Russian language. This way, the shopkeepers learnt a bit of Russian language and the Russians learnt Hindi! While the old character has still survived, the city now has everything that a modern living space needs. At the age of 90, when most people are content to hang their boots, you are still writing prolifically. What motivates you to do so? Reading and writing are two of the things that I love most. Both of them are two sides of the same coin. I have been an avid reader and once you start reading, you will feel tempted to write. Writing is compulsive for me. I can’t spend a day without penning down my thoughts. I am thankful to God that even though I have turned 90, I am physically fit and am able to work eight hours a day. In fact, the Covid lockdown came as a blessing in disguise for me. I utilised my time to undertake research for the revised edition of my book ‘Dateline Dehra Dun’. The new feature in the revised edition includes a section called ‘made for each other’ in which I have profiled eminent couples from Dehradun and Mussoorie. The topic of your upcoming book – which is about ‘obituaries’ — is also quite unique. What prompted you to write about this subject? In common parlance, obituaries may not be more than just a notice about the departed. But it is much more than this. In fact, it is an art. My book will dwell at length on varied aspects of obituary writing and also on the rituals and eulogies that are observed by various religions for the departed. Finally, if you would like to give a message to youngsters based on your life experiences, what would it be? What I have imbibed from youngsters is their intensity, enthusiasm and zeal for life. In contrast, my older friends keep on whining and grumbling about this and that which makes me sometimes want to shun their dispirited company. In sum, my guardian angel has been very kind to me. I am mentally alert and physically active as I was in my younger days. If I have to give a message to youngsters, it would be about the importance of philanthropy in life without any fanfare. I think the good deeds do come back to you as a stroke of good luck and positivity that no money can buy. Also, age is just a number. I might be 90, but at heart, I feel like a 20-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/i-might-be-90-but-at-heart-feel-like-a-20-yr-old/articleshow/78579990.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||Dhole Patil Road now sole ward without sealed zones||Pune: Once a Covid-19 hotspot, the Dhole Patil Road ward localities are containment zone-free now.Areas like Tadiwala Road, BT Kawde Road, Ghorpadi, Bhimnagar, Milindnagar, Rajawadi slum pocket and Sant Gadgebaba Vasahat in the ward limits had witnessed rapid Covid-19 spread, prompting the civic authorities to put many of them under restrictions. Over the last two weeks, however, the cases have come down sharply, encouraging the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to exclude all these areas from the list of micro-containment zones in its latest revision.The latest revision of micro-containment zones was declared on October 5, under which 59 areas were brought under restrictions. In fact, in the latest revision, the Dhole Patil Road ward has emerged the only civic ward without even a single micro-containment zone. Civic officials said the situation appeared to be under control in all the areas that were earlier vulnerable in terms of the Covid-19 spread. Continuous testing, contact tracing and awareness drives helped in reducing the cases, the officials admitted.Dayanand Sonkamble, head of the Dhole Patil Road ward, said, “The situation was challenging in the initial months as the virus had spread in the densely populated localities of Tadiwala Road and parts of Bhavani Peth, which are in the jurisdiction of the ward. Various containment measures were implemented in all these areas with a thrust on testing, isolating suspected cases, contact tracing and shifting of patients to the Covid centres. In the second phase, the virus spread in the areas of BT Kawde Road, densely populated localities of Koregaon Park and Ghorpadi. Similar efforts were taken in these areas as well.”The civic officials said new cases were being reported in a sporadic manner and not from any specific locality. As per the data released by the civic administration, the ward has recorded the lowest increase in the cases in the last two weeks among the 15 wards. “In the last eight days, the ward has recorded about 87 cases. We have kept our resources ready in case more cases start cropping up, but no outbreak has been reported in the recent weeks,” a civic official said, adding that the ward office had covered 43,000 households under its home-to-home survey.Meanwhile, people have been urged not to let their down, especially during the upcoming festive season, to keep the infection at bay. Civic officials urged the residents to follow social distancing norms and wear masks when venturing out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dhole-patil-road-now-sole-ward-without-sealed-zones/articleshow/78582632.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 10, 2020||Vijayawada||HC caveat over results worries candidates for Group I mains||Amaravati: The failure of the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) to get the pending cases in the high court cleared before beginning arrangements for the Group-1 main examinations is creating confusion among aspirants. “APPSC should have requested the high court to look into issue of pending cases before announcing the schedule as it is likely to spoil our preparation,” said Prasanthi, a candidate. The high court division bench in July had directed the single judge to clear the case in two months. Although the functioning of the courts was hit due to Covid-19, APPSC seems to have not made any attempt through its counsels to make a special request before the high court to hear the cases early. Although the high court has allowed APPSC to go ahead with the mains, it has put a caveat that results should be announced only after the final verdict of the court. “What happens to our several years of preparation in case the court cancels both the prelims and mains?” asked an angry candidate. The fate of Group-I examinations has been in the balance for nearly two years as APPSC had to postpone the examinations several times. Several candidates filed petitions in the court challenging the prelims results stating that about 15 to 20 mistakes were found in the answers provided by the commission and the merit list was announced without clearing their grievance. Sources said that legal experts advised APPSC to wait for the HC’s final verdict and conduct the exam. “The postponement of examination four times so far, that too at the eleventh hour is also only aggravating our anxiety,” said a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-caveat-over-results-worries-candidates-for-group-i-mains/articleshow/78579989.cms||Samdani MN
October 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||67-yr-old held for rape of minor||Rajahmundry: A 67-year-old man allegedly raped a nine-year-old girl in Anaparthi mandal in East Godavari district. According to police, the none-year-old girl had gone to a small grocery store near her house on Thursday evening to buy a packet of chips. The owner of the shop, who was alone at the time, dragged the girl into his house and allegedly raped her. It was learnt that the shopowner’s wife was at her relatives’ house at the time. When the girl returned home, her family members saw bloodstains on her body when she came out of the washroom. The girl then told her parents about the incident. The girl was taken to the local community health centre and later shifted to the Government General Hospital in Kakinada for additional tests. Her condition is said to be stable. Anaparthi police have arrested the accused and registered a case under IPC sections 376 (A), (B), 377 and 6, read with 59 (M) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/67-yr-old-held-for-rape-of-minor/articleshow/78580005.cms||Samson Raj
October 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Covid-19 recoveries top new cases for 9th consecutive day||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) continued to report more Covid-19 recoveries than new cases for the ninth straight day on Friday, with 1,957 people testing positive in the last 24 hours as against 2,087 patients getting discharged after successful recovery. Data released by the district health office showed that, barring PMC, the rural areas and PCMC reported fewer recoveries than new cases. With Friday’s numbers, the region’s total recoveries increased to 2.63 lakh, while positive caseload stood above 3.03 lakh. As many as 19,318 patients have been discharged in PMR in October so far. In comparison, as many as 25,240 people have been discharged in PMR in the first nine days of the month. The report showed that as many as 46 patients succumbed to the Covid-related complications in PMR on Friday. These included 23 deaths in the Pune municipal limits, seven in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 17 in the rural and Cantonment areas. With this, the total number of casualties have increased to 7,028 in PMR. The number of active cases stood at 32,771on Friday evening, including 18,517 patients admitted in various hospitals and 14,254 in home isolation. As many as 11,184 tests were conducted in the region on Friday, which pushed the total testing in PMR to 12.54 lakh. A PMC report stated that as many as 859 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits, of whom 493 were put on ventilator support. Besides, a total of 2,637 patients were on oxygen support in the PMC limits. The report further stated that as many as 827 teams were deployed in the city for home-to-home survey of households to identify suspected cases. “The surveyors have been asked to refer the suspected patients for further medical checks and if necessary for the Covid-19 tests. Every team has been asked to visit at least 50 homes in a day,” a civic health official said, adding that people continue to exercise caution and wear masks while venturing out to keep the contagion at bay. “People are also requested to maintain social distancing, especially during the festive season when markets are flooded with people for shopping. As more public places are being allowed to resume operations, people should not let their guard down,” another civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-top-new-cases-for-9th-consecutive-day/articleshow/78582642.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Cab robbed at gunpoint||Patiala: The police have booked some unidentified persons for allegedly snatching a cab at gunpoint near Binahedi village of Patiala. Damanpreet Singh of Sangrur said four men on a bike approached him at a taxi stand in Sangrur and asked him to drop two of them to Sector 17 in Chandigarh on Wednesday. He said the two accused paid him Rs 1,000 in advance. On the way near Binahedi village in Patiala, one of the accused asked him to stop the car on the pretext of answering a call of nature, Singh alleged. The accused took out a pistol and pointed it towards his head and asked him to move out of the car, he alleged. The two accused then sped away. The case was registered under Sections 392 (robbery) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Police said raids are being conducted and the accused will be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cab-robbed-at-gunpoint/articleshow/78580001.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||World Mental Health Day: For many frontline workers, isolation is a bigger monster than the virus||Above: Dr Rajneesh Arora and Dr Poonam Arora; Right: Dr Nilansha Rai Kaushik and Dr Vishal KaushikDehradun: Dr Nilansha Rai Kaushik moved to Dehradun in February after her wedding. The gynecologist had left behind all familiar faces in her native Uttar Pradesh, hoping to start a new life with husband Dr Vishal Kaushik, a pediatrician at Government Doon Medical College (GDMC). Things didn’t go as planned. Barely a month after the wedding, she was assigned Covid duty at GDMC in March and since then, instead of being with her husband, started staying in hotel rooms. “I am new to this city and workplace and started isolating soon after coming here. Video calls on WhatsApp helped initially but I wasn’t emotionally prepared for this situation. There were days when I broke down. My sleep cycle was badly disturbed and the medicines prescribed to me caused irritation, headaches and anxiety,” she said. As per protocol, doctors treating Covid patients are required to attend duty for seven days and then go into isolation for 14 days. For Nilansha’s husband, who was also assigned Covid duty the same month as her, the routine continued for three months. He was finally allowed to go home in July to meet his newly-wed wife but tested positive within a month. A week later, Nilansha tested positive too. “I had got myself tested eight times between March and June, as per protocol. The worst came when I tested positive in August, seven days after I had discovered I was pregnant. The feeling still haunts me at night,” she said. Grappling with isolation and being away from family for long stretches are bigger problems for frontline workers than the disease itself. According to data provided by the health department, 85 healthcare workers – doctors, nurses and paramedical staff – tested positive for the coronavirus at GDMC, around 100 have been found positive at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS Rishikesh) and over 40 doctors and nurses tested positive at Sushila Tiwari Medical College, Haldwani. Apart from that, around 200 healthcare workers tested positive at other government and private hospitals across Uttrakhand. Dr Rajneesh Arora from the Neurology department at AIIMS Rishikesh and wife Dr Poonam Arora, also a doctor at AIIMS, faced similar difficulties. The couple, parents to an eight-year-old and a two-year-old, had to undergo at least three to five institutional isolations. The children were taken care of by their elderly grandmother. “Isolation was an unusual experience of being alone. It was certainly different from our hectic schedule, which involves dealing and interacting with multiple patients on a regular basis. Plus, we couldn’t stand putting our family at risk because of our work. However, the feeling of not being able to be there, when the kids needed us the most, was frustrating,” said Rajneesh Arora. Outside hospitals, police personnel bore the brunt of the highly infectious virus. With nearly 1,300 personnel having tested positive, Uttarakhand police department has been the most affected by Covid-19. While several policemen have now recovered from the infection and rejoined duty, two cops have even lost their lives. Sub-inspector Girish Negi has been at the forefront in the fight against the virus since the outbreak in the Himalayan state. Apart from Covid duty, he was part of a team investigating a shootout that occurred in Dhoolkot jungle in Premnagar area of Dehradun on July 27. Negi had to make multiple visits to the hospital where the injured victims were admitted and interrogated hundreds of people in connection with the case. “I developed a slight fever on August 6. It turned out I was positive. I even ended up infecting my wife and six-year-old daughter, who were staying with me. Six of my staff members also tested positive,” Negi told TOI. Negi was initially admitted at Doon hospital and then shifted to an isolation ward in Suddhowala, in the outskirts of Doon, where he stayed till August 31. “Compared to the physical struggle, the mental battle was more uphill. My wife and daughter had both contracted the virus because of me and I was away from them,” Negi said. Negi’s family has now shifted to Dehradun and the SI has been talking to them through video calls. Inspector Rajesh Shah, in-charge of Roorkee Civil Lines police station, had a similar experience. Since the outbreak, his work involved sending migrant workers home, distributing food among them. “Despite all precautions, I tested positive for the virus on August 7. Eventually, my wife and daughter also developed a slight fever and tested positive on August 15, when I was in quarantine,” Shah said. After he recovered, Shah donated plasma to a Covid-19 patient in a critical condition. “I got to know someone in Dehradun was in dire need of plasma of the AB blood group. I donated plasma to the patient and now have been told that he is stable,” Shah told TOI. According to Dr CP Mall, consultant at Mental Hospital Bareilly, mental health issues are common for a person staying alone, especially if they are under stress. “For frontline workers like medical professionals and policemen, the situation is very unusual. They are living in fear. Not only do they have to protect themselves, but also have to take care of patients and shield their families. To make matters worse, the fatality rate due to Covid-19 is very high among healthcare workers in India,” he said. On ways to relieve the situation, Mall said, “People can spend time on their hobbies while in isolation. That is the biggest stress buster.” Rajneesh Arora feels people can’t really focus on hobbies while in isolation, as thoughts of work and family occupy them. However, Prachi Rajendra Khair, a nurse at AIIMS on Covid duty, said sewing and drawing had helped her get through multiple periods of isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/world-mental-health-day-for-many-frontline-workers-isolation-is-a-bigger-monster-than-the-virus/articleshow/78580008.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 10, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC scraps Rs 2,650 crore panchayat tenders||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday terminated tenders worth Rs 2,650 crore floated for development and infrastructure work across panchayats in TN, citing lack of consent from elected panchayat office-bearers. Various communications show that the elected bodies had been completely sidelined, and they are brought into picture only at the time of counter-signing the cheque, said Justice N Anand Venkatesh. “This clearly goes against the constitutional scheme and provisions of the Panchayat Act,” the judge said while passing orders on 37 petitions moved by office-bearers of village panchayats, challenging the tenders utilising funds provided under the 14th Finance Commission (FFC). Concurring with the submissions of senior advocates P Wilson and N R Elango, the judge rejected the state’s argument that panchayats cannot conduct tenders and follow implementation procedures. “Such statements made in the counter-affidavit only shows the attitude of the government and the executive who even now seem to be thinking that panchayats are their subordinates. This mental block must be removed, and panchayats must be allowed to carry on with their functions in accordance with the Constitution and the Act and the fund utilisation must be purely governed by the FFC guidelines.” The judge, however, made it clear that the order would not apply wherever the work orders have already been issued. “Such work can continue, and this order will not stand in the way for the completion of the work which has already commenced,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said. Wilson and Elango submitted that tenders were floated even after the expiry of terms of special officer and even after the elected office-bearer taking charge of village panchayats. They said guidelines for implementation of FFC recommendations were very clear that the grant-in-aid must reach only the duly constituted panchayats, which are elected bodies. However, Tamil Nadu additional advocate-general PH Arvindh Pandian submitted that the tenders were floated much before the elected body took charge and it is now only at the stage of implementation which can very well be done under the supervision of the elected body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-scraps-rs-2650cr-panchayat-tenders/articleshow/78582668.cms||Suresh Kumar
October 10, 2020||Goa||Goa Posts facilitates agri scheme payments to farmers||PANAJI: In a collaboration between the directorate of agriculture and Goa Posts, PM-Kisan disbursements are now being done through the India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) service. “The benefit of central and state agriculture schemes must reach every farmer. Krishi card holders in the state must therefore avail of the PM-Kisan yojana,” agriculture minister, Chandrakant Kavalekar said. There are 28,000 Krishi card holders, of which 21,000 are eligible for the PM-Kisan scheme. However, only 10,000 are beneficiaries and the rest have not yet filled the forms for this scheme. “Now, the zonal agriculture officers (ZAO) are making efforts to ensure the remaining farmers also avail of the scheme. I request them to come forward and fill out the application to get the benefit. The account can be opened with the postal department for this scheme even at zero balance,” Kavalekar said. He, however, said that it is not mandatory to have a postal department account and farmers can choose another option as well. Postmaster general N Vinodkumar said that there are 255 post offices in Goa and therefore there is a huge network through which they can deliver services. “Under the PM-Kisan yojana, we have already opened more than 5000 accounts in the India Post Payments Bank mode. We can also do door step banking with the 300 gramin daak sevaks. Besides the PM-Kisan scheme, they can use this as a normal savings bank account. By using the IPPB app, even online transactions can be carried out by the users.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-posts-facilitates-agri-scheme-payments-to-farmers/articleshow/78583237.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bhopal||Have 30-year-old bond with Bhopal, says Jayant Deshmukh at Gamak||BHOPAL: As the ongoing Gamak Festival at Tribal Museum is approaching its final leap, the repertoire and oeuvre of visiting artistes is getting bigger and better. On Friday, theatre guru Jayant Deshmukh came all the way from Mumbai to address the audience at Gamak’s much anticipated event ‘Kala Varta’. But, with a few people in attendance, he was disappointed. He told TOI, “People still live in fear. It is really sad that theatre people aren’t supporting stage shows in Unlock. There were hardly any people associated with stage at the fest today.” Having started his theatre career professionally at City of Lakes, Deshmukh still retains a strong connect with Bhopal. “I have stayed at Bharat Bhavan for 12 years as a theatre actor; my group Ek Rang is also quite active here, so I have over 30 years’ association with this city. Afterwards I went to Mumbai and have done art direction for films like Maqbool, Rajneeti, Bandit Queen etc. But the truth is that despite my 20 years with films, theatre still remains my first love. I’m currently doing a play Nat Samrat, adapted in Hindi from Marathi; we have already done 36 shows,” he said. Deshmukh is returning to Bhopal with a four-day Ekalaap mini fest soon, where he will showcase four plays based on monologues. “I will organise this event in the first week of December here with all Bhopali actors. In pockets, we are doing well in theatre, but theatre movement has to be nurtured nationally now.” Aditya Sakhare, a banker, who attended the event, said, “I liked the way Deshmukh explained all about striking a fine balance between a subjective medium like stage and objective genre like films.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/have-30-yr-old-bond-with-bhopal-says-jayant-deshmukh-at-gamak/articleshow/78581320.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
October 10, 2020||Bhopal||Not all can afford online classes, say college teachers||Bhopal: After schools, now it’s the turn of the colleges for online classes. The classes, which began from October 1, have evoked mixed response from students and professors. The guest faculty claimed that several students are not able to attend online classes as they do not have proper phones and cannot afford data packs. The guest faculty have also sought facilities like smartphones, which they are unable to afford with their meagre salaries. However, government colleges in Bhopal claimed that professors are taking regular classes and students are also participating. Around 7.5 lakh students are expected to join this exercise of the higher education department. The department has assigned the command to 7 OSDs to monitor whether online classes are going on. Principals have been told that in October, syllabus of one unit of both question papers of each subject will have to be completed. However, the entire burden of online education is reportedly being passed on to guest teachers. Now, they have written a letter to their principals, demanding to provide necessary resources for online studies, otherwise they will be unable to teach. Colleges have asked professors and guest teachers to conduct online classes using their phones. But guest teachers have told their principals of all seven government colleges in Bhopal that many of them do not have smartphones. A guest teacher said that with a salary ranging from Rs 17,000 to Rs 20,000, it is not possible for them to buy expensive smartphones and afford data packs. “Even students in the interior areas are not able to afford it. We have told the problem to our principals. If we get the facility of a phone, then it will be easy for us to teach,” said a guest faculty. Professors who are coming to college will take classes from the campus itself. Online links of all classes will also remain with the principal. Principal, Hamidia College, PK Jain, claimed that professors are taking online classes on a serious note. “Come and see the way teachers are taking online classes. We have provided the best infrastructure for smooth online classes,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/not-all-can-afford-online-classes-say-college-teachers/articleshow/78581345.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Muslim actor of Ramleela leaves communal lines blurred||Ludhiana: Being born in a Muslim family has not prevented 25-year-old Laksh Khan of Machhiwara from performing in Ramleela year after year, and he is once again preparing hard to perform during the coming Navaratras.Laksh Khan, who is a photographer by profession, told TOI, “Although I am a Muslim, I have love and respect for all religions. That is the reason I perform in Ramleela every year. My Hindu brothers also appreciate that despite being a Muslim, I perform in Ramleela and give me a lot of love and respect. We in Punjab believe in communal harmony and universal brotherhood and I feel happy that I am living up to these ideals. I am looking forward to performing in the Ramleela even this year despite the Covid shadow. We have already started rehearsals for the same from 9pm to 11.30pm every day.”Khan said he started participating in the event around 10 years ago and would initially do small roles, including that of ‘rakshasas’ (demons). As he went on learning the art, he was given the roles of Khar, Dushan and even Ahalya, a prominent female character in the Ramayana, besides some others. In the upcoming season of Ramleela, he would be enacting the character of Subahu, a rakshasa.Khan also appreciated that a Sikh man, Davinder Singh Baweja, is the president of the committee that organises the event. Baweja said organising the event every year gives him huge satisfaction. He said around 50 artistes are part of the performing team, including Laksh Khan, who manages the store as well.“We are currently doing rehearsals at Hanuman Mandir in Ram Bagh and will start Ramleela from October 13 to 24 at Dussehra Ground in Machhiwara. Here Ramleela has been organised since 1960,” said Deepak Kumar, who plays the character of Bharat. He appreciated Laksh Khan for participating in Ramleela and Sikh president of the committee organising it, thus setting an example of communal amity.BOXRamleela to be streamed on FBDavinder Singh Baweja, president of the Machhiwara Ramleela committee that organises the event, said this time round, Ramleela would be telecast live on the social media to avoid crowding in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The organising committee has a Facebook page, through which the event would be telecast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/muslim-actor-of-ramleela-leaves-communal-lines-blurred/articleshow/78580011.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Land grab case: 4 cops, 5 revenue officials booked||Vijayawada: Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Friday booked five revenue officials and four police officers for their alleged involvement in a land grab case. According to CID sources, they began investigation against a habitual offender identified as Yelugubanti Hari Babu involved in several land grab cases across the state. While a team of officials are trying to trace the whereabouts of Hari Babu, another team investigated official involvement in the multi-crore scam. Officials registered an FIR against two surveyors Ramakrishna and Srinivas Reddy, tahsildar Gopala Krishna, deputy tahsildar Bapi Raju, revenue inspector Manideep, police inspectors Chennakesava Rao, Kanaka Rao, assistant sub-inspector Vara Prasad and head constable Raghuram. Officials said the other accused registered in the FIR would be summoned for interrogation soon. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/land-grab-case-4-cops-5-revenue-officials-booked/articleshow/78580019.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chennai||US off bounds, Chennai students fly to European universities||CHENNAI: Giri Charan Gnanaganesan, heartbroken after his dream of studying at New York University was shattered, is now delighted after he was accepted at Warwick Business School in the UK, one of the top institutions of its kind. Europe seems to have become the new education destination for city students who hitherto looked mainly at the US and Canada. Many Chennai residents have begun to fly to European countries like the UK and France where universities are offering a combination of offline and online classes. A majority of those who have joined institutes in Europe have opted for courses in management, bio-sciences and engineering. “Classes began on October 5. Lectures will be delivered online while group discussions, seminars will be held offline,” said Giri Charan, now under a 14-day quarantine in the UK. “Only a few students have opted for the September-October admission window this year. There is a better chance the economy may bounce back in a year-and-a-half and when we pass out our chance to get the jobs are higher due to less competition,” he said. Ritwik Mancombu Subramani joined MSc automotive engineering with electrical vehicles at Oxford Brookes University in the UK, thanks to the two-year post-study visa for students. “I am looking forward to offline classes,” he said. Universities in France too offer lectures in online and offline mode. Aditya R Rao, who joined a two-year masters programme in embedded systems and electronics engineering at ISEP in Paris, was one of the first Indians to enter the campus on September 17. “We were asked to take a Covid-19 test 72 hours before departure. There were no direct flights from Chennai to France. It was one of the biggest hurdles as I had to take my parents from Chennai to Bengaluru during the pandemic,” he said. Asked why he took the risk of travelling abroad, he said, “We don’t know when the Covid crisis would end. I have worked for two and half years and want to settle early in my life.” The tuition fee is cheaper in France and the government is offering many perks, he said. R Sureshkumar, managing director of Truematics - Overseas Education Consultancy, said around 40% of those who received offers from UK and France universities had begun leaving the country from the third week of August. “Of 120 students who got admissions through our agency, around 50 have left. Anna University students deferred their joining due to delay in final year exams. Others did it due to Covid-19,” he said. Praveen Subramani, global admissions manager, SI-UK, said many were opting for universities in the UK as institutions in most countries were not allowing students. Universities in the US, Australia and Canada are not taking in students. “Australia announced its borders may close to students and visitors till late next year. Even current students would be taken only early next year,” said Bala Ramalingam, director, BEC Global private limited. Universities in Canada are conducting online classes to first year students. The US may allow foreign students from January 2021. “The US embassy and consulates have resumed limited visa operations, and we are prioritizing student visa processing for those who deferred their start date until the spring semester (January 2021). Students are eligible to apply up to 120 days before their semester start date,” a spokesperson for the US Consulate General in Chennai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/us-off-bounds-city-students-fly-to-european-universities/articleshow/78581341.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Rash driving by PSI: Notices issued to Aurangabad police||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has issued notices to Aurangabad city police granting the cops four-week time to file a reply to a complaint lodged by a man who alleged that his 19-year-old daughter was run over by a car of a police sub-inspector on April 22, 2019. Akefa, a junior college student and a resident of the Aref Colony, was going for her tuitions on April 22 when she was allegedly run over by a speeding car, which fled the scene after the accident. Akefa sustained serious head injuries. She was rushed to a private hospital where she succumbed after a few days. Akefa’s father Mohammed Zaheer had lodged a complaint with the City Chowk police. Initially, the police had registered a case against an unidentified suspect. However, during the course of the investigation, both the police sub-inspector, who was responsible for the accident, and the car were identified. The car was seized by the City Chowk police but there has been no major development in the case since then. Zaheer alleged that the police were trying to shield the suspect. Lawyer Saeed Shaikh, who is presenting Zaheer’s case, said as the police have failed to act against the suspected sub-inspector, who allegedly caused the death, the girl’s father has been forced to approach the high court. Her father has demanded a fair probe in to the case, if not, a transfer of probe.Taking cognizance of the petition, the division bench of the high court comprising Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewalikar issued notices to Aurangabad city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rash-driving-by-psi-notices-issued-to-aurangabad-police/articleshow/78578956.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Chennai||Air bubbles make vacation overseas a hassle this year||CHENNAI: Chennaiites may not be able to pack their bags for an international getaway on Diwali or Christmas-New Year holidays as scheduled international flights are not likely to start till April. The ministry of civil aviation has said the ‘air bubble’ concept of a limited number of international flights to select countries are likely to continue till April. There are only four to five flights a day from Chennai. It is not feasible to plan a holiday as schedules for ‘air bubble’ flights are decided based on negotiations with each country and there is no guarantee that the schedules may continue. Lufthansa has already suspended its flights following a disagreement. Though people, tired of being stuck in the same city for five months, are interested to travel, tour operators are advising them not to plan a holiday more than a month in advance. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels said, “It is not worth planning an international holiday. There are a lot of hassles. Flights get cancelled, refunds are not easy and there is no clarity on quarantine rules. Some of the European countries are trying to bring back the lockdown.” Though Dubai and Maldives are popular and Chennai airport has started to see a 70% load factor in flights to the Middle East and Europe, there is a possibility of getting infected. “A passenger who went for a 20-day visit to the Middle East is now stuck there after he got infected. Now he is in quarantine there,” said Balan. Indiver Rastogi, president & group head - global business travel, Thomas Cook (India), said people have started to travel on business and ‘bleisure’ from Chennai “utilising the air bubble flights to destinations including Dubai, UK and USA.” Nevertheless, people are not upbeat on a foreign holiday. According to a survey by InterMiles amongst its members, around “46% of the respondents expressed hesitation when it comes to travel abroad, with 29% opting not to travel until there is a vaccine, and 17% saying they do not have international travel on their mind”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/air-bubbles-make-vacation-overseas-a-hassle-this-year/articleshow/78581374.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Chennai||IoE tag: Anna university VC moves Centre directly||CHENNAI: Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa has put the state government and the Centre on a collision course by approaching the Union government directly in a bid to get Institute of Eminence (IoE) status for the university. He has written to the Centre saying that offer of IoE status for the institute be retained, and the university has the means to generate Rs 1,570 crore in five years. Incidentally, governor Banwarilal Purohit has been sitting on TN’s proposal to bifurcate Anna University for three weeks now. TN assembly passed two bills in September one to convert the existing university into a unitary institution called Anna Technological and Research University, and second one to establish a new Anna University in Chennai to affiliate engineering colleges. “The governor is reluctant in giving assent to the bills,” a source said. As for the IoE issue, Tamil Nadu’s government’s concern is that it would adversely affect the existing 69% reservation policy in the institution. Citing financial problems, the state in May expressed its inability to commit the expected contribution of Rs 1,000 crore on declaration of Anna University as IoE. It, however, assured to implement it if the Centre provides the entire amount for the project, sources said. It constituted a committee of five ministers in December 2019 to look into the IoE status issue. While so, Surappa approached the Centre in June, with a proposal to generate Rs 1,570 crore in five years through Anna University’s own internal resources as an Institute of Eminence (IoE). Last week, Union higher education secretary Amit Khare wrote to Tamil Nadu government citing the revised proposal of Surappa, as per which the university “is easily capable of generating revenue of Rs 314 crore per year (Rs 1,570 crore in five years) through its internal resources, including its reserves earning from examination fees, tuition fees, and affiliation fees. Hence, it will not be indenting for extra grants from Tamil Nadu government other than its annual block grants and additional grants.” It, therefore, wanted the IoE status proposal for Anna University be retained. Sources said an expert-empowered committee of the Centre considered the revised proposal and decided to retain the IoE status offer to Anna University. As a precaution, it suggested that Tamil Nadu government be requested to give an assurance that shortfall, if any, in the internal resources of Anna University, will be made good by it. “The ministry made the request to the state government in August. Since Tamil Nadu is yet to respond, the ministry requested again last week to expedite and send a communication so that further action can be initiated in the matter,” said a source. When TOI contacted, Surappa said he had the obligation for the people of Tamil Nadu and the academic fraternity to make every effort to fructify the offer granted by the Union education ministry to Anna University. “By accepting this, Anna University will be the first state varsity in the entire country to have IoE status, which could be rejoiced by every Tamil,” the vice-chancellor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ioe-tag-anna-univ-vc-moves-centre-directly/articleshow/78582744.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Slight increase in CFR even as Covid cases fall||LUDHIANA: Even as the Covid-19 cases are on a decline in Ludhiana, the district has witnessed a slight increase in the case fatality rate (CFR) after registering a dip in the last week of September. CFR is the proportion of deaths from a disease compared with the total number of people diagnosed with it during a specific period. As per the recent state media bulletins, the CFR for Ludhiana has been 4.2% for the past five days, which is 0.1% higher as compared with the rate for 16 days before that. The CFR had reached the hitherto highest value of 4.3% on September 10 and had remained the same till September 15 before taking a plunge. An analysis of the CFR data since August 1 shows that on the first day of the month, the rate in Ludhiana was 3% and it increased to 3.5% till August 16 before rising further to 3.8% till August 31. While the CFR on September 1 was 3.9%, it reached 4% the next day before rising to 4.3% on September 10. It then dropped to 4.1% by September 18 and then rose to 4.2% recently. The latest media bulletin of the state government till Thursday evening shows that at 4.2% CFR, Ludhiana shared the second spot with Tarn Taran and Sangrur. Fatehgarh Sahib had the highest CFR percentage in the state at 4.7%, whereas Kapurthala was at third spot (4.1%). Fazilka had the lowest CFR among the districts of the state at 1.6%. Ludhiana’s CFR (4.2%) is higher than that of the state (3.1%).  “As the positive cases will decrease, so will the deaths and the CFR. The main reason for high CFR was that the patients were reporting the disease late. But now with increased awareness, they are reporting in time. Also those with comorbidities are higher in the district. We are creating awareness among people to follow the necessary norms to check the virus spread,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/slight-increase-in-cfr-even-as-covid-cases-fall/articleshow/78580042.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||Lecturer accuses husband, in-laws of harassment||Rajkot: A woman lecturer with Saurashtra University on Friday lodged a complaint of mental and physical harassment against her husband and in-laws who live in Kudasan village of Gandhinagar taluka. In her complaint, Mosami Soni has accused her husband Sagar Soni, mother-in-law Chetana Soni, father-in-law Bipin Soni, sister-in-law Kavita Soni and brother-in-law Aditya Soni of mentally and physically harassing her. “The complainant, who got married four years ago, alleged that the accused would torture her for dowry. The accused would allegedly insult her, calling her names,” said an official from the University police station.“The accused would allegedly force her to work and treat her like a maid,” added the official, quoting the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lecturer-accuses-husband-in-laws-of-harassment/articleshow/78581411.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Goa||180 years of Post: Special cover, six maxim cards released||PANAJI: On the World Post Day, October 9, which also marks the 180th year of expansion of postal services in India, Goa Post released a special cover and six maxim cards at the Tapal Bhawan premises in Panaji. Postmaster general N Vinodkumar said the postal services have seen a transformation over the past 180 years. “Today, we have a total of 1,56,600 post offices but the postal staff has reduced to 4.5 lakh people due to computerisation and the number of services has increased,” he said. A permanent pictorial cancellation of Bom Jesus Basilica was also released on Friday. This is the second permanent pictorial cancellation after the stamp based on the sculpture of Sant Mirabai at the Big Foot Loutolim, launched on October 12, 2018. A set of six maxim cards on the Basilica of Bom Jesus are available at the cost of Rs 180 per set. “A maxim card is made up of three elements: the postcard, the stamp and the postmark. The object of maximaphily is to obtain a card where the stamp and picture are in close concordance, ideally with an appropriate cancellation,” president of the Goa Philately and Numismatics Society M R Ramesh Kumar said.  “This is a time when all postal organisations realised that we have the potential to do much more than what we were already doing. Meeting the demands of the pandemic, samples have been delivered within the prescribed time and many post officers have sacrificed their life while performing their duties. While we celebrate the World Post Day, we must acknowledge the sacrifices of the various postmen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/180-years-of-post-special-cover-six-maxim-cards-released/articleshow/78583276.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Business||'Interest on interest': Can’t go beyond relief already announced, Centre tells SC||NEW DELHI: Amid demands for succour from sectors such as real estate, the Centre on Friday said it would not be possible to add to the already announced financial relief packages and waive compound interest for the six-month loan repayment moratorium period. It also urged the Supreme Court against getting into sector-specific financial assistance, arguing that fiscal policy is the exclusive domain of the Union government. The Centre clearly indicated it would not be possible to revise the Rs 2 crore limit on loans that would benefit from its proposal. It said this had been arrived at after considerable deliberations. “Fiscal policy is the remit of the government,” the finance ministry said an affidavit. Read AlsoCentre ready to waive interest on interest during moratoriumIn a big relief for individual and MSME borrowers, the Centre on Friday informed the Supreme Court that it has decided to waive "interest on interest" on loans of up to Rs 2 crore during the six-month repayment moratorium — with the benefit also available to those who were clearing their dues on aThe decision to bear the burden of compounding of interest and the categories of borrowers to be supported are taken by the government in the specific context of the pandemic and the vulnerability of these specific class of borrowers. Such decisions, including making of expenditure commitments flowing from such decisions, follow a well-established procedure within the government and these procedures cannot be dispensed with," the finance ministry said. Read AlsoCard users to gain more from ‘interest on interest’ waiverThe govt’s decision to waive “interest on interest” during the March-August loan moratorium period will benefit all individuals with loans up to Rs 2 crore but if you have a home loan, especially one that was availed several years ago, your savings will not be much. However, if you have outstandingThe SC had asked the government to consider relief to other classes of borrowers as well as various sectors of industries after the government in its October 2 affidavit announced waiver of interest on interest for the instalments to be paid for loans up to Rs 2 crore for MSMEs and individual borrowers during the six-month moratorium period from March 1 till August 31. It had also asked the Centre to bring on record the Kamath Committee report, which considered restructuring of loans taken by big borrowers. In response, the Centre said it has already announced a financial package of Rs 21.7 lakh crore under Garib Kalyan and Aatma Nirbhar packages that covered several sectors. In reply to the SC's query as to why these decisions are not notified yet, the ministry said, "The decisions can mature into an office memorandum/circular/order after following mandatory procedure required to be followed considering the huge financial impact involved." "The said process would be to get an appraisal done by the Expenditure Finance Committee, and thereafter, would be placed for approval of the Union Cabinet. After the Union cabinet approves, OM/circular/order will be issued, which would need subsequent authorisation of Parliament to incur expenditure, which is in excess of the present budgetary provisions," it explained. "Going any further than what has been decided and submitted to the SC may be detrimental to the overall economic scenario, and the national economy or the banking sector may not be able to take the inevitable financial constraints resulting there from," the ministry said. Watch Centre to Supreme Court: 'Can’t go beyond relief already announced'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cant-go-beyond-relief-already-announced-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/78583929.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 10, 2020||Business||Irdai panel moots easing rules to encourage microinsurers||HYDERABAD: At a time when low income group families have been hit hard by Covid-19, a committee set up by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has mooted easing of regulations to encourage standalone microinsurance companies to set up shop and improve the overall insurance penetration in the country. Pointing out that the share of microinsurance business in the total insurance business remains extremely low due to the low-ticket size of this business, lack of trust, high cost of business acquisition and challenges in claim settlements, the committee noted that in 2019-20, microinsurance accounted for just 1.80% in the life segment and 1.16% in general insurance. Microinsurance is small ticket size insurance primarily aimed at covering low-income segment of the population. The committee has recommended that the entry-level capital requirement for standalone microinsurance entities should be reduced from the existing Rs 100 crore to Rs 20 crore. It also said that microinsurance companies should be allowed to offer both, life and non-life policies, through a single entity. It has also said that Irdai can set up a separate microinsurance division to fast-track product approvals, enable offsite supervision of such companies and undertake capacity-building of staff. In its report, the panel has also suggested the setting up of a Microinsurance Development Fund with an initial corpus of Rs 50 crore by the Centre or Irdai to support such players. It also said the insurance regulator can facilitate reinsurance of microinsurance through the existing licenced insurance/reinsurance companies, it said. To encourage the usage of digital technologies for this segment, the report said that a common IT platform for all microinsurance companies can be developed on the lines of the IT platform in place for mutual funds. “This will not only reduce transaction costs but also bring greater transparency and regulatory oversight,” the committee said. And while the panel has also proposed an amendment of the Insurance Act, 1938, to bring the standalone microinsurance business under the purview of the Act, it said as this may take time, the Centre can issue rules giving IRDAI powers to put in place a regulatory framework for standalone microinsurance companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-panel-moots-easing-rules-to-encourage-microinsurers/articleshow/78581446.cms||Swati Rathor
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||370 FIRs over immigration fraud in Haryana, 351 held||CHANDIGARH: As many as 370 FIRs have been registered so far this year in Haryana over immigration fraud and sending people abroad through illegal means. The police have also arrested 351 persons in this regard and recovered an amount of Rs 1.04 crore from their possession. Confirming this, Haryana home minister Anil Vij said a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been constituted at the state level, which would monitor and investigate such cases to put an end to immigration frauds in the state. The SIT team headed by an IG includes six SP-level officers. This team would probe the cases pertaining to frauds worth lakhs committed on the youth of the state on the pretext of sending them abroad. There are several such fraudsters in the state, who send the youth through illegal means to countries like America, Malaysia, Mexico, Dubai etc. A total of 421 people from Haryana have been deported by the governments of these countries. The home minister said the police have conducted raids in various districts of the state. Under this, a Special Research Team has received 646 complaints in the last four months, of which 370 complaints have been filed and 276 complaints have been sent to the districts concerned for investigation. The team has been successful in arresting 351 accused based on 51 complaints filed in 2018 and 2019, and 370 complaints filed in 2020. During 2008 to 2019, only 163 cases were registered under the immigration law, but after the SIT was constituted in this year, the number of such cases shot up by 127%. Likewise, the number of arrests made by the SIT under the Immigration Act rose by 94% this year as compared to the last 12 years. BOX Maximum FIRs in Karnal Karnal district has registered the maximum 175 FIRs in the state. Similarly, 80 FIRs were registered in Kurukshetra, 51 in Kaithal and 44 in Ambala, while Bhiwani, Dadri, Sirsa and Narnaul districts have seen the least FIRs. Apart from these, similar cases have been registered in some other districts as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/370-firs-over-immigration-fraud-in-haryana-351-held/articleshow/78582738.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Postal cover for corona warriors||Hyderabad: Department of posts, Telangana circle, has released a special postal cover on the theme of Covid-19 pandemic. On Friday, chief postmaster general of Telangana circle, S Rajendra Kumar, released the cover on ‘A salute to the Postal Corona Warrior’ at Dak Sadan, Abids in Hyderabad. A few senior postal department officials attended the programme. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/postal-cover-for-corona-warriors/articleshow/78582798.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite theft cases, city residents shy away from verification of helps||LUDHIANA: Notwithstanding several cases of thefts by domestic helps in the city, the Ludhiana police has failed to ensure that residents get them verified before hiring. Domestic help verification is mandatory in the city, but its enforcement has remained weak. On Thursday, domestic help Khem Bahadur, who was hired two months ago, along with his two accomplices robbed his employer in Gurdev Nagar. Khem Bahadur was hired on the reference of the driver. The accused held the elderly parents of the employer captive, injured another help, who is a minor, and gave sedatives to the security guard to execute the crime. Rest of the family was not at home and the police said the accused escaped with gold jewellery and cash. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “So far there is no clue of the accused. Even the driver of victim Sandeep Ghai is at large.” In August, Harish Jindal, a hosiery businessman had lost Rs 2 lakh and gold jewellery when his domestic help, Sunita, served his family food laced with sedatives. Sunita had joined two days before the crime and the family kept asking for her ID proof for verification, but she kept dilly-dallying. Verma said, “The police have created awareness about verification of helps and tenants, but we don’t know why people are reluctant. The police have also provided an online facility for it.” Fake agenciesNeither the Ludhiana police nor the labour department has the list of authorised agencies that provide domestic helps. So, people usually search for such companies online, leading to frauds. Cases have been reported in the city wherein people contacted agencies online and these were found to be fake. In August last year, Ludhiana police had busted a gang running fake domestic help providing companies. Those arrested included Ajit Soring, 48, and Lal Mukhiya, 37, of Baba Mohanram Colony, Mukandpur, Delhi; Karan Kumar Jha, 22, of Bheem Colony, Aali village in New Delhi; and Yogita Hagorika, 22, of Basant Kunj, Kishangarh, Delhi. They ran an online service of providing domestic helps, who would escape from employer’s house with gold and cash before verification. About the authorised agencies, the ADCP said, “Even if there are no legal agencies, people can get the police verification done. People usually hire helps first and then ask for their ID proofs. The accused delay it for a couple of days and in the meanwhile execute the loot.” Forms online The forms for police verification are available online and on the website of Ludhiana police ludhianapolice.in On the website, there is an option of ‘download forms’ for both local or other district / state helps. Besides, an employer can also approach the nearest Sanjh Kendra. The police charge Rs 50 for verification. Verification time For a local person’s verification: 20 days For interstate verification: One month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-theft-cases-city-residents-shy-away-from-verification-of-helps/articleshow/78580080.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana saw maximum crimes again children in 2019: NCRB||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana commissionerate of police (CP) recorded the highest number of cases of crime against children in 2019 compared to the other areas of Punjab, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, though the number of such cases in the district was less than that of the preceding year. The NCRB data for 2019 showed that Ludhiana CP witnessed 328 cases of crime against children, placing it on top of the table among the other districts and CPs of the state. SAS Nagar was at number with 173 such cases, followed by Patiala with 165 cases. The data of such crimes since 2015 suggests that the Ludhiana CP has witnessed rise and fall in crimes against children over the a few years. While the count of such cases in 2015 was 345, it dropped to 266 the next year, after which it started rising again to reach 352 in 2018 before dropping to the 2019 value. An analysis of the sub-categories of such cases in 2019 suggests that kidnapping and abduction of minor girls to compel them for marriage comprised the major chunk of cases in Ludhiana CP at 170, while 54 cases of rape of minors were reported the same year. In all, 15 cases of offences by caretakers/ incharges of juvenile homes also added to the tally of such cases in 2019. Other cases of crime against children included exposure and abandonment (10), murders (5), child labour (6) and attempt to murder (01). Referring to the crimes against children taking place in 2019, a police officer said requesting anonymity that most such cases have been worked out. The number of such cases is high in Ludhiana as the CP has more population compared to any other CP and police district of the state, he added. Meanwhile, the NGOs working for child welfare in Ludhiana say multiple departments concerned should work together to check occurrence of such cases. “There are many departments involved in ensuring that children are safe in Ludhiana, and the role of children protection unit is most crucial in this regard. However, we can see that several of them, including labour department and the children protection unit, are not as active as they should be to ensure children’s protection,” said Dinesh Kumar of Bachpan Bachao Andolan of Noble Prize winner Kailash Satyarthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-saw-maximum-crimes-again-children-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/78580066.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 10, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopalis feel the pinch as prices hit the roof||BHOPAL: At a time when ‘healthy diet’ is being recommended by doctors and dieticians to all in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, the two major sources of protein and fibre for the common man — pulses and vegetables — are going out of his reach due to their incessantly rising prices. “People are talking of rising prices of arhar dal, but none of the pulses — be it moong dal, urad or masoor — are priced less than Rs 80 per kg. The modest chana dal is also priced at Rs 60 per Kg. Arhar, of course, has crossed Rs 100 mark and is being sold for Rs 100-120 per kg. If you look at vegetables, here again prices of even gilki and bhindi have touched Rs 80 per kg. I don’t know what people will eat,” said Prachi Sharma, a teacher at a reputed private school, which has not dispensed salaries to its staff since the lockdown. General secretary of Bhopal Kirana Mahasangh, Anupam Agrawal, admitted that the price of pulses are rising and arhar may soon cross Rs 150 per kg. “There are three reasons why prices of pulses are on the rise. First of all, vegetables are very costly. So, people are preferring to buy pulses rather than vegetables. If a poor man buys gilki for Rs 80 per kg, he will eat it twice with his family, but masoor priced at Rs 80 per kg would allow him to have dal for a week. Excess of rain is another reason, which has damaged the crops of pulses, so the prices are rising in anticipation of a poor yield of pulses and third, scrapping of stock limit for pulses, oil seeds, potatoes and onions by the Union government from October 1 through the change in Essential Goods Act. Its impact on prices of potatoes, onions and pulses has started to show and soon you will see the prices of edible oil rise in the same way,” he said. Tea is another commodity, where price rise has been drastic. Prices of tea leaves have risen by Rs 50 to Rs 100 per kg since the lockdown. “Tea production was also affected by rain and, during lockdown, tea leaves could not be plucked. But, the prices have risen to its maximum and they will settle down at this level as of now,” said Agrawal. President of Bittan Market Sabji Vyapari Sangh, Hariom Khatik, when asked why prices of green vegetables, potato, tomato and onion are rising so much, said, “Vegetables in and around Bhopal were destroyed in the fields due to excessive rain in the recent past. Now, Bhopal market is dependant on vegetables imported from other places, so they are less in quantity and their prices are more.” Khatik, however, said that the situation would improve by next month as rain have stopped and there would be sunshine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopalis-feel-the-pinch-as-prices-hit-the-roof/articleshow/78581434.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bareilly||Two killed by Dudhwa tiger in a week||Bareilly: A partially eaten body of a 60-year-old farmer, who took his cattle for grazing in the buffer area of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, was found on Friday. He was possibly mauled by a tiger. On October 5, another elderly farmer was found dead near the Majhra Purab village, believed to have been killed by the same tiger. All the villages in the area have been put on alert now - residents asked to stay away from the forest area and not go out in the evening. “We need to ensure the tiger returns to its original prey base. That can only be done with no human intervention in the forest area for at least 15 days,” divisional forest officer (DFO) Anil Patel said. Pyarelal Yadav, the deceased marginal farmer, went out with his cattle in the forest area and didn’t return home. Worried family members informed the forest department and launched a manhunt. The operation was soon called off as it was getting dark. The next morning, Yadav's body was spotted inside the dense forest. There were pugmarks of an adult tiger near the spot. The forest department has now decided to install camera traps to monitor the tiger's movement. The DFO told TOI, “We are suspecting that the same tiger has killed both the farmers. Our teams are combing the area. We have taken support from experts of WWF-India and Wildlife Trust of India to educate locals and keep a track on the tiger's movement. Our priority is to ensure that the tiger doesn’t return to human habitat.” Earlier, one Gyaan Singh was killed by a tiger and his remains were recovered three days later. Moreover, two bikers sustained injuries when a wild animal, again possibly a tiger, had pounced on them in Singahi area on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-killed-by-dudhwa-tiger-in-a-week/articleshow/78578014.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 10, 2020||Goa||20-year-old Earl Fortes from Orlim to audition for American Idol||COLVA: At the age seven he started strumming the guitar, at 15 he was penning his own songs and by 16 he was on stage performing. Four years later, at 20, Earl Fortes from Orlim, a coastal village in South Goa, is on his way to San Diego, USA, to audition for the fourth season of American Idol. He will be judged by a celebrity jury comprising Lionel Richie, Katy Perry and Luke Bryan. “It was my dream. I always wanted to be on American Idol and it has come true. It feels unreal that I will walk on stage and perform before superstars, see them in person. I'm so nervous, it’s such a rush,” Fortes told TOI. It was the pandemic, ironically, that helped realise this dream because under normal circumstances participation to this American reality show is only open to US citizens. With everything moving online under the new normal, live auditions were held on the virtual platform, which allowed Fortes to showcase his talent from all the way across the world. The Salcete-boy says the encouragement to apply for the audition came from his relative and mentor Neil D’Cruz with whom he has been performing gigs for a year now. “I sent a video, which the producers liked. They held a virtual audition over Zoom,” he says. The audition was held on September 5 and went on from 11pm to 4.30am and the rest is history. “They wanted to see me in America,” Fortes says. For the first audition he had to sing an original song and two covers. “I had penned a song ‘Any other way’ based on the ups and downs in my life and my decision making. The cover songs were ‘Can’t take my Eyes of You’ a popular song from the 80s by Frankie Valli and the 2018 hit ‘I Fly’ by Bazzi. A student of Bachelor in Business Administration (BBA) in Goa, Fortes follows his passion alongside performing at various hotels in Goa. The charting of his life’s course in music started when he was seven and his uncle Filipeneri Fortes, part of the popular Filu-Lulu duo, taught him the basics of guitar. It also helped that he comes from a long line of well-known musicians in Goa.“From there on I taught myself and I play by ear now. I play rhythm finger style,” Fortes says. About his song writing, he says, “I was going through a rough patch and thought of penning it down. Eventually, I realised that whatever I was feeling inside was flowing in the form of lyrics.” Only son to Elvis, who spent more than 25 years sailing, and Savila, a dietician at the Goa Medical College, Fortes acknowledges all those that helped him keep the focus — God, his parents, D’Cruz, his cousin-in-law and school music teacher who introduced him to gigs. “I was going haywire. Neil picked me up and brought me back on track.” As he continues to pour his experiences into musical notes and lyrics, taking on new challenges, Fortes says the key is to “believe in yourself”. “You have to fall to get up and I have a couple of times. But I realised my mistakes and learnt from them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/20-year-old-earl-fortes-from-orlim-to-audition-for-american-idol/articleshow/78583298.cms||Nisser Dias
October 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Housing society guards booked for beating stray dog to death||LUDHIANA: The Sadar police on Thursday night booked security guards of Omaxe flats on Pakhowal Road for allegedly beating a stray dog to death. The matter came to light when the footage of a CCTV, which captured the incident, went viral on Thursday evening. The FIR was lodged on the complaint of Sunil Kumar Narula of New Lajpat Nagar, Pakhowal Road, who is also president of the Animal Protection and Care Society. In his complaint to the police, Narula said on Wednesday evening, he received a call from his friend Tarun Jain that a group of security guards of Omaxe was beating up a stray dog. Jain, who lives there, said he intervened and tried to stop the guards, but to no avail. “Jain claimed that the guards said they would kill the dog. Thereafter, he called me. I rushed to the spot and found the dog in a badly injured condition and took him to GADVASU veterinary hospital. The dog was admitted, but it died on Thursday night. Then, I approached the police,” Narula added. Sadar police station ASI Kulwant Singh said the police have registered a case against unidentified security guards under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle etc) of the IPC. The ASI added that the police have approached the Omaxe management for details of security guards. As the incident has been captured in the CCTVs, the accused will be identified soon. During initial investigation, the police learnt that the stray dog used to bite people that is why the guards were beating it up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/housing-society-guards-booked-for-beating-stray-dog-to-death/articleshow/78580121.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus snuffs out life of Raikot woman; 98 positive||LUDHIANA: A patient from Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 98 tested positive on Friday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualty included a 48-year-old woman of Raikot, who had hypertension and acute pancreatitis. The day also saw seven outsiders succumbing to the virus here and 22 testing positive. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally stood at 791 and that of outsiders at 288. To date, 3,15,982 persons have been tested. Of the 98 positive cases, 42 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), nine positive cases’ contacts, 20 from OPD, four police personnel, one healthcare worker, three domestic / international travellers, 15 through tracing process, one pre-operative case and three undertrials. The Ludhiana case count has mounted to 19,040 and that of outsiders to 2,451. So far, 17,659 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.74% of the total cases. There are 587 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,335. On Friday, 118 persons were home isolated and 4,335 samples collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ventilators installed at CMCH, Ludhiana. Of 20 patients on ventilator, 13 are from Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-snuffs-out-life-of-raikot-woman-98-ve/articleshow/78580135.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Agra||Why hasn’t Hathras family been given hospital reports, asks Patkar||Agra: Social activist Medha Patkar met the family of the Hathras victim on Friday and asked why information was being withheld. The family, she added, had been told AIIMS and Safdarjung were the same when the girl was referred to Delhi from the Aligarh hospital she had been admitted to.“Why were the postmortem and medical reports not provided to the family? Why was her face not shown to them before she was cremated? If nothing was wrong, why didn’t they hand her body over?” the Narmada Bachao Andolan activist told the media after meeting the family. “A Dalit family from a poor background cannot make false statements about their daughter’s death. They are not political leaders,” she said, referring to allegations that the family had been “changing” its statements. “Why was she taken to Safdarjung when family was told she was being moved to AIIMS? The family was told it’s the same hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/why-hasnt-hathras-family-been-given-hospital-reports-asks-patkar/articleshow/78580172.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala You-Tuber assault case: Activists’ bail plea dismissed||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The additional sessions court here on Friday dismissed the bail plea of dubbing artist Bhagyalakshmi and fellow women’s rights activists Sreelakshmi Arackal and Daya Sana in the case pertaining to assault on controversial YouTuber Vijay P Nair. The court observed that the principle of ‘might is right’ prevails in the society, it will only bring insecurities to the common man. The three women, in their bail plea, had argued that they had physically attacked Nair in self-defense when he harassed them first when the former visited him to question him about the offensive contents in his YouTube videos. The court dismissed this argument and held that the case against them was valid. On Wednesday, during the hearing of their anticipatory bail, the prosecution had strongly opposed the plea. The prosecution had argued that if granted anticipatory bail to the three women, it would send a wrong message to the society. The incidents pertaining to these cases took place on September 26, when the three women paid a visit to Nair’s lodge at Gandhari Amman Kovil road in the city to question him regarding the regressive and abusive content in his YouTube videos targeted at women, especially strong proponents of feminist movement, including poet Sugathakumari. The confrontation turned physical during which the women poured black ink over him and made him apologise to women. The women also livestreamed the entire incident through their social media page. Following the incident, Thampanoor police had booked the three women based on the complaint filed by Nair invoking S323 (causing hurt) 294(b) (using obscene language), 506 (criminal Intimidation), 452 (house trespass) and 392 (robbery) of IPC. With the anticipatory bail plea being dismissed the women would now be approaching the state high court. Police are yet to record their arrests. Meanwhile, Nair is currently under judicial custody after being arrested for IT Act charges based on complaint filed by the women. The case against him is being probed by the cyber police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/activists-bail-plea-dismissed/articleshow/78580186.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dalit girl molested, she and kin booked||Ahmedabad/Palanpur: Independent MLA from Vadgam, Jignesh Mevani, tweeted on Friday that a Dalit girl from a village in Deodar taluka in Banaskantha district was molested by six persons of Patel community from the same village, and when her family members tried to resist, they were assaulted by around 25 persons. On the other hand, Gujarat police charged the 23-year-old victim and five of her family members, for allegedly assaulting the accused after a verbal spat with them on September 28, Mevani alleged. Mevani’s tweet which shared a video of the incident reads, “A victim was beaten in Gujarat. Like the cops have been trying to defame the victim in Hathras, a girl was molested in Raiya village of Deodar taluka of Banaskantha, her hands and legs were fractured and now the cops charged the victims based on a complaint by the accused persons.” TOI contacted the victim’s 21-year-old brother, who was admitted to a private hospital in Palanpur town of Banaskantha soon after the incident. He told TOI, “My sister (the victim) and our younger sister were going to our farm from home on September 28. Six men of the Patel community began teasing her and making fun of her. When she warned them not to tease her, they tore her T-shirt and molested her.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault) Watch Ahmedabad: Dalit woman from a village in Banaskantha district molested by six||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dalit-girl-molested-she-and-kin-booked/articleshow/78582837.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Agra||Covid patients ‘not getting food on time in Agra hospitals’||Agra: Findings from a random feedback of patients recorded by Covid-19 control room at the office of the divisional commissioner revealed that most corona positive patients admitted to hospitals in Agra district are not getting food on time.And not just that. The patients under home isolation are not being monitored anymore by committees constituted by the district administration. In this regard, a letter has been sent to Agra district magistrate (DM) to take the necessary corrective measures. More than 150 Covid-19 patients are under treatment at the state-run SN Medical College and seven other private centres. The divisional control room took feedback of these patients of the treatment and other facilities. Majority of the patients flagged issues related to food. Commercial tax officer Devesh Pandey, who is also nodal officer of the divisional Covid-19 control room, said, “Regular feedback of patients at Covid care centres and under home isolation is being taken. A majority of them have complaints that they are not receiving food on time. The patients in home isolation, particularly in the urban areas, are not being monitored. A letter has been sent to the district administration for action."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-patients-not-getting-food-on-time-in-agra-hospitals/articleshow/78580168.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Agra||Agra sees 4 cases of reinfection, 15% infected people didn’t develop antibodies||Agra: Agra district has witnessed at least four cases of reinfection in the last few days. These include a ward boy and an MBBS student at the city's SN Medical College. The other two cases of reinfection were found in a 55-year-old cancer patient and in a kidney patient, 55.All of them got reinfected about 30 days after being declared cured of Covid-19 infection. Meanwhile, in another sign of worry, doctors at the SN Medical College said that several cured patients are not developing sufficient antibodies.So far, antibody tests have been conducted on 60 people cured of Covid-19 infection. Of these, 15% had no antibody in their blood sample. These patients had come to the medical college to donate plasma.The first confirmed case of Covid-19 reinfection was reported by researchers at the University of Hong Kong in the last week of August. Chief medical officer of Agra district, Dr RC Pandey said, “Reinfection means that you were infected once, cleared the infection, and then you were infected again. So far four case of Covid-19 reinfection have surfaced in Agra district. Primary investigation suggested that these patients had not developed enough antibodies to prevent a repeat attack.”Dr Sanjay Kala, principal of SN Medical College, said, “Antibodies are basically part of the body’s defense mechanism. And they naturally wane over time. And usually “memory” immune cells can identify germs they previously encountered so they’re better at fighting them the second time around. That can help make any repeat infections less severe. “Development of antibodies varies from person to person and involves various health factors. People who have recovered from Covid-19 should not think that they are immune to reinfection and follow all the necessary precautions”. “The conclusion we have drawn out of the four cases of reinfection is that immunity is not guaranteed despite infection. Protection against the virus may be short-lived,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-sees-4-cases-of-reinfection-15-infected-people-didnt-develop-antibodies/articleshow/78580165.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 10, 2020||Bhopal||Covid norms at tourist spots take a backseat||Bhopal: As people step out and visit places of tourist interest, officials are finding it difficult to enforce the norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Officials of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and those of MP Tourism Development Corporation are having a tough time controlling the visitors. Amidst the Covid-19 crisis, tourism activities are mainly popular on the weekends. Tourist spots, especially those close to bigger cities, are facing pressure from the tourists. “People have been travelling to the tourist places within 200 km or little more by their own vehicles. Most start for the destinations on Saturday morning and return on Sunday night to join work on Monday,” said a senior official of MP Tourism Development Corporation. A large number of tourists visit spots with open spaces like Sanchi and Bhimbetka. They also visit places close to nature like Pachmarhi or Udaigiri in Vidisha. In huge open spaces like Bhimbetaka, people are seen taking off their masks once they cross the security point. Superintendent archaeologist, ASI-Bhopal, Piyush Bhatta, said, “Our personnel posted at such sites are continuously monitoring the tourists, requesting them politely to wear masks. However, it is difficult to chase them continuously.” “We have put up notices in and around Bhimbetaka, asking the people to use masks and maintain social distancing. They are allowed to enter only if they are wearing masks and sanitize their hands,” he said. Similarly, issues are being faced in places like Sanchi and even Khajuraho that have large open areas. Yogesh Argal, senior manager jungle resort at Udaigiri, said, “We have been continuously requesting people to wear masks. Publicity material regarding standard operating procedures for pandemic are also put around our property, requesting the visitors to follow them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-norms-at-tourist-spots-take-a-backseat/articleshow/78581487.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chennai||EPS’s AIADMK slips in BJP’s ease-of-doing biz ranking||Chennai: Soon after the AIADMK sorted out its internal turbulence and announced chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as its CM candidate for the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, more drama was in store.Within hours, former Union minister and senior BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan said his party’s alliance with the AIADMK was for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and an alliance for the assembly elections had to be formed, setting off a fresh round of debate in the political circles in Tamil Nadu.Senior AIADMK minister D Jayakumar countered Radhakrishnan by wondering whether it was BJP’s official statement. On their part, quite a few BJP state leaders sought to drive home the point that the saffron party remains in the AIADMK alliance in the state. "Our alliance is doing well and remains strong. What Pon Radhakrishnan said was — no one can predict what could happen in future. No political party can say that they will remain allies forever. That is the practical approach, there is nothing more to read into it," said state BJP vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan. BJP spokesman Narayanan Tirupati and recently inducted K Annamalai, another vice-president of the party too echo the same view. "The NDA is intact in Tamil Nadu and all parties that are part of it, remain with it. There is no reason to break the alliance. For any political party, its own growth is important. The coming assembly polls will be a turning point for the BJP in Tamil Nadu and we are working on that," Vanathi said.BJP leaders highlight their party’s hands-off approach in the latest troubled phase within the AIADMK. "What happened in the AIADMK is their internal issue. They know how to take care of their party. Both Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam are very cordial with the BJP. The AIADMK is definitely close to the BJP, except for some issues concerning Tamil Nadu because they are in government," said Narayanan Tirupati.Whatever be the official stand of the BJP leaders, political circles the view timing of Radhakrishnan’s statement as a sign of the patrty’s discomfiture in having to handle EPS rather than O Panneerselvam, AIADMK’s coordinator. OPS had earlier gone on the record that he had agreed for the merger (in 2017) with the EPS faction on the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "EPS will be tougher, while OPS would have been more amenable," agreed a corporate honcho, who played a role in stitching the alliance together in the summer of 2019.BJP leaders too concede to it, but not openly. "The AIADMK is part of our alliance. When there is no tall leadership, after J Jayalalithaa senior BJP leaders had helped during the merger. As a result, the perception became strong that the BJP is dictating terms. If that was the case, how come we agreed only for five Lok Sabha seats," Vanathi asked.A senior AIADMK leader agreed that EPS would be tough for the BJP to handle. "The ease of doing business would have been far greater for the BJP had it been OPS rather than EPS. Despite a senior BJP leader like Piyush Goyal’s several visits to Chennai, they could get only five seats. In 1998 too, Amma (Jayalalithaa) had given only five seats. Almost 20 years later, in the absence of Amma and with an unstable government, EPS still gave only five seats to the BJP," the leader recalled."Why should it bother the BJP, whether it is EPS or OPS, who will be our CM candidate. The AIADMK can independently decide what is best for it. What can the BJP do, other than disturbing us by misusing their power. We have not forgotten what they did to Sasikala, who was made to wait for a week without being sworn in, despite being elected as a legislative party leader. Ultimately, she was sent to prison," said former AIADMK MP Anwar Raja. "Pon Radhakrishnan was right. The alliance with the BJP was only for the Lok Sabha polls. The alliance agreement is signed only for a particular election. We sought the support of the PMK and the DMDK afresh for the Vikravandi and Nanguneri assembly bypolls," Raja said.But one cannot brush aside BJP’s aspirations in Tamil Nadu altogether. "The AIADMK leaders cannot escape from the clutches of the BJP. Can those prominent names in the steering committee like S P Velumani or P Thangamani and EPS and OPS ever oppose the BJP openly? Its target is to make the elections in the year 2024 a BJP vs DMK affair. The BJP is handholding theAIADMK only to damage it in the forthcoming assembly elections. People like me are concerned about retaining MGR’s legacy," said expelled AIADMK leader K C Palanisamy. It is, after all, tough to swim in a lotus pond.Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/epss-aiadmk-slips-in-bjps-ease-of-doing-biz-ranking/articleshow/78579098.cms||D Govardan
October 10, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Kharvas women ready to hook your palate with seafood and more||RAJKOT: Heard about the fish pizzas, samosas and fish delicacies in Veraval beaches, but don’t want to hit the sand? Don’t worry. The Kharva women are ready to tickle your taste buds even at the comfort of the city now — thanks to their entrepreneurial instincts. The co-operative society of Kharva women is now starting a restaurant in Veraval where such delicacies will be served any time of the day. While you are relishing on seafood, you can also treat yourself to farsans and sweets in the adjoining portion of the restaurant. Sea, beach, seafood and dessert — ain’t that a total treat in itself? Nearly 350 women of the Kharva community of Veraval in Gir Somnath district started preparing value- added fish products, around two-and-half-years ago. Armed with Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) training and funds from the central department of science and technology to purchase deep freezer, solar dryer and ice boxes, these women who for so long sold dry fish in the Macchi market started conjuring amazing foodstuff including dozen-odd fish products including burgers, cheese balls, sandwich, finger chips, rolls and samosas at a specific place. And soon, waft of their culinary expertise spread stories across the state. Their fish pickles too made way into kitchens in Rajkot and Ahmedabad. Seeing its popularity, the Sagar Manthan Machimar Uthan Mandal, a co-operative group of fishermen, planned to launch these delectable products in malls and super markets in big cities. But, lockdown dashed all their ambitious plans. However, Coronavirus couldn’t kill their zeal and soon, home delivery of these products started in and around Veraval which fetched them good responses even amid the lockdown. President of the co-operative society, Shailesh Siyani said “We get telephonic orders from our customers. We are now starting a full time restaurant where these products will be available for even walk-in customer. We are planning to inaugurate the eatery during Navratri.” According to a rough estimate, sale of these value-added products enjoys a turnover of Rs 1.5 to Rs 2 lakh every month while the effort also consumes nearly 300 kg fish. Seeing the success, Kharva women just didn’t end matters with the fish, but added items to the menu. Another group of women also started making namkeen and sweets beginning Janmashtami and have sold items worth Rs 60,000 in the festival. Hansa Solanki, a member of this group told TOI: “There will be a partition in the restaurant. One part will serve fish and seafood, the other will provide namkeens and sweets for sale. We have just started our business but are getting overwhelming response.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kharvas-women-ready-to-hook-your-palate-with-seafood-and-more/articleshow/78581357.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Didn’t flee raid scene, was mediating land deal, says MLA PT Thomas||KOCHI: P T Thomas MLA has denied allegations that he fled from a house raided by officials of the I-T department on Thursday. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, the Congress member, who represents Thrikkakkara constituency, said he had gone to the house in Edappally to mediate a property dispute and had met the income tax officials while coming out. Two persons, including a real estate agent, were nabbed by the department from Edappally on Thursday and around Rs 50 lakh in cash, which was to be used to seal a land deal, were seized. Responding to allegations he had decamped following the raids and that he had links with the deal, Thomas said he was mediating a dispute between Rajeevan and Dileepkumar, sons of Dineshan, one of the accused in the Edappally station attack case, and landowner Ramakrishnan, an acquaintance. “As per my information, the money was to be transferred to a bank account and if there is any illegal transaction it is for I-T officials to probe,” he said. According to Thomas, he had agreed to mediate based on a request by Ramakrishnan, since late Rajasekharan, the youngest son of Dineshan had worked for him as a driver and the family was caught in the dispute over the land on which they had kudikidappu rights. “The property was originally in the ownership of the sister of CITU leader K N Raveendranath and was bought by Ramakrishnan. Since they had been staying in a small house on the property for over 40 years and had been running a business, there was a dispute with Ramakrishnan who had bought it,” he said. Thomas said on October 2 he had discussed the issue with the wife of late Dineshan and their children based on which a decision for a written agreement was made. "I went to the house to help execute the agreement on October 8. When I reached there were nearly 15 others, including ward councillor Joseph Alex, CPM Edappally branch secretary Girijan, and residents’ association vice-president Shaijan were present, apart from Ramakrishnan and his manager,” Thomas said. He also read out an agreement signed on an earlier date between Dileepkumar and Ramakrishnan that referred to a bank transfer of Rs 17 lakh towards settling the dispute. According to I-T sources, the agent, who is a leading real estate broker in the city, came to a house near Oberon Mall as part of buying a four-cent plot and house within it for Rs 80 lakh. It is learned that I-T seized several documents and title deeds from the agent’s house. A case has been registered and an investigation is under way. Those involved in the deal will have to submit documents to prove the source of the money, sources said. Girijan told a TV channel that the party had instructed him to arbitrate on the property deal. Calls and messages sent to senior CPM leader and state secretariat member P Rajeev and Edappally branch secretary went unanswered. C N Mohanan, secretary of the CPM Ernakulam district committee, said Thomas now has no right to continue as a MLA because of his alleged involvement in a land deal which led to seizure of black money. "It is now the responsibility of the I-T department to probe the source of the money," Mohanan said in a Facebook post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/didnt-flee-raid-scene-was-mediating-land-deal-mla/articleshow/78581529.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||Infection doubling time improves from 27 to 32 days in a week in rural Pune||Pune: The doubling rate of Covid-19 infections in rural Pune improved from 27 to 32 days over the last one week, while the recovery rate marginally increased from 76% to 77.4% during the same period.The case fatality rate (CFR) remained constant at 2.5%, though. It is way above the 1%, recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Haveli and Khed have so far recorded the highest Covid-19 cases in Pune rural areas, but their CFR is better at 2.4% and 1.7%, respectively.Seven out of 13 tehsils in Pune district have a CFR of more than 2.5%. Five of them have CFR in the range of 3.7% to 3.1%, a joint weekly review report of district collector Rajesh Deshmukh and Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad stated on Friday.Prasad told TOI, “The doubling rate has improved because of a dip in Covid-19 positive cases in the hotspot villages in Haveli, Maval and Khed tehsils. Rural Pune had 6,856 nCoV cases during September 24-30. The number came down to 4,907 in the period from October 1 to 7.”He said, “As a part of the ‘Majhe Kutumb Majhi Jababdari’ campaign across the district, as many as 36.18 lakh people from 1,291 villages have been checked for body temperature, oxygen saturation and other parameters so far. Among those found with Covid-19 symptoms and referred to testing, a total of 3,182 tested positive for the virus. We shall further intensify our drive for early detection of positive cases. We are also enhancing the health infrastructure in rural Pune.”Rural Pune has so far recorded a progressive tally of 59,999 nCoV positive cases. A total of 44,450 patients have been discharged after recovery. As many as 1,516 people succumbed to the virus. There were 14,033 active cases as on October 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/infection-doubling-time-improves-from-27-to-32-days-in-a-week-in-rural-pune/articleshow/78582860.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 135 stubble burning cases, almost 2,000 in 19 days||BATHINDA: Punjab recorded 1,926 stubble burning cases in 19 days, up from 1,791 at 18 days and 1,692 at 17 days. The trend indicates an average of nearly 100 cases a day. With 135 stubble burning cases recorded in 18 districts of Punjab on Friday, the total count reached 1,926. Amritsar and Patiala recorded 31 burning cases each whereas Tarn Taran recorded 27 cases on Friday. As per data compiled by Punjab Remote Sensing Centre in 2019, there were 461 stubble burning cases till October 9. The figure stood at 400 in 2018, 876 in 2017 and 1,037 in 2016. The first stubble burning case this year was recorded on September 21. The state government is concerned about the rapid rise in cases of crop residue burning and is making earnest efforts to contain the menace, said a senior official of the state agriculture department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-135-stubble-burning-cases-almost-2k-in-19-days/articleshow/78582861.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Kin of scribe, students ask how they were ‘threats’||AGRA: Siddique Kappan has been a journalist for nine years, covering north India for a Malayalam-language news site. Masood Ahmed was preparing for his civil services exam; Atikur Rehman for his PhD. On Monday, the three of them, along with an embroiderer-turned-driver, Mohammad Alam, were on their way to Hathras to meet the gang-rape victim’s family when they were detained at Mathura. Their families, away in Malappuram, Bahraich, Rampur and Muzaffarnagar, told TOI on Friday they cannot understand how they were locked away as terror threats. “He had never even been involved in a brawl. No criminal record. Suddenly, he gets booked for terror,” said Atikur’s brother Mateen Ahmed, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar. Mateen said Atikur had a congenital heart ailment and needed constant medical attention. “On October 1, he had gone to Delhi for treatment at AIIMS … Four days after that, I got a call. He had been arrested.” Back home, his wife worries, helplessly, about his heart problem. A similar concern is "killing" Kappan’s wife. “I am worried about his diabetes. Stress will make it worse,” Rehanath told TOI through a translator. For an entire day, she had not known her husband had been arrested. “It was only on Tuesday that some friends told me.” She could not make sense of what had happened. “Neither he nor anyone in our family has any political ties.” For now, she is keeping it together for his 90-year-old mother and three children. “He is a journalist. If he was going to Hathras, it was to report,” she said. Masood’s brother, Monis Khan, said he would have stopped them had he known they were travelling to Hathras. Monis lives in Noida, a younger brother is still studying, a sister is married and their father Shakil Ahmad runs a small lock and key repair shop in Bahraich. “We are simple people. He has never done anything illegal. We never saw him misbehave with anyone,” he said. Masood cleared NET after a diploma in mass communication in 2016 and Masters in public administration from Jamia Millia Islamia last year. He was preparing for his PhD. Driver Alam’s mother, Naeem Jahan, 50, said she came to know about the arrests when some people came to her house in Rampur on Monday evening, asking about her son. “The next day, his photo was all over TV. Neighbours started asking.” She and her husband, Laiyak Pehalwan, roll beedis for a living. Their son, she said, had moved to Delhi 10 years ago after trying his hand at embroidery. He got married in 2018 and lived in Delhi with his wife. “He was just taking passengers … I don’t even know where he is, how he is.” All four are now in a temporary prison, awaiting Covid-19 test results, after which they will be moved to the district jail in Mathura, a senior police official said. They have been charged with sedition and under the stringent UAPA, among other sections related to funds diversion, disturbing peace and tampering of evidence. In Delhi, Campus Front of India, the student wing of Popular Front of India, said members Atikur and Masood, along with Kappan and Aalam, were arrested illegally. “The police’s lies on ‘sectarian violence’, ‘fundraising’ and ‘carrying dangerous literature’ are baseless and nonsensical.” (With inputs from Pathikrit Chakraborty and Mohammad Ibrar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-criminal-records-no-run-ins-kin-ask-why-reporter-students-driver-are-terror-threats/articleshow/78580217.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Health dept moots education prog to arrest Covid spread||Udupi/Bengaluru: With Karnataka reporting Covid-19 positive cases upwards of 10,000 per day in recent past, the department of health and family welfare will embark on a statewide health education programme. The campaign aimed at reaching the grassroots level will also use a bouquet of technology at the disposal of the government – social media included, noted Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary to the department on Friday. Interacting with deputy commissioners, chief executive officers of zilla panchayats and PS Harsha, commissioner, department of information and public relations via video-conference, Akthar said the above programme will be run extensively during October and November. The sharp spiral of cases can be checked only with active participation of people, the most important stakeholders and educating them on its need is a must, he said. Simple practice of wearing a mask in the correct manner, maintaining social distancing, not touching objects needlessly, washing hands frequently and ensuring personal hygiene are some best practices that need to be reinforced among people, Akhtar said. The programme will use both digital and outdoor advertising modes to drive home the message, Akhtar said, adding even media too will be used in this health awareness endeavour. Harsha said the above information on above best practices will be disseminated among the masses through local cable television networks. This will ensure the spread of the message to the locals in their language, Harsha said. The department of information and public relation will also effectively tap into social media to send across this message, he said, resonating on the multi-media mode of information dissemination that Akhtar stressed up on. Billboards that the department maintains too will contain messages on Covid, Harsha noted. The department will also play a pro-active role in countering fake news that is being circulated on the pandemic. The campaign will include testimonies from patients who have recovered and opinion of expert doctors, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/health-dept-moots-education-prog-to-arrest-covid-spread/articleshow/78580227.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||Dy CM wants addition of hospital beds till Nov 15||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday told the administration to continue increasing hospital beds till November 15 and not to get complacent by the dip in Covid-19 cases in the district this week. Pawar, during the weekly review meeting of Covid-19 situation, said there might be some rise in Covid-19 cases ahead of the festivities and winter and the administration should be ready to face all challenges. “There is again a rise in Covid-19 cases the world over. One cannot afford to be complacent and the administration should ensure adequate hospital beds in Pune,” he said. On Friday, the administration’s dashboard reflected 11,000 hospital beds in the district. The deputy CM told the officials present at the meeting to ensure that the number of beds was increased in the hospitals as proposed by the administration within the time frame. The administration is supposed to increase the number of beds with oxygen support to over 2,800 in the district and division  Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of Pune, said the administration should be caution while implementing the Unlock 5.0 guidelines. He said officials should reach out to the citizens through social awareness programmes during the coming festive period for proper implementation of all health protocols. He also told the administration to ensure that there was enough stock of oxygen and medicines. He added that the citizens should cooperate with the government officials and provide all details for the ongoing door-to-door “My Family, My Responsibility” initiative for early detection of coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-wants-addition-of-hospital-beds-till-nov-15/articleshow/78582866.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man cheated by lure of cheap gold, robbed||Ahmedabad: A 53-year-old man from Vastral, Bharat Patel, who runs an engineering unit at his house lodged a complaint at Ramol police station on Thursday alleging that six persons — of whom four were later identified as Iswharpuri Goswami and Pradeep Gordhan Kachadia of Ramol, Shailiesh Thakor of Narol, Ankur Bhupendra Patel of Hathijan— cheated him using the lure of gold biscuits at lower-than-market price. The offence took place in July but one of the accused who had introduced the others to the complainant promised him to his money back. The complainant then waited, but later he approached Ramol police. Investigators said they have arrested four of the six persons accused for a similar offence a fortnight ago and they are in judicial custody. “We are hunting for the two remaining accused and will question the suspects in the jail about them,” said K S Dave, inspector of Ramol police station. Patel stated that Goswami told him that his friend had bought gold biscuits at lower than the market price from customs officials and he had to sell it. Patel agreed to buy it and Goswami called Shailesh. Shailesh called him to Hathijan Circle on July 31 and showed him the biscuit. Patel was convinced the biscuit was genuine and gave Shailesh Rs 3 lakh. At that very time, a car drove up from behind them. Three persons got out, identified themselves as policemen and told them that they would be booked for smuggling gold. According to the FIR, the three made Patel and Shailesh sit in the car and took them away. On the way they beat up Patel and took the ‘gold biscuit’ and the Rs 3 lakh and then threw him out of the car. When Patel read about a similar gang operating in the city in a newspaper and that some members of it were arrested by Ramol police, he approached Ramol police and lodged the complaint. “He identified the four of them from pictures. We will soon nab the others soon,” said Dave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-cheated-by-lure-of-cheap-gold-robbed/articleshow/78582864.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Students being asked to motivate parents to stop stubble burning in Punjab||BATHINDA: Concerned about the high incidence of crop residue burning in Punjab, the district administration is enlisting the help of senior secondary class students to wean their families, relatives and neighbours away from stubble burning. Students of classes XI and XII from rural backgrounds are being motivated to participate in the awareness campaign. They will be apprised about the ill-effects of setting fire to stubble and the benefits of not burning it. This will be done either manually or through e-learning module, said an official of the state education department. Officials of the district administration feel students could turn out to be a major source of motivation for parents and they could also accurately identify farmers most likely to set fire to stubble. Members of youth clubs in villages are also being trained for the purpose. Mansa deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal said students from rural backgrounds and farm families could play a major role in motivating their parents against burning stubble. Saying that this would help prevent further pollution, he said the district education department officials have been asked to take up the matter with students. Fazilka deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Singh said college students should come forward to educate their parents against stubble burning. Students are being enrolled in the social campaign against residue burning. Muktsar deputy commissioner M K Aravind Kumar said students have been approached. Bathinda district chief agriculture officer Bahadur Singh said that youth clubs are being approached to play a proactive role in motivating farmers by making this a mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-being-asked-to-motivate-parents-to-stop-stubble-burning/articleshow/78582865.cms||Neel Kamal
October 10, 2020||Pune||Freshers struggle to find jobs amid pandemic with very few vacancies||PUNE: Many companies are struggling to walk the tightrope between paying salaries and cutting costs to survive the pandemic. This, in turn, has painted a bleak future for this year’s freshers. “Jobs are very difficult to come by because companies are struggling to keep the staff they already have. This year, there are fewer vacancies across industries. There are entry-level jobs for freshers, but they are far and few in between; they usually pay a nominal stipend, which has been further reduced,” Shashank Agarwal, a fresher on the hunt for a job, said. Joshua O’Brian, talent acquisition manager of an MNC, said campus recruitments were still on. “But where we would hire 100 freshers, this year it would be half that. This is because there is no attrition, so every team is at full capacity,” O’Brian said. Taking and giving interviews is also a bit of a hindrance due to the pandemic. “Having your friends and classmates around during campus recruitment gives you a different kind of confidence. But giving interviews from home is difficult — my family lives in a small house and there is always something happening,” Himanshu Singh, a BTech graduate, said. Jui Saverdekar, HR executive with a multinational organization, said online campus recruitments were a problem for them too. “We need approvals for everything, which prolongs the process and makes the hiring process stressful for freshers,” Saverdekar said. Anisha Joshi, a BCom graduate, pointed out that even if they do manage to clear an online interview for a job at the entry level, they have to deal with a steeper dip in starting salaries and are not given an opportunity to “make it in the real world”, as working from home does not expose freshers to workplace culture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/freshers-struggle-to-find-jobs-amid-pandemic-with-very-few-vacancies/articleshow/78582863.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Meerut||Attempts are being made to ‘communalise’ Hathras incident, says Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind president Arshad Madani on Friday slammed the arrest of a 41-year-old Kerala journalist and three others and claimed that through them attempts are being made to “communalise” the Hathras incident. Journalist Siddiqui Kappan, Atikur Rahman, 28, Masood Ahmad, 28, and Alam, 37 were taken into custody on Monday while they were going to meet the family of the Dalit girl who was allegedly gang-raped and killed in Hathras. Two days later, all of them were booked for sedition by police which said that the accused were planning to incite riots as part of “international conspiracy”. Police linked them all to Popular Front of India (PFI). “A girl is brutally attacked by local youths. She goes through severe mental and physical trauma for days. And she dies in a Delhi hospital. Now, it is being said that it was part of an international conspiracy. A Muslim journalist who had come to report the incident has been arrested,” Madani said in a statement. “Instead of ensuring justice to the victim, some the news channels are now trying to give it the Hindu-Muslim colour,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/attempts-are-being-made-to-communalise-hathras-incident-says-jamiat-ulema-e-hind/articleshow/78580225.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 10, 2020||Meerut||Runaway Covid +ve undertrial with Rs 25k reward arrested||Bijnor: A Covid positive undertrial who had fled from the Swahedi quarantine centre in Bijnor on September 30 was arrested on Friday. A Rs.25,000 reward was earlier announced on him.Identified as Vinay Singh, the accused was arrested on September 7. He tested positive for Covid-19 on September 25 and was shifted to Swahedi quarantine centre. He fled from there on September 30. Singh was booked under the Arms Act and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. A reward of Rs.25,000 had been announced on him. Four police teams were formed to arrest him.Dharamveer Singh, Bijnor superintendent of police, said, "He was arrested on Friday from Prempuri area. A pistol and two cartridges were seized from his possession."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/runaway-covid-ve-undertrial-with-rs-25k-reward-arrested/articleshow/78580231.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Forest dept installs cage to capture tiger||Kozhikode: Forest department installed a cage trap near Cheeyambam-73 tribal colony to capture a tiger which has been preying on cattle in the area. The trap was set after the state chief wildlife warden issued orders to capture the tiger. South Wayanad divisional forest officer P Renjithkumar said the tiger was involved in 12 cattle lifting incidents during the past three months. The big cat has killed 11 goats and a calf. The latest incident was on Thursday when the tiger hunted a goat that was grazing near the colony. Residents said the tiger had killed three goats on Monday. Chethalath forest range officer T Sasikumaran said the tiger had strayed into human habitations at Anapanthi, Pambra and nearby areas bordering the forests. Residents had raised protests demanding capture of the tiger following frequent sightings of the big cat near human habitat. Police had registered cases against 10 Congress workers for staging protests in violation of Covid guidelines before the Irulam forest office over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/forest-dept-installs-cage-to-capture-tiger/articleshow/78581558.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Meerut||Freedom of speech shouldn’t be misused to malign a community, says Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind||Strap: ‘Hopeful of a favourable verdict from apex court in Tablighi Jamaat case’Muzaffarnagar: The observations made by Supreme Court on Thursday about the freedom of expression has vindicated the stand that a community was “maligned” in the guise of attack on members of Tablighi Jamaat for organising a religious event in March this year, Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind chief Arshad Madani said on Friday.The apex court on Thursday observed that freedom of speech and expression is the “most abused” right in recent times, as it criticised the Centre for its “evasive” and “brazen” affidavit in connection with petitions seeking action against alleged “motivated reporting” on the Tablighi Jamaat.A bench headed by CJI SA Bobde was hearing petitions filed by Jamiat and others seeking action against some organizations which allegedly gave “communal colour” to the Covid-19 outbreak at the Jamaat congregation.“The statement given by CJI Bobde during the hearing fully supported our stand,” Madani said, adding that, “We are not against freedom of speech but against the fake news.”The Jamiat chief alleged, “An incomplete affidavit is an indication of the Centre’s intention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/freedom-of-speech-shouldnt-be-misused-to-malign-a-community-says-jamiat-ulema-e-hind/articleshow/78580228.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 10, 2020||Agra||Hathras victim’s kin to appear in court, refuse to immerse the ashes||AGRA: The Hathras victim’s family will appear in court on October 12 to give their statements on the “forced cremation” of their 19-year-old girl who had been allegedly gang-raped and died two weeks later in a Delhi hospital. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court had taken suo motu cognizance of the incident. “Five of us will be appearing in court. The administration had asked us how many from our family would like to be present for the hearing on October 12,” the victim’s elder brother told the media after giving their consent to the district administration. Besides him, his younger brother, sister, mother and father will appear. “The administration has promised full security when we travel to Lucknow.” The high court had asked the Hathras district judge to ensure family members of the deceased can appear to record their version of what had happened. State and district authorities were also asked to extend all help and security the family needed. “We are inclined to examine as to whether there has been gross violation of the fundamental rights of the deceased victim and the family members of the victim,” the court had said on October 1, a day after the victim had been cremated at 2.40am in her village without any family present. The court had also asked media houses to share content on the basis of which the incident had been reported. The state of UP through additional chief secretary (home), DGP, ADG (law and order), and Hathras DM and SP were named respondents. The girl’s brother, meanwhile, said the family will not immerse the ashes just yet. “Not until we get justice and are sure that the body that was cremated was that of my sister. We were not even allowed to see the face.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/five-from-hathras-victims-family-to-appear-for-hc-hearing-on-late-night-cremation/articleshow/78580221.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Confusion over syllabus||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Secondary and Higher Secondary School Administrative Employees’ Union has written to the state education department to clear the confusion regarding the reduction in syllabus. The state government recently announced to reduce 30% syllabus in the wake of Covid-19 crisis. The Gujarat Board has released a list of subjects and chapters which are to be removed from the syllabus. According to Yogesh Mishra, president of the association, there are many discrepancies in the list. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/confusion-over-syllabus/articleshow/78582870.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala straw turns cash||Ambala: The landing of baler machines in Bara and Ugara villages on Wednesday speeded up a farmers’ welfare department pilot project for the management of paddy stubble in the district. Through their panchayats, farmers will sell this straw to private company Verve Renewables for feeding the electricity generation plant of the Naraingarh Sugar Mill at Banondi village in Ambala’s Shahzadpur area. Ambala deputy director of agriculture Girish Nagpal said the balers will stack the stubble on the panchayat land at Ugara. The company will carry it to the sugar mill and pay the farmers after deducting the cost of balers and labour. Replying to a question, Nagpal said: “The company’s bundling price is Rs 1,800 for each tonne of straw transported to the mill. To make up for the shortage of machines and trucks, the company has hired some Punjab groups, who charge the farmers for the balers, diesel, and labour. The expense for each tonne is about Rs 1,300, so each farmer will earn about Rs 500 in that deal.” Bara sarpanch Vikas Behgal said: “The machines reached our village on Wednesday. Bara and Ugara villages have together 1,000 acres under paddy, of which we have clear 40-plus acres. The baler clears 25 acres a day. Every acre yields 20 to 25 quintals of straw. The agriculture department does regular monitoring. Farmers are happy to spare the match and make some income. Within three months, the company will lift all the stubble from our fields.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-straw-turns-cash/articleshow/78582874.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala govt suspends senior cop for outraging woman’s modesty||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government has suspended a deputy superintendent of police after finding that charges against him that he had trespassed into the house of a woman and outraged her modesty, are prima facie true. The home department’s order in this regard issued on Thursday, has also asked state police chief Loknath Behera to initiate an inquiry against P S Suresh under the Kerala police departmental inquiries, punishment and appeal rules, 1958. The complaint against the officer was made by a woman, who is a native of Pattambi in Palakkad. According to the complaint, the officer had trespassed into her house between 8pm and 10pm on July 9, 2016, and tried to force on her and outraged her modesty. He also threatened to kill her if she disclosed the matter to anyone else. From the statements of the victim and from the available evidence, the investigating officer found that the officer had committed the crime as mentioned in the complaint. The matter was also filed in the concerned court then. The case was later transferred into the crime branch and the investigating officer in the crime branch also found that there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the officer had visited the complainant’s house. The probe is under way. “The investigation reveals that DSP P S Suresh, being a senior police officer, has committed grave misconduct that tarnished the image of the police department. Hence, the state police chief has recommended to initiate disciplinary action against DSP P S Suresh, for his grave misconduct against a woman and unbecoming of a responsible senior police officer,” the suspension order said. The order has also asked the state police chief to entrust a competent senior officer for the conducting the inquiry against the officer. Interestingly, this is the second order in a span of 10 days when the government has initiated disciplinary action. On September 27, the government had initiated an inquiry against another DSP, S Vidyadharan, for taking a bribe of Rs 25,000 for settling a family dispute in favour of the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-suspends-senior-cop-for-outraging-womans-modesty/articleshow/78580244.cms||KP Saikiran
October 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Builders pin hopes on festive season, aim to sell 3000 homes||BHOPAL: From business to health, each and every aspect of life has seen a huge downturn due to Covid-19 pandemic, across the globe. While the virus is still at work and vaccine is yet to hit the market, people are slowly adapting to this new normal. In this evolving scenario, realtors in Bhopal hope to sell many houses in the festive season that started from Ganesh Chaturthi and will go on till Makar Sankranti, barring the 16-day Pitru Paksha that ended last week. Market watchers claim that the factors that would give an upward nudge to the squeezed real estate market sector could be - several unlocks in Covid season. Besides, the state government’s decision to reduce the stamp duty may also be a factor, although not a major one, to push the real estate market vertically. Over 12000 houses are ready and waiting for buyers in Bhopal alone. Corona crisis not only put brakes on the new projects, but also demoralised the investors, as people preferred to wait for the crisis to get over to put in their money, claim city builders. But the silver lining is that after the unlock, people living in congested localities are looking for spacious places to live in. Realtors’ see momentum in the duplex and ready to move in homes. It is the most preferred choice of buyers in the corona period, state builders. CREDAI spokesman, Manoj Singh Meek said, the situation of real estate is no different from other sectors that were hit hard due to corona crisis. Obviously, investors were hesitant to put in their money. But the good thing is that sale, which was stopped since March this year after lockdown, would start in the festive season. Those who were planning to buy homes between March and August would soon fulfil their dream. It will add up to momentum in the sector, said Meek, adding, “We expect to witness sale of at least 3000 houses in the city, this festive season”. Experts said price wise also it is the right time to invest as real estate prices were already rock bottom and there has been no rate revision since Diwali in 2013. No new major projects have been launched in the city as there are enough ongoing and old projects waiting for buyers. Builders claim that due to coronavirus pandemic, the real estate sector has suffered a huge jolt — possibly second biggest after demonetisation in 2016. It has all led to pathetic economic situation, loss of jobs, labourers moving back to rural areas, due to which real estate market was hit hard . Builders reiterated the guideline needs to be rationalised and a seller should have the right to sell his property at any price he wants and government should not fix the base price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/builders-pin-hopes-on-festive-season-aim-to-sell-3000-homes/articleshow/78581554.cms||Ankur Sirothia
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Cases continue to dip in Vidarbha, Covid deaths constant||NAGPUR: Covid-19 scenario is improving across Vidarbha region and the trend of less cases and more recoveries continued on Friday too. Least in last many days, 1,515 new cases were reported on October 9. On the other hand, more than 2,500 patients recovered from the disease in the region. Recovery rate of Vidarbha, which is above 84%, has now reached close to national average of 85.5% and way ahead of Maharashtra’s 82%. However, after two days of lower death toll, Vidarbha’s Covid-19 fatality once again surged on October 9 to 45. These include 26 deaths from Nagpur district, 4 each from Yavatmal, Akola and Washim, 2 each from Bhandara and Wardha and 1 from Buldhana. Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 casualties reached 4,445, which hints at case fatality rate of 2.7% again. Many of these deaths, like 4 in Washim, were added after reconciliation. These deaths happened in the past, and reported on Friday. The cumulative death count could be a little more due to this reconciliation exercise. Chandrapur reported no death after 37 days on October 9. Out of 1,515 cases reported in a day, Nagpur has highest share — 636. Number of cases in Nagpur is reducing constantly now. Nagpur was followed by Amravati 188, Chandrapur 141, Gadchiroli 125, Bhandara 106, Yavatmal 96, Wardha 69, Buldhana 55 and Gondia 52. Akola 19 and Washim 28 reported lowest cases in a month. Recoveries include 1,271 from Nagpur followed by Buldhana 181, Gondia 165, Bhandara 153, and Wardha 96. Akola 85, Chandrapur 67, and Gadchiroli reported 89 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-continue-to-dip-in-vid-covid-deaths-constant/articleshow/78582873.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala mill’s straw fuel stock reduced to ashes||AMBALA: Last season’s paddy straw kept for making electricity at Naraingarh Sugar Mill in Shahzadpur’s Banondi village caught fire and turned to ashes. Shahzadpur fire officer Jaidev Malik said: “The huge stock was smouldering since the blazes of July 22 and 28, September 11, and October 5. We went to the spot every time but since the mill has its own fire extinguishing system, fire team, and water stock, we attached our pipes to their bowsers and let the mill workers hose down the flames. After October 5, we got no call from the mill.” Local sources say that residual sparks in the stocked paddy till Wednesday had led to the latest fire. Shahzadpur station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Chander Bhan said: “The fire of October 5 is logged in our daily diary entry (DDE) but we have no further alert from the mill.” The mill officials said the stock was insured and the insurance company was surveying the loss. Mill’s general manager (engineering) V K Singh said: “The cause of fire is unclear. The stock was huge and from the last season. Smouldering is sometimes hard to detect and control. We have to keep a stock because we can buy the straw only for about two months of the harvest season and don’t find it after October-November, while the electricity plant must run all year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-mills-straw-fuel-stock-reduced-to-ashes/articleshow/78582867.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||To click with commuters, Delhi Metro plans interactive app, website||NEW DELHI: A notification to alert you about a snag, delay or interruption in services on your preferred route, live footfall at stations before you step out of home, and much more are a part of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) revamp of its mobile application and website. The changes are being done on the lines of the best public transport systems across the world to make services more interactive and passenger friendly. Delhi Metro’s mobile app has been downloaded over a million times from Google Play Store. It offers features like locating the nearest station, route planner, fare information, approximate travel time, total distance, number of stations, timings of first and last trains, apart from other information about stations. Other features include information about parking, feeder services, helpline, nearby tourist spots, etc. Though the app and website are quite commuter friendly, DMRC wants a more contemporary and dynamic look and new features that are offered by no other public transport system in the country. Any technical snag, particularly during peak hours, results in crowding at stations leaving thousands of passengers stranded. In a post-Covid world, such a situation could be dangerous. In place of a simple route planner, DMRC has proposed a dynamic network map integrated with Google maps in which the route selected by a commuter would be highlighted. This would include Airport Express Line and Gurgaon’s Rapid Metro. It would offer commuters many different routes for the chosen set of stations keeping in mind the shortest distance or minimum interchange. In case of any snag, delay or interruption in services on the preferred route, the affected section would be highlighted and alternate routes displayed. Variation in travel time due to service disruption would also be notified. Commuters would also get real-time information on services of all corridors. Commuters who register on the revamped DMRC website will get updates regarding snags and advance information on planned weekly or monthly closure schedules, including that of escalators, elevators or gates, apart from live footfall and the usual busiest time at stations. While the current app provides information about all facilities available, the revamped software will also help commuters locate these facilities. For instance, commuters will not only be able to find out the exact location of toilets inside a metro station, but also near the premises. Apart from this, location of baby care and breast feeding areas, drinking water, mobile charging slots and list of shops, kiosks or malls would be available. Apart from information about Delhi Metro’s feeder bus services, commuters would also get information about other modes of last-mile services, like app-based cabs, e-rickshaws, cycle sharing, etc. Commuters would also get information on nearby places of importance near each station, location of customer care counters and platforms. DMRC would also ensure that its app works in the offline mode without internet and, apart from the one-time download, there were no running costs for users. All real-time information would be available via GPS. The website would have a dedicated page showing tourist attractions near stations and which particular gate to use to reach the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/to-click-with-commuters-metro-plans-interactive-app-website/articleshow/78582880.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Congress launches campaign with virtual ‘Jan Aakrosh’||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Congress on Friday launched its campaign for byelections in eight assembly seats by organizing a virtual ‘Jan Aakrosh’ rally to highlight issues of school fees, farmer’s plight and other issues. With the ECI issuing stringent guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and large gatherings being banned, the Congress kicked off its election campaign through virtual platforms. The ‘Jan Aakrosh’ rally was addressed by leaders from the state party headquarters in Ahmedabad, while people viewed the speeches at 200 different locations across the state. AICC Gujarat in-charge, Rajeev Satav, GPCC president Amit Chavda, working president Hardik Patel, leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani and other leaders targeted the government over the issue of schools charging fees to students amid the pandemic. They demanded that the government must direct all schools to waive off fees for the whole year, as a majority of parents were not in a position to pay school fees because of the lockdown. Terming the new farm laws recently passed by Parliament as anti-farmer, leaders said that the Congress will continue to hold demonstrations against the new laws, which they claimed will empower a handful of industrialists and harm farmers. Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said the ‘Jan Aakrosh’ rally was beamed live on more than 200 specially erected screens in different districts. “Besides, the rally was live on multiple Facebook pages of the Congress party. Links were shared on several other social media platforms,” Doshi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cong-launches-campaign-with-virtual-jan-aakrosh/articleshow/78582875.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Green activists flag ‘over exploitation’ of Yamuna riverbed||YAMUNANAGAR: Green activists on Friday alleged over exploitation of Yamuna river by the Haryana government, which, they said, is sponsoring its destruction. On Friday, a complaint was filed through e-mail by Bhim Singh Rawat and eight other members of Yamuna Nadi Mitra Mandli (YNMM) to officials of the Union and state government, secretary, ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MOEFCC), member secretaries of CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board) and HSPCB (Haryana State Pollution Control Board), ACS (additional chief secretary) mines and geology department, Haryana, deputy commissioner (DC) Yamunanagar, engineer-in-chief (EIC) of irrigation and water resources department, Haryana, and several others. Bhim Singh, one of the complainants, said, “We have lodged an online complaint with a request to prohibit large-scale, illegal, mechanised and unsustainable riverbed mining operations in Yamuna river at Kanalsi village area of Yamunanagar district of Haryana and demanded stern action against mining companies involved in brazen violation of established norms.” In the complaint, members of YNMM stated, “The riverbed has been severely dug up beyond recognition and mid-stream mining with heavy machines is rampant. Mining operations are being conducted even at night. This is a deficit monsoon year for the Yamuna river basin. There has hardly been any flood spell replenishing the already dug-up river over the past two years.” “There has been no thought of the adverse impact on groundwater table, river biodiversity, aquatic life, lean season flows, farmlands and dependent village population. Villagers are being threatened to stay quiet and farmers have also filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT)”, the complainants alleged. “We plead, urge you to stop all mining activities in Yamuna river especially in Yamunanagar, unless a scientific replenishment and cumulative impact assessment is done by independent agencies. If the unsustainable and illegal mining operations are not stopped, Haryana and Delhi states will face a severe water crisis in the coming months,” the YNMM said. A few videos of early Friday morning from Kanalsi village mining zone showed about six pock-lane machines conducting mining activities inside the Yamuna river basin in violation of norms. The whistleblowers have also raised questions on overloading of mining vehicles, damaging roads in Yamunanagar district. The Haryana Anti Corruption Society has demanded a CBI probe into mining and overloading in the district. Yamunanagar deputy commissioner (DC) Mukul Kumar said, “An activist, B S Rawat called me and raised the issue of mining in Kanalsi area. I confirmed from the district mining officer (MO), who told me that it is their legal point and the site has been allotted to miners by the government. I have asked the mining officer to talk to the complainant and look into the matter. The government is looking to lease more area of Kanalsi ghat in the Yamuna for mining.” Yamunanagar MO Neeraj Kumar said, “Our department and the Irrigation and Water Resources Department (IRWD) are looking into this matter. We talked to some locals who alleged that the mining contractor has done mining beyond the permissible limits. If norms are violated, action will be initiated immediately as per rules of the state mining department as the contractor is given lease by the government.” Box: Team to verify operational mines in Yamunanagar To conduct verification of sites of all operational mines in Yamunanagar district, DC Mukul Kumar, on Friday, formed a team in view of the orders dated September 30, 2020, issued by the Appellate Authority Haryana under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution), Act, 1974 and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. It is chaired by ACS Dheera Khandelwal of Department of Environment and Climate Change. The team will have to submit its report positively before October 16, the DC’s order stated. In his order, DC Yamunanagar Mukul Kumar said that a team of officials has been constituted in sub-divisions of Jagadhri, Bilaspur and Radaur, for verification of sites of all the operational mines in the district of Yamunanagar. The team comprises tehsildars of Jagadhri, Bilaspur and Radaur, naib tehsildars of Chhachhrauli, Sadhaura and Pratap Nagar, regional officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board, executive engineers of Water Services Division, Jagadhri and Dadupur and mining officer of Yamunanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/green-activists-flag-over-exploitation-of-yamuna-riverbed/articleshow/78582877.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How to avoid winter-Covid double blow||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded an average of 3,500 daily Covid-19 cases in September. In October, as on Friday, around 2,600 new cases have been recorded daily. But, with winter approaching, experts think that daily cases of Covid-19 may touch 15,000. This can be due to multiple factors. First, the festival rush. Second, a recent research published in the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health (IJERPH) suggesting that pollutants such as particulate matter (PM) could create a suitable environment for transportation of the virus over greater distances than currently considered as safe. Track the pollution level in your cityIn fact, doctors said, the winter season may pose the biggest public health challenge faced in many years due to the combined impact of the pandemic and increase in pollution levels. “With increasing pollution, there is going to be convergence of many ailments, for example, Covid-related pneumonia, influenza, exacerbation of asthma and chronic obstructive airways disease and coronary heart disease. It is possible that the health facilities may get overwhelmed,” said Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis C-Doc hospital for diabetes and metabolic disease. A Harvard study released in September found that an increase of only one microgram per cubic metre in PM2.5 is associated with an 8% increase in the Covid-19 death rate, said Dr Akshay Budhraja, consultant in the department of pulmonology at Aakash Healthcare. “In India, we witness huge spikes in PM2.5 levels in winter. This means that mortality due to Covid-19 in our country may increase substantially if preventive measures aren’t followed strictly,” he added. “Moreover, PM induces inflammation in lung cells and exposure to PM can increase the susceptibility and severity of Covid-19 patient symptoms,” stated the IJERPH research. SARS-CoV-2, coronavirus that causes Covid-19, has been shown to trigger an inflammatory storm that will be sustained in the case of pre-exposure to polluting agents, it added. Scientists said inhalation transported the particles deep into the lungs, especially those smaller than 2.5 microns (PM2.5 and ultrafine particles) which may allow the virus to develop within the respiratory tract and to cause infections. Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, critical care and pulmonary medicine at Apollo Hospital, said many Covid-19 patients develop early stage pulmonary-fibrosis or scarring of the pulmonary tissues. “This results in decreased pulmonary functions. Air pollution consisting of various gases and suspending particles may cause further worsening of their respiratory symptoms which may have long-term impact on lung function,” he said. The good thing is that wearing masks can help reduce the risk of exposure to both pollution and Covid-19 virus, Dr Misra of Fortis C-Doc said. He added that vulnerable groups such as people suffering from diabetes, heart disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease should take flu and pneumonia shots and stay away from festival crowds to reduce the risk of getting infection. Professor and head of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital Dr Jugal Kishore advised people to avoid unnecessary outings. “Pollution and Covid-19 pandemic is a lethal combination. One should avoid going out to get exposed to them,” he said. Watch Delhi: How the next few months may deliver winter-Covid double blow||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-to-avoid-winter-covid-double-blow/articleshow/78582888.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Home dept issues SOP for bypoll campaigns||Gandhinagar: Following guidelines from the Election Commission of India, the state home department on Friday issued a standard operating protocol for campaigning for the assembly byelections next month, in view of the Covid situation. Some protocols are : No more than 200 persons will be allowed to assemble in a closed auditorium, which can be filled to a maximum of 50% of capacity; in open spaces, participants will have to maintain a distance of at least six feet from each other. Only five persons, including the candidate, will be allowed to participate in door-to-door campaigning. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/home-dept-issues-sop-for-bypoll-campaigns/articleshow/78582882.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Media playing up news against govt: Kodiyeri||T’puram: Anti-communist approach by media has reached its nadir in Kerala, alleged CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. "Some do journalism by openly declaring this. Media organizations should realise that such an attitude is injurious for the health of democracy. Majority of media organizations implement an agenda that is anti-people and anti-democratic. They should correct their approach," he said after the CPM state secretariat meeting. His criticism reflected the debate held in the secretariat. Senior leaders accused the media of leading a fight against the government based on the ongoing probes by enforcement directorate, Customs, NIA and CBI. There was strong criticism about the way ED chargesheet on gold smuggling case was reported by the media as leaders alleged that prime accused Swapna Suresh’s statements were portrayed as findings of ED. The secretariat decided to launch a campaign to expose the anti-communist agenda of mainstream media. "We are ready for debate with media. We appeal you all to take corrective steps," Balakrishnan said. He said the complaint of CPM against the media is that they sideline development activities going on in state and focus on negative news to defame government. "Forty new schemes were launched in the state in the last 40 days. Was there any constructive debate on those? We welcome criticism and that is how such schemes can be fine-tuned. There was no serious reporting on those," he replied to a query. The CPM state secretariat also condemned the increasing violence against CPM workers. Referring to the murder of Sanoop in Thrissur by persons affiliated to Sangh Parivar organizations, Balakrishnan said CPM lost four active workers in two months. "Three of them were from a minority community and the fourth was a dalit. We need to seriously contemplate where Kerala is heading," he said. CPM leadership directed all district and area committees to launch a campaign against the politics of violence practiced by Congress and BJP against the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/media-playing-up-news-against-govt-kodiyeri/articleshow/78581603.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Muslim organisations stage demonstrations against Babri Masjid demolition verdict||Coimbatore: Muslim organizations here on Friday staged protests against the special court verdict acquitting all 32 accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case.Thousands of men, women and children turned up at Red Cross Building and in Karumbukadai against the verdict and the central government’s decision not to appeal. Courts continue to pass judgements in favour of the ruling BJP government, making the public lose faith in judiciary, the protesters said.Twelve Muslim organisations signed a petition. “The verdict sent shockwaves through society. All Indians should look at it as an unjust verdict. All Coimbatore-based Jamaats and Islamic organizations condemn this verdict,” said a statement.The protesters said they were shocked that the central government did not challenge the verdict. “All judges in high courts and the Supreme Court are appointed by the BJP government and are thus passing judgements in their favour, even unjust judgements, instead of upholding the law. This is making people lose faith in the judicial system,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/muslim-organisations-stage-demonstrations-against-babri-masjid-demolition-verdict/articleshow/78581617.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bhopal||Caste arithmetic holds key in Pohri as minister takes on poll veteran||BHOPAL: Apart from being a high-profile ministerial seat, Pohri in Shivpuri could be one of the toughest contests where Congress has fielded Harivallabh Shukla opposite minister of state for PWD Suresh Rathkhera Dhakkad. Harivallabh Shukla, a senior politician of Shivpuri, is not only former MLA but also contested a Lok Sabha election as BJP’s candidate against Jyotiraditya Scindia in 2004. Scindia was first elected to the Lok Sabha through a bypoll after the demise of his father and former Union minister Madhavrao Scindia. In the bypoll of 2002, Scindia as Congress candidate from Guna-Shivpuri Lok sabha constiotuency, defeated BJP’s Rao Deshraj Singh by a whopping margin of 4,06,000 votes. In 2004 Parliamentary election, BJP fielded Harivallabh Shukla and Scindia’s margin was reduced to 86,360 votes. Shukla’s capability to reduce Scindia charm is one of the major reasons why Shukla has been fielded by the Congress against Scindia’s ardent follower and MoS Suresh Dhakkad. From 1990 to 2018, Pohri rural seat elected BJP candidate four times – in 1990, 1998, 2008 and 2013. It elected an independent Vaijayanti Verma in 1993, the Rashtryia Samanta Dal in 2003 and the Congress only in 2018. Harivallabh Shukla was the Rashtryia Samanta Dal candidate,who won Pohri in 2003, when the rest of the state swept BJP to power with three-fourth majority. However, Shukla lost the seat as BSP candidate in 2008 and BJP candidate in 2013. MoS for PWD Suresh Dhakkad was elected first time in 2018 as Congress candidate and defeated BJP’s Prahlad Bharti by a margin of 7,918 votes. In the constituency of around 2,16,000 voters, the BJP could be relying on the more the 40,000 Dhakkar votes in the seat. Dhakkad is an OBC agrarian community, largely the Kirar caste of which chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is a member. Shivpuri-based local journalist Ranjeet Gupta explained, “This seat falls right in the middle of Jyotiraditya Scindia’s domain of influence. Congress is raising the issue of `bikau versus tikau (mercenaries versus faithfuls)’, but essentially voting here is caste-based. BJP is relying on Dhakkad vote-bank, Shivraj Singh Chouhan being a member of the Kirar community and Scindia’s influence. Congress is counting on the remaining voters including 30,000 Sahariya tribal votes, 15,000 Brahmin votes, 25,000 Jatavs, 10,000 Gadariyas and 10,000 Gurjars.” There is also 25,000 Kushwaha voters in the seat but depending on them the BSP has repeated its 2018 candidate Kailash Kushwaha who secured 52,736 votes in the November 2018 assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/caste-arithmetic-holds-key-in-pohri-as-minister-takes-on-poll-veteran/articleshow/78581628.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Protest against open varsity appointments||T’puram: Protests against the state government, over the selection of candidates to top posts in the newly-formed Sree Narayana Guru Open University, are rising with SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan and BJP state president K Surendran opposing the postings. Natesan said on Friday that Left government has ‘pricked the eyes of Ezhava community’ by not choosing someone – who had a sound understanding of Narayana Guru’s teachings – as the vice chancellor of the new open university. "The community and general society were elated when the university was announced in the name of the Guru. But, appointment at the top post disappointed them. It took the sheen out of Left government. I don’t know why higher education minister KT Jaleel was particular about not choosing someone who studied Guru’s teachings in detail," he said. The Yogam did not look down upon the qualifications of the person appointed as the vice-chancellor. The sufferings of Ezhava community and other downtrodden sections in Thiru-Kochi in the past had no parallel and caste-based oppression was not that evident in Malabar. Someone who shares this tradition should have been chosen for the top post. It has wounded secularist thinking. It shouldn’t have happened when Left is ruling here and renaissance is paraded as a slogan, he said. Surendran said the VC’s appointment in open university was part of vote-bank politics. Governments in Kerala reserve vice-chancellor posts for certain communities, he alleged. Now, Save University Campaign Committee has petitioned governor Arif Mohammed Khan saying that none of the candidates chosen as VC, PVC and registrar have qualifications prescribed by UGC for occupying the posts. The new VC lacks 10 years’ professorship which UGC has prescribed for the post. The PVC has crossed the age limit to be considered to the post. The new register has no administrative experience as recommended by UGC, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/protest-against-open-varsity-appointments/articleshow/78581639.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||BJP-run corporations don’t want to end licence raj in Delhi, says AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Friday attacked the BJP-run municipal corporations for opposing the AAP government’s decision to stop the health trade licence of hotels and restaurants. The municipal corporations do not want to abolish licence raj, he said. “They are against finishing the licence raj. The central government agency, FSSAI, wrote a letter on September 7, 2020 to all the municipal corporations of Delhi citing that the agency checks the standards of food and safety of all the hotels and restaurants, therefore, there is no need to issue separate certificates by the municipal corporations,” Bharadwaj said. Under the law made in 2011, all restaurants are registered under FSSAI and they are given 5 years licence, yet municipal corporations are harassing restaurant owners, Bharadwaj said alleging that every restaurant owner in Delhi has to pay a bribe of one to five lakh rupees for renewal of health trade licence. “AAP government is working round the clock to help the business sectors. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has directed that from now onwards no health trade licence will be required and also informed the mayors of the three corporations about it. Health trade licence is given to all the restaurants and hotels by the municipal corporations, which certifies if the restaurants serve healthy food material or not. The restaurants are required to renew it every year,” said Bharadwaj in a press conference. “Ideally, the corporation officials should visit the restaurants or hotels before giving the certificate but in Delhi, the municipal corporations take bribes from them to issue the certificate. Even before Diwali and other festivals, the corporations’ health officials visit the hotels and restaurants to collect bribes,” Bharadwaj said. “AAP government wants the harassment of these owners to end. Going against their own central government’s instructions, the municipal corporations of Delhi issue these licences,” he added. Hitting out at the municipal corporations for not paying salaries to their doctors, the AAP functionary said it was shameful. “BJP should respect the Covid warriors and it should pay more than the usual to these people. They are unable to pay the fees of the children,” he added. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor termed Bharadwaj’s allegations baseless. “It is strange AAP functionaries don’t know the difference between trade licence given to shops & health licence given for restaurants, which involve public health issue. Obtaining trade licence does not require traders to go to any inspector, it’s issued online. Health licence involves public health issue and hence periodic checks by municipal doctors and inspectors are conducted,” said Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-run-corpns-dont-want-to-end-licence-raj-in-city-says-aap/articleshow/78582899.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||CBI registers case against 3 companies for loan fraud||Coimbatore: The anti-corruption bureau of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Chennai, registered a case against three companies and four directors of the three firms for cheating Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) to the tune of more than Rs 35 crore.Based on a complaint lodged by D Saraswathi, chief regional manager, IOB, Cross Cut Road, Gandhipuram in the city, the CBI registered a case against Palakkad-based Surabhi Steels Private Limited, Surabhi Steels Rolling Mills and Coimbatore-based Surabhi Iron and Steel Co (p) Limited and four directors KS Kadar Pillai, Anooj Kader, Sanooj Kader, and Rukiya Kader, all from Ernakulam. A case was also registered against some unknown people and public servants. They were booked for criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery, forgery for cheating, forged documents used as genuine and criminal misconduct by public servant.The three companies had availed loan of more than Rs 35 crore between 2010 and 2014 from IOB at Oppanakkara Street. Bank authorities had conducted a forensic audit in 2019 and found that the three companies had maintained two sets of books of accounts and two audited financial statements. One set for submission to the bank and other for submission to the registrar of companies (ROC). The companies also appointed different auditors. There were differences between the stock value declared in the audit financial statements submitted to the bank and the audited financial statement submitted to the registrar of companies. There were also discrepancies in the stock value declared in the stock statement submitted to the bank and the balance sheet submitted the ROC.The accounts of three companies were not serviced by payment of principal and interest and the bank was caused loss to the tune of Rs 37.74 crore on the date of non -performing assets (NPA). The borrowers had jointly defrauded the complainant bank and caused wrongful loss of Rs 35.56 crore. The FIR was registered on September 29, 2020 and a team of CBI officials have been collecting more details to take further action against the people who were involved in the cheating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cbi-registers-case-against-3-companies-for-loan-fraud/articleshow/78581631.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||State police to get 135 more horses: MoS home||Ahmedabad: Minister of state for home, Pradipsinh Jadeja, said in Ahmedabad on Friday that the state police force currently has 605 horses and the government will add 135 more shortly. The minister said this while inaugurating the police horse training workshop at Ghoda camp in the city. Police horse training workshops began at 13 districts of the state simultaneously from Friday. Students and youths wanting to pursue a career in the armed forces, have enrolled for the horse riding programme. Jadeja said there was a growing demand from people for the horse training course. Participants can avail a three-month basic course, followed by an advanced course of another three months. He said that the horse training programme will also act as a bridge between police and citizens. The state police equestrian team won seven gold and two silver medals in the All India Equestrian Meet earlier this year, the minister said. Personnel of the state police force performed synchronized movements of horses on the occasion. Others who were present included mayor Bijal Patel, ACS, home, Sangeeta Singh, DGP Ashish Bhatia, city police commissioner Sanjay Shrivastava and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-police-to-get-135-more-horses-mos-home/articleshow/78582902.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Three arrested for making face masks with fake logo||COIMBATORE: The Tirupur city police on Friday arrested three men for manufacturing face masks under a popular company’s brand name. Ramraj Cotton, which is manufacturing three-layer face masks that bear the ‘RR’ trademark symbol, had lodged a complaint with central crime branch of Tirupur city police on Thursday after R S Seenu, a Tirupur-based ornament manufacturing unit owner, posted a message on his Facebook page announcing sale of masks made by the firm. Police registered a case and arrested Seenu of SS Nagar extension, S Nermainathan of KVR Nagar and S Murugan of Moscow Nagar. Seenu manufactured the face mask and Nermainathan made the forged logo, police sources said. They seized 437 face masks and 1,532 fake trademark symbols from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-arrested-for-making-face-masks-with-fake-logo/articleshow/78581652.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ajmer||Bajri mafia attack mines dept team in Ajmer district||AJMER: A team of the department of mines was attacked by member of the bajri mafia near Ralawata village in Kishangarh block on Thursday night. Three employees including a junior engineer were injured and a government vehicle was damaged. Gandhi Nagar police station lodged an FIR against the accused and took the injured to Government Yagnarayan Hospital in Kishangarh. According to police, junior engineer Sibon Brinto had taken his team to inspect illegal mining in Kishangarh. The team first went to the foothills near the Housing Board colony but found nothing. The team then headed to Ralawata village where they found a dumper truck of bajri moving towards Kishangarh. When the driver of the dumper saw the vehicle of mines department, he accelerated and entered Ralawata village and fled leaving the dumper behind. The team found the dumper filled with illegal bajri and seized it. Around 11.30 pm, dozens of people came with sticks and stones and attacked the team and fled away with the dumper. Gandhi Nagar police reached the spot later and took the injured to hospital. On the complaint of junior engineer, police registered a case against unidentified bajri mafia and started a search operation in Ralawata village and nearby areas. Police are trying to trace the dumper because it had no number plate when the mines department team found it. The injured have been discharged from the hospital and their statement has been recorded to trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bajri-mafia-attack-mines-dept-team-in-ajmer-dist/articleshow/78581659.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Only some movie theatres in Karnataka may reopen next week||Bengaluru: The Union government has permitted cinema halls to reopen from October 15, but many in the state may continue to remain closed. Managements say opening them now is unlikely to bring them any relief since no new movies starring crowd-pullers like Yash, Darshan, Sudeep or Puneet have been scheduled. Theatre managements are unwilling to screen old films as they feel movie buffs and enthusiasts may not show up, especially with the threat of contracting Covid-19 looming large. Despite an appeal from exhibitors, no producer, especially those of big-budget films, has come forward to release movies. Producers fear a cold response from people owing to the pandemic and the spike in cases across the state. “All producers want to see how things turn out after cinema halls reopen,” said DR Jairaj, president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. “They want to gauge the response of people before taking a call on releasing new movies.” Around 20 to 25 films are reportedly ready for release including the Darshan-starrer ‘Robert’, but only two or three producers are willing to release their movies on October 15, a KFCC office-bearer said. Of the three films, one stars Chiranjeevi Sarja, who died recently. The stand of producers has put theatre owners in a dilemma as they fear they will not get business if they do not screen new movies. “What is the point of opening theatres if new movies are not being released? Already many owners are deep in debt. Reopening theatres without new movies will only add to their woes as they have to pay salaries to employees, besides electricity,” said a theatre owner from North Karnataka. He said only 50-60% theatres might open next Thursday. M Narasimhulu, former president, Karnataka Theatre Owners Association and secretary, KFCC, said the apprehensions of producers are not unfounded as crores of rupees are involved and nobody wants to take a risk in uncertain times like these. “It is also true that some theatre owners are mired in problems and have not even paid electricity bills and salaries to staff,” Narasimhulu said. “These owners may find it difficult to reopen," he said, adding that a good turnout will solve all problems. Jairaj who held a meeting with owners of theatres on Thursday said that irrespective of release of new movies, many theatre owners have agreed to reopen their halls next Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-some-movie-theatres-in-karnataka-may-reopen-next-week/articleshow/78580772.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Delhi||UP woman who went missing from Delhi found dead in HP||NEW DELHI: The body of a 24-year-old civil services aspirant was found hanging from a tree in the jungle of Solan, Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, two days after she went missing from north Delhi’s Mori Gate. The woman had come to Delhi from Kanpur to see her civil services examination centre on October 4 when she went missing. According to police, the woman and her mother came to Delhi by train and both of them took an auto to reach Mori Gate. After reaching there, they hired an e-rickshaw to reach the exam centre. At the exam centre, the woman told her mother to wait outside and she herself went inside to check the centre, but did not return even after an hour. This left her mother worried who got a case of kidnapping registered at the Kashmere Gate police station. “Police launched an extensive search but the woman could not be spotted anywhere,” said a police officer. Two days later, on October 6, police received information from Solan that an unidentified woman had been found hanging from a tree. “She turned out to be the woman who had gone missing two days ago from Mori Gate,” the officer said. “Initial probe has not suggested involvement of any other person and it is probably a case of suicide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/up-woman-who-went-missing-from-delhi-found-dead-in-hp/articleshow/78582904.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Heavy overnight rain in Ooty leaves 20 houses inundated||Udhagamandalam: A sudden downpour on Thursday night flooded at least 20 houses at Greenfields and Fingerpost in the town, while uprooting a few trees near Ooty.Ooty town recorded 62.5 mm of rain while Kundha received 46 mm. Balacola and Kodanadu recorded 30 mm and 25.5 mm of rainfall respectively.A team of nine fire service personnel, including an officer, were engaged in clearing the floodwater from the houses. Ravikumar, fire service station officer, said, “About 14 houses in Greenfields area were flooded due to the rain, while in Fingerpost area rain water running on the road entered into at least five of the houses”. Over 300 houses are located in Greenfields, which is situated in a low lying area.Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, while inspecting the flooded areas in Greenfields ,said, “The Nilgiris received at least 53% more rain during the Southwest monsoon. Ooty town witnessed heavy rain in the past two days”.She assured that all precautionary measures have been taken ahead of the northeast monsoon. As many as 456 relief camps have been kept ready across the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heavy-overnight-rain-in-ooty-leaves-20-houses-inundated/articleshow/78581646.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||5-yr-old boy drowns in water tank||Coimbatore: A five-year-old boy drowned in a water tank at Sedapalayam near Palladam in Tirupur on Friday.Police identified the victim as Kavinkumar, son of S John Victor, 44, of Nehru Nagar at Rasagoundenpalayam and Vasanthi. “Two days ago, Vasanthi’s mother Eswari took Kavinkumar to her house at Sedapalayam. The 57-year-old woman, a farm worker, took the boy with her to a farm at Sedapalayam on Friday. While she was working, the boy fell into a seven-foot deep water tank. Though farm workers rushed the boy to the Government Hospital at Palladam, doctors declared him brought dead,” a police officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-yr-old-boy-drowns-in-water-tank/articleshow/78581641.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kochi||ED opposes Swapna’s plea seeking statutory bail||KOCHI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) roped in additional solicitor general (ASG) SV Raju on Friday to argue the case and prevent Swapna Suresh from getting statutory bail due to the delay in filing chargesheet. Raju presented his case through video conferencing and stated that the accused should be denied bail since petition filed before the filing of chargesheet did not mention that she was seeking statutory bail under CrPC Section 167 (2). “To avail the right for default bail, the petitioner should have applied for the same. Even an oral submission seeking the same would have been enough. But, such a submission is not there on record. Since, they have not availed the right to seek statutory bail till the chargesheet was filed, the court should reject the plea," he submitted, referring to various judgements to back his argument. Raju said that since the chargesheet is now before the court, it can deny bail based on the merits of the case. The argument in court also hinted that even if the court granted statutory bail to Swapna, ED will move court to cancel her bail. The ASG argued that there are provisions for the investigation agency to move court to cancel her bail if the findings are grave in nature. In this case, the accused is an influential woman who assisted smuggling gold via diplomatic channel. Since, the chargesheet is already before the court, it can go through the same and deny it at this stage, he argued. Appearing for Swapna, advocate Geo Paul countered the argument saying that the right for default bail under Section 167 (2) CrPC is an ‘indefeasible right’ that shouldn’t be taken away from the petitioner. Paul said that he had orally submitted in court that the accused was seeking statutory bail on Oct 5 –a day before chargesheet was filed – since the 60-day period to file final report was over. He said that he had again brought the matter to the attention of the court on Oct 6 and Oct 7. The petition is being considered by the special court dealing with cases registered under prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) and judge Kauser Edapagath posted the case for orders on Tuesday. Swapna, Sandeep Nair and Sarith PS were presented in court on August 5. The 60-day timeframe to file chargesheet ended on Oct 3 and the chargesheet was filed on Oct 6. Earlier, Swapna was granted statutory bail in Customs case. Her plea seeking normal bail in NIA case is under the consideration of NIA court, which is likely to pass a ruling next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-opposes-swapnas-plea-seeking-statutory-bail/articleshow/78581697.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Nagpur||Anti-virus in Hyderabad server leads to NU exam cancellation||NAGPUR: Security feature in an anti-virus installed in Nagpur University’s server at Hyderabad led to cancellation of online exams scheduled for Friday. The fault couldn’t be detected till evening, leaving the NU officials worried throughout the day. “It was totally unexpected that an anti-virus would block students’ requests on servers. Neither us nor Promarc officials had ever experienced such technical glitches or ever thought of it,” BoEE director Prafulla Sable told TOI, adding that the server hadn’t crashed as thought earlier. As per Promarc officials, NU had kept four servers in Hyderabad, which is top class TIER-4 facility, and one-of-its-kind in Asia. “We’ve kept two different servers for database and app. The former was given firewall protection while the latter was protected with Symantec Anti-virus for added security. However, the anti-virus blocked the students’ entry into the server after receiving multiple requests at same time perceiving them to be fictitious. Even we couldn’t gauge the problem till evening.” NU and Promarc claimed they have fixed the snag and both are hoping for smooth conduct of exam on Saturday. “After doing away with the OTP condition, we have texted over 20,000 examinees to update Pariksha App. As all of them started the process on Friday at more or less the same time, the anti-virus in the server suspected it to be fictitious activity and blocked all entries,” said Sable. The company officials stated that they also fixed another snag after it was detected that the database and app servers were connected through the Internet, which was consuming time to bring them online whenever students used to log in. “We have now connected both servers directly and removed the segment of anti-virus that blocked students’ entries if those were received simultaneously, like what happened on Friday,” they said. Officials from both NU and Promarc are now keeping their fingers crossed for Saturday while praying that no other snag causes disruption in the online exams. “On Saturday, there are only 2,500 students, so there’s not much burden on us. Our real test will be from Monday when the big papers start and the number of examinees would be much higher,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/anti-virus-in-hyderabad-server-leads-to-nu-exam-cancellation/articleshow/78582905.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 10, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan failed to curb illegal mining around Jaisamand Lake: NGT||JAIPUR: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has observed that action taken so far into the illegal mining in the area around Jaisamand lake of Udaipur is not adequate and has not resulted in meaningful enforcement of law. The NGT has asked the concerned authorities that apart from introducing Mining Surveillance System in consultation with ISRO, Hyderabad, demarcation of boundaries of different leases, issuance of SOP, evaluation of loss to the ecology and other measures should be included. The NGT also directed that the vehicles involved in the illegal mining should be seized and not released without recovering compensation laid down in the order dated October 6. According to NGT’s order, the applicant filed this application in 2014 with the grievance that by illegal mining, serious damage is being caused to the ecology. Illegal mining is happening in eight villages — Buthel, Bassa, Charmar, Kot, Kharka, Kenpura, Lodha and Utharda — which form the catchment area of the lake. The applicant mentioned that a large number of cases against illegal mining have been registered which shows the act is rampant. Mere registration of cases has not brought about the desired result. NGT considered the matter vide order dated September 9, 2018, and directed the Directorate of Mining and Geology to ensure closing of all illegal mining activities in the catchment area of the lake and submit a compliance report to the tribunal. It was directed that the amount of compensation to be recovered for illegal mining, including the cost of restoration of the ecology, should be utilised by the Divisional Forest Officer for restoration of the environment. The order further stated, "In view of continuing large-scale violation of statutory norms and Supreme Court judgments, mentioned in the order, one of the directions was direct monitoring by the chief secretaries with the district magistrates once in a month. For this, the chief secretaries were to set up environmental cell directly under them. It is not clear whether this is happening in Rajasthan and whether remedial action against illegal mining is being monitored by the district magistrates at district level and the chief secretary at the state level." The tribunal also noted that enforcement agencies do not seem to have knowledge about NGT’s order and wrote that the officers concerned dealing with the enforcement of law do not appear to be aware of significant orders of this tribunal which is a first step for enforcement. It also directed the chief secretary, Rajasthan, to consider appropriate course of action in light of various orders passed by the tribunal and circulate appropriate guidelines at grassroot level, particularly the district magistrates and superintendents of police. Electronic Surveillance System said to have been introduced may be reviewed, including requirement of GPS for the vehicles used in transportation and mined materials, CCTV cameras at the hotspots, an app which can be used by any complainant for giving information about illegal activities of this nature and methodology for assessment and recovery of compensation. A copy of this order was also sent to the officials concerned. The matter will be heard again on October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-failed-to-curb-illegal-mining-around-jaisamand-lake-ngt/articleshow/78589502.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jadeja inaugurates police fitness project||Ahmedabad: While inaugurating the Police Fitness Reform Project 2020-21 at the Police HQ in Shahibaug on Friday MoS (home) Pradeepsinh Jadeja said that if the police are fit they can perform better and do their duty with full force. While saying this Jadeja spoke about the Fit India Movement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The stress management programme for the cops will go live online from Saturday morning am. “The link of the programme has been sent to the police personal across the state” said DGP Ashish Bhatia. Jadeja added that the credit of a peaceful Gujarat goes to the police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jadeja-inaugurates-police-fitness-project/articleshow/78582906.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Admission to new women’s college begins||Coimbatore: Two days after the state issued an order to set up the government arts and science college for women in the city, municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the admission process on Friday by distributing application forms to the students at the corporation girls’ higher secondary school at Puliyakulam.At least 40 students had taken admission to the college till 1pm. The admission process would continue on Saturday. An official said they were doing spot admission.The order dated October 7 said the government has granted permission to start seven government arts and science colleges – six co-educational ones and a women’s college – in the state and they would offer BA Tamil, BA English, BCom, BSc Mathematics and BSc Computer Science courses.In March, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced the plans to set up the colleges in the assembly.Each college was allotted Rs 96.11 lakh to run from October 2020 to March 2021 and a one-time payment of Rs 36 lakh to procure 25 computers and other equipment.A source said the plan was to convert the corporation’s school at Puliyakulam into the women’s college, which would have 14 professors, a principal, a physical education director, a librarian and 13 non-teaching members.About 250 to 300 students could be enrolled in the college, the source said.A higher education department official, meanwhile, said only 60 students had taken admission to the corporation school this year and hence the civic body had decided to move them to nearby schools. “The college would function from the school premises, which have all the facilities to run five courses. We have obtained permission from the city corporation.”On his part, the minister said the district had got five government colleges in a short span of time. “Unlike the private colleges, government colleges charge only a nominal fee of Rs 2,000 a year. Instead of limiting to just five courses, we have plans to introduce more courses in the future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/admission-to-new-womens-college-begins/articleshow/78581663.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy gets AIADMK banner removed||Coimbatore: Social activist ‘Traffic’ KR Ramaswamy on Friday helped remove a political banner that was placed at Kumar Nagar signal on Avinashi Road in Tirupur district.The activist said the banner, erected by the ruling party to celebrate the announcement of its chief minister candidate for the upcoming assembling election, goes against court directions.“The banner is against the court’s order that ban erection of banners in public places. I informed the city corporation and it was removed immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traffic-ramaswamy-gets-aiadmk-banner-removed/articleshow/78581688.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Implement water project in Dharmapuri’||Coimbatore: PMK leader S Ramadoss has demanded that the state government implement the Dharmapuri district surplus water irrigation project proposed by his party for the benefit of farmers.In a statement on Friday, Ramadoss said that the project estimated to cost Rs 650 crore would ensure adequate water for cultivation as well as drinking in Dharmapuri. He said that about 4.4 lakh hectares of land in Dharmapuri was cultivable. However only 1.95 hectares have water source for irrigation while the remaining land depends on rain. With erratic rain, the area of cultivation was also dwindling, he said. There are 10 reservoirs in the district, but all are dry. Besides the 10 reservoirs, there are 83 big tanks and 769 smaller tanks and 1,230 other waterbodies. Surplus water flowing through Cauvery in Hogenakkal during monsoons can be drawn through pipes and supplied to these water bodies and tanks. Roughly 3000 million cubic of water can be stored in these reservoirs, which can be utilised for cultivation, he pointed out. “If this scheme is implemented, one lakh acres can be irrigated and 15 lakh people will get drinking water. It will cost Rs 650 crore,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/implement-water-project-in-dharmapuri/articleshow/78581693.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan failed to curb illegal mining around Jaisamand Lake: NGT||JAIPUR: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has observed that action taken so far into the illegal mining in the area around Jaisamand lake of Udaipur is not adequate and has not resulted in meaningful enforcement of law. The NGT has asked the concerned authorities that apart from introducing Mining Surveillance System in consultation with ISRO, Hyderabad, demarcation of boundaries of different leases, issuance of SOP, evaluation of loss to the ecology and other measures should be included. The NGT also directed that the vehicles involved in the illegal mining should be seized and not released without recovering compensation laid down in the order dated October 6. According to NGT’s order, the applicant filed this application in 2014 with the grievance that by illegal mining, serious damage is being caused to the ecology. Illegal mining is happening in eight villages — Buthel, Bassa, Charmar, Kot, Kharka, Kenpura, Lodha and Utharda — which form the catchment area of the lake. The applicant mentioned that a large number of cases against illegal mining have been registered which shows the act is rampant. Mere registration of cases has not brought about the desired result. NGT considered the matter vide order dated September 9, 2018, and directed the Directorate of Mining and Geology to ensure closing of all illegal mining activities in the catchment area of the lake and submit a compliance report to the tribunal. It was directed that the amount of compensation to be recovered for illegal mining, including the cost of restoration of the ecology, should be utilised by the Divisional Forest Officer for restoration of the environment. The order further stated, "In view of continuing large-scale violation of statutory norms and Supreme Court judgments, mentioned in the order, one of the directions was direct monitoring by the chief secretaries with the district magistrates once in a month. For this, the chief secretaries were to set up environmental cell directly under them. It is not clear whether this is happening in Rajasthan and whether remedial action against illegal mining is being monitored by the district magistrates at district level and the chief secretary at the state level." The tribunal also noted that enforcement agencies do not seem to have knowledge about NGT’s order and wrote that the officers concerned dealing with the enforcement of law do not appear to be aware of significant orders of this tribunal which is a first step for enforcement. It also directed the chief secretary, Rajasthan, to consider appropriate course of action in light of various orders passed by the tribunal and circulate appropriate guidelines at grassroot level, particularly the district magistrates and superintendents of police. Electronic Surveillance System said to have been introduced may be reviewed, including requirement of GPS for the vehicles used in transportation and mined materials, CCTV cameras at the hotspots, an app which can be used by any complainant for giving information about illegal activities of this nature and methodology for assessment and recovery of compensation. A copy of this order was also sent to the officials concerned. The matter will be heard again on October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-failed-to-curb-illegal-mining-around-jaisamand-lake-ngt/articleshow/78581690.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Insomnia, anxiety rampant since lockdown’||Ahmedabad: Aashray Trivedi (name changed) (40), a resident of Sola, is a patient at a mental health clinic. His primary complaint is lack of sleep. Work from home, anxiety over his job stability and increased screen time were making him sick. Dr Ajay Chauhan, medical superintendent of the Government Hospital for Mental Health (HMH) who is also in-charge for 1100 helpline by the state government, said that from the start, about 150 calls had been attended by the psychiatrists and psychologists. “World over, October 10 is marked as the World Mental Health Day to create awareness. It has become all the more important in the shadow of the pandemic,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/insomnia-anxiety-rampant-since-lockdown/articleshow/78582913.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pubs throw caution, Covid norms to the wind||HYDERABAD: Weeks after they resumed business – following a six-month hiatus -- revellers walking into Hyderabad’s pubs say, many aren’t complying with mandatory Covid-19 norms. Not only are guests being allowed to take off their masks once indoors, there’s also no social distancing being followed within these premises. Though the rush is particularly visible over weekends, weekday evenings too are often overcrowded, complain residents. A recent social media post about a club at Gachibowli, which soon went viral, shows the space swarming with people, with little distance among them. Just about two or three guests are spotted with a mask. “Even the staff at some of these places aren’t wearing their masks properly,” said Sandeep Raj a business analyst with an IT firm who recently stepped into a club in Jubilee Hills. “The place was so packed that we decided to go to a rooftop bar in Madhapur, where the situation was much better,” he added. TimesViewWhile it is natural for people to have a little fun at bars and pubs after having been cooped up in their homes for the past few months, totally giving up on masks and social distancing is unacceptable. If we don’t want a second wave of the pandemic to hit us, if we don’t want our businesses shut down all over again, then we must keep wearing masks and maintain social distancing. Many European countries are today grappling with a second wave of the pandemic only because they abruptly stopped wearing masks. Remember that masks don’t just protect you, they protect the people around you, including your loved ones.Though a majority of these clubs and pubs – spread across Gachibowli, Madhapur and Jubilee Hills – have checks (for masks and temperature) in place at the entry gate, along with sanitisers, guests say the problem starts once inside. “There should be an online mechanism wherein a customer is told what the occupancy level of a place is. Also, the onus of ensuring social distancing and crowd management lies with the management of these places,” said Rishabh Bhandari, who also complained about a pub in the IT corridor being overcrowded. While pub owners claim it is only a handful of places that are flouting norms and the association is likely to meet to Saturday to discuss the issue, authorities assured to take strict action erring outlets. “Since pubs and bars reopened, we have not received any complaint. If they do, notices will be served. And if they continue to flout norms, despite notices, they will be sealed,” said Viswajit Kampati, director of GHMC’s Directorate of Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-social-distancing-at-top-of-concerns/articleshow/78581716.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Daily Covid deaths breach 80-mark in Bengaluru Urban||BENGALURU: Thursday was a traumatic day for Covid warriors in Bengaluru as fatalities crossed the 80-in-a-day mark for the first time, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahnagara Palike (BBMP) officials revealed. BBMP data shows Bengaluru reported 83 deaths in a 24-hour span on Thursday. South zone led with 25 deaths, followed by east (13) and Bommanahalli (11). This was more than two and a half times the daily average of 30 deaths reported from September 30 to October 6. Indiscriminate use of immunity boosters, comorbidities and late presentation are among the major causes for the spike in deaths, experts said. Incidentally, the state’s bulletin puts Bengaluru’s daily deaths in the 30-40 range, which barely reflects real-time conditions. The state presents fatalities in a staggered manner due to data management issues. Experts say rising consumption of immunity boosters, marketed by many food producers and chemists as an effective counter to infection, is contributing to rising deaths. Dr Asima Banu, microbiologist and nodal officer, Trauma and Emergency Care Centre, said excessive consumption of immunity boosters is dangerous and leads to cytokine storm that proves fatal if people do catch the infection. “People are overdosing on immunity boosters, leading to aggressive inflammatory response with large amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines resulting in cytokine storm,” Dr Banu said. “During initial stages of the pandemic, not many were aware of immunity boosters, but now everyone is taking them to avoid infection, but aren’t aware of the ill-effects. When people’s immunity peaks, the inflammatory response also peaks and treatment is a challenge. These are the cases that often lead to death.”  Nearly 60% of the people who have contracted the virus are suffering from comorbid conditions or are senior citizens, a senior BBMP health official claimed. The Palike has been calling over 2,000 people on a daily basis to check for Covid symptoms, and of them over 1,500 suffer comorbidities like diabetes, high or low blood pressure and cardiac issue among others. “When senior citizens have comorbid conditions it is a challenge to treat them because of their poor immunity levels and response to treatment,” said Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner of health. “The delay in identifying the disease is another cause of worry in treating patients.” A study conducted by BBMP shows over 75% patients in west, south, east and Bommanahalli zones suffer comorbidities.  Data shows 15.7% of people tested positive on October 7 in Bommanahalli zone alone – a very high positivity rate, while in south zone 11.5% of samples tested were found infected. Most of the 11 deaths in Bommanahalli and 25 in south zone were due to delay in patients availing treatment, officials say. “When people come in early and get tested, it’s easier to treat the disease, but people are still not open to the idea of getting tested,” said Dr C Nagaraj, director, RGICD. “There is no longer a stigma around the disease and nobody should worry about their homes being sealed. People need to get tested early to fight the virus and survive.” He said treatment protocol has also changed over the months and remdesivir and other injections alone don’t help fight the virus, but early treatment can make a huge difference. “People visit private clinics and take medicines for regular viral infections. When they finally come to us [Covid treating hospitals], their condition would have worsened and staving off the infection becomes an arduous task,” Nagaraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/for-the-first-time-daily-deaths-breach-80-mark-in-bengaluru-urban/articleshow/78580379.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Youth need to strictly follow norms’||Hyderabad: Reiterating that the count of Covid-19 cases is very high among young adults in the state, medical experts have urged them to abide by all precautionary measures, when outdoors. The plea comes in the wake of new unlock guidelines that have allowed pubs, restaurants, parks, gyms and other public places to resume operations. “We are noticing that several youngsters are not wearing masks when they are outside. While the risks of severe complications or death are much higher for those with co-morbidities or older generation, Covid-19 can be more dangerous for young people than many realise,” said Dr S A Rafi, consultant pulmonologist, CARE Hospitals, while stressing the need for social distancing. “Youth have the responsibility to make sure they’re not carrying the virus into settings where they can expose the most vulnerable to it,” he added. In a recent hearing, the High Court, directed the government to give wide publicity to dispel the myth that only elderly people above 60 years were vulnerable to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-need-to-strictly-follow-norms/articleshow/78581737.cms||Moulika.KV
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||SOG to gather info from US embassy on online fraud||Jaipur: Rajasthan’s Special Operations Group (SOG) has requested the crime branch to write to US embassy to provide documents and details about the money trail, which are required to investigate the case of online fraud involving foreigners. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) had written to SOG through the US embassy to probe into online fraud targeting foreigners on pretext of giving loans. SOG had previously recorded statements on video calls of four victims out of the total seven complainants who were duped. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS told TOI, “To unearth the money trail, we are in the process of eliciting information from the US embassy. We are trying to find out the identities of the other US citizens who were also duped, to record their statements, and the way money has been transferred from the US financial institutions to the Indian banks. Based on the same modus operandi, the two cases of CCPS and Shipra Path have been assigned to the SIT formed in SOG.” In February, cops had arrested 23 people who were running fake call centres in Jaipur through which they were defrauding people in the US, China and Hong Kong by claiming to get them loans at lower rates of interest. The accused would gather contact details of Americans using websites like Yellow Page directories. Then, they would either generate voice calls or email their victims saying their loans had been approved or that they could apply for loans. They would explain the American loan process to their unwary targets and once a person bought this, the accused asked them for a security deposit. Police had arrested 16 people from the call centre at Shyam Nagar, while seven were held from the hub operating out of Shipra Path. The accused asked the victims to deposit the money in their accounts which was then withdrawn by them in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-to-gather-info-from-us-embassy-on-online-fraud/articleshow/78581720.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Spl cover honouring postmen released on World Post Day||Coimbatore: To honour the postmen, who have been working tirelessly during the pandemic, the postal department released a special cover highlighting their services on the World Post Day on Friday. C R Ramakrishnan, director of postal department, western region, released the cover by handing that over to assistant directors Gopalan and Kalaiselvi at the head post office at RS Puram. While the World Post Day falls on October 9 every year, a week from the day is celebrated as the national postal week.A postal department official said, “During the lockdown, when people were by and large staying at home, postmen risked their lives to render their services to the public. They delivered life-saving medicines and disbursed pension and other government scheme subsidies to the public at their doorstep.”He said postmen and gramin dak sewaks were delivering cash at people’s doorstep through Aadhar-enabled payment system (AePS) that felicitates withdrawal of cash from any scheduled bank through India Post payment bank.”Explaining that it was customary to release a special cover on a specific theme every World Post Day, he said this year they had decided to honour the postmen for their services.The cancelled special cover is priced at Rs 50. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spl-cover-honouring-postmen-released-on-world-post-day/articleshow/78581725.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Three cops in soup for asking man without mask his caste||COIMBATORE: A departmental inquiry is likely to be initiated soon against three policemen in Tirupur for asking the caste name of a person, who was caught not wearing a face mask on Thursday, after the video of the incident went viral on social media. Two policemen involved in the incident have, meanwhile, been transferred to the Tirupur rural armed reserve police. P Sivakumar, a Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi functionary from Avinashi, said he was stopped by Tirupur rural armed reserve police constable Kasiraja and constables Velusamy and Nataraj, who were attached to Perumanallur police station, when he was returning home along with his wife on a motorcycle after having lunch from a restaurant at Perumanallur on Thursday. Sivakumar was not wearing a face mask, while his wife had one. Kasiraja questioned him for not wearing facemask during the pandemic. Sivakumar said, “He asked my name and address. When he asked my caste name, I refused to divulge the same and argued with him. I, however, expressed my willingness to pay a fine for not wearing the face mask. He also asked for some identification mark on my body and I replied him not to treat me as an accused. I recorded the entire episode using my mobile camera.” Sivakumar circulated the video on social media and that went viral on Thursday evening itself. Following the incident, Avinashi sub-division deputy superintendent of police L Baskar initiated an inquiry against the three policemen and transferred Velusamy and Nataraj to the Tirupur rural armed reserve police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-cops-in-soup-for-asking-man-without-mask-his-caste/articleshow/78581736.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Study to find if measles vaccine can curb Covid||PUNE: A Pune-based paediatrician has teamed up with experts from the community medicine department of B J Medical College and Sassoon hospital to find whether the measles vaccine can offer protection against Covid-19 or help reduce its severity. The researchers plan to enrol about 548 randomly picked participants for the study — an equal number of RT-PCR-positive and Covid-negative individuals aged 1 to 18 — to try to determine if their measles vaccination, or the absence of it, has helped forestall Covid-19 or arrested symptoms from turning severe. The Clinical Trials Registry-India (CTRI), set up by the ICMR’s National Institute of Medical Statistics (NIMS), has allowed the Pune specialists to carry out the research which is being claimed as the first of its kind in India. A cohort study is currently ongoing in Egypt. Researchers in the US have also proposed a study to assess the link between the measles and Covid-19 protection. Covid-19 has not impacted children much. One reason behind what seems to be protection against viral infections that induce inflammation (such as Covid-19) is their recent and more frequent exposure to live attenuated vaccines such as the measles inoculation. “Epidemiological data suggests that regions where people routinely receive measles vaccine have reduced Covid-19 severity and deaths. Our effort aims to scientifically explore this co-relation among the RT-PCR-tested population,” paediatrician Nilesh Gujar, the study’s lead investigator, told TOI. “In India, the measles vaccine is given at nine months and 15 months. Those who had not received their vaccination were covered in the nationwide measles-rubella vaccination campaign of 2018. That’s why we have focused on the 1-18 age bracket, because they have documented evidence of vaccination. The incidence rate and the level of severity in this age can provide guidelines for measles vaccination in adults,” Gujar said. Sassoon hospital dean Muralidhar Tambe, a co-investigator of the study, said, “Our study has already enrolled 212 participants. We aim to enrol another 336 participants. The sample size of 548 participants is statistically significant to churn out a conclusion whether the measles vaccine really helps in countering Covid and reducing its severity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/study-to-find-if-measles-vaccine-can-curb-covid/articleshow/78582912.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Recovery rate improves by 7% in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The recovery rate of Covid cases in the Nilgiris saw a rise of over 7% in the past 10 days even as the number of positive cases increased by 1,000 in the same period. Similarly, the number of active cases in the district dropped by around 130 during the same period.The hill district registered 4,093 Covid patients till September 29, while it stood at 5,141 on Friday. However, the number of discharged patients so far stands at 4,286, wherein it was 3,115 on September 29.In other words, the recovery rate is 83.36 % as on date which is an improvement by 7% compared to 76.1% recorded on September 29.Deputy director of public health Dr P Balusamy said, “Asymptomatic patients below 50 years with no complaint of comorbidity are retested for the virus on the 7th day of the admission. When the results show negative, they are discharged with an advice of home quarantine for another seven days.”“Otherwise, a patient is treated for 10 days in a health facility. We are lifting over 2,000 samples of swabs in a day since the past one week,” he added.On Friday, 2280 samples were lifted from contacts, travelers and tourists.Meanwhile, the Nilgiris logged 109 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday taking the tally to 5141, even as 96 Covid patients recovered and were discharged.Active cases numbering 826 are being treated at various health facilities. While 19 patients are being treated at ESI hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 190 patients are kept under home quarantine and monitored. The remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides six Covid care centres.Of the new cases, including three children below 10 years of age, Ooty reported eight cases while Gudalur reported 18 cases. Twenty-five people tested positive after travelling to other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/recovery-rate-improves-by-7-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78581714.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Vaiko bats for cane farmers||Coimbatore: MDMK leader Vaiko has sought that pending dues for cane farmers should be settled from the sale of properties belonging to sugar mills that have given insolvency notices. In a statement, Vaiko suggested amendments to Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code in favour of farmers. He pointed out that two sugar mills which are bound to pay several crores to cane farmers have issued insolvency notices.National Company Law Tribunal has initiated insolvency procedures. When the properties belonging to the sugar mills are confiscated and they are sold, the proceeds from the sale should be given to farmers to settle their dues, he said. He pointed out that farmers had met Union finance minister Nirmala Sithraman during her recent visit to Chennai and placed this demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vaiko-bats-for-cane-farmers/articleshow/78581712.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: 2 attempts on my life, says BJP national vice-president AP Abdullakutty||KOZHIKODE/THRISSUR: BJP national vice-president A P Abdullakutty alleged that there were two attempts on his life at different locations in Malappuram early on Friday Abdullakutty, who was travelling from Thiruvananthapuram to Kannur by car, had stopped at hotel in Veliyankode for food. He said that an altercation broke out with a group of people over taking photographs. He said the group tried to attack him as he boarded his car. Police have registered a case at Ponnani station on a complaint filed by Yuva Morcha worker Arun, who was accompanying Abdullakutty. The second incident occurred later at Randathani when a truck rear-ended the car. Abdullakutty said it was a deliberate attempt as the truck hit the car twice. The BJP leader’s car slammed into another car in the process. The driver of the truck was taken into custody but he told police the incident occurred due to heavy rains. A case has been registered at Kadampuzha police station. Malappuram district police chief U Abdul Kareem said a detailed probe will be conducted into the incidents. “Only an investigation will reveal if the two incidents are connected,” he said. Meanwhile, the manager of the hotel at Veliyankode rubbished the BJP leader’s claims and said no such incident at the hotel or its premises had taken place. He told reporters there were some people at the hotel when Abdullakutty arrived, but there were no issues between them as alleged. Abdullakutty left the hotel cheerfully after paying the bill, said Zakkeer. Addressing a news conference in Kannur later in the day, Abdullakutty said the incidents were part of the conspiracy to eliminate him. He added the attacks in Malappuram were a continuation of the social media blitz unleashed on him after he joined the BJP. “I have filed five complaints with police, but no action has been taken thus far,” he said. BJP state president K Surendran also claimed that the attacks were premeditated and intended to eliminate Abdullakutty. Surendran said in Thrissur that the attacks were an expression of the frustration among certain sections at the recognition that Abdullakutty has received at the national level. The BJP will resist any attempts to intimidate and subdue Abdullakutty, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/2-attempts-on-my-life-abdullakutty/articleshow/78581734.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Containment measures pay off, caseload dips below 400||Coimbatore: For the first time since September 13, the daily spike in Covid-19 cases dropped below the 400-mark in the district on Friday, when 397 people were declared positive for the virus. The tally, however, zoomed past the 36,000-mark on the day to 36,332, of which 4,746 are active cases.At least 413 patients were discharged from treatment facilities on the day, taking the total number of recovered patients to 31,103.The toll, meanwhile, shot up to 483, with the state including four more deaths that occurred in the district on Wednesday in the bulletin. Among the deceased were two men aged 54 years. Both of them were hypertensive. While one died within 24 hours of hospitalization, the other died within 48 hours of hospitalization, pointing to delayed medical care. The other deceased were a 71-year-old man and a 75-year-old man.Meanwhile, the number of containment zones, which were reintroduced in the city corporation limits 12 days ago to contain the virus spread, has come down by 21%. As per the data available with the city corporation, there were 179 containment zones as on September 28. On Thursday, the number had come down to 140. This, the city corporation said, was one of the indications of containing the virus spread. On many streets, where there were three or more positive cases, new cases were not reported after the patients there completed the 14-day quarantine period. On September 28, when the city corporation started cordoning off areas as containment zones again, protests had broken out with the public complaining about the inconvenience that the restrictions would cause them.A senior corporation official said, “The fact that the number of containment zones is reducing is a sign that the measure is working, and the spread is controlled. Streets would be opened for free movement only if there are no new cases or the active cases come down to less than three.”The number of streets in the city limits with Covid-19 cases has also reduced to 1,500 from 1,680 in the fourth week of September. “This is another indication that the virus is under control and not spreading to more streets,” the official said.He said they were mainly focusing on bringing down the mortality and the duration of patients’ hospitalization. Dr K Kolandaswamy, former director of public health, said patients should seek hospitalization the minute their oxygen saturation drops to less than 95% and pulse oximeter could help keep track of the same (oxygen saturation level). “People who seek hospitalization early, could get discharged in five days. But when saturation drops to 80%-75% and breathlessness begins, it takes two weeks of high flow oxygen and other treatment for the saturation to return to normal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/containment-measures-pay-off-caseload-dips-below-400/articleshow/78581741.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Meerut||Bypoll on Bulandshahr Sadar: 2 sons of deceased MLA among over 12 contenders for BJP ticket||Meerut: One of the eight assembly seats where by-elections are due, politics on Bulandshahr Sadar seat has intensified with several contenders from the same family in line for the ticket from BJP. The seat is up for by-election after the death of former MLA Virendra Sirohi and his two sons, Digvijay and Vinay Sirohi, have applied for ticket exposing a vertical split in the family. Apart from the brother duo, at least over a dozen candidates have applied for ticket, party insiders claimed.District office bearers of the party refrained from commenting on the internal tussle over selection of candidate and claimed it is the prerogative of higher ups.“Other (parties) have candidate-oriented work. On the recommendation of the state unit, the central parliamentary board takes a final call on the candidates," Vijay Bahadur Pathak, party's state vice president in UP said. Opposition parties including Congress, BSP and RLD and Chandrashekhar's Azad Samaj Party (ASP) have already announced their candidates. Samajwadi Party would be backing the RLD candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bypoll-on-bulandshahr-sadar-2-sons-of-deceased-mla-among-over-12-contenders-for-bjp-ticket/articleshow/78580384.cms||Piyush Rai
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records over 1,800 Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Taking the overall toll to 1,208, the state recorded seven fatalities and 1,891 new Covid-19 infections on Friday. While the total active cases rose to 26,374, the cumulative number of positive cases stands at 2,08,535. A total of 1,878 persons have recovered on Saturday taking the overall recoveries in the state to 1,80,953. The data released by the health department says that Telangana’s recovery rate has now improved to 87 percent, while the death rate stands at 0.57 per cent. Meanwhile, the authorities have once again reiterated that those suffering from flu or influenza like symptoms must report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay. “People with comorbidities are requested to stay indoors and avoid any kind of travel except for medical care to avoid exposure to the virus,” an official release said. Altogether, 53,086 samples were tested across the state between Wednesday and Thursday, taking the total number to 34,49,925.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-over-1800-covid-cases/articleshow/78581744.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid curve will flatten by Nov-end: Expert||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 curve in the district will flatten by November-end, says Dr K Kolandaswamy, former public health director.According to him, it was because of the spatial distribution of the population that the curve had risen and fallen in the district four times. “The virus spread is slow in the district compared to Madurai and Chennai. It’s because the population is less dense in the district and as such it would take months to achieve herd immunity.”Since hospitals were a major source of infection, Kolandaswamy addressed healthcare professionals in the district on VOC grounds on Friday. “The population in the district is high. But it is spread out as in the case of Kerala and hence the virus spread is slower. This is why the district’s Covid-19 curve is zig-zag.”He says the caseload would come down by November-end, when a sizeable portion of the population would achieve immunity to fight the virus, after either being infected or exposed to the same. “Herd immunity is the only way to beat the virus and that comes only when 40% to 43% of the population is infected and recovered.”The district, Kolandaswamy says, has three main risk factors - large population density, many private hospitals and multi-direction travel opportunity as it shares borders with Kerala and Karnataka. “Hospitals are a massive source of infection, especially for pregnant women. The spread from hospitals could be attributed to unnecessary visitors and changing of attenders every day.” The former public health director advised doctors to move their outpatient clinic to the outdoors, stating closed spaces in hospitals and clinics were most dangerous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-curve-will-flatten-by-nov-end-expert/articleshow/78581743.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Kochi||Iconic Yakshi to get a park, courtesy Kanayi||Palakkad: Master sculptor Kanayi Kunhiraman, who built world famous Yakshi sculpture at Malampuzha 51 years back, will be part of a tourism department project to create a park around the masterpiece.“I am eager to take up the project. After finishing works of a statue for Isro and a ‘Kavya Shilpam’ at Mahakavi Kumaran Asan Memorial at Thonnakkal, I will start building sculptures at the proposed park at Malampuzha,” Kunhiraman said. “I am 81 years old and my daughter (Yakshi sculpture) at Malampuzha is 51. She is all alone and before I leave this world, I wanted to create a park for her on the banks of Malampuzha canal,” he said. The 30-feet-tall statue facing the Western Ghats was installed at Malampuzha Gardens near Malampuzha Dam in 1969. The sculptor was attacked many times as many dubbed the statue as obscene, he said. During the 50th anniversary celebrations of the sculpture in February last year Kunhiraman was honoured by the state government. During that time Kunhiraman spent a couple of months in Malampuzha to renovate his ‘Yakshi’. Kunhiraman’s proposal to give a bronze-plating for the sculpture and create a separate park for it on the banks of Malampuzha canal was considered by the state government. But the project could not take off due to his preoccupation, said district tourism promotion council secretary K G Ajeesh. The master sculptor denied reports that a woman had posed as model for making the sculpture. “Yakshi is based on temple architecture. It is created from the imagination of Yakshi and not from any model ,” he said. There were reports that a woman named Nafeesa, who died on Wednesday, had posed for sculpture when she was deputed by the irrigation department during the making of the sculpture. “I am totally against using any model as it is a Western practice for making paintings. For Yakshi, you cannot make a woman as model. She was one of the five helpers for masons deputed by irrigation department,” Kunhiraman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/iconic-yakshi-to-get-a-park-courtesy-kanayi/articleshow/78581761.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Transco draws flak over move to install HT wires||HYDERABAD: Transmission Corporation of Telangana (TSTransco) is in the line of fire following a decision to overlay 440 KV high voltage lines along with two towers in Serene County property instead of opting for underground cabling when the surrounding area already has underground cabling. Locals say the move will endanger the lives of 5,000 people. When TOI visited Serene County, a housing society located in Gachibolwi, it was noticed that laying the HT lines would affect the Musi catchment area drains running through the society and around 100 trees would have to be axed. The proposal to lay HT lines was rejected twice by Hyderabad Growth Corrdior Limited (HGCL) citing health hazards, but was accepted in the third attempt. As per the permission copy granted in July 2019, the contactor needs to complete work within 180 days, failing which permission accorded will be cancelled. The contractor as well as officials from the electricity department did not take the consent of housing society members before starting work. “The land on which the works are being executed is private land, they should have contacted housing society members before starting work,” said Rama Raju, president of Serene County. “Several committees formed by the ministry of power observed that there have been several accidents due to high voltage towers when trees fall on them,” said Hema Pratapa, a resident of the housing society. Yogita Bhatia another resident recalled an incident when rains lashed the city on September 30. “When the HT line outside our housing society was damaged, there was power outage for hours,” said Yogita Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transco-draws-flak-over-move-to-install-ht-wires/articleshow/78581746.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||World Mental Health Day: Hyd had 2nd highest suicide bids in 2019||HYDERABAD: With 22 cases through the year, Hyderabad recorded the second highest number of suicide attempts in 2019 — among all major Indian cities — revealed the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. Chennai had the highest with 43 cases. State-wise figures put Telangana at the fourth spot in this category with 150 cases of suicide attempt cases reported last year. It was only behind Andhra Pradesh (345), Jammu and Kashmir (290) and Maharashtra (250), the report added. Reflecting on these numbers, on the occasion of World Mental Health Day, experts underline the need for more mental health services amid a pandemic as it has pushed many over the edge. “In many cases, the confinement and isolation during a pandemic — apart from the loss of income and fear — have triggered or exacerbated existing conditions for people ho were already were suffering from anxiety and depression,” explained Dr Virinchi Sharma, a city-based psychiatrist stressing the need for attention. And the statistics of 2020, only further propel that. According to Lake Police, as many as 246 people have attempted suicide in Hussain Sagar Lake so far. Even suicide helpline numbers reported heavy traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-had-2nd-highest-suicide-bids-in-19/articleshow/78581777.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Drug abuse cases rise 40% in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Amid pandemic, drug abuse cases have increased 40% in the city. People are resorting to drugs due to growing depression and anxiety, a result of financial problems and sedentary lifestyle. Doctor Ravi Shekhawat of Sanjeevani Nasha Mukti Kendra, Jaipur, said that sudden rise in depression, anxiety has a direct connection with drug abuse. “Now, people are sitting idle either at home or business is not running properly. Some people are having pre-occupation illness. Alcohol or drug is found to be an easy way to avoid problems. This problem is with people from different kinds of social and economic sections, irrespective of their educational qualifications,” said Shekhawat. Alcohol, smack and cannabis are the most common addictions among the people. The problem basically found to be in the age group of 25 to 40 years in both men and women. Harish Bhutani, counsellor at Nav Vikalp Sansthan in Jaipur, said that many people who were not able to take drugs during lockdown increased their intake after the lockdown was over. Chandra Shekhar of Taruchya Nasha Mukti Kendra said that due to drug abuse, many cases of violence towards family members have been reported in the city. “During complete lockdown, sudden unavailability of drugs created withdrawal symptoms in people. Many people wanted to leave addiction that time, but we were not able to admit them and because of no treatment, two of our patients commited suicide. Hence, I met collector of Jaipur and got written permission to admit people in emergency. It was positive for some people who wanted to live,” said Bhutani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drug-abuse-cases-rise-40-in-city/articleshow/78581753.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||PMC allows shops, malls to remain functional till 9pm||PUNE: Malls, trader markets and shops in the city civic limits will now remain open till 9pm, an extension of two business hours from the earlier timings. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday issued orders giving the extension as part of the government Unlock 5.0 initiatives. Shopkeepers and shopping mall managers have been demanding extension in their business hours on the lines of those provided to restaurants. The civic body recently allowed the restaurants to remain open till 10pm. “The new timings come into effect from Friday midnight. The shopping malls, as well as shops and markets, will have to follow the guidelines issued as part of the lockdown and the subsequent unlock phases,” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar commissioner said. He said the new order would be applicable to establishments only in the non-containment zones of the city. Hospitals, medical shops and outlets selling essential items will be able to operate in accordance with their regular timings. Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, chief operating officer of Amanora Mall and member of the Shopping Centres Association of India, told TOI, “We are happy with the extension in the timings, though the malls need a further extension if they are to recover the losses incurred during the lockdown. That said, the extension till 9pm will definitely help the retail stores in the malls. They were also into restricted sales in the short operational window. The earlier operation timings were causing losses for the retail stores between 7pm and 10pm, the peak sales’ period.” Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary of Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP), said, “The past six months have been tough on the traders. The consumers also faced difficulties due to the restricted shop timings. The extension in the shop timings till 9pm will be beneficial for all.” (Withi inputs from Neha Madan and Rujuta Parekh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-shops-malls-to-remain-functional-till-9pm/articleshow/78582929.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Spike in suicidal thoughts among children from broken homes||HYDERABAD: Being stuck with parents in discordant marriages seems to have pushed several children, especially those in the age group of 14 to 18 years towards passive suicidal ideation, psychiatrists TOI spoke to said. The spike in suicidal tendencies in such children is at least a two to three-folds higher post lockdown in the city, they said. Children are making online appointments on their own or feigning illness to request doctors if he/she can either advise their parents to send them away (to grandparents etc) or move out of the marriages. In some extreme cases, children are even said to be expressing their desire to die or kill their parents to put an end to their miseries. “When I asked a kid who came for a consultation to wear his mask properly if he wanted to steer clear of corona, he said it would be wonderful if that happens. Just like this kid, many feel that they are the root cause of their parents’ problems and assume that if they don’t exist, their parents might possibly be happy,” said Charan Teja Koganti, consultant neuropsychiatrist, KIMS Hospitals, Kondapur adding that children coming with passive suicidal ideation has increased by at least three times since the lockdown began. Srinivas Kandrakonda, consultant child psychiatrist, Rainbow Hospital said that one in four children, aged between 6 and 17, are presenting with emotional problems since the lockdown began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spike-in-suicidal-thoughts-among-children-from-broken-homes/articleshow/78581756.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 10, 2020||Bengaluru||7 months into pandemic battle, docs & nurses need counselling the most||Bengaluru: Working without a break in stressful situations, wearing PPE for 6 to 7 hours at a stretch, watching patients’ condition deteriorate, fear of contracting the virus and death of colleagues are affecting healthcare professionals on the frontlines of the Covid-19 battle. Seven months since the pandemic hit, many doctors and nurses are facing burnout. Karnataka has lost more than 50 doctors to the virus and the impact has been drastic on the healthcare community. With active cases crossing more than 50,000 in Bengaluru, doctors are under acute pressure to deliver in terms of successful treatment, providing beds and ensuring availability of drugs even as they safeguard themselves from the virus. “The government continues to conduct inspections,” a private hospital doctor said. “Everything from admission to treatment protocol is under scrutiny. Patients are complaining and their families are kicking up fights over food and non-availability of beds. Families also want more calls from hospitals on the condition of their kin.” The owner of a private hospital, referring to the death of a senior staffer, said, “It’s on days when a colleague, a doctor or a healthcare staffer dies that we feel very low. How do you overcome the void?” Then, there is stress rubbing off on to family members to contend with. One doctor said, “I work in a government hospital. My wife is a nurse and both of us can’t take a break from work. My son is in class 3, and he has to manage online classes alone at home. We live in a 1BHK home and there is no way we can follow social distancing.” There are others who haven’t seen their kin for weeks. Doctors say dealing with uncertainties is not new, but the kind of pressure that they are under now, is a first. They say they feel they have been let down by the system, while patients’ families have unrealistic expectations. “We were never exposed to a Covid-19-like scenario,” a doctor said. “We don’t know why patients are dying despite early admission and treatment with drugs like remdesevir. Patients’ families are complaining and there is constant friction.” Doctors say they need measures to reduce stress levels, either counselling or motivational measures. “We are facing constant blame. There is a humanitarian way of dealing with every issue, but that is missing,” said a doctor. Karnataka Government Medical Officers Association said incidents like the Nanjangud doctor who committed suicide is just the tip of the iceberg. Seven doctors at KC General have been infected in the past two months. Two of them are in still in ICU. “We can’t think of taking a break because we know pressure is building on our colleagues at work,” a government doctor said.  At Victoria Hospital, the state’s largest dedicated Covid hospital, some doctors have taken to painting and singing during the quarantine that follows their work period to beat boredom and overcome stress. For doctors and nurses at Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, yoga and meditation classes were conducted for a month by Srimad Rajchandra Mission through online classes. “Instructors taught relaxation techniques to two batches every day,” said Dr Smita S Segu, nodal officer, Covid-19 core committee BMCRI. Girijamba Devi, general secretary, Trained Nurses Association of India, Karnataka branch, said several sessions on positive and psychosocial empowerment have been held for members. “Some nurses would break down during our sessions,” Devi said. “Even a common cold can scare healthcare professionals now, leading to extreme stress. Many are worried about the health of their family members too. There is stigma too as many are branded ‘Corona Nurses’ by neighbours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/7-months-into-pandemic-battle-docs-nurses-need-counselling-the-most/articleshow/78580432.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||4,629 in fray for posts of sarpanch||Jaipur: The fate of 4,629 candidates will be decided as the fourth phase of panchayat elections to 897 gram panchayats, for the posts of sarpanch, will be held on Saturday. Meanwhile, there are 11,373 candidates in the fray for the posts of panch.  Twenty six sarpanchs and 3,714 panchs have already been elected unopposed. The polling will begin at 7.30am and will continue till 5.30pm. Meanwhile, in Jaipur, 750 candidates will contest for the 107 posts of sarpanch (gram panchayats) and 1,482 candidates are in the fray for the elections to the posts of panch. In Chaksu panchayat samiti, one sarpanch has been elected unopposed in one of the gram panchayats. State election commissioner P S Mehra informed that 30.56 lakh voters will be exercising their franchise at 4,339 polling stations across the state. Of the total, 15.97 lakh are male voters, 14.59 lakh are female and 19 belong to the third gender.  Mehra informed that 19 election observers (IAS and RAS officers) have been appointed in 16 districts where polls will be held, in order to ensure peaceful and fair elections. He also informed that 4,339 EVMs (electronic voting machines) will be used during the elections and 30% machines will be kept in reserve.  In Jaipur, there are 550 polling stations where 3.94 lakh voters will cast their votes, said district election officer Antar Singh Nehra. The counting of votes will be held on Saturday, immediately after the polling is over. The elections to the posts of Up-sarpanch will be held on October 11 at the panchayat headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4629-in-fray-for-posts-of-sarpanch/articleshow/78581787.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ajmer||Schools and students clueless about syllabus in Rajasthan||AJMER: Half the academic session is over but Covid has prevented the state government from finalising the syllabus. Though big schools are providing online classes, students in rural areas don’t have such facility. The board exams are about five months away but students don’t know what to study. Rajasthan Private Education Association has demanded the state government to reduce the syllabus so that students can prepare for the examination. The association wants that the syllabus of board classes be reduced like in CBSE so that there is no pressure on students. Even former education minister Vasudev Devnani has asked the state government to decide the syllabus as students and schools are in a state of confusion. “CBSE has already reduced the syllabus but in Rajasthan students do not know what to study as the situation is not clear,” said Devnani. State president of schools’ association KC Sharma said that they have asked the chief minister to make situation clear as schools are not open and they do not know what syllabus will come in examination, especially in board classes. “Students of urban areas are getting online classes but condition of rural regions is too bad. There are villages where there is no internet facility and hundreds of students in rural areas do not have smart phones,” added Sharma. The CBSE has already decreased the syllabus to 30% in the current academic session. Sharma said that October month has begun but board exam programme has not been released by state government. There is confusion remained in schools and students. “This will lead to depression,” added Sharma. Situation in government schools is even worse. A source said that teachers of government schools in cities do not know how to conduct online classes and they don’t know how they will complete the syllabus. In rural regions, teachers of government schools are called to attend the schools but no teaching work happens as no online system is in place, the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/schools-and-students-clueless-about-syllabus-in-raj/articleshow/78585389.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana in race to attract Tesla-like EV giants||HYDERABAD: Days after Tesla boss Elon Musk tweeted that Tesla would drive into India “Next year for sure,” sending EV enthusiasts into a tizzy, Telangana government officials too confirmed that the state is pulling out all stops to position itself as the go-to destination for EV giants like Tesla, which currently has three Gigafactories, two in US and one in Shanghai, China. Telangana has already begun making inroads in the EV space with approvals being given recently to Greenko Energy Holdings and Singapore-based ChargeXO for setting up 1 gigawatt battery storage units each at investments of nearly Rs 300 crore per unit, Telangana IT and industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said. The state is gunning for mega EV investments worth US$4 billion by 2030 and has come up with a dedicated EV policy that will extend tailor-made benefits to mega and strategic projects with investments of over Rs 200 crore or employment generation of over 1,000. The state government is also establishing a 400-acre energy park at Divitipally. But when it comes to players of Tesla’s scale much will hinge on how the competing states perform in NITI Aayog’s challenge for being selected as a location for Gigafactories, said Ranjan. “The states selected by Niti Aayog to set up Gigafactories would attract massive sops from the Centre, making it attractive for companies like Tesla to set up shop. We are focussing on that,” he explained. NITI Aayog has mooted plans of setting up around 10 Tesla-style Gigafactories that would qualify for sops to boost battery manufacturing in the country and is awaiting the Union Cabinet’s nod for it. In a 2017 report, NITI Aayog had estimated that India would require at least 20 Gigafactory-scale battery manufacturing plants, collectively producing approximately 800 GWh of batteries per year by 2030 to support 100% EV sales across all types of personal vehicles. Here it may be pertinent to add that Tesla’s largest gigafactory at Nevada is spread over 3,200 acres with 5.3 million square feet operational space and employs 7,000 people. Yet it is only about 30% done and once completed, is expected to be the biggest building in the world and entirely powered by renewable energy sources, as per Tesla’s website. According to a recent Castrol study, India could achieve mainstream EV adoption and the annual EV market could be worth $2 billion by 2025 if three tipping points – price point of Rs 23 lakh, charge time of 35 minutes and range of 401 km per charge -- are met.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-in-race-to-attract-tesla-like-ev-giants/articleshow/78581810.cms||Swati Rathor
October 10, 2020||Pune||3 force man to transfer Rs 3k via UPI mobile app||Pune: The Sinhagad police are on the hunt for three men after a 32-year-old academician lodged an FIR stating that they waylaid and forced him to transfer money through a UPI application. According to the FIR, the incident happened on the night of October 6, when the complainant, Ketan Patil (32), was travelling in a car. “He was on way to his friend’s house via DSK Vishwa housing society and Nanded Phata Road, when the suspects — riding triple seat — intercepted him at an isolated spot in Barangimala,” assistant inspector Satish Umare said. The suspects reached in, removed the car keys and demanded money. “When Patil said he was not carrying any cash or cards, the suspects threatened to damage his car and told him to transfer Rs3,000 to an account linked to a mobile number. Shaken, Patil made the transfer,” Umare said. The suspects sped away towards Nanded Phata. Patil told police that the suspects spoke Marathi and appeared to be in early- to mid-twenties. “We are collecting details of the account holder,” Umare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-force-man-to-transfer-rs-3k-via-upi-mobile-app/articleshow/78582932.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor awareness major hurdle in mental health cover||HYDERABAD: Though a majority of health insurance policies cover mental illness in line with insurance regulations, insurers are still grappling with challenges in offering effective coverage for mental illness. Issues such as lack of reliable data and consumer’s hesitance in sharing accurate information about their conditions, among others, are major hurdles, say industry experts, who feel it will take some time for insurers to understand the nuances of these specialised offerings and design more standalone products that suit customers requirements. Sudha Reddy, head (health and travel), Digit Insurance, said the key challenge is the lack of availability of complete information like prescriptions and treatment details from patients as many don’t like to reveal such information to insurers. “Social stigma leads to under disclosure or non-disclosure. The other challenges include non-compliance of doctor advice on medications and lack of awareness about mental health and such covers,” Reddy added. As per findings of a study in Lancet journal, mental disorders are among the leading cause of non-fatal disease burden in India, but a systematic understanding of their prevalence, disease burden, and risk factors is not readily available for each state of India. It stated that one in seven Indians were affected by mental disorders of varying severity in 2017 and the proportional contribution of mental disorders to the total disease burden in India has almost doubled since 1990. Even Rakesh Jain, ED & CEO, Reliance General Insurance pointed out that coverage for mental health insurance is at the nascent stage where insurers are also trying to understand the costs and processes involved in underwriting, assessing risks and pricing of such policies. Factors such as waiting periods for mental illnesses have to be evaluated for mental health insurance coverage, he added. Star Health and Allied Insurance Co Ltd managing director S Prakash said most insurance policies do not include OPD coverage and even if they do, it is in a very limited way. He said OPD cover is more crucial for treatment of mental illness as patients do not require hospitalisation for over 24 hours but need consultations and counselling sessions over a period of time. Prakash added that the delay in seeking medical assistance also worsens the illness and the treatment gap in India is anywhere between 80-90%. Similarly, Sanjay Datta, chief - underwriting, claims & reinsurance of ICICI Lombard, explained that unlike physical illnesses like hypertension, cancer or cardiovascular that have objective parameters, the diagnosis of mental illnesses is purely based on clinical judgement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-awareness-major-hurdle-in-mental-health-cover/articleshow/78581790.cms||Swati Rathor
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Ready to reopen after Oct 15, say boarding schools||Dehradun: The officials of several boarding schools in the state have informed the state education department that they are ready to reopen after October 15. During a meeting on Friday, the officials of the boarding schools stated that they have put in place adequate protocols to operate their institutions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and are following the required guidelines as stated by the central government. The boarding schools claimed that their hostels are equipped to tackle the spread of the infection adding that social distancing will be maintained in common areaas like dining rooms and dormitories. Sources in the education department said that several boarding schools suggested that it is better to start with fewer classes initially and that students of Class X and Class XII should be called to school first as they will have to appear for their board exams in the current academic year. Notably, the state government is yet to confirm the reopening of schools as the education department is still discussing all kinds of possible scenarios with various stakeholders including parents, teachers and school officials. It is worth mentioning here that the education department has already asked all its chief education officers in various districts to run awareness campaigns regarding Covid-19 prevention among school officials, parents, and students, to prepare them before the institutions reopen. Besides, these officials have been asked to keep a tab on how well the schools are equipped to tackle Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ready-to-reopen-after-oct-15-say-boarding-schools/articleshow/78580430.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 10, 2020||Pune||PMRDA to include traffic dept inputs in flyover plan||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday directed the authorities to include the traffic department’s suggestions in the draft plan for the upcoming two-tier flyover on University Road. Pawar reviewed the plan at a meeting on Friday. The 1.5km flyover, which will support both the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro and vehicular traffic, is being developed by Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Once all suggestions are incorporated, the plan will be finalized in a week. “The traffic department has suggested some changes in the draft plan and these technicalities are being studied. The final draft with the changes will again be put up for review at the next weekly meeting,” PMRDA chief planner Vivek Kharwadkar told TOI.Senior officials said several options were discussed for the proposed flyover, and that feasibility of each will be considered. “Among the options being studied are whether the flyover should be bi-directional or one-way from Shivajinagar to Aundh and Baner. If it is to be one-way, the feasibility of a grade separator and its benefits and impact on traffic flow are also being assessed,” a senior official said. “A flyover without traffic signals and one with intersections — these too will be studied. A decision will be taken in the coming meeting after thorough discussion. While two flyovers have been pulled down on this stretch, the third flyover at College of Agriculture will remain and run parallel to the Metro line,” a senior official who attended the meeting said. The preliminary draft meeting was attended by police, traffic department officials and local representatives. The Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar corridor is the third Metro line coming up in the city, after the Vanaz-Ramwadi and the PCMC-Swargate corridors that are being developed by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited. PMRDA is eyeing a 2023 deadline for the completion of this corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrda-to-include-traffic-dept-inputs-in-flyover-plan/articleshow/78582931.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Pandemic pushes mental health problems||Jaipur: Covid has affected people not just economically, but mentally too. There has been a rise in mental health problems due to pandemic and doctors are trying their best to guide people about it. R K Solanki, unit head of the department of psychiatry, said during complete lockdown, mental health related issues had risen but after relaxations in lockdown rules, people have started reaching out to them.“There is a kind of phobia in people regarding coronavirus. There is a fear among people of what will happen to them in future. Financial problems are also a major cause of mental health problems,” said Solanki. In many cases, patients with normal oxygen saturation call up doctors complaining breathlessness. Sanjay Jain, superintendent of SMS psychiatry ward said, “Its actually pre-occupation of illnesses. Patients having anxiety related issues during pandemic are suffering from insomnia. Many-a-times, patients call us up stating they cannot breathe, but their oxygen saturation is usually normal. Hence, we ask them to just relax and prescribe medicines. I will suggest family members to be empathetic listener towards such people or this situation may aggravate.”World Health Organization (WHO) has raised many red flags recently regarding the rising number of mental health problems amid the pandemic.Earlier, this issue was more related to urban population, but slowly it is increasing even in rural population. Senior professor psychiatry, SK Medical College, Sikar, KKVerma said there had been a rise in number of rural people are reaching out to him.He describes that a number of times people have complained of bodyache, which is also a result of anxiety and depression. Some people who were suffering from Covid earlier are showing symptoms of severe depression.“It’s just a phobia and fear that has increased. Normal physicians prescribe medicine to people but such medicine will not work until mental health problem is dealt with,” said Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pandemic-pushes-mental-health-problems/articleshow/78581782.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Doctors, hospital staff appointed in Jaisalmer after TOI report||JAISALMER: After The Times Of India raised the issue of shortage of doctors in Jaisalmer, district collector Ashish Modi wrote to the state government which issued a notification to appoint 15 doctors and paramedical staff. Till now, 10 out of 15 doctors have joined duty. Modi said ICU ward services in Jawahar government hospital have been strengthened with availability of doctors and medical staff and serious patients were being provided with oxygen. To tide over the crisis, applications of doctors, nurses and technicians who will be appointed on temporary basis have been sent to the state government. Once they get approval, local hospitals will get new doctors and nursing staff. He said the health department officers and hospital management have been given strict directions to make services better and ensure that no patient should face any problems. The district administration officers will conduct regular inspections from time to time. In the last five days, seven Covid patients have died in the district. To prevent overcrowding at hospitals for Covid tests, a new system was introduced two days ago as per the government guidelines. Now, whoever wants to give samples, should first get checked by a doctor. If the doctor finds any symptom, they will recommend the patient for testing after which samples will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-hosp-staff-appointed-in-jaisalmer-after-toi-report/articleshow/78581797.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Schools and students clueless about syllabus in Rajasthan||AJMER: Half the academic session is over but Covid has prevented the state government from finalising the syllabus. Though big schools are providing online classes, students in rural areas don’t have such facility. The board exams are about five months away but students don’t know what to study. Rajasthan Private Education Association has demanded the state government to reduce the syllabus so that students can prepare for the examination. The association wants that the syllabus of board classes be reduced like in CBSE so that there is no pressure on students. Even former education minister Vasudev Devnani has asked the state government to decide the syllabus as students and schools are in a state of confusion. “CBSE has already reduced the syllabus but in Rajasthan students do not know what to study as the situation is not clear,” said Devnani. State president of schools’ association KC Sharma said that they have asked the chief minister to make situation clear as schools are not open and they do not know what syllabus will come in examination, especially in board classes. “Students of urban areas are getting online classes but condition of rural regions is too bad. There are villages where there is no internet facility and hundreds of students in rural areas do not have smart phones,” added Sharma. The CBSE has already decreased the syllabus to 30% in the current academic session. Sharma said that October month has begun but board exam programme has not been released by state government. There is confusion remained in schools and students. “This will lead to depression,” added Sharma. Situation in government schools is even worse. A source said that teachers of government schools in cities do not know how to conduct online classes and they don’t know how they will complete the syllabus. In rural regions, teachers of government schools are called to attend the schools but no teaching work happens as no online system is in place, the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-and-students-clueless-about-syllabus-in-raj/articleshow/78581788.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to soon launch Saubhagyawati Yojana for pregnant women, newborns||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government is all set to soon launch Saubhagyawati Yojana, under which food kit and clothes would be given to pregnant women and newborn children. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who would soon launch this project, said that it is an important project as nutritious food, dry fruits, toiletries and clothes, have to be ensured for women and their newborn children. Under the project, two separate kits would be made — one for women and the second for newborns. The family and dependents of all government employees paying Income Tax would not be covered under the project. The kit would also include clothes according to the weather conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-soon-launch-saubhagyawati-yojana-for-pregnant-women-newborns/articleshow/78580471.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Plans for Navaratra festivities undergo a change in keeping with the times||PUNE: The upcoming festive season will be unlike any other with online garba workshops, colourful mask sets and virtual garba competitions and events in the offing. Though the pandemic has disrupted the way of life, citizens are trying their best to remain upbeat about the upcoming festivities. Like the traditional saris of different hues that women wear over the nine days, this year, women are opting for masks in nine colours for the festival. Proprietor of Melange Art Studio Manasee Angal said, “Many women are opting for different coloured masks for the nine days of the festival as it is mandatory to wear one while stepping out of the house. We thought of this idea of launching mask sets in line with the practice. We are dealing in plain masks in the Navaratra colours apart from designer masks and Paithani masks. The demand is overwhelming.” Navaratra Garba coaching and events are also going online this year due to the restrictions on gatherings. Semran Israni, a member of the dance troupe Naavtal Garba said, “We had plans for this year but due to the pandemic, classes were shifted online. We had a few Instagram live sessions and Zoom classes. We have also planned a video release on the first day of Navratra to celebrate the spirit of the festival and garba.” Karishma Memon, a senior instructor at Young Talent Association, explained that apart from classes, competitions will be held virtually. “We have announced a virtual competition for solo and duo category. Participants must send applications and recordings of their performance by October 12. We have a panel of judges from Mumbai to select the winners,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/plans-for-navaratra-festivities-undergo-a-change-in-keeping-with-the-times/articleshow/78582935.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Schools can’t collect 70 per cent tuition fees till October 12: HC||Jaipur: In a relief to lakhs of parents, Rajasthan High Court has extended the moratorium on the order of a single bench to collect 70% tuition fees by private schools till October 12A division bench comprising Justice Prakash Gupta and Justice Mahendra Kumar Goyal gave this interim order while hearing the appeal filed by the state government and others. Immediately after joining the video conferencing for hearing of the case on Friday, the bench deferred hearing of the case till October 12. Under this order, no private school operator can recover the fees from any student or punish a student for not paying fees. It may be recalled that on September 7, a single bench of the high court while hearing the petition of the Progressive Schools Association and others gave exemption to private school operators to collect 70% of tuition fees. Thereafter, an appeal was filed against this order by the state government and various parents association. The state government, which is also a party in the appeal, said the single bench’s decision to collect 70 per cent tuition fees from parents was baseless and had no grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-cant-collect-70-per-cent-tuition-fees-till-october-12-hc/articleshow/78581819.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan’s recovery rate 85.03%||JAIPUR: The state on Friday reported 2180 Covid cases which took the cumulative count to 1,54,785. During the same period, Jaipur recorded 399 cases which took its total count to 9,231. In the last 24 hours, 16 deaths were reported taking the fatality count to 1,621. The recovery rate in the state currently stands at 85.03 per cent with 1,31,618 persons beating the virus out of 1,54,785. In Jaipur, the mortality rate is 1.31 per cent as out of the 25,393 cases, 333 persons lost their lives till Friday. “As far as state is concerned, the mortality rate is 1.04 per cent and we are continuously working to bring it down by various medications including remdesivir injection, plasma and oxygen therapy,” said a senior officer of the health department. In Jaipur, 51 cases were reported from Malviya Nagar, Pratap Nagar (40), Jagatpura (36), Durgapura(34) and Sanganer (33). “We have been organising camps across Jaipur to timely trace and identify cases. In many cases, we have advised home isolation to patients,” said a senior officer of health department. Two deaths each were reported from Ajmer, Bikaner and Jaipur while one death each was reported from Churu, Hanumangarh, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali, Pratapgarh, Sikar and Udaipur. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 393 cases were reported, Bikaner (301) and Ajmer (113).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-recovery-rate-85-03/articleshow/78581818.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Pune||Guard jumps into tank in Pimpri, dies||PUNE: A 35-year-old watchman at the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s sewage treatment plant on Link Road ended his life by jumping into one of the tanks of the plant on Thursday. The reason behind the suicide is not known. Vishwajeet Khule, inspector, Chinchwad police, told TOI that no one is allowed to enter the premises of the treatment plant except municipal corporation employees. “The man used to work there as a watchman, so he got easy access inside. He went towards one of the tanks and jumped into it,” Khule said. Police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-jumps-into-tank-in-pimpri-dies/articleshow/78582933.cms||---
October 10, 2020||India||Maharashtra women ‘most unsafe’ from cyber stalkers, bullies||MUMBAI: One woman is stalked or bullied on social media every day in Maharashtra. As per the latest 2019 data released by the National Crime Records Bureau, Maharashtra reported the highest number of cases of cyberstalking/bullying of women for three years in a row - 1,126. In another dubious distinction, Maharashtra also accounted for one-third of the total 2,051 cyberstalking/bullying cases reported across India from 2017 to 2019. Andhra Pradesh came a distant second with 184 cases and Haryana third with 97 cases. According to psychologist Nirali Bhatia, it's usually vengeance or sadism that drives most cyber offenders. "Feeling powerful, as in having control over another, is what makes the whole act pleasurable for these criminals. The internet makes it easy as it grants anonymity," she said. Maharashtra was ranked second among states in cybercrimes against women with 1,503 cases in 2019 as against 1,262 in 2018 — a 19% rise. Karnataka topped the list registering a 50% rise in cases — 2,698 in 2019 as compared to 1,374 in 2018. The conviction rate in cybercrimes in Maharashtra in the three years has been very poor with just 56 of the 4,500-plus arrested offenders sentenced to jail. Cyber lawyer Prashant Mali said the reason for the poor conviction rate is a three-fold problem of the police, judiciary and government. “Understanding of electronic evidence, its usage and production is poor in the police force. Maharashtra has initiated huge training activity but that will take time,” he said. Urging women to come forward to report such crimes, state cyber superintendent of police Balsing Rajput said, “Women can directly register the offence on our website cybercrime.gov.in.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-women-most-unsafe-from-cyber-stalkers-bullies/articleshow/78583969.cms||V Narayan
October 10, 2020||Meerut||One dies, two injured after pile of sugar-filled sacks falls on them in Baghpat||Meerut: A 50-year-old man died and two others got grievously injured after a pile of sugar-filled sacks fell on them at a sugar mill in Baghpat.The incident took place when the deceased, a sales clerk, was counting sugar sacks. The injured were rushed to a hospital.Sandeep Jain, a relative of the deceased, said, “Sanjay was counting sugar sacks at Malakpur Sugar Mill. Ideally, the counting is done by removing sacks at the top first, but here labours started removing the bottom sacks and the pile of sacks fell on them.”Police sent the body for postmortem and a probe into the incident was ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/one-dies-two-injured-after-pile-of-sugar-filled-sacks-falls-on-them-in-baghpat/articleshow/78580490.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt raises budget for works to be approved at dept level||Dehradun: In an effort to speed up development works, the Uttarakhand government on Friday has doubled the budget limit of minor works which can be carried out at the departmental level without seeking permission of the government. Finance secretary Amit Singh Negi issued an official order in this connection on Friday evening. According to the order, the Head of Department can now pass works worth Rs 20 lakh. Earlier, the limit was for Rs 10 lakh. Similarly, office head can now sanction works up to Rs 10 lakh. The limit was earlier set at Rs 5 lakh. As for the projects, which are above the sanctioned budget limit, the departments have been asked to seek permission from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-raises-budget-for-works-to-be-approved-at-dept-level/articleshow/78580492.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Recovery at 89%, virus bugs 409 more||LUCKNOW: As many as 409 more people tested Covid-19 positive in the city on Friday. The figure was the highest in the state and accounted for nearly 13% of the new patients reported from all districts of UP in last 24 hours. Barring Lucknow, the daily count was below 200 in all the districts. The good part was that of the total 57,069 patients recorded in the state capital since the outbreak, 89% have recovered, including 525 in the last 24 hours. However, 5,368 patients (9.4% of the total caseload) are still undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home quarantine. Of them, the condition of about 300 patients is serious. Total 764 patients have died during treatment in the city so far. Indiranagar and Gomtinagar with 38 and 32 new cases, respectively, continued to report the highest cases in the city. Rae Bareli Road recorded 24 new patients, Cantonment 23, Aliganj 18, while Mahanagar, Sarojininagar and Talkatora 15 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/recovery-at-89-virus-bugs-409-more/articleshow/78583371.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Fourteen government schools in Hassan back in business after migrants enrol kids||HASSAN: Now that they are back home, people from Hassan district, who had migrated to Bengaluru and cities in other states for work reasons, are now enrolling their children in government schools. As a result, at least 14 lower primary schools, which had closed due to lack of students, are now back in business with 121 admissions. Four of the schools are in Holenarsipur taluk. “Although admissions closed on September 30, the process is continuing since we are trying to find out details of why students were not promoted or why they dropped out. There are a total 2,14,000 students studying from class 1 to 10 in Hassan district in all aided and unaided schools,” said KS Prakash, DDPI. Prakash said parents of students were forced to return to their hometowns following the lockdown and many cannot afford private school fees. “They are enrolling their children in government schools nearby,” he said. Asked about the condition of school buildings, Prakash said, “All the schools were closed one to three years ago. There is no danger to students’ safety.” Dharmesh, district president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions, said, “The irony is that there is a spike in admissions to government schools in a country where education in a private school is much sought after. But that’s the effect of the lockdown, which was neither scientific nor well planned. People’s livelihoods have been badly affected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/14-govt-schools-in-hassan-back-in-business-after-migrants-enrol-kids/articleshow/78580485.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Municipal polls: Employees above 55, pregnant woman not be assigned poll duty||JAIPUR: The state election commission on Friday issuing Covid guidelines for the elections to six nagar nigams (in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur) stated that employees above 55 years of age, persons with comorbid conditions, pregnant women and lactating mothers must not be assigned election duty. It also stated that not more than five people will be allowed during door-to-door campaigning by the candidates. District election officers have been instructed to appoint health officials as nodal officers in every 25 wards. A Covid positive candidate is required to submit his/her nomination papers to the returning officer through a proposer, who is not infected. If both the candidate and the proposers are Covid positive, they are required to submit an application to the district election officer a day before filing of nominations. The DEO will forward the application to the chief medical and health officer (CMHO) of the district and the health officer concerned. They will take the final decision on his/her nomination. If a Covid positive voter wishes to cast his/her vote, he will be given a specific time for voting by the election officer concerned and will be informed about it. They will be allowed to cast their votes at the end of polling. On the polling day, no voter will be allowed inside the polling station without a mask. This is also applicable for the candidates at the time of filing their nomination papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/municipal-polls-employees-above-55-pregnant-woman-not-be-assigned-poll-duty/articleshow/78581836.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Jaipur||Prone position therapy helps Covid patients improve breathing||JAIPUR: Apart from regular medicines, oxygen and plasma therapy for Covid-19 treatment, doctors at Rajasthan University of Health Sciences(RUHS) and other medical colleges are working on prone position therapy to increase respiration and lung capacity of patients to inhale oxygen. Doctors claimed that the therapy has been successful in patients having moderate symptoms. “It has been seen that when patient with mild symptoms is put in prone position as much he can bear, his respiration gets better and gradually his lung capacity improves. Apart from various therapies, we are using this as one of the tools,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent of SMS Hospital. “This therapy is showing good results. When a patient with moderate symptoms is kept in this position, it helps in his respiration,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director (rural health). Senior doctors who are on the job of treating Covid patients said prone position is practiced on patients for three hours daily. In this therapy, patients are asked to do it four to six times a day with time ranging from 30 minutes to three hours. “I was given remdesivir injection and after a few days I was asked to lay flat on my stomach. It helped me to get better respiration. When I was admitted, I was unable to breathe properly. Now I am fine,” said a patient who got discharged from the RUHS on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/prone-position-therapy-helps-covid-patients-improve-breathing/articleshow/78581832.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 10, 2020||Jodhpur||Municipal polls: Employees above 55, pregnant woman not be assigned poll duty||JAIPUR: The state election commission on Friday issuing Covid guidelines for the elections to six nagar nigams (in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur) stated that employees above 55 years of age, persons with comorbid conditions, pregnant women and lactating mothers must not be assigned election duty. It also stated that not more than five people will be allowed during door-to-door campaigning by the candidates. District election officers have been instructed to appoint health officials as nodal officers in every 25 wards. A Covid positive candidate is required to submit his/her nomination papers to the returning officer through a proposer, who is not infected. If both the candidate and the proposers are Covid positive, they are required to submit an application to the district election officer a day before filing of nominations. The DEO will forward the application to the chief medical and health officer (CMHO) of the district and the health officer concerned. They will take the final decision on his/her nomination. If a Covid positive voter wishes to cast his/her vote, he will be given a specific time for voting by the election officer concerned and will be informed about it. They will be allowed to cast their votes at the end of polling. On the polling day, no voter will be allowed inside the polling station without a mask. This is also applicable for the candidates at the time of filing their nomination papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/municipal-polls-employees-above-55-pregnant-woman-not-be-assigned-poll-duty/articleshow/78589529.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Man nabbed with 17 quintal PDS rice||Hyderabad: A person who was involved in illegal trading of PDS rice was nabbed in Chilkalguda. Police seized 17 quintals of rice and a vehicle which is worth Rs 1.94 lakhs from him. The accused was purchasing rice from some people who are eligible for PDS and in turn was selling it for higher price to his associate. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-nabbed-with-17-quintal-pds-rice/articleshow/78582938.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pollution-hit take their fight online to rap erring industries||HYDERABAD: Residents affected with air pollution have started an online petition to State Human Rights Commission (SHRC), requesting that their problems be addressed. SHRC has taken suo motu cognizance of a TOI report on almost a third of the city residents experiencing a chemical smell. While stating that they were glad that SHRC had taken up the case (SR No. 4597 of 2020 Dt. 14.09.2020), the residents, especially those who were affected over the past month, said they had been being facing smell from ‘poisonous gasses’ for several years, causing health issues such as inability to breathe properly, nausea, headaches among other issues. The petition was based on hundreds of complaints filed by residents of Bachupally, Nizampet, Hafeezpet, Ameenpur, Nallagandla, Miyapur, Madinaguda, Kukatpally and Gachibowli. The petition says, “There are many small pharma/chemical process industries in the adjoining areas. These industries must treat waste gases in scrubbers meant for treatment and relapse the gases safe enough to be vented to atmosphere as per norms.” Frustrated that ‘multiple fervent appeals’ to Pollution Control Board (PCB) for years have not resulted desired action, the residents have demanded stringent action against errant industrial bodies. The petition was put on change.org. Srinivas K, resident Bachupally, said, “There is technology available to track odour which must be installed immediately and results published online at all industrial areas and densely populated areas.” He said there were online trackable odour monitoring stations that could be used to measure smell from gases such as hydrogen sulphide, sulphur dioxide, ammonia, methyl mercaptan, methane and total volatile organic compounds (TVOCs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pollution-hit-take-their-fight-online-to-rap-erring-industries/articleshow/78581845.cms||Uttara Varma
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Two minors held for vehicle lifting in US Nagar, 7 motorbikes recovered||Rudrapur: Two minors were held in Udham Singh Nagar on Friday for allegedly lifting vehicles. While the kingpin of their gang is still at large, police recovered at least seven stolen motorbikes after the confession by the two minor accused. Kamlesh Bhatt, station house officer of Nanakmatta police station, said that during checking at the highway, two minors riding a bike were stopped. “They did not have any documents of the vehicle. Subsequently, they were taken to the police station. During questioning, they accepted that the vehicle was stolen by them. We seized seven motorcycles from Cheeka Ghat bridge. They told us that Surendra Singh, a resident of Kelakhera village in Gadarpur, is the kingpin of their gang. He is at large but will be apprehended soon,” said SHO Bhatt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-minors-held-for-vehicle-lifting-in-us-nagar-7-motorbikes-recovered/articleshow/78580516.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Online classes: Several PU lecturers may lose jobs||Mangaluru: Many pre-university lecturers are staring at a bleak future, at least the foreseeable future, owing to the abrupt and forced transition to online classes. Under the new system, few colleges need more than one teacher for every subject, which means that many lecturers are likely to lose their jobs, while the college managements will save a sizeable sum otherwise spent on their salary. A PU college in Mangaluru, which boasts students numbering in the hundreds, had many mathematics teachers prior to the pandemic. But most classes are now being handled by one or two lecturers. “The advantage of an online class is that students from multiple sections can attend it at the same time, which means the management does not need more teachers per subject. This has saved a lot of money and resources for the colleges, while many lecturers have been terminated from service,” said a lecturer, who lost his job at the college in question. A chemistry lecturer said, “I was recruited to a new PU college in March, but the on-boarding process was delayed owing to the Covid-19 crisis. The management has now informed me that I can join only when regular classes resume.” At another private college in Dakshina Kannada, while the lecturers on the payroll have been asked not to take classes, subject matter experts at coaching institutions are imparting lessons to students. “The lecturers’ salary has been slashed by 30% but we have not been terminated yet,” said a teacher. Colleges in Moodbidri, Kodialbail and Maryhill have reportedly adopted the same model. Meanwhile, sources in the department of pre-university education said private colleges in Dakshina Kannada were conducting classes at their buildings for students in small batches. An autonomous undergraduate college in Mangaluru is planning to start regular classes soon. However, less than a fourth of the students are willing to attend the classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/online-classes-several-pu-lecturers-may-lose-jobs/articleshow/78580525.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 10, 2020||Lucknow||In home quarantine? Must report high fever, pulse rate||LUCKNOW: Living in home quarantine after being confirmed as having Covid-19? Be alert towards the markers that require you to consult a doctor or approach a Covid hospital in time. As a number of Covid deaths in the city were of patients reaching the hospital too late, TOI finds out from KGMU’s Covid hospital in charge the markers to stay attentive to. “A major problem is that Covid-19 patients under home quarantine are sometimes not able to gauge the level of their disease’s severity,” said KGMU Covid hospital in charge Dr Avinash Agarwal. This, he said, leads to error in judgment on the part of patients and their attendants, costing their lives. “A few parameters become pertinent then. If a person has constant fever at or above 100 degree Farenheit, even with oxygen rate not below 94%, the patient should seek medical help immediately,” said Dr Agarwal. He added, “It is also important to concentrate on the pulse rate. In normal circumstances, the pulse rate is not at a 100. But for Covid-19 patients at home, if that is the case for a couple of days—pulse rate at or above 100—a doctor should be consulted.” WHO in its patient safety manual on use of pulse oximeters also enlists the factors that may prevent accurate recording. It states that nail polish or pigmentation on finger as is in the case of henna application, bright light like the sun interfering with light of the equipment and patient movement can affect the readings. These factors should be eliminated before a patient records the vitals at home. “In case the patient has comorbid conditions like asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), diabetes, cancer, autoimmune diseases, etc, the presence of mild symptoms should be immediately reported to the chief medical officer’s office or consulting doctor,” added Dr Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-home-quarantine-must-report-high-fever-pulse-rate/articleshow/78583381.cms||Yusra Husain
October 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Man organises IPL betting, arrested||Hyderabad: A person who was organizing Cricket betting during the ongoing IPL was nabbed by Ramgopalpet police on Friday. However, the prime accused, M Bhandri, is absconding. Police seized Rs 50,000 cash and two cell phones from the arrested accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-organises-ipl-betting-arrested/articleshow/78582943.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Positivity rate drops in Dharwad||Hubballi: While data shows the rate of infection is declining in Dharwad district, experts caution that it could be due to faulty testing. Dr Sujatha Hasavimath, district surveillance officer, said the number of people testing positive vis-à-vis samples tested has fallen since October 1. Hasavimath said between October 1 and 7, a total 15,804 samples were tested in the district — more than 2,100 tests per day — but only 798 tested positive. Health department sources are baffled as to the reasons, but experts suggest it could be because of false negatives. They point out that most of the tests were done using rapid antigen kits, which has an accuracy of 40-60%. They say more RT-PCR tests, the gold standard to test for Covid, should be conducted and officials should publish the number of RT-PCR tests conducted daily. Another reason for low cases may be the way nasal and throat swabs are collected. They say only ENT doctors or ENT PGs or anaesthetists or students of allied departments can properly collect samples. Dr Ravindra Gadag, head, ENT department, KIMS, said that while the number of patients being admitted is far lower compared to a fortnight or three weeks ago, it does not mean people should lower their guard. “The infection may spike again as it is a contagious disease,” he said. Dr Rajshekhar Dyaberi concurred saying, “Numbers are falling, but it is for experts to find out why.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/positivity-rate-drops-in-dharwad/articleshow/78580524.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 10, 2020||Meerut||Amid Covid scare, two dengue cases surface in Meerut||MEERUT: With all the healthcare authorities focussed towards coronavirus outbreak, other diseases had taken a back seat. But after two dengue cases were reported in Meerut, an advisory has been issued by the health department to remain alert about the mosquito-borne disease. Locals have been asked to dry out their coolers if not in use and not let water collect in any vessel to prevent mosquitos from breeding. “All the hospitals have been instructed to be on their toes for diseases other than Covid-19. An advisory regarding dengue has been issued so that the cases can be controlled timely,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. The advisory focuses on the symptoms of dengue which include headache, fever, diarrhoea, rashes on the body. Health authorities will also set up camps in the areas where the cases have been found. Blood slides of people with suspected symptoms are being taken. The health staff has been asked to spread awareness about the disease and persuade people to maintain cleanliness around them, said Dr Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amid-covid-scare-two-dengue-cases-surface-in-meerut/articleshow/78580523.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 10, 2020||Dehradun||Two held for betting on IPL matches in Manglaur||Roorkee: Two alleged gamblers, who were caught betting on the IPL cricket matches, were arrested by local police in Haridwar district on Friday. The accused were identified as Rajan Sharma Hunny and Rajat Sharma. One of the accused is said to be the son of a member of the municipal board of Manglaur. According to inspector Pradeep Chauhan, in-charge of Manglaur police station, the police found two men (in their mid twenties) in a car near a desolate engineering college building on the left bank of Gangnahar Canal on Thursday. During the interrogation, the accused told the police that they were residents of Manak Chowk locality in Manglaur and that they bet on IPL matches. The action was taken after the police received a tip off in this regard, said the police. “We have recovered a cash amount of Rs 2,09,350, three mobile phones, five SIM cards, and one ATM card from their possession,” said the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-held-for-betting-on-ipl-matches-in-manglaur/articleshow/78580530.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 10, 2020||Delhi||Dust management norms flouted at FICCI site: Delhi minister||NEW DELHI: State environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday said a notice would soon be served to the agency involved in the demolition work of FICCI auditorium for violating guidelines of the government on dust management.  “Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry is one of six sites where demolition work is going on without anti-smog guns. I had come to inspect on Thursday evening but since it was closed, I visited the site again on Friday. We found debris on the site lying uncovered and instructed the workers to cover the debris immediately, and resume work only when anti-smog gun have been installed. Besides, the person or agency responsible for not following guidelines will be penalised as per the rules. A notice will also be sent to the concerned agency by Saturday,” Rai claimed. Track the pollution level in your cityThe minister, who monitored the demolition work at Pragati Maidan and FICCI on Friday, said 39 major construction sites have been identified in the capital. Of these, construction work has been stopped at six sites for not installing anti-smog gun. “These anti-smog guns are a solution, but the main problem is dust and therefore water must be sprinkled. To prevent dust pollution, the government has issued detailed guidelines regarding the sprinkling of water, covering debris, and the movement of vehicles,” Rai added. Around 14 teams are currently monitoring the implementation of guidelines at construction sites in the capital. “Our effort is to take all measures to reduce pollution. We will take stringent action if guidelines are not followed,” Rai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dust-management-norms-flouted-at-ficci-site-rai/articleshow/78582947.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ranchi||Gutkha ban merely an eyewash, no firm step taken to enforce it: Jharkhand HC||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court pulled up the state government for failing to file an affidavit in response to a PIL concerning the sale of gutkha in the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad while hearing the petition ordered the food safety department secretary to appear virtually on the next date of hearing. The PIL has been filed by the Fariyad Foundation seeking implementation of the ban on sale of gutkha in Jharkhand. The petitioner organisation told the court that though the ban has been imposed, it was being temporarily withdrawn from time to time and there is no strict check on the sale of the product. The bench while hearing the case observed that there was no check on the sale of gutkha in the state. It was freely available in the capital and there was no gutkha-free zone in the city, the judges said. The government has merely imposed a ban but has done nothing to implement it in letter and spirit, the bench observed. The court was informed that the ban on the sale of gutkha in the state has been imposed since 2017 and has been extended at intervals. The ban is now effective till 2021. The transport of gutkha needs to be checked. If there will be no transport, people will not be able to buy it. The supply chain needs to be crippled first for implementing the ban, the judges said. Strict action ought to be taken against the officers who were given the responsibility to prevent gutkha from being sold. The suppliers need to be identified and action on them will ensure that the ban is enforced, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gutkha-ban-merely-an-eyewash-no-firm-step-taken-to-enforce-it-jharkhand-hc/articleshow/78581685.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu Prasad Yadav gets bail in one case, to remain in jail||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Friday granted bail to ailing RJD president Lalu Prasad in one of the fodder scam cases in which he had been convicted in January 2018 and sentenced to five years in jail. While the court's decision in the Rs 33.67-crore Chaibasa treasury embezzlement case led RJD supporters to rejoice, Lalu won't be out of jail until at least two days after assembly polls in Bihar are over on November 7. The RJD chief's bail plea in the Dumka treasury embezzlement case, in which he is serving a 14-year term, has been listed for hearing on November 9, a day before counting of votes. Lalu was convicted in four fodder scam cases — two of them pertaining to fraudulent withdrawals from the Chaibasa treasury between 1992 and 1993, when he was the chief minister of undivided Bihar. The other cases are related to the Deoghar and Dumka treasuries. The Dumka case is the only one in which he is yet to be granted bail. Lalu's trial in the Doranda treasury case is still on while proceedings in the Bhagalpur treasury case are yet to resume after being stalled more than a year ago because of the jailed RJD chief's failure to appear in a Patna court. Hearing his bail petition through video-conferencing on Friday, Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh asked Lalu to submit two personal bonds of Rs 50,000 each and make a bail deposit of Rs 2 lakh. The court also sought his medical report and details of all those who met him during his treatment at Ranchi's Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. Lalu's counsel, former Union minister and Supreme Court advocate Kapil Sibal, said his client has been in custody for 30 months, which is half of the maximum sentence pronounced by the CBI special court that convicted him on January 24, 2018. Lalu had been held guilty of approving withdrawals from the treasury in the name of purchasing fodder and medicines for livestock. The fodder scam involved the embezzlement of more than Rs 970 crore in government funds during Lalu‘s reign in undivided Bihar from 1990 to 1997. He was first convicted in a fodder case in December, 2017, and was lodged at Birsa Munda central jail in Ranchi. He spent just about two months in the prison before he was shifted to Rims due to deteriorating health conditions. Though he has been suffering from many diseases, including kidney ailments, Type 2 diabetes and hypertension are the main concerns. He was referred to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, for some months before being sent back to the city hospital in May 2018. In early August, he was moved to the plush Kelly’s Bungalow, the vacant official residence of the hospital director, to keep him protected from the Covid-19 outbreak The opposition BJP said the decision to shift Lalu was taken because “he gets preferential treatment from the JMM-Congress-RJD mahagathbandhan government and has access to VIP facilities even though he is a convicted prisoner”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalu-gets-bail-in-one-case-to-remain-in-jail/articleshow/78583236.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ranchi||Uncle rapes, kills seven-year-old in Ranchi district’s Ratu area||RANCHI: A seven-year-old girl was raped and murdered by her uncle in Ranchi district’s Ratu area on Thursday, police said on Friday. The accused, Nisar Ansari, was arrested by police on Thursday. The child’s parents work at a brick kiln in Bihar’s Gaya and she lived with her grandparents in Ratu. On Thursday around 11am, she visited her uncle’s house with her cousin sister. When she did not return till evening, her grandparents and their neighbours started looking for her. Upon reaching Ansari’s house, the mob asked his daughter about the girl to which she said her father had given her a corn and had asked her to play outside and after returning, she did not see her cousin sister. The child’s revelation raised suspicion and the mob entered Ansari’s house. Initially he claimed innocence, but later, the villagers saw some blood marks on the floor and stains that looked like they were rubbed in a haste. Charged, Ansari revealed that he first raped the girl and then killed her. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said, “Before handing over Ansari to us, the villagers thrashed him after he confessed to his crime. Ansari also said that after raping the minor, he killed her by hitting her on the head with the blunt side of an axe.” “After the murder, Ansari packed the child’s body in a sack and disposed it of at a nearby field. Both the child’s body and the murder weapon (axe) have been found and Ansari has been arrested,” he added. Ansari’s wife is away at her parental house for the last two weeks. A case has been filed under Sections 302, 201 and 376 A B of IPC and Sections 4 and 6 of the Pocso Act. The incident sparked an outrage and the villagers took to the streets and several, including women, attended the child’s last burial after an autopsy was conducted. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/uncle-rapes-kills-7-year-old-in-ratu/articleshow/78583308.cms||---
October 10, 2020||Ranchi||NIA flies Stan Swamy to Mumbai, court sends him to two-week judical custody||RANCHI: A day after taking Stan Swamy into custody, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) flew the 83-year-old social activist to Mumbai on Friday morning and presented him before NIA special court, which sent him to judicial custody until October 23. Swamy is an accused in the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case with seven others. NIA also issued a supplementary chargesheet accusing him of offences under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. It’s a three-page press release detailing the points from 10,000-page chargesheet, NIA said Swamy is an active member of the outlawed CPI (Maoist). “He was in communication with other CPI (Maoist) cadres. He propagated among cadres that the arrest of urban CPI (Maoist) members from different parts of country, particularly in Maharashtra, has caused huge irrevocable damage to the outfit.” The statement added, “He received funds from other Maoist cadres for furtherance of Maoist activities. He is the convener of PPSC, a frontal organization of CPI (Maoist). The incriminating documents related to communications for furthering the activities of Maoists and propaganda material as well as literature were seized from his possession. It has been established that the members of CPI (Maoist) were using these organizations to further their agenda.” In Ranchi, various sections of the society, including the Roman Catholic Church, Left parties and human rights group, criticised Swamy’s arrest. A protest march was organised at Albert Ekka Chowk by rights group under the banner of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha. Reminding chief minister Hemant Soren about his stand over the issue when he was the leader of opposition and asked him to pressure the the Centre for his release. The activists also released a video clip of Swamy categorically denying the allegations levelled against him. “Apart from my biodata and some factual information, several extracts allegedly taken from my computer implicating my connection to Maoist forces were placed before me. I told them all these are fabrications stealthily put into my computer and I disowned them,” Stan said in another written statement. Stan in his statement clarified he was always available for the investigating authorities and was not willing to go to Mumbai because of his ill health, age and the prevailing pandemic. He said, “The nature of the present NIA investigation against me has nothing to do with the Bhima Koregaon case, in which I have been booked as a ‘suspected-accused’ and raided twice (August 28, 2018, and June 12, 2019). It has everything to do to somehow establish that I am personally linked to extremist Leftist forces. I deny these allegations in the strongest terms. After six weeks of silence, I am being summoned to appear at the NIA office in Mumbai.” Noted economist Jean Dreze, who participated in the protest, said Swamy is a valued and public-spirited citizen who has worked for adivasi rights for decades. “The inhuman and insincere act of the NIA stands out for its sheer vindictiveness. Stan fully cooperated with the investigating officers when they questioned him at his residence in Bagaicha for over 15 hours (on July 27-30 and August 6),” he said. The Church also expressed anguish and concern over the way Swamy is being treated. The Catholic Church of Ranchi, in a statement jointly signed by Auxiliary bishop of Ranchi Theodre Mascarenhans and secretary of CRI Sr Poonam Soreng, said: “While the NIA is within its right to investigate all accusations against any citizen, we are shocked at the way Father Stan has been treated. Considering his age and his health condition, was it necessary to come for him in darkness? Was it necessary to make him travel to Mumbai given that even healthy young people are afraid to travel during this pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nia-flies-swamy-to-mumbai-court-sends-him-to-2-week-judical-custody/articleshow/78583281.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 10, 2020||Ranchi||BJP attacks J’khand govt after HC’s ‘Hathras’ rap, questions Cong silence over Dhanwar incident||Ranchi: A day after Jharkhand high court pulled up the police for its “lacklustre and shoddy investigation” into the alleged rape and murder of a 15-year- old girl in March and said Hathras-like places exist in this state as well, BJP’s state unit on Friday demanded that the Hemant Soren government provides police protection and a government job for the family members of the victim. The girl was allegedly raped and set ablaze in Kendwa village under Rajdhanwar police station limits of Giridih district in March this year. BJP’s Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi, under whose constituency the victim’s village is located, said the cops investigating the case let off the accused who were named in the FIR filed by her father after interrogation. “The government must suspend the investigating officer and the DSP at once and ensure that the special investigation team, as directed by the court, completes the probe within a prescribed time-frame,” Marandi said at a press conference at the party’s state headquarters. Criticising the JMM-led mahagathbandhan government for “failing to reign in crimes against women”, Marandi questioned the efficiency of state police. “In the last 10 months, the number of criminal incidents have surpassed the tally of entire 2019 (when BJP was in power with Raghubar Das as the CM). It is unfathomable that of these 10 months, we were under a lockdown for most of the time. While the law and order is failing, the UPA government is busy transferring government officials every three months,” he added. BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash also criticized the Congress party. “While their leaders are protesting the Hathras incident, its government in Jharkhand is failing to prevent the rising incidents of crimes against women. Between January and July this year, there has been 1,035 rape cases, 161 dowry deaths and 16 witch-hunting incidents in this state. While the UP government set up an SIT to probe Hathras incident, the Jharkhand government did nothing to ensure justice for the victim’s family,” Prakash added. Claiming that the Dhanwar’s alleged rape and murder case has become high profile after the court’s scathing observation, Prakash said: “The government must ensure police protection for the family and a government job for the deceased’s kin.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-attacks-jkhand-govt-after-hcs-hathras-rap-questions-cong-silence-over-dhanwar-incident/articleshow/78581437.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Ranchi||Notification issued for twin bypolls in J’khand; BJP yet to declare its candidates||Bokaro/Dumka: The deputy commissioners-cum-district electoral officers for Dumka and Bokaro on Friday issued the notification for the bypolls in Dumka (ST reserved) and Bermo constituencies, initiating the process of filing of nominations for the two constituencies. For nomination, candidates can reach the office of the concerned electoral officer and file his or her papers between 11am and 1pm with only two more people accompanying the candidate, a norm set to keep the spread of the virus in control. Candidates can file their nominations until October 16 while scrutiny of the papers will be held on October 17, The last date for withdrawal of nominations is October 19. Voting for these two seats will take place on November 3 and counting of votes is scheduled for November 10. The bypolls to these two seats are being held as chief minister Hemant Soren, who won from Dumka and Barhait seats in Santhal Pargana, took oath as the member of the house as an MLA from Barhait. The Bermo seat fell vacant following demise of Congress veteran Rajendra Singh. So far, JMM has announced the candidature of Basant Soren, Hemant’s younger brother, from Dumka. He will file his nominations on October 12. Congress on Friday named Jaimangal Singh, the elder son of late MLA and Rajendra Singh. as its nominee for Bermo seat. BJP has not declared its candidates for either of the two seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/notification-issued-for-twin-bypolls-in-jkhand-bjp-yet-to-declare-its-candidates/articleshow/78581598.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 10, 2020||Ranchi||Online edu in local dialects ups attendance in Bokaro||Bokaro: To make online classes more interesting for students during Covid-19 times, the district education department is creating subject-wise content in local dialects, including Khortha, Bangla and Nagpuri. The new way of teaching is yielding good results as the attendance of online classes is growing. Students said studying geography, civics and other literatures-based subjects in their mother-tongue is unique and appealing and most importantly, easy to understand. Though online classes in local dialects have been started on an experimental basis, the education department is contemplating its continuation after getting a good response. “We have started online classes in all our 1,560 government schools from last week, but found the attendance was very poor. So we thought of being creative and began online classes in Khortha, Bangla and Nagpuri. It worked and the participation of students has doubled,” said Neelam Eleen Toppo, district education officer. Teachers also found it has increased the understanding power of students who are now finding it easier to remember the lessons. There are about 3.24 lakhs students studying in government schools in the district. The online classes are conducted for the students of Classes I to XII. The content are being prepared after assessing the most-spoken dialect of a particular area. Toppo said government is taking positive initiatives towards providing digital education to the children. Teachers working in various government schools of the district are creating digital content in 12 subjects. She added that in order to workout the plan, they created a WhatsApp group of 367 teachers working in various government schools across the district. Of them, 143 were finally selected to produce the digital content. The circulation after developing the digital contents is being done through WhatsApp groups of each subject created separately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/online-edu-in-local-dialects-ups-attendance-in-bokaro/articleshow/78581477.cms||Divy Khare
