October 11, 2020||Goa||On World Mental Health Day, Goan designer stands up to create awareness||Over the last 7 months, many turned their lives topsy-turvy due to the pandemic, and this has resulted in an increased need for psychological support. Those with a history of mental health needs are finding the pandemic has made their mental health much worse and their access to medication and treatment more difficult. Goan fashion designer Ninoshka Alvares-Delaney has joined an international campaign supporting mental health awareness. She says, “It is important to throw light on international campaigns like Go Speak Your Mind and #moveformentalhealth and organisations like COOJ working in this space, and people have to realise that its normal to experience anxiety or depression and there is no shame in seeking help when it’s needed. Everyone should also be mindful of the mental state of our near and dear ones and lookout for their well-being.” She adds, “Our mental health is also associated with our physical health. Good nutrition, proper sleep and regular exercise can go a long way into promoting good mental health. Today being World Mental Health Day, we should all pledge to take better care of our mental health and support each other to live better, healthier lives.”  Dressed up in the Goan Adivasi sari, and draped herself in the Orissa Kachha drape style, she posed with a placard #MoveForMentalHealth on the beach. She tells us, “I rarely wear my saris in the conventional Nivi drape. The kachha drape is very comfortable and I was able to easily perform my yoga asanas. Since I’m representing India in an international campaign, wearing a sari is apt.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-world-mental-health-day-goan-designer-stands-up-to-create-awareness/articleshow/78596290.cms||Kimberly Colaco
October 11, 2020||World||Cannot allow US to become a socialist nation or worse, says Trump in WH rally||WASHINGTON: Indifferent to the perception that he hosted a Covid-19 superspreader event at the White House that also resulted in his own infection, US President Donald Trump on Saturday hosted a rally of his supporters on the South Lawn to warn against a socialist take over of America. Speaking from the balcony of the South Portico, Trump repeatedly cast his Democratic challengers as the “radical left,” who would betray the country by shipping out jobs to China, allow unchecked illegal immigration, and get the US embroiled in foreign wars. “We cannot allow our country to be a socialist nation or worst…” Trump said, claiming blacks and Hispanics had been left down by radical left politicians. Trump went ahead with the rally despite criticism about earlier White House events being characterized as aCovid superspreader events that resulted in his getting the virus along with more than a dozen people in his inner circle. Asserting before the rally that he was now feeling “very strong” and is medication free, Trump’s self-designed spectacle was aimed at showcasing him as a strongman who overcame the Covid-19 infection in just 3-4 days and is unafraid of a virus that in his view is akin to flu. Only mildly chastened by the White House outbreak, invited Trump faithful were asked to wear masks and had to undergo temperature checks. Ahead of the event, Trump spent several hours calling into various TV and radio shows on Friday to hold forth on a range of issues to credulous, pampering anchors who would not or could get him to answer whether he had tested negative for Covid following the top-line therapeutics and treatment he was administered. "I haven't even found out numbers or anything yet, but I've been retested and I know I'm at either the bottom of the scale or free," Trump vaguely told Fox News' medical analyst Dr. Marc Siegel, a physician who like Trump believes Covid-19 is no big deal and masks are useless. "They test every couple of days, I guess, but it's really at a level now that's been great -- great to see it disappear." Such an outlook is not going down well with the country’s seniors, the group most vulnerable to Covid-19, and who constitute a majority of the nearly 215,000 deaths. Polls and reports that indicate his Democratic challenger Joe Biden has about a 25 point lead among seniors. Trump's "reckless" personal conduct since his Covid-19 diagnosis is "unconscionable", Biden, 77, chafed on Friday, asserting that the last thing the US needs is a president who ignores Americans and looks down upon them. But Trump has decided to ignore what he sees as unremitting negativity from critics and experts, including the two coronavirus principals Dr Anthony Fauci and Dr Dr. Deborah Birx who held centerstage for months, and who continue to warn about the continued danger and lethality of the virus if established mandates and protocols are ignored. Covid-19 cases are on the rise again in the U.S – topping 50,000 each last three days, but death rates are coming down. Trump’s decision to go bold on the matter – which some see as reckless – follows adverse reports coming in from early voting in the election. More than 6 million Americans have already voted in 27 states and data points to registered Democrats returning 1.4 million ballots, more than twice the 653,000 ballots registered Republicans have turned in. Some 3.7 million voter are either unaffiliated/independent or live in states that do not register voters by party. Some modeling firms are projecting that Democrats are outvoting Republicans 3:2 in early voting, but the party is cautioning its rank and file workers not to be complacent because, among other things, Hillary Clinton also established such early leads in 2016, and the expectation is the Trump base will vote in-person more than Democrat voters. Trump and his associates have also decided to bail out of debate with their Republican rivals, variously claiming the format, protocols, and moderates are loaded against them. The commission on Presidential Debates canned the second Presidential debate scheduled for October 15 after Trump said he did not like virtual format and would not participate. Separately, Trump confidant Lindsey Graham declined to take a Covid test demanded by his Democratic opponent in a senate race, resulting in the scrapping of their debate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/cannot-allow-us-to-become-a-socialist-nation-or-worse-says-trump-in-wh-rally/articleshow/78596421.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
October 11, 2020||World||Cannot allow US to become a socialist nation or worse, says Trump in WH rally||WASHINGTON: Indifferent to the perception that he hosted a Covid-19 superspreader event at the White House that also resulted in his own infection, US President Donald Trump on Saturday hosted a rally of his supporters on the South Lawn to warn against a socialist take over of America. Speaking from the balcony of the South Portico, Trump repeatedly cast his Democratic challengers as the “radical left,” who would betray the country by shipping out jobs to China, allow unchecked illegal immigration, and get the US embroiled in foreign wars. “We cannot allow our country to be a socialist nation or worst…” Trump said, claiming blacks and Hispanics had been left down by radical left politicians. Trump went ahead with the rally despite criticism about earlier White House events being characterized as aCovid superspreader events that resulted in his getting the virus along with more than a dozen people in his inner circle. Asserting before the rally that he was now feeling “very strong” and is medication free, Trump’s self-designed spectacle was aimed at showcasing him as a strongman who overcame the Covid-19 infection in just 3-4 days and is unafraid of a virus that in his view is akin to flu. Only mildly chastened by the White House outbreak, invited Trump faithful were asked to wear masks and had to undergo temperature checks. Ahead of the event, Trump spent several hours calling into various TV and radio shows on Friday to hold forth on a range of issues to credulous, pampering anchors who would not or could get him to answer whether he had tested negative for Covid following the top-line therapeutics and treatment he was administered. "I haven't even found out numbers or anything yet, but I've been retested and I know I'm at either the bottom of the scale or free," Trump vaguely told Fox News' medical analyst Dr. Marc Siegel, a physician who like Trump believes Covid-19 is no big deal and masks are useless. "They test every couple of days, I guess, but it's really at a level now that's been great -- great to see it disappear." Such an outlook is not going down well with the country’s seniors, the group most vulnerable to Covid-19, and who constitute a majority of the nearly 215,000 deaths. Polls and reports that indicate his Democratic challenger Joe Biden has about a 25 point lead among seniors. Trump's "reckless" personal conduct since his Covid-19 diagnosis is "unconscionable", Biden, 77, chafed on Friday, asserting that the last thing the US needs is a president who ignores Americans and looks down upon them. But Trump has decided to ignore what he sees as unremitting negativity from critics and experts, including the two coronavirus principals Dr Anthony Fauci and Dr Dr. Deborah Birx who held centerstage for months, and who continue to warn about the continued danger and lethality of the virus if established mandates and protocols are ignored. Covid-19 cases are on the rise again in the U.S – topping 50,000 each last three days, but death rates are coming down. Trump’s decision to go bold on the matter – which some see as reckless – follows adverse reports coming in from early voting in the election. More than 6 million Americans have already voted in 27 states and data points to registered Democrats returning 1.4 million ballots, more than twice the 653,000 ballots registered Republicans have turned in. Some 3.7 million voter are either unaffiliated/independent or live in states that do not register voters by party. Some modeling firms are projecting that Democrats are outvoting Republicans 3:2 in early voting, but the party is cautioning its rank and file workers not to be complacent because, among other things, Hillary Clinton also established such early leads in 2016, and the expectation is the Trump base will vote in-person more than Democrat voters. Trump and his associates have also decided to bail out of debate with their Republican rivals, variously claiming the format, protocols, and moderates are loaded against them. The commission on Presidential Debates canned the second Presidential debate scheduled for October 15 after Trump said he did not like virtual format and would not participate. Separately, Trump confidant Lindsey Graham declined to take a Covid test demanded by his Democratic opponent in a senate race, resulting in the scrapping of their debate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/cannot-allow-us-to-become-a-socialist-nation-or-worse-says-trump-in-wh-rally/articleshow/78596365.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
October 11, 2020||India||'A 15-year-old influencer can now reach as many people as a newspaper but with none of the responsibility'||In The Social Dilemma, the documentary that’s kickstarted a very important conversation on social media’s harmful effects on society, Tristan Harris not only pulled some neat coin tricks but gave us some chilling insights on how we’re being manipulated by Big Tech. Harris, a former Google executive and currently president of the Center for Humane Technology, tells Rohit Saran and Neelam Raaj that he hopes the documentary will be a much-needed pause button that will give us time to think before we mindlessly clickThe documentary has been quite a hit across the world and in India too. The fact that big tech industry insiders “confessed” to the damage they’ve done, albeit unknowingly, has made people sit up and take notice. Has the response taken you by surprise? I heard that the film was briefly the number one Netflix film in India, and that was so surprising and exciting to me because this was intended to be a kind of a global silent spring or ‘An Inconvenient Truth’ moment for the tech industry. An Inconvenient Truth (Oscar-winning documentary) was about this global existential threat of climate change. And, much like climate change, this documentary is based on another kind of extractive economy. Instead of extracting oil from the ground, it is extracting attention from very fragile social fabric and minds, and when you have an extractive economy, that's built on commodifying, depleting and extracting from our minds and strip-mining cognition, you're going to get a kind of social climate change and this kind of digital fallout. It’s great to hear that the film was received well in India... Tristan Harris on social climate changeI hope the film creates a new shared conversation, a shared reality, a shared understanding about a common thing that has happened to us, which is a breakdown of our shared fabric of reality. I don't know the equivalent metaphor in India, but in the United States, I would say something like, we’ve been bombed by a business model. There's been kind of a Pearl Harbor attack that has leveled our cultural infrastructure. And, and I think that, again, not because of these evil tech engineers who wanted any of this to happen, but through a slow accruing of decisions. It’s not that the people that you saw in the film have all the answers but it's meant to catalyze a global conversation about what are the answers. Each country, whether it’s Myanmar or Brazil, is experiencing this very differently but the point is that we're all caught in it. Even those who disconnect from Facebook are still living in a country where everyone else is still on Facebook or WhatsApp and the votes and the election will still be determined by these forces. So we're all in this together in a sense. The documentary is clear that we need laws and regulations for social media. How do we go about it?In general, what we've seen is that when something like the GDPR (general data protection regulation) is passed in Europe, Facebook and other companies have to implement all of these changes to their platform. And then it becomes easier to turn that same set of data protections on for other countries, because now they can't say, well, we can't do that. And it really is about governments forcing them because they'll keep saying, Oh, we can't do that, that'll cost too much, or we could never afford that many content moderators. If you force them to do it, they will find a way to do it. Tristan Harris on regulating social mediaYou'd be surprised what people figure out when you finally impose the constraint. Obviously, it's better when those regulations start to align with each other because there is a shared conversation. And so I think that we need to get aligned on the issues. Since we've been talking about data protection, obviously, it's important. And while we do need better privacy and data protections that goes into limiting the models -- the behavioural, predictive voodoo doll avatar models that they can create of human beings -- we're going to also have to think more about changing their fundamental incentives so that they're just not operating on an extractive logic. One joke we used to say is, Facebook is like a priest in a confession booth, where they are listening to 2 billion people's confessions, and all their private thoughts, but then they also have a supercomputer next to them. And so as you're making confessions, they're actually making new predictions about the next confession you're going to make before you know you're going to make it and then they sell access to the confession booth to some third party to manipulate you based on that. Tristan Harris on FB ‘selling’ your confessionsAny talk of regulation is met with cries that freedom of speech is being infringed on. How does one deal with that?So if I were the tech companies, and I wanted the conversation on regulation not to happen, I would strategically move the entire conversation about regulation into the domain of freedom of speech, because I know that it would make it impossible for us to proceed because it's such a contentious topic. But I think there is a clear distinction between freedom of speech and freedom to reach. We can each have a right to say something to other people but do we have a god-given right to broadcast to millions of people without accountability. A 15-year-old influencer can now reach as many people as a big newspaper but with none of the same responsibilities as a newspaper or broadcaster. I mean, in general, the philosophical principle is, with great power comes great responsibility, and the greater the power, the greater the responsibility but what we've done In the way we've designed technology is that we decoupled power and responsibility. To use an example from the US, YouTube recommended a conspiracy theorist by the name of Alex Jones, who has this programme called Infowars, which is just making up things constantly. In fact, when there were the Sandy Hook shootings in the United States, he claimed that they were all crisis actors and parents who had literally lost their children's lives were being harassed by his audience, because he was spreading these things. So as an example, this person, his videos were recommended on YouTube 15 billion times! So if you think about that, that's more than the combined traffic of The Washington Post, The Times of India, Fox News, MSNBC, like all of these channels combined, because YouTube creates this aggregate mass broadcasting power, and there's no responsibility about what you say. Tristan Harris on freedom of speech & freedom to reachNot only are these platforms not accountable for the harms that they create, they don't even have transparency. We don't know how many users are kids who are using it in problematic or highly addicted ways, though I want to clarify here that addiction is one of the problems and it's not the main one. But unlike, say, an alcohol, or tobacco company who puts a product on store shelves but doesn't actually know which people are “addicted” or “underage, platforms like TikTok and YouTube do know how it is being used or that the user is underage. But what if the platforms were required to say, look, of all of our underage users, this is the kind of percentage that is using it in problematic ways. Instead of just reporting to a board of directors, they could be reporting these harms to a board of the people because they have to be democratically governed in the long run, and they have to be serving the public interest. We're never going to solve problems if they're just maximising for profit, and profit is directly tied to the mass manipulation of human behaviour and beliefs. So we have to also change the fundamental governance structure. I know that sounds like it'll never happen, or it sounds too big. But I think that this is the conversation that the film is forcing. if the business model is attention, then it's not about truth, it's just about what gets attention. And making up or exaggerating or distorting facts to serve political purposes is always going to be better for getting attention than delivering the truth. As Sandy (Parakilas) says in the film, ‘The truth is fairly boring’. Haven't the social media and search algorithms pushed fourth estate to follow the same social media model of clickbaits and page views?That’s a very good point and one which is not well underlined in the film. These platforms have undermined the fourth estate of democracy. But first let's go directly to another critique. Most people would say, well, hold on a second Tristan, weren’t television, radio and newspapers always competing for our attention? It's not just these technology platforms. It's not technology that's really the problem here, right? But look at the platforms through which television, radio and especially newspapers are competing, it is through social media. Social media has organised the game in terms of clickbait, so even the best newspapers in the world are having to succumb to this kind of clickbaitification. So one of the subtler effects we can add to the balance sheet of harms, is that it's ruined journalism. We have shorter attention spans, more rapidly published stories with less fact-checking. Tristan Harris on the curse called click standardTwitter has decentralised yellow journalism. So each of us are the yellow journalists who are incentivized to say in all caps, BREAKING: this thing just happened, or Trump or Modi said this. The faster you publish, or exaggerate a set of facts, the more rewards you get, the more likes and more followers and more boosting and you feel even better. And you can be fed all of that feedback in your own little echo chamber where you could be increasingly wrong, but you get all this positive feedback that you're right. And that is so subtle, but it has warped our entire media landscape, where we are really decoupled from reality. Of course, this is not an easy problem to solve, but we have to move away just like we moved away from the gold standard, where our entire economy is linked to physical gold, we have to move away from the click standard. And you know, I've often joked that if I were to write a book, it would be called The Click: The Mistake that Turned the World Upside Down. It is basically about who can get a human nervous system to emit a signal that leads to your finger pushing down. A panel led by Democrats has suggested breaking up Facebook and Google as one way of checking their monopoly power. What is your take?I'm not an expert on those things but I do think that many people have rightly pointed out that if you just break up Facebook and Google into let's say, 1,000 different entities that have the same economic mass manipulation incentives with the same advertising business model, you can still end up with still this great quagmire of mass distortion of culture. So, that's where the counter critique often comes in. I think we need common standards and ethical building codes just like we have for buildings. If you use the urban planning metaphor, right now, it's kind of the Wild West and whoever wants to build whatever form of environment does so and there are no rules so it kind of turns into Las Vegas, and everyone's doing the race at the bottom of the brainstem. We need urban planning to build a more livable and human digital environment since more and more of our life is actually taking place in this virtual digital world, especially in Covid times. What about WhatsApp? That doesn’t seem to have an advertising model and yet in India, fake news has led to a very real human cost before the pandemic and during it. But it didn’t find mention in the film.This is one of the critiques of the film. WhatsApp doesn’t have ads or feeds but the problem is that there has been a decentralization of trust and authority and more people are getting information from those around them. The psychology is that if lots of other people are saying this is true -- group think or social proof -- then I start thinking it is true. You can create a kind of surround sound container and that’s also based on the hacking of human vulnerabilities except in this case, it’s not an advertiser but our organic practices. For instance on Covid, I think I am not an expert so I won’t be sharing information on the disease but in a world where everyone feels compelled to share information first, we decentralised the basis of who is sharing, who is speaking to us. And even if you put limits on forwarding, there's still a viral epidemiological rate for the spread of misinformation.And each of us are the carriers of the virus. And then you have super spreaders. You have those certain people that just are constantly sharing links and then wherever they go, they're shedding biases. And so instead of shedding the virus, they're shedding biases into everyone else around them. And I think that's a helpful way to think about the metaphors that we need here, because it is about epidemiology, but information epidemiology. Tristan Harris on fake news super spreadersImagine we never had WhatsApp, and people chatted on video calls, I don’t think we would have seen this mass breakdown of shared realities because people who are yelling crazy things would appear crazy to us and we would be able to use our own native trust interpretation. And though it doesn’t have a business model, WhatsApp is still part of the infrastructure. So for example, just yesterday someone messaged me on WhatsApp, then suddenly all of their posts showed to me on Facebook or Instagram because they're building a link between the two. And so eventually it all links together, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp, and they're wiring them all together to make it harder to break them up. Are you worried about the forthcoming US elections or you think there are enough safeguards in place? Just to zoom out, Facebook manages something like 80 elections per year around the world. Think about how many people that they have on staff, and how many of those even speak the languages of the countries that they're in. From the film and other news stories, we know about Myanmar and the Rohingya killings. That's an example of digital colonialism -- they rush into a country, they do a deal with a telco provider, so that when people get a phone, they get a Facebook account. In the case of Myanmar, the country was not even online at all so they had no internet literacy. So then you have people rushing into a new infrastructure, sharing information wildly without any of the knowledge about whether a website is authoritative or not. What happened in Myanmar is happening in dozens of other countries. Ethiopia is one of the countries that's on people's watch as a kind of Myanmar number two. There's something like six different major tribal languages there. And Facebook doesn't have moderators for all those languages, obviously. And you have people sharing whatever hysteria and misinformation that they want. Tristan Harris on FB’s influence on electionsI believe it's the case that Facebook's civic integrity team is actually funded by their anti-trust budget, meaning that their efforts to do integrity work on these different countries is backed by their need to protect themselves from government anti-trust actions. I think of it like a stove where you have like 200 countries and you have all these different stovetop pots with boiling milk. Suddenly, a bunch of them bubble up and start overflowing. And that's when you've got a major civic conflict situation going on. But then by the time you rush in there, you only have so many resources, so many cooks that can try to go in and fix these things. So ask yourself, is this the structure of a system that can protect any election? You know the largest countries who can speak the loudest and have the largest resources and the largest press are the ones that get the most attention. So does Facebook have a US election war room that they're working eagerly to try to protect that election? Absolutely. Are they trying to change the ad policies? Yes. Are we, though, 10 years into a mass polarization, mass breakdown of truth, mass conflict, escalating environment on Facebook in the United States? Yes. And most of the damage has already been done, which is why I'm actually excited about The Social Dilemma as a kind of a pause button. Because if we all become aware that this is what's happening, we can pause it and say, let's go back and be more skeptical of what we believe in. What about better and kinder social networks emerging?For many years, people would say, why don't you just start another social network, you know? And we would say, well, of course, that's not going to work because you're going to have the Network Effect with the existing monopolies sucking all the attention into Facebook and YouTube, et cetera.But now we’re seeing some activity. Between Marco Polo, Telepath and Clubhouse, there are new social networks who are trying to do things differently. And before this film, they would have never been able to attract a critical mass of people because people would say, well, there's no problem. Why would I want to switch? I like my Facebook account or I like my WhatsApp account. And I think this is the first time that there may be hope that other emerging platforms could also succeed. And I've never expected that to happen. And it's actually really heartening because I think we need new blood, new culture, new young people, new natives who are trying to figure out how we can make this work better and hopefully some will come from India. Social Media’s profit tied to manipulation of human behaviour: Tristan Harris of The Social Dilemma||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-15-year-old-influencer-can-now-reach-as-many-people-as-a-newspaper-but-with-none-of-the-responsibility/articleshow/78596272.cms||Rohit Saran
October 11, 2020||Goa||A song not to give up the fight, this World Mental Health Day||On the occasion of World Mental Health Day, singer- songwriter, Varun Carvalho penned down a song to inspire people not to give up the fight. He tells us, “There are times in our lives, when we are all alone and we feel we can’t go on; it is in these times that but need to be strong and we have to keep the fight on.” He adds, “When I was young, I had a tough childhood, I used to stammer and as a result used to get bullied. There were times when I got fed up and wanted to give up but my mother used to always tell me, ‘Son, Don’t Give It Up.’ The words my mother said stuck in my head and inspired me to rise up and fight through life.”  The lyrics of the song are inspirational – it calls out to those who feel frightened, alone and broken, it tells them that it is their struggle, their story, their victory and their legacy and urges them not to give up. The song was collaborated with Rousseau Fernandes, on the bass.  Varun adds, “The tune, Don’t Give It Up, was always in my head right from my childhood. The lyrics are inspired a lot by my mother who herself had to fight through life after my dad died young. She had to go through difficult times, but she fought through life inspiring me to keep fighting and not to give it up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-song-not-to-give-up-the-fight-this-world-mental-health-day/articleshow/78596738.cms||Kimberly Colaco
October 11, 2020||World||'I am feeling great,' Trump tells supporters at White House||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump appeared maskless before hundreds of supporters on Saturday for his first public event since contracting Covid-19, declaring from the White House balcony: "I am feeling great." "I want you to know our nation is going to defeat this terrible China virus," Trump told the cheering crowd of hundreds below, most wearing masks but with very little social distancing at the outdoor event. "It's going to disappear, it is disappearing," Trump said of the virus, which has killed more than 210,000 Americans and severely dented his chances of winning a second term on November 3. "Get out and vote -- and I love you," Trump told the crowd -- a sea of red "MAGA" hats -- who chanted back "Four more years" throughout his 18-minute, law-and-order themed speech. Pulled off the campaign trail after testing positive for Covid-19 nine days ago, Trump has been counting the days until he can get back out. Saturday's campaign-style event at the White House set the stage for his first rally Monday in the critical swing state of Florida -- an event slammed as "reckless" by Biden, in light of concerns the president might still be contagious. Undeterred, the Trump campaign announced two more rallies next week, in battleground Pennsylvania Tuesday and in Iowa on Wednesday. Trump's biggest liability -- overwhelming public dissatisfaction over his handling of the pandemic -- has returned as the headline issue of the campaign thanks to his own infection, with cases again on the rise nationwide. Trailing his Democratic rival Joe Biden by close to 10 points in national polls, Trump insists the pollsters are wrong, and is seeking to reboot his campaign less than four weeks from Election Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/i-am-feeling-great-trump-tells-supporters-at-white-house/articleshow/78596702.cms||---
October 11, 2020||World||'I am feeling great,' Trump tells supporters at White House||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump appeared maskless before hundreds of supporters on Saturday for his first public event since contracting Covid-19, declaring from the White House balcony: "I am feeling great." "I want you to know our nation is going to defeat this terrible China virus," Trump told the cheering crowd of hundreds below, most wearing masks but with very little social distancing at the outdoor event. "It's going to disappear, it is disappearing," Trump said of the virus, which has killed more than 210,000 Americans and severely dented his chances of winning a second term on November 3. "Get out and vote -- and I love you," Trump told the crowd -- a sea of red "MAGA" hats -- who chanted back "Four more years" throughout his 18-minute, law-and-order themed speech. Pulled off the campaign trail after testing positive for Covid-19 nine days ago, Trump has been counting the days until he can get back out. Saturday's campaign-style event at the White House set the stage for his first rally Monday in the critical swing state of Florida -- an event slammed as "reckless" by Biden, in light of concerns the president might still be contagious. Undeterred, the Trump campaign announced two more rallies next week, in battleground Pennsylvania Tuesday and in Iowa on Wednesday. Trump's biggest liability -- overwhelming public dissatisfaction over his handling of the pandemic -- has returned as the headline issue of the campaign thanks to his own infection, with cases again on the rise nationwide. Trailing his Democratic rival Joe Biden by close to 10 points in national polls, Trump insists the pollsters are wrong, and is seeking to reboot his campaign less than four weeks from Election Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/i-am-feeling-great-trump-tells-supporters-at-white-house/articleshow/78596833.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Business||Loan repayment moratorium can’t be extended: RBI in Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Reserve Bank of India on Saturday filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court rejecting the demand of various sectors, including real estate, for extension of loan repayment moratorium that was granted from March 1 till August 31 citing pandemic-caused depressed economic activity. It also requested the SC to vacate its earlier order putting a blanket ban on lenders from declaring defaulting loan accounts as NPA, thus freezing initiation of recovery proceedings. “If the stay is not lifted immediately, it shall have huge implications for the banking system, apart from undermining the regulatory mandate of the RBI,” it said. RBI’s move came hours after the Centre said it would not be possible to add to the already announced financial relief packages and urged the court against getting into sector-specific financial assistance. The regulator for banks and non-bank finance companies told the SC that the moratorium was an immediate regulatory measure to tackle an urgent situation and provide reprieve to borrowers affected by the pandemic, but without compromising the vitals of the financial system. “It entails significant costs to the lenders and a balance needs to be maintained in the overall consideration,” it said. Objecting to any extension of the six-month moratorium, the banking regulator said, “A long moratorium exceeding six months can also impact credit behaviour of borrowers and increase the risks of delinquencies post resumption of scheduled payments. It may result in vitiating the overall credit discipline which will have a debilitating impact on the process of credit creation in the economy. It will be the small borrowers which may end up bearing the brunt of the impact as their access to formal lending channels is critically dependent on the credit culture.” Watch Can’t extend loan repayment moratorium: RBI to SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/loan-repayment-moratorium-cant-be-extended-rbi-in-supreme-court/articleshow/78597527.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 11, 2020||India||Government's Rs 40,000 crore bet on cleaner coal||NEW DELHI: The Modi government has put a Rs 40,000 crore bet on new technologies to decarbonise India’s vast reserves of Black Diamond as the world’s second-largest coal consumer continues to draw flak from climate activists and renewables chip away at demand from thermal power stations. In its latest initiative to find cleaner use for coal, state-run behemoth Coal India and its subsidiaries are in the process of setting up five projects to make methanol, or methyl alcohol, from coal using what is commonly known as CTL (coal-to-liquid) technology. Each of these projects is estimated to cost approximately Rs 6,000 crore. While CTL is the latest technology being deployed, the bid to find cleaner use for coal was launched with a Rs 13,000-crore coal-to-gas, or coal gasification, project in Angul district of Odisha. The gas produced from coal will be used for making urea at the Talcher fertiliser plant in the district. Coal India executives said 3-4 more such projects have been identified. “Coal India has already invited bids for the first project at Dankuni coal complex in West Bengal. PDIL (Projects & Development India Ltd) is conducting the pre-feasibility study for four others. We expect the reports to be ready by January-end,” a top coal ministry official told TOI. Methanol is an excellent energy carrier, making it ideal for lacing motor fuels up to 15%, which improves combustion and contributes towards reducing the country’s coil imports. Methanol also has wide industrial applications and is the building block for a range of everyday products — from plastics to synthetic yarns for making textiles. Bengal will have the second coal-to-methanol plant at Sonapur near Asansol. The others will be set up in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Jharkhand. Eastern Coalfields will supply coal for the Asansol project, South Eastern Coalfields the Chhattisgarh plant and Central Coalfields the Jharkhand plant. These projects will consume almost 7.5 million tonne per annum of coal, the official said. The projects will be implemented through the BOO (build, own, operate) model and the operator would fund, own and lease the plant as well as store the product. CIL and its subsidiaries will provide land, power and water. Government think-tank Niti Ayog has been pushing for developing a methanol economy as one of the options to reduce India’s carbon footprint in line with the Paris climate commitment and dependence on oil imports. But for Coal India, finding cleaner use for coal may become imperative for survival as thermal power plants, the main consumers, lose ground to renewable projects. The share of renewables, including large hydel projects, in the country’s installed generation capacity has risen to 36.2% as of March 2020. Watch Government bets Rs 40,000 crore on cleaner coal, new tech||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/governments-rs-40000-crore-bet-on-cleaner-coal/articleshow/78597629.cms||Sanjay Dutta
October 11, 2020||India||Covid-19: India second after US to top 7 million cases; last 1 million rise in 13 days||NEW DELHI: India became the second country after the US to cross seven million confirmed Covid-19 cases on Saturday. It also recorded its six millionth recovery on the day and the ninth consecutive day of decline in active cases. Daily cases have remained below the 80,000 mark for the eighth consecutive day. On Saturday India recorded 74,205 cases (with data for Jammu and Kashmir yet to come in at the time of going to press) while active cases remained below nine lakh for the second consecutive day. Saturday also marked eight consecutive days of deaths remaining below the 1,000-mark. With 917 fresh casualties on Saturday — the lowest in the last five days — India’s cumulative toll reached 108,305 deaths so far. Among states, Kerala reported the highest number of cases on Saturday adding 11,755 new cases. Maharashtra reported 11,416 fresh cases while Karnataka added 10,513 cases, these being the three states that reported 10,000 plus cases on Saturday. Orissa reported its 1,000th Covid death on Saturday, the sixteenth state to cross this mark. With 978 deaths reported so far, Kerala’s toll is set to breach a 1,000 deaths soon. Apart from Kerala, Bihar, Assam and Jharkhand are the only large states that have reported less than 1,000 deaths so far. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news While daily cases in Kerala continue to grow, the situation is improving in Maharashtra, the state that has so far reported the highest number of confirmed cases as well as fatalities. For the eighth day in a row, it reported less than 15,000 cases. So far, four states have reported over half a million Covid-19 cases. Among them, daily cases have remained above 10,000 in Maharashtra and Karnataka, while Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have managed to reduce their daily case additions to just over 5,000. With three deaths for every 100 infections, the case fatality rate (CFR) is highest in Punjab. The CFR for both Gujarat and Maharashtra is between 2-3% while for all other states the fatality rate has remained below 2% and had dropped to 1.5% nationally. Watch Covid-19: India second after US to cross 7 million cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-second-after-us-to-top-7-million-cases-last-1-million-rise-in-13-days/articleshow/78597646.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||Farm trade deficit reversed, export of essentials up 43%||NEW DELHI: Recording a balance of agri trade in India’s favour despite the Covid-19 situation, the country’s export of essential agricultural commodities for the April-September period this year has increased by 43% to Rs 53,626 crore as compared to Rs 37,397 crore in the same period last year. The balance of trade during April-September has been significantly positive at Rs 9,002 crore as against a trade deficit of Rs 2,133 crore during the same period in 2019, preliminary data released by the agriculture ministry on Saturday shows. The year-on-year figure may make the data more impressive as against sequential improvememts this year. The latest available figures, received from customs, show that major essential agri commodities which pushed exports during the first two quarters of the current financial year include wheat (206% increase), non-basmati rice (105%), refined sugar (104%), groundnut (35%), onion (17%) and basmati rice (13%). In value terms, basmati rice (Rs 16,105 crore) and non-basmati rice (Rs 14,676 crore) together accounted for over 57% of India’s export of essential agri commodities during April-September this year. During this period, the country also exported onions worth Rs 2,087 crore before the imposition of Centre’s export ban. Even during the first quarter (April-June), basmati rice tops the list of exported farm items in value terms (Rs 8,591 crore). But, it was the export of non-Basmati rice that contributed the highest rise (Rs 2,392 crore) out of total increase of Rs 4,818 crore of agri export compared to 2019 Q1. During the first quarter, which saw 68 days of lockdown, India had recorded an increase of 23% in export of essential agri commodities (foodgrains, pulses, oilseeds, refined oil, sugar, fruits and vegetables) compared to 2019 Q1. Though the overall farm sector trade comprises export of livestock (buffalo and other meat) and marine products, the government has, so far, released data of only essential commodities for Q2. Actual performance of the farm sector trade in April-September would be known only after getting details of meat and marine products’ export which had reported substantial decline during Q1 of the current financial year due to disruption in supply chains. Among essential agri-products, tea and potato reported decline of 13% each in their export during April-September this year as compared to the corresponding period in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-trade-deficit-reversed-export-of-essentials-up-43/articleshow/78597711.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 11, 2020||India||Mega government plan for rural tap water supply||NEW DELHI: Setting itself an ambitious target, the government plans to boost the coverage of tap water connections in villages by a whopping one-and-a-half times (155%) by next year in comparison to the current financial year. This will be the biggest jump under the Jal Jeevan Mission, which aims to ensure universal drinking tap water connection to every rural household by 2024. According to the Jal Shakti ministry, the target is to ensure approximately 4.1 crore village households get tap water connections during this year and 10.4 crore households by the next year. Eventually the aim will be to extend this coverage to nearly 19 crore households in the next four years. As per the plan, all rural households in four states and UTs — Bihar, Goa, Telangana and Puducherry — will get functional tap water connections next year and another five — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Sikkim and Ladakh — will achieve this goal in 2022. A maximum of 12 states and UTs including Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand will be covered in 2023. All households in the last lot of 11 states and UTs including Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan and West Bengal will get tap water connections in 2024. A status document of last month shows that only 46,767 villages, 351 blocks and nine districts had 100% functional household tap water connections in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mega-government-plan-for-rural-tap-water-supply/articleshow/78597794.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||86% of households now want live-in help: Survey||NEW DELHI: With domestic workers still one of the worst affected among informal workers by the ongoing pandemic, the new normal is clearly not going to be easy. A survey to gather feedback for realigning skill programmes to the new needs by the Domestic Workers Sector Skill Council an authorised body of the ministry of skill development shows that around 86% of the households they reached out to were more willing to employing live-in workers, especially in the metropolitan cities and 62.5% prefer trained domestic workers while willing to pay them higher salaries. The findings also reflect that 91% of the households look for high hygiene standards in their home caregivers especially for child care and elderly care. These findings are part of a survey of 200 households that was carried out in June. Feedback was additionally sought from placement agencies to understand what the employers were seeking. The same trends have emerged in another quick outreach by DWSSC covering 150 households in September end. The Council has been reaching out households through its database of stakeholders. The ministry of skills and DWSSC are planning to carry out a larger survey around November end to map the problems faced by the workers. They assume that many of the migrant workers including domestic workers who may have gone to their villages during lockdown will return to the cities around November and that will be a good time capture the challenges to plan the way forward. DWSSC chairman Amod Kanth shared that one interesting thing they found during the survey was that 81% households wanted to motivate and provide time to their existing house helps for classroom training and out of that 72% was ready to involve their workers in online training on Covid-19. "Overall, the families pointed out that Covid -19 has brought a sea change in the preferences of households while hiring a domestic worker as they are now more interested in either retaining their current ones or hire only those who display overall high hygiene standards and knowledge," he added. To bridge the gap between the employer and the domestic workers DWSSC has created an easy to understand Covid-19 guidelines with pictorial representations to sensitise domestic workers about the protocols to follow when they go to their workplaces and clients. To test this module the Council has over the last fortnight started holding workshops in collaboration with RWAs in Delhi and as restrictions are easing they plan to take the message to residential areas and housing societies in other cities. In addition to this, all the DWSSC National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) aligned job roles of housekeeping and caregiving will have a small module on Covid-19 protocols and guidelines. That the going has been very tough for domestic workers across the globe emerges in data released as part of a recent UN Women report that shows that globally, the estimated proportion of domestic workers at higher risk of experiencing job losses or a reduction in work hours and earnings due to lockdown measures and lack of social security registration rose from 49.3% to 72.3% between March and June. Of this affected group, two thirds were women, a pattern consistent across all regions. In South Asia 87% domestic workers were significantly impacted due to the pandemic and this includes 50% women and 37% men. There are over 67 million domestic workers worldwide, 75% of whom are employed informally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/86-of-households-now-want-live-in-help-survey/articleshow/78597844.cms||Ambika Pandit
October 11, 2020||Business||More time for Air India staff to opt for no-pay leave, 40% salary cut||NEW DELHI: Air India has again extended the deadline for its permanent employees to opt for its twin schemes of leave without pay (LWP) and shorter working week where, except for pilots and cabin crew, one can work three days a week at 60% pay. Now employees can avail of these schemes till March 31, 2021. “LWP scheme was introduced (on) July 14, 2020, and the same was extended up to September 30. It has now been decided to further extend the last date for applying under the above scheme till March 31, 2021,” a staff notice issued on Friday by AI general manager (industrial relations) Meenakshi Kashyap said. AI has 13,000 permanent employees with a monthly wage bill of Rs 230 crore. “So far about 60 employees have taken LWP, leading to a reduction of Rs 7 crore annually from the wage bill,” said a senior AI official. Watch Covid-19 effect: More time for Air India staff to opt for no-pay leave, 40% salary cut||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/more-time-for-air-india-staff-to-opt-for-no-pay-leave-40-salary-cut/articleshow/78597849.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 11, 2020||Business||India will be 3rd-largest economy by 2050: Lancet||NEW DELHI: India is likely to overtake Japan as the third largest economy in the world by 2050 and continue in that position till 2100, according to a study published in the medical journal Lancet. The study constructed scenarios for GDP using the working age population of countries. It also assessed potential economic and geopolitical effects of future demographic shifts. The study based 2017 as the reference when India was the seventh largest economy in the world, and forecast that India will emerge as the fourth largest economy by 2030 behind USA, China, Japan and by 2050 it will go onto the third spot and retain it till 2100. The study published in July plotted the forecasted number of working-age individuals (aged 20–64 years) for the ten largest countries in 2017, in the reference scenario. It said that huge declines in the number of workers were forecasted in China and India. By 2100, India was forecasted to still have the largest working-age population in the world, followed by Nigeria, China, and the USA. The study showed that China would rise to the top in 2035 in the reference scenario for GDP, but would be superseded by the USA again in 2098 as population decline curtailed economic growth. Other countries bolstered by immigration that rose up in the global rankings by GDP were Australia and Israel. Despite huge declines in population forecasted this century, Japan remained the fourth-largest economy in 2100, according to the study on fertility, mortality, migration and population scenarios for 195 countries from 2017 to 2100. India had set itself a target of being a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25 but the Covid-19 pandemic has stalled the march towards that target. Experts say that India needs to grow at a faster clip to help it reduce poverty and raise the living standards. Watch India will be 3rd-largest economy by 2050, says Lancet study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-will-be-3rd-largest-economy-by-2050-lancet/articleshow/78597871.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||Government draws up projects to showcase at India@75||NEW DELHI: The government has started preparations for projects and programmes which can be dedicated to the nation around August 15, 2022 when India celebrates 75 years of its independence. The projects will be put under the head of “India@75 package”. The Prime Minister’s Office has sought details from infrastructure and economic affairs ministries by Friday, two years in advance, so that none of the listed projects miss any deadline. To make the basket bigger, the PMO has said projects which are expected to be completed in the second half of 2022 may be expedited, to the extent possible, so as to advance completion by August 15, 2022. The message of expediting projects will also lead to keen monitoring, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-draws-up-projects-to-showcase-at-india75/articleshow/78597883.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 11, 2020||India||Karnataka opposes Telangana demand on Krishna tribunal||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government took strong objection on Saturday to Telangana’s demand for the setting up of another tribunal for allocation of Krishna river water among the riparian states. State water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi spoke to his counterpart in the Union government, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, urging the Centre not to entertain Telangana’s “illogical” demand. “A tribunal already allocated Krishna water among riparian states way back in 2013. Seeking another tribunal to decide on a matter which has already been decided is without any logic and unacceptable,” Jarkiholi told Shekhawat. The Telangana government has put forth the demand owing to its dispute with Andhra Pradesh over sharing of Krishna water. “It (the matter) is for them to resolve between themselves. Whatever allocation the tribunal made to then unified Andhra Pradesh should be shared by both and they shouldn’t seek water from other states’ shares. Even the SC has said so. The apex court has also dismissed petitions seeking a direction to the Centre to set up a new tribunal,” Jarkiholi said. The minister also discussed the Goa government’s objection to the Kalasa-Banduri project with Shekhawat. The Goa government recently filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court accusing Karnataka of diverting Mahadayi water to the Malaprabha river, violating the latter’s order. “It’s ridiculous on the part of Goa to go to court when the tribunal verdict has come into force and the Mahadayi dispute has reached a logical end,” Jarkiholi said, adding that Karnataka will counter Goa efficiently in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-opposes-telangana-demand-on-krishna-tribunal/articleshow/78597893.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||Lawyer for Nirbhaya rapists to represent Hathras accused||AGRA: Legal counsel for the Nirbhaya rapists, AP Singh, has taken on the case to defend the four men accused in the Hathras gangrape and murder case. Up against him will be Nirbhaya’s lawyer, Seema Kushwaha, reports Anuja Jaiswal. “It was a formal visit. I had signed a vakalatnama earlier with them. I visited the crime spot as well,” he told TOI. Kushwaha had got the vakalatnama signed by the victim’s family last Sunday, TOI had reported. “The girl’s family has been misled and provoked by people engaging in caste politics … There is no caste-related divide in the village,” he said. Former Union minister and national president of the Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha, Manvendra Singh, accompanied Singh on the visit. Singh has often been in the news for his controversial remarks. He had blamed Nirbhaya’s lifestyle for the gangrape, and claimed that he would have “burnt his daughter” if she was out with a man at night. Kushwaha, whose case had led to the conviction of the Nirbhaya rapists, said, “This is not about a girl from a particular community. There are many who are raped and killed every day. Standing in support of rapists is a serious issue. It is a blot in our country.” She told TOI, “The atmosphere in the village is not conducive to the mental well-being of the family... The upper caste community, to which the four accused belong, are exerting pressure and organising panchayats to defend the suspects arrested in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lawyer-for-nirbhaya-rapists-to-represent-hathras-accused/articleshow/78597897.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||Doctor stays with Hathras family, branded Naxal||AGRA: On Saturday, posts that a “Naxalite” woman had been staying with the Hathras rape victim’s family and “instigating” them went viral with the hashtag #NaxaliteBhabhi. The “evidence” cited was a set of two videos in which she was speaking to a joint CPM-CPI delegation at the victim’s house. The woman, Dr Rajkumari Bansal, 41, lives in Jabalpur and is a lecturer at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College’s pharmacology department. She told TOI that she had gone to Hathras on October 4 to meet the family and returned to Jabalpur on October 6. “I went to express my solidarity. I wanted to come back the next day, but the family asked me to stay. How can someone be termed ‘Naxalite’ without evidence?” Dr Bansal said The posts also claimed that the SIT investigating the Hathras case had been looking for her. But a senior cop told TOI that an SIT is formed with a specified mandate. In this case, it is to investigate the role of the police in handling the case. While no police officer commented on any investigation into the alleged Naxalite links, they confirmed they are in touch with their counterparts in Jabalpur to verify her antecedents. In the videos, Dr Bansal is seen speaking to the joint CPM-CPI delegation that had visited the family on Tuesday. Sitaram Yechury is heard saying, “This is about seeking justice,” to which she agrees and asks, “How can someone be cremated that late at night? This could happen to anyone. The administration should not get used to this.” In another video clip, she is seen saying, “I have come here because of humanity … I am not related to the family… I want to fight for them.” So why was she visiting them? “I don’t have any political affiliation … I come from a poor family and understand how the system works to suppress the weak … When I read about the cremation, I was shaken. No mediaperson or politician was being allowed to meet the family, so I thought maybe I’d try meeting them as a common citizen,” she told TOI. Police had also checked her identity when she reached the village, Dr Bansal added. Meanwhile, the Dalit girl’s family said that they are tired of fighting rumours. The victim’s sister-in-law said, “There are so many people coming here after knowing what happened. That doesn’t mean they should be called names and accused of conspiring. We just want justice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doctor-stays-with-hathras-family-branded-naxal/articleshow/78597906.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 11, 2020||India||ED to move court for ‘PFI’ men’s custody||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is all set to approach a Mathura court next week to seek remand of the four youths arrested by Mathura police for conspiracy to trigger violent agitation on Hathras incident, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. The four, linked to the Popular Front of India (PFI), were arrested on October 5. They were booked for sedition, raising funds for the purpose of committing a terrorist act under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and spreading enmity between religions. Officials said that they had received all the documents and evidence related to the case. An ED official privy to the probe said that the FIR includes Section 153A of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The money collected by committing crime under this section is liable to be confiscated, he added. “We will question the four and then take a final call on registering a case,” said another official. ED also said that it is trying to trace the details of the website — ‘Justice for Hathras’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-to-move-court-for-pfi-mens-custody/articleshow/78597914.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 11, 2020||India||India’s health budget fourth lowest in world: Oxfam||NEW DELHI: Afghanistan and India set aside the same share for health in their budgets, 4%, just above a quarter of the recommended spending and one-third of what the second poorest country in the world, Burundi, did. And that may have affected how far people were shielded from the Covid-19 outbreak, the latest ‘Commitment to Reducing Inequality Index 2020’ by international charity Oxfam says. Globally, the report found, only 26 of the 158 countries surveyed were spending the recommended 15% of their budgets on health. “Nigeria, Bahrain and India, (the last of) which is currently experiencing the world’s fastest-growing outbreak of Covid-19, were among the world’s worst performing countries in tackling inequality going into the pandemic,” the Oxfam statement said. The survey data show India spent less than 4% of its budget on health and ranked 155th on the health spending index. “Its health budget is the fourth lowest in the world. Just half of its population have access to even the most essential health services,” the report said. According to the World Bank database, India was the 13th lowest (among 206 for which data was available) in terms of the percentage of total government expenditure that went to health in 2017. It puts the figure for India at 3.4%. Burundi spent 8.5% of its total government budget on health in the same year. For perspective, the average for high income countries was 18.6%, for lower middle income (the group to which India belongs) 5.1%. Japan spent 23.6% of the government budget on health. The trend is consistent across South Asia — Pakistan spent just above 4% of its budget on health, Nepal and Bangladesh spent 5%, according to the Oxfam report. “This is particularly damaging when just half of India’s population (55%) has access to even the most essential services, and more than 70% of health spending is being met from household budgets (one of the highest levels in the world). This has left the country woefully ill-prepared to deal with the coronavirus pandemic,” the report said. For the economic fallout of the pandemic, India was even worse prepared. “India, which has weak labour rights and a high incidence of vulnerable employment (about 75%), is eighth from the bottom,” the report said. India and Haiti are the only countries outside Africa in the bottom 10. In both Bangladesh and Pakistan, 57% of the workers are vulnerable — which takes into account wages, rights, conditions of work. In Nepal, it’s a little higher than India, at 79%. “Most workers earn less than half of the minimum wage; 71% do not have any written job contract and 54% do not get paid leave. Only about 10% of the workforce in India is formal, with safe working conditions and social security,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-health-budget-fourth-lowest-in-world-oxfam/articleshow/78597933.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
October 11, 2020||India||Congress’s farm laws may not override those of Centre||NEW DELHI: As Congress weighs options to neutralise the controversial central farm laws, it emerges that the party-ruled states may desist from measures which may set off a confrontation with the BJP-led Centre. It is learnt that Punjab and Chhattisgarh may bring their own bills which may not directly override the three central farm laws. But they may contain clauses for protection of Mandis, mandatory purchase at MSP and penal clause for violations among others, to check the “worrying” provisions of the recently promulgated Central laws. Sources in the two states said legal experts are being consulted to explore the options available and the initial feedback is that states can bring “protection for farmers” with measures relating to “subjects mentioned in the State and concurrent lists” which will prevail over the Centre’s provisions but will be legally sound. This thinking goes against the AICC’s suggestion to party-ruled states that they amend the central laws with state bills under Article 254(2). While such bills passed by state assemblies would require the assent of the President and would thus be blocked by the BJP-led Centre, Congress believes it will help the party make a strong political statement with the farmers by showing its opposition as implacable. But sources in Punjab and Chhattisgarh said AICC’s suggestion via a model bill was just an option among others. “We would like to institute an Act that will undo the dangers posed by the central farm laws without being legally vulnerable or susceptible to being blocked by the Modi government,” an informed source said in Punjab while the same sentiment was echoed by a key official in Chhattisgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congresss-farm-laws-may-not-override-those-of-centre/articleshow/78597952.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
October 11, 2020||India||‘Absence of disabled people in panel led to draft NLEAP errors’||NEW DELHI: The draft National List of Essential Assistive Products (NLEAP) prepared by the ICMR and put out for public comments is riddled with mistakes, which according to sector experts was because the drafting committee did not include a single person with disability or persons from the disability sector. Not only does the document get the definition of blindness, low vision and hearing impairment wrong, the document is not even accessible to the blind despite the June 15, 2019, deadline for web accessibility for all government websites and documents. The NLEAP document put up for comments uses obsolete definitions instead of using the definitions in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPWD) Act 2016 for blindness, low vision and hearing impairment. “Such blatant disregard to RPDA 2016 by an apex institute for research is unexplainable. More so, since both secretary, ICMR and the director general of health services were part of the committee finalising guidelines for evaluation and procedure for certification of various specified disabilities which were gazetted January 4, 2018,” stated the group Doctors with Disabilities (DwD) in their letter to the director general of ICMR, Dr Balram Bhargava. DwD welcomed the move to include assistive products under the list of health products through the notification on February 11 according to which, medical professional are expected to prescribe assistive devices as per medical requirements. However, they expressed disappointment with the way ICMR was excluding the disability sector and doctors with disabilities in particular from expert committees constituted to look into the the issues. “The exclusion of real experts and the disability sector is the reason why the NLEAP document has unacceptable levels of mistakes,” stated Dr Satendra Singh of DwD. The letter pointed out that before ICMR undertook the massive exercise of finalising these assistive technologies, there was a need to first develop and endorse national standards to define the minimum quality standard required for all the selected assistive products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/absence-of-disabled-people-in-panel-led-to-draft-nleap-errors/articleshow/78597954.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Rajkot||Dalit man thrashed over suspicion of cow theft||RAJKOT: In a grim reminder of Una Dalit flogging incident of 2016, a 24-year-old Dalit man was brutally beaten up by three persons when he was transporting a cow carcass in rickshaw carriage in Ruda Transport Nagar locality of Rajkot on Friday. Police said that the assailants suspected that the victim Bhavesh Makwana had killed a cow and attacked him. Makwana suffered fractures in one hand and one leg. The accused named by Makwana in his complaint include Bhala and Murli. He could not identify one other person who had attacked him. According to police, the accused attacked Makwana, a resident of Sanosara village with bats and iron pipes while the latter was transporting a dead cow in a rickshaw carriage. Talking to TOI Makwana said, “After the accused beat me up, two of them with help of other villagers took me to a hospital. Later, the accused came to see if I was filing a police case or is there a chance to settlement.” He alleged that the assailants had hurled caste-based slurs at him while beating him up. Makwana added that he drives a rickshaw for a living. “I needed money for shrimant (baby shower) of my wife, so I agreed to dispose of a cow carcass for the first time in my life. I was offered Rs 200 for the job,” he said. “I want justice and for that I have demanded police to take strict action against the accused. They will never think of beating other members of my community in the future,” said Makwana. The victim lives with his father and four siblings. According to him, the accused had also recorded a video in which he had repeatedly said that he was told to dispose of a dead cow not was not stealing a live one. M C Vala police inspector of Kuvadva road police station said, “The accused belong to Bharwad community and are from victim’s village Sanosara. They beat Makwana over suspicion that he was stealing the cow. But later they realized that he was transporting a dead cow, so they took injured Makwana to a nearby private hospital.” The private hospital looking to the seriousness of the assault referred Makwana to Rajkot civil hospital. The police at the civil hospital informed Kuvadva road police about the incident, following which an FIR was registered on Saturday morning. In his complaint, Makwana said that the cow had been lying dead for the past two days in Ruda Transport Nagar and that one Dharmesh Parmar from Sakheda village had asked him to take it away in his rickshaw carriage. The accused have been booked under sections 325 (causing hurt), 326 (causing injury with a weapon) and 114 of Indian Penal Code and Atrocity Act. The police have launched a manhunt for the accused who are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dalit-man-thrashed-over-suspicion-of-cow-theft/articleshow/78597552.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Surat||IMA to provide medico-legal support to doctors||SURAT: With an aim to protect doctors and healthcare workers from attacks and abuses, the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Surat chapter has formed rapid action force (RAF) involving medico-legal experts. Dr Vinesh Shah, a medico-legal expert, has been appointed as the chairman of the RAF committee set up by the IMA-Surat on Saturday. IMA-office bearers stated that the doctors and healthcare staff had come under attack several times in the initial months of lockdown. Talking with TOI, Dr Shah, said, “This is first time that the IMA has formed such a force to protect the doctors. We will provide legal support to the doctors who become target of violence by patients’ kin. There will be separate team of advocates to deal with such cases.” Immediate past president of IMA Surat, Dr Parul Vadgama told TOI, “Morale of the medical and allied healthcare workers is vital to fight the pandemic and such assaults demoralize the community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ima-to-provide-medico-legal-support-to-doctors/articleshow/78597525.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Surat||Man molests woman with learning disability, held||SURAT: Police arrested a textile broker for allegedly molesting a woman with learning disability on a public road near Bhavani Mata Temple in Salabatpura on Friday. Police arrested Mukesh Jain, a resident of Pandesara, for allegedly molesting the 40-year-old woman. The complaint was lodged by the woman’s husband who is 75-year-old and runs a hand cart in the area. On Friday evening, at around 7 pm the man went to get tea and asked the woman to keep watch on the cart. While the woman was alone, the accused allegedly molested her. “Due to her mental condition the woman is unfit to object. Some people nearby noticed the act and stopped the accused,” said police. Soon after rescuing the woman, locals thrashed the accused and handed him over to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-molests-woman-with-learning-disability-held/articleshow/78597608.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Rajkot||Five bikers die in two separate accidents in Banaskantha||PALANPUR: At least five bikers lost their lives in two separate accidents in last two days in Banaskantha district. Two persons were killed when two speeding motorcycles collided with each other on Lunpur-Deesa road around 1.30 pm on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Abhaji Thakor (38) of Lunpur who was going towards Deesa and Tinaji Thakor (40), who was on his way to Lunpur from Juna Deesa. Soon after the collision, the locals rushed the the victims to Deesa civil hospital. Both were declared dead on admission. While one person who was riding pillion on one of the bikes sustained injuries and was under treatment. On Thursday evening, three persons were killed when their motorcycles collided between Virampur –Dhanpur on Ambaji highway in Amirgadh taluka of Banaskantha. The bikers were rushed to Palanpur civil hospital where they were declared dead on arrival. The deceased were identified as Kalubahi Gamar (30), Obriya Khumar (50) and Soma Bhirvai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-bikers-die-in-two-separate-accidents-in-banaskantha/articleshow/78597581.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: People have to follow SOPs at events from October 15 in Bihar||PATNA: People expect social, educational, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political events from October 15 while adhering to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by state home department. The SOPs envisage the presence of only 50% of the capacity of a close hall or other structure and maximum up to 200 people in any event with face masks. Also, rooms must have enough ventilation and the one with airconditioner must maintain temperature in the range of 24-30 degrees C. In an open space, sitting arrangements should be made with required physical distancing. Separate entries and exits for visitors shall be ensured. Entry points should have mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions. The SOPs also make it mandatory for the event organizers to ensure enough stock of tissue papers available for the guests for use while coughing or sneezing. There will be several curbs during the upcoming festive season as well to prevent further spread of Covid-19 pandemic. Sujit Sinha, additional sub-divisional magistrate, Kaimur, said: “Public gathering will bring along the fear of Covid spread. It is also the duty of public to ensure that no safety guidelines are violated. We request everyone to use face masks and hand sanitisers.” St Michael’s High School principal Father Armstrong Edison said: “We are organizing first-term exams online, keeping in view the new system of education amid the pandemic. Also, I request people to follow the safety guidelines issued by the government while attending the events.” Sportspersons welcomed the SOPs. Kumar Rajnish, a cricketer, said: “It’s been seven months for us to get back to the ground. We couldn’t have any game during this period to take our performance to a better level. It will be quite difficult for cricketers to perform as sitting back at home has made them not only physically but mentally tired. I hope domestic matches will be allowed soon.” Event organizers also welcomed the reopening initiatives and pledged to follow the restrictive norms. Aryan, the founder of an event management firm, said: “The pandemic has affected our business badly. But with the Centre allowing entertainment and other activities, we are hopeful of organizing events while adhering to precautionary norms. We will ensure strict physical distancing and use of face masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-have-to-follow-sops-at-events-from-oct-15/articleshow/78595402.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Political parties prepare lists of star campaigners||PATNA: To strike a chord with the local voters, different political parties are preparing lists of their senior leaders as star campaigners in the upcoming Bihar election. As per the new Election Commission (EC) guidelines in view of Covid-19, the number of star campaigners for a recognized national or state party has been reduced to 30 from 40 and for an unrecognized party to 15 from 20. Since the EC has also allowed small rallies and public gatherings, every political party has to submit its list of star campaigners to the district election authorities at least 48 hours before the public meeting. For BJP, home minister Amit Shah, party’s national president JP Nadda and minister of textiles Smriti Irani would spearhead the central campaign teamcampaign. BJP state general secretary Devesh Kumar said the star campaigners would be a mix of central and state leaders. “Nadda ji, Amit ji, Smriti ji, party’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, former Maharashtra CM and Bihar election incharge Devendra Fadnavis among other top leaders will be the star campaigners from the central team. From state are Sushil Kumar Modi, union ministers Nityanand Rai, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Giriraj Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad and RK Singh besides Rajiv Pratap Ruddy, Prem Kumar, Radha Mohan Singh, Sanjay Jaiswal and Nand Kishore Yadav,” he said. “The list will be released phase-wise. Some new faces will be there,” he added. Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar along with other senior leaders would be the star campaigners of his party. JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said apart from Nitishji, RCP Singh, Ashok Choudhary, Lalan Singh, Sanjay Jha and Bashishth Narayan Singh and Kehkasha Parveen would be the star campaigners. “The list will be released phase-wise,” he said. Rajiv said the party would hold small rallies and show on virtual platforms through the digital raths. Congress on Saturday released a list of 30 star campaigners, who include Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Meira Kumar, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Shaktisinh Gohil, Sachin Pilot, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Shatrughan Sinha, Shakeel Ahmed, Raj Babbar, Pramod Tiwari, Ashok Gehlot and Captain Amarinder Singh. Bhupesh Baghel, Madan Mohan Jha, Tariq Anwar, former governor Nikhil Kumar, Sadanand Singh, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Sanjay Nirupam, Kirti Azad, Udit Raj, Imran Pratapgarhi, Prem Chand Mishra, Anil Sharma, Ajay Kapoor, Mohammed Jawed and Virender Singh Rathore are also in the list. Congress’s national general secretary and MP KC Venugopal shared the list with the Election Commission of India. RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi, their sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav and daughter Misa Bharti would be the main star campaigners of the party. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said the list would be finalized in the next few days once the candidates for the remaining constituencies are announced. “Altogether 12 leaders have been selected as the star campaigners so far, including four from Laluji’s family,” he said. “The list will represent all communities. RJD state president Jagdanand Singh is a Rajput while Shivchandra Ram and Uday Narayan Choudhary represent Dalits, MP AD Singh is a Bhumihar, Alok Mehta a Kushwaha and senior leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui represents the Muslim community,” Tiwari said. He said RJD will hold over 100 rallies and small meetings. “However, door-to-door campaigning would be the priority,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/political-parties-prepare-lists-of-star-campaigners/articleshow/78601690.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 11, 2020||Patna||Minister faces ‘turncoat’ in Banka||BANKA: The Banka assembly constituency, once represented by former CM (Congress) Chandrashekhar Singh, has been favouring either BJP or RJD since 1990. Late Singh had served the state as CM from August 1983 to March 1985. With problems galore, Banka is currently represented in the assembly by Ram Narayan Mandal of BJP, minister of revenue and land reforms. Mandal has been nominated again by BJP. RJD, on the other hand, has fielded former minister Javed Iqbal Ansari in Banka. Earlier, the Congress had won the Banka seat in 1952, 1957, 1969, 1972, 1980 and 1985. Late Singh, who had won from Banka in 1980, became CM on August 14, 1983 and held the chair till March 12, 1985. Swaraj Party candidate Braj Mohan Singh had won from Banka in 1962. Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS) candidate B L Mandal had won the seat by defeating his Congress rival in 1967. In 1977, Janata Party candidate Siddheshwar Prasad Singh had emerged victorious from Banka. Since 1990, the electoral contest in Banka assembly segment has narrowed down between either BJP or Janata Dal and RJD. Locals said the assembly constituency is beset by several issues, including collapse of a bridge over the Chandan river that has obstructed the movement of vehicles and people from Bhagalpur. Ashwini Kumar Jha, a lawyer and resident of Bounsi block in the district, said good schools and colleges should come up in the constituency for better education of children. “Only one constituent college (PBS College) was established in 1968,” he lamented. Banka resident Manoj Upadhyaya said other major issues in Banka assembly constituency are resurrection of Orhni Jalashaya Yojana (formulated in 1973 but could not serve purpose) for irrigation, establishment of women’s government college, rampant illegal sand mining, encroachments in city areas, inadequate drinking water supply and unplanned development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-faces-turncoat-in-banka/articleshow/78596033.cms||Kumar Rajesh
October 11, 2020||Patna||Team led by AIIMS-P doc devises tool to detect Covid in pets||PATNA: Scientists have come up with a software-based tool to predict susceptibility to Covid-19 in domestic and wildlife animals. They claim that monkeys and gorillas that often come in contact with human beings are vulnerable to coronavirus. The team, headed by Dr Ashutosh Kumar of the anatomy department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), also points out that pets like cats and dogs appear to be at the risk of contracting the virus. Other members of the team are from Banaras Hindu University, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research-Chandigarh, National Brain Research Centre-Manesar and New York University-USA. Their research report was accepted for publication in the journal, ‘Zoo Biology’, on October 2. “Coronavirus infects humans using a cell protein named ACE2. Hence, animals with ACE2 protein similar to human beings may also get affected by the virus,” Dr Ashutosh told this newspaper on Saturday and added that the research was conducted under the umbrella of Etiologically Elusive Disorders Research Network. The team collected the protein sequences of a variety of animals from an international data bank and compared their ACE2 levels with those of humans. “Cats and dogs become susceptible to coronavirus if they live with an infected person in the same house. While cats can transmit the virus to other cats, infected dogs are not likely to do so,” Ashutosh said, adding, “Tigers, lions and rhesus monkeys are highly vulnerable too.” On the other hand, cows, oxen, buffaloes, elephants, fishes and birds, including chicken, are not susceptible to Covid-19, according to the report. The team of scientists has also pointed out that if coronavirus finds new hosts in the form of a large variety of pets and wild animals, it will emerge as a new problem in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/team-led-by-aiims-p-doc-devises-tool-to-detect-covid-in-pets/articleshow/78596287.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Puja traffic restrictions on roads likely from Chaturthi this year||KOLKATA: Police on Puja duty will be out on the streets from Tritiya, but restrictions on the road might come into force from Chaturthi evening. Sources informed that more than 4,000 traffic police personnel will be deployed on the road and several pickets will be set up for traffic-security management. Important pujas have been shortlisted where temporary control rooms will be set up. “While there is always talks of crowd control inside pandals, the movement on its periphery is equally important. We need to arrange the flow of visitors in such a way that by the time revellers reach pandals, there is no crowding there,” said an officer. Police will chalk out finer details in Sunday’s meetings — at each of the police station and traffic guard — to speak to volunteers and NCC cadets. Kolkata Police has drawn up specific traffic regulations for more than 130 streets. Most of the divisions and traffic wings have increased their staff strength. This extra force will be deployed in the added areas where road space is restricted. Based on real-time inputs, necessary deployments will be made. Police are also rethinking its auto policy for Durga Puja days. “We are unlikely to stop autos. Action will be taken according to ground reality. There are two reasons for this — one, there might not be enough buses and two, the auto operators have suffered during the pandemic and it might be unfair to stop them from plying like other years. However, a final decision will be taken later. However, autos might be asked to run on curtailed routes,” explained an officer. The Kolkata traffic police has also decided to use loudhailers at important crossings to make revellers aware of social distancing norms. “The volunteers and organizers will make periodic announcements. They will reiterate that crowding can lead to an explosion in Covid cases,” explained the officer. Parking, yet again, has become an important issue in this year’s Puja preparations, with another round of discussions expected next week. “It is certain that there will be more two-wheelers on the road this year. Parking space has to be increased. But at the same time, the parking lots cannot be allowed too close to pandals,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/puja-traffic-restrictions-on-roads-likely-from-chaturthi-this-year/articleshow/78596304.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 11, 2020||Patna||BJP national president JP Nadda to launch poll campaign in Gaya today||GAYA: BJP national president JP Nadda will address the first physical election rally in Bihar amid Covid-19 pandemic for the candidates in Gaya on Sunday. “Nadda ji will kick off the poll campaign at Gaya’s Gandhi Maidan on Sunday. Party state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, former chief minister and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and all the NDA candidates of the 10 assembly segments in Gaya district will be present on the dais,” BJP state secretary Amrita Bhushan said here on Saturday. भाजपा राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री @JPNadda जी कल दोपहर 2 बजे बिहार चुनाव के लिए गांधी मैदान, गया में जनसभा को संबोधित क… https://t.co/oOSYDrNISZ— Office of JP Nadda (@OfficeofJPNadda) 1602348064000In NDA, BJP is contesting from four assembly segments while JD(U) and HAM (S) three each in Gaya district. BJP is contesting from Gaya Town, Bodh Gaya, Gurua and Wazirganj, while JD(U) has fielded its candidate from Sherghati, Atri and Belaganj. HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi is himself contesting from Imamganj while his party has fielded its candidates in Barachatti and Tekari. BJP district president Dhanraj Sharma said a 40x30ft stage has been prepared on the north side of Gandhi Mandap. “Sitting arrangements have been made for 7000 people in the pandal after getting permission from the district administration. Those coming to attend the rally will be given entry passes at the gate, but they will have to bring their face masks. No one will be allowed to enter the ground without mask and entry pass. There will be two entry gates. Sanitiser has been arranged at both the gates for each person,” he said. Regarding security arrangements, he said: “Around 150 Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) members will be deployed to ensure that the standard operating procedure (SOP) is followed by everyone. Apart from this, security arrangements by the district administration will also be made as per the protocol.” BJP state co-treasurer Shyama Singh, Gaya district incharge PN Singh and Gaya media incharge Yugesh Kumar were also present at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-national-president-j-p-nadda-to-launch-poll-campaign-in-gaya-today/articleshow/78598775.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Rajkot||Will try to bring Jamnagar gangster to country soon: DGP||RAJKOT: Director General of Police Aashish Bhatia visited Rajkot on Saturday and held meetings with senior city police officers in matters of policing and handling law and order situation in the city. Later, addressing the media, Bhatia assured that the department is trying its best to arrest Jamnagar gangster, Jayesh Ranpariya (Patel). “The CID crime is already investigating the case and we also want to expedite the probe, locate and bring him back to the country very soon. We have appointed Deepan Bhadran in Jamnagar and also strengthened him with additional teams. He (Bhadran) had worked with the ATS and was DCP crime, which is why he has been specially selected for this task. I believe he will be effective in his work and we are also monitoring this investigation at the state level.” Replying to another query on verifying the allegations levelled by Rajya Sabha MP Parimal Nathwani regarding inaction of Rajkot range IGP Sandeep Singh, Bhatia said that he is verifying the allegations. Soon after the appointment of Bhadran, Nathwani, in a series of tweets, questioned the working of the police department. He tweeted: “While new #Jamnagar SP @BhadranDeepan will use his brilliance and firm hands on criminals, some people suspect, I don’t know true or false, that Range IG Sandip Singh in past settled some cases in favour of criminals in tune with some politicians." However, no action has been initiated by the police department or no inquiry has been ordered against the allegations so far. Bhatia also ducked a volley about city police’s alleged lenient approach towards members of the ruling BJP and said “I will discuss this issue with the police officers here.” ‘NO FLOUTING OF COVID NORMS IN RALLIES’ While reassuring that police will ensure social distancing norms are maintained during political rallies in the by-election of eight assembly constituencies, Bhatia told reporters, “The power of maintaining social distance as per the rules have been handed over to the local police commissioner and the superintendent of police. They will ensure that no safety norms are broken in the rallies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/will-try-to-bring-jamnagar-gangster-to-country-soon-dgp/articleshow/78597593.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kochi||Toms realizes his vision; startup refines it||Kochi: Over the last many months as the world fussed over pandemic restrictions and ushered in disruptive digital learning not much thought was spared for the visually impaired, who struggled as usual with their talk-back phones and hacked software. But for Jean Toms, 42, a computer teacher and programmer with a degenerative eye disease, the lockdown was an occasion to realize a dream: developing a digital learning system for the blind that allows students to pursue their academic dreams. The software he coded, Suara, helps teachers create audio course content and has been given an AI makeover by Billion Lives, a startup that focuses on technology for social good. At the age of 32 when he was appraised about his condition – retinitis pigmentosa (RP) – Toms was rattled. But he did not lose heart. “I knew there was a need to cultivate more willpower and that's what I did,” says Toms, who left his job as a school teacher to start an institute called SCOM in 2011. RP is a disabling disease with no cure that starts in early teenage and progresses to severe visual impairment. Toms’ primary motivation for developing the software was to help Joy Stanley, who turned blind at the age of 21 but became a teacher of spoken English after being coaxed by him. “I started developing the software for Joy and I am happy that it worked out well for him.” “While the software only had machine voice our AI helps to render text in human voice with modulation that follow punctuations,” says John Santhosh, founder and CEO of Billion Lives. The software is currently in beta stage and Billion Lives plans to roll out the web application in multiple languages, including Malayalam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/toms-realizes-his-vision-startup-refines-it/articleshow/78595628.cms||Binu Karunakaran
October 11, 2020||Patna||All eyes on Cheria Bariarpur||BEGUSARAI: JD(U) has once again reposed its faith in its two-time MLA Manju Verma from the Cheria Bariarpur assembly seat in Begusarai district, which goes to the polls on November 3. RJD is yet to announce its candidate. According to Mahesh Bharti, a social activist based at Manjhaul village in the constituency, LJP may also field its candidate. Anil Choudhary, who was the LJP candidate in the last two elections, had finished the runner-up both the times. The former social welfare minister had been in the eye of a storm following a nationwide outrage over the infamous Muzaffarpur shelter home case. She, along with her husband Chandrashekhar Verma, even had to remain in jail after the CBI lodged a case for possessing prohibited firearm cartridges at their native Sripur village home under Cheria Bariarpur police station in August 2018. The CBI had raided their house after Manju’s husband name allegedly surfaced in the call detail record of Muzaffarpur shelter home case prime accused Brajesh Thakur. She had to resign as a minister amid mounting pressure and also surrender before a court, which sent her to jail in the Arms Act case. She was later released on bail. JD(U)’s former Cheria Bariarpur block Pramukh, Santosh Paswan, said a general feeling persists in the constituency that she had to undergo immense mental as well as physical harassment as her name was unduly associated with the case. “People of this constituency do not doubt her integrity and the case is likely to have no bearing on her poll prospects. JD(U) has a strong vote base in this segment and she is expected to romp home without much difficulty,” he said. However, Ajit Kumar Mishra, a native of Akopur village in the constituency, said Manju might find the going tough this time. Cheria Bariarpur is one of the seven assembly segments in Begusarai district scheduled to go to the polls in the second phase of state assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-eyes-on-cheria-bariarpur/articleshow/78596042.cms||Rajiv Kumar
October 11, 2020||Patna||Triangular contest likely on 4 seats in Madhepura||MADHEPURA: The Madhepura district administration and the electoral office are gearing up to ensure free and fair polls in four assembly segments where 12.67 lakh voters are likely to exercise their franchise at 1,869 booths during the third phase of the upcoming polls on November 7. The filing of nomination papers will begin from October 13. Barring the ruling JD (U), other political parties are yet to make a formal announcement of their candidates for the four assembly segments in the district. The JD (U) has retained its candidates on three seats — Narendra Narayan Yadav from Alamnagar, Niranjan Mehta from Behariganj and Ramesh Rishideo from Singheshwar reserved constituency. The party has fielded Nikhil Mandal, grandson of former chief minister and Mandal Commission chairman B P Mandal, from the high-profile Madhepura assembly seat. Nikhil’s father Manindra Kumar Mandal has been a JD (U) MLA from this seat which, at present, is being represented by Chandra Shekhar of the RJD. Now, all eyes are on the formal announcement of the RJD candidates for the four assembly seats. Speculations are also rife that Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) chief Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav may field his candidates on all the four seats. The candidature of JAP may make the electoral battle triangular in the district. Meanwhile, officials claimed that paramilitary forces had arrived in the district to maintain law and order during the polls. They also said model 3 electronic voting machines would be used in the election and 7,476 polling personnel deployed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/triangular-contest-likely-on-4-seats-in-madhepura/articleshow/78595943.cms||Deo Narayan Saha
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: TRS took up Dharani to fix GHMC polls||Hyderabad: Congress on Saturday charged the ruling TRS of approaching the ensuing GHMC elections in a manner which suits its political needs and demanded reservation of wards be done in a fair manner. “The comprehensive household survey done in 2014 was utilised to map voters, especially in GHMC area where TRS fared badly, winning only three out of 24 assembly seats in 2014. We don’t think that the present Dharani survey being carried out just before GHMC elections is a coincidence. What normally could take about a year, is being condensed into a short time. Suspicion is that it seems to have an agenda to map voters once again,” Telangana Congress election committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy alleged at a media conference on Saturday. “TRS government is now trying to continue with the same reservation of wards that suited TRS in GHMC elections in 2016. Apart from many empty promises, TRS seems to be concerned about the anti-incumbency factor this time at the ward level,” convener G Niranjan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-trs-took-up-dharani-to-fix-ghmc-polls/articleshow/78597091.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections 2020: Six-party front likely to hurt NDA and GA||PATNA: The six-party Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) comprising Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha and AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, among others, may give NDA and Grand Alliance (GA) a run for their money in the state assembly elections to be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The four other constituents of the GDSF are Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Janwadi Socialist Party (JSP) led by former MP Devendra Prasad Yadav and Jantantrik Party (Socialist). The RLSP will contest 100+ seats and AIMIM 50 seats, while the remaining 80 seats would be distributed among other parties in the alliance, sources said. “Kushwaha is the CM face of the GDSF, which was publicly endorsed by Owaisi and Devendra Prasad Yadav last week at a press conference,” RLSP state spokesman Bhola Sharma said. The general understanding in the GDSF is that the BJP’s “subterranean” game plan is to thwart the bid of Nitish to become the state’s CM again, which is being supplemented by the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan with his decision to contest 143 assembly seats. Chirag has also maintained that he will lend support to the BJP’s CM during government formation. “Tejashwi has been leading the GA comprising the RJD, Congress and three Left parties – CPI (ML), CPI and CPI-M. However, the alliance’s pitch has been made slippery by the GDSF. Tejashwi does not stand a chance to become the state’s CM,” Sharma said. The RLSP has its social base among the Koeri and Kushwaha caste people. It is of the view that due to the BJP’s “hidden game” to thwart Nitish from becoming the state’s CM again, the Koeri/Kushwaha caste people will gravitate towards Kushwaha, and by extension, towards the candidates of GDSF who together will also bring in the Muslim and Dalit sections to the fold. “AIMIM chief Owaisi believes a major chunk of the 16% Muslim population in the state will shift away from the GA and the JD(U) led by Nitish, and root for the AIMIM and other constituents of the GDSF,” said an RLSP leader. However, only BSP, RLSP and AIMIM have the record of winning one or more seats in the state’s assembly elections at one time or the other from the 1990 assembly elections. The BSP has its social base among the ‘chamaar (cobbler)’ caste people and has won assembly seats in Bihar only in the 1990, 1995 and 2000 elections. During the 2015 elections, the RLSP won two of the 22 seats it contested as an NDA partner, while AIMIM’s Maqbul Hoda won the Kishanganj assembly seat in the byelection held last year. State AIMIM president Akhtarul Iman has gone on record saying that his party will contest 50 seats in Kishanganj, Purnia, Araria, Katihar, Supaul, Darbhanga, East Champaran, Bhagalpur, Gaya and Bhojpur districts. Seven districts in the state have the Muslim population in the range of 20%-60%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-party-front-likely-to-hurt-nda-and-ga/articleshow/78598664.cms||Abhay Singh
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic protocol a casualty of rush at shopping hotspots in Kolkata||KOLKATA: With the shopping frenzy reaching its peak on the penultimate weekend before Durga Puja, social distancing became the biggest casualty at the city’s shopping hubs on Saturday. Health experts are now extremely worried about a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. The shopping spree, some senior officers said, was an indicator of what the size of pandal-hopping crowds would be during the Puja days. At the shopping hubs, however, the worry of doctors and police was replaced by satisfied smiles of the traders. Shankar Ghosh of Style Boutique in Gariahat said, “In the last leg of Puja shopping, we have recovered almost 70% compared to last year. We have changed the range of dress materials to suit the affordability of middle-class customers hit hard by the economic recession.” Ghosh, whose 300sqft shop had customers jostling for space, added, “Everything depends on the Almighty. If I am to get infected, it will be even if I sit at home.” Atif Rehman, who runs a small leather bag shop on Lindsay Street, said, “We were the worst hit by the pandemic. We did not even expect to sell leather bags when people were buying only food and essentials. I had zero business during Eid. But now things have started turning around. People are buying bags and belts. We are also offering big discounts, minimizing our profit margin.” Cops on Saturday had a harrowing time managing traffic and controlling crowds. After 6pm, however, cops gave up when the crowd grew to an unmanageable size at New Market. “We deployed civic volunteers so people could be dispersed. But after a point, the crowd overshadowed them,” said an officer. Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Saturday made an appeal to maintain social distancing and wear masks. KMC workers also distributed masks. “But most people pulled their masks down while speaking. Some even took offence when we insisted they wear the mask properly while speaking. After a point, we stopped advising people fearing loss of customers,” said Sukamal Saha of Textile Mart at Hatibagan. The shopping crowds have also left many Puja organizers jittery about managing visitors at pandals. Forum for Durgotsav secretary Saswata Basu, who is also a functionary of the Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durgotsav, said it is a scary situation in his neighbourhood every evening. “Covid is no longer a concern. There is defiance. Remember what happened to Kerala after Onam and Maharashtra after Ganesh Puja? Unless people behave sensibly, the situation here will be no different. If there is a case spike in the neighbourhood after Puja, it is we who will have to face the music from locals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-protocol-a-casualty-of-rush-at-shopping-hotspots/articleshow/78596300.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 11, 2020||Patna||‘No one like Ram Vilas Paswan will be born again’||PATNA: An inconsolably weeping woman was repeatedly trying to reach near the funeral pyre of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan soon after his son Chirag lit it at Janardan Ghat in Digha on Saturday. She was trying to touch it and bow to her beloved leader for the last time but pushed by the crowd every time. She finally got the chance to do so as the crowd dispersed for a while. She stood still for several seconds just a few feet away from the pyre and kept staring at it. The woman later identified herself as Malti Devi from Paswan Chowk at Hajipur in Vaishali district. When asked, Malti said she always voted for the Paswan from Hajipur. “I had met him several times at Hajipur. He always welcomed and met us very humbly. We have even visited his Khagaria residence on multiple occasions,” she claimed. While wiping her tears, Malti said: “Ram janam liye the hamare liye … Koi nahi milega fir AISA … (He (Paswan) was born as Lord Rama for us … We will never get anyone like him again…)”. The woman said no food had been cooked at her and several other houses in Hajipur since the news about Paswan’s death broke out. “We are still empty stomach,” Malti said and broke down. The woman said she along with her relatives and several people reached Patna from Paswan Chowk by bus. “We reached at 6am,” she said. Malti was not alone to reach the ghat from outside Patna. A large number of Paswan’s supporters, male and female and from different age groups, had reached from Nalanda, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Jehanabad, Saran Khagaria and several other districts to get the last glimpse of their leader. Mahesh Paswan from Bali under Chandi police station area in Nalanda claimed that he reached the ghat by a bus. “I have always voted for him. He was our country’s leader,” he said. Akansha, a student preparing for competitive examinations, reached there alone from Hajipur to attend Paswan’s cremation. “He was a father figure for Hajipur. We want that he be given respect like BR Ambedkar,” she said. Pintu Paswan, who had reached from Kharika in Sonepur, said he was the Dalits’ honour. “He was the leader of every caste and sect. I had never seen him angry,” he added. Vinod Paswan from Aira village in Shakurabad block of Jehanabad district said he was their community leader. “We had always voted for him. We had to come here at any cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-one-like-paswan-will-be-born-again/articleshow/78596067.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 11, 2020||Patna||Former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Pashupati Kumar Paras demand Bharat Ratna for Paswan||PATNA: HAM (S) president and former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi on Saturday demanded that Bharat Ratna be conferred posthumously upon LJP founder and Dalit leader Ram Vilas Paswan. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Manjhi also made a plea to convert the 12, Janpath bungalow in New Delhi where Paswan lived for the past 31 years since 1989, to a memorial. The demand for according the country’s highest civilian award to the former Union minister, who died on Thursday, has also been separately made by his younger brother and LJP Lok Sabha member Pashupati Kumar Paras and Bihar minister and senior BJP leader Prem Kumar. Manjhi, himself a Dalit leader who suspended his all poll-related engagements in Gaya to pay tribute to Paswan in Patna, told reporters that he was demanding Bharat Ratna for Paswan so that future generations could be told about him and his services for the uplift of the downtrodden. Manjhi contested the views expressed by some people that Dalits lack administrative capability and cited names of departed leaders such as Jagjivan Ram, who was deputy prime minister and defence minister in the 1970s, and Paswan in support of his argument. Paras, the MP from Hajipur earlier represented by Ram Vilas, said, “Great men are not born frequently. Babasaheb Ambedkar was one such great leader and my elder leader Ram Vilas Paswan ji was considered the ‘second Ambedkar’. Thus, I will like to request PM Narendra Modi as well as Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to recommend Bharat Ratna for Ram Vilas Ji,” Paras said. Earlier, Union minister and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad said he was sent by PM Modi as the central government’s representative. “The best thing about Ram Vilas ji was that he touched every section of the society. I remember when the bill for reservation for upper castes was to be introduced in Parliament. He openly supported it, saying the blessings of upper castes are required for the uplift of the poor and the downtrodden. He used to win the general elections with huge margin,” he said. JD(U)’s national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP RCP Singh said Ram Vilas’s contribution in development of the country as well as Bihar has been highly significant. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha said he was inspired by Ram Vilas to join politics. “Even though, we remained in different political parties, I always used to get his advice and suggestions. He always used to ask me to work for the poor and the downtrodden,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-paras-demand-bharat-ratna-for-paswan/articleshow/78596080.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Allahabad||Wanted criminal’s house razed amid heavy force in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A day after an illegally constructed house owned by gangster Rajesh Yadav was razed in Jhunsi area, the district administration demolished another unauthorised house allegedly belonging to wanted criminal and corporator Nihaal Kumar alias Baccha Paasi in Ramman Ka Purva on Saturday. Paasi has around 35 criminal cases registered against him. Like Rajesh Yadav, his name had also surfaced in the Mumbai’s 2006 Kalaghoda shootout case. A team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) officials reached Ramman Ka Purva around noon with the heavy force. The team included PDA’s zonal officer Sat Shukla, ACM Pramchand Maurya and, CO Satyendra Tiwari and Ajay Singh Chauhan from the police department. Before the house was razed, household items were shifted out. PDA zonal officer Sat Shukla said, “The house was demolished as its owners got it constructed without getting any map approved from PDA. We are also inquiring about the legal ownership of the land. If it turns out that the land does not belong to Paasi, suitable action would be taken against him.” Four JCB machines were deployed for the demolition, which lasted around three hours. The house comprised three rooms, a large hall and a kitchen. It was constructed in such a way that it had two exits. Constructed on an area of about 500 square metre, the owners had left more than half of the land for parking. A woman living in the house owned by Paasi alleged that her family wasn’t given prior information about the demolition. “We are now on roads as our house has been demolished suddenly,” she said. Paasi, who is listed as a history-sheeter at Prayagraj’s Dhoomanganj police station, is associated with Bahujan Samaj Party. Presently, he is the BSP corporator from ward number one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/wanted-criminals-house-razed-amid-heavy-force/articleshow/78595230.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Vadodara||MSU ‘invention’ to protect pesticide||VADODARA: Every year, agriculture data shows that Indian farmers lose crops worth at least Rs 50,000 crore to pestilence. The invention of ‘water-soluble photo stabilizers’ promises to bring relief to farmers and help reduce this humongous loss by at least 25%, researchers claim. While an average farmer in the country sprays nearly half a kilo of insecticide in every hectare to safeguard his crop against pest attacks, its efficacy is highly reduced by the intensity of the ultra-violet (UV) rays of the sun in hot tropical countries like India. Therefore, to thwart pest attacks as well as protect the capacity of insecticides and make crops more bug resilient, researchers at M S University’s applied chemistry department of Faculty of Technology and Engineering have now found a way through which efficiency of insecticides will remain intact even as tillers can keep a check on its consumption. The research which promises relief not just to Indian farmers, but globally, has also been patented by the Patent Office of Government of India this week. “Due to photodegradation, insecticides that are used to keep crops safe from pest attacks degrade very rapidly in sunlight. This degraded component is a complete waste. We have developed photo stabilizers or UV absorbers that can prevent photodegradation of insecticides” said Prof Pradeep Deota, principal inventor who along with co-inventors – Dr Hemant Parmar and Dr Gautam Patel – has developed a series of compounds. “We have prepared a series of compounds – carbon-2 to carbon-12 – in our laboratory and tested them on insecticides. These compounds are like smart molecules. They can be used as photo stabilizers to avoid degradation of insecticides as well as emulsifiers so that they dissolve in water,” he said. The research team tested the efficiency of these compounds on disulfoton, a widely used insecticide that is used to protect small grains, nuts, vegetables, and field crops from harmful pests worldwide. “In normal conditions, almost 40% of this insecticide, which is highly photosensitive, degrades due to sunlight. But after using our photo stabilizers, 85% of insecticide remained unchanged even after intensive irradiation (extreme sunlight),” he said. Researchers assert that the compounds will not only reduce the economic burden of farmers but also reduce the consumption of insecticides. “We have extended the life of insecticides so that they can function for a longer period. Currently, more insecticides are used by farmers to bring desired results. When the insecticides will function for a longer time with the help of photo stabilizers, it will reduce their excessive usage,” he said, adding that the discovery will promote lesser usage of insecticides but provide more protection to crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-invention-to-protect-pesticide/articleshow/78595972.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 11, 2020||Allahabad||Court expresses concern over mob attacks on police||Prayagraj: Expressing concern over increasing cases of mob attacks on police, the Allahabad high court has declined to quash a chargesheet against two persons who were part of a mob which had attacked policemen. While dismissing a petition filed by Shahabuddin and another of Bijnor district, Justice JJ Munir observed, “It appears from a perusal of the police papers that it is a case which shows a new-found behaviour amongst citizens of disobeying the law. Prima facie, the act of the applicants and all those who were part of this mob, constitutes an offence that strikes at the roots of established order in society.” The petitioners’ plea was that he was falsely implicated in the case as he refused to bribe police during vehicle checking. On the other hand, the counsel for the state government contended that it is a case of rioting and obstructing the police in the discharge of their duties. The court, after going through the documents of the case, observed, “The fact that the applicant asks this chargesheet to be quashed is almost preposterous.” “Further, there is absolutely no abuse of process of the court involved in the matter,” observed the court while refusing to quash the chargesheet filed against the petitioners in the case. However, the court made it clear that it is not adjudicating charges against the accused at this stage and the same will be tested during the criminal trial pending before the trial court. On March 14, 2019, a first information report (FIR) was registered against a mob of 200-300 at Syohara police station of Bijnor by head constable Rajveer Singh, alleging that during vehicle checking near a polo post Sahaspir, three men riding a motorcycle did not stop during checking and during the course of event, the motorcycle hit one of the constables and all the four got injured. As per FIR, when all the injured were being taken to hospital at that time, a mob of 200-300, belonging to the villages of motorcycle riders, blocked the road. Later, they pelted stones and attacked police personnel with rods and sticks in which some of the policemen sustained injuries. On May 31 last year a chargesheet was filed in the case and the magistrate, after taking cognizance of the chargesheet, summoned the petitioners. Hence, the petitioners approached the high court seeking quashing of chargesheet filed against them. The observation was made on October 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/court-expresses-concern-over-mob-attacks-on-police/articleshow/78595247.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 11, 2020||Rajkot||‘Sex with false promise of marriage amounts to sexploitation’||RAJKOT: A Dhoraji court of Rajkot district on Friday sentenced an employee of a private bank to 10 years of jail after convicting him of raping his co-worker under the pretext of marrying her. The additional sessions and district judge Hemantkumar Dave passed the order after considering all the evidence in the 2019 FIR. While awarding the sentence to Bhautik Dekhivadia, the additional district and sessions court observed that “sex, based on false promises of marriage, cannot be termed consensual and that it amounts to sexploitation”. A woman had filed a case against Dekhivadia, accusing him of having a physical relationship with her after promising to marry her. Later when Dekhivadia reneged on his promise and was in the process of marrying another woman, the survivor moved the court against him on November 14 last year. The survivor told the court that the duo went to Ahmedabad for some bank training and stayed in a hotel posing as a married couple. They both decided that they will marry with the permission of their respective families. However, the accused’s family did not agree to this marriage and so he agreed to marry somebody else of their choice. Citing a Supreme Court’s judgment in such matter, the public prosecutor stated that the apex court held that even if such a relationship was consensual and the relationship lasted for two years, it amounted to sexual exploitation. SC even said that the consent of the survivor could not be considered her consent. Dekhivadia produced WhatsApp chat messages and mobile call recordings in the court in which he was heard saying that both had enjoyed equally in their relationship. However, the public prosecutor argued that though the survivor did not resist the physical relationship and the sex was consensual, she was conned with the fake promise of marriage. Talking to TOI, additional public prosecutor Kartikey Parekh said, “They relied on the fact that it was consensual, but I argued that the accused’s chat messages show that it was only ‘enjoyment’ for him, but the complainant trusted his false promise of marriage. The court held the accused guilty under IPC section 375.” Taking this argument into consideration, the court pronounced its judgment. Apart from 10 years in jail, Dekhivadia was also slapped with Rs 10,000 fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sex-with-false-promise-of-marriage-amounts-to-sexploitation/articleshow/78597611.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Surat||GNC VP pays insurance premium for 5,700 corona warriors||SURAT: On his 51st birthday, he gave a unique return gift to the corona warriors of the New Civil Hospital (NCH). Iqbal Kadiwala, vice-president of Gujarat Nursing Council (GNC), paid the yearly premium instalment of 5,000 nursing staff and 700 safai workers employed in the government hospitals across the state under the Pradhanmantri Suraksha Bima Yojana on Saturday. “Usually, people expect gifts on their birthdays. But, I thought of giving return gift to my corona warrior nursing staff and safai workers. The nursing staff and safai workers have been working continuously since the beginning of the pandemic. So, I decided to pay the yearly premium of Rs 12 each for the corona warriors under the PSBY scheme,” said Iqbal Kadiwala, vice-president of GNC. Kadiwala added, “Under the PSBY scheme, the corona warriors will get Rs 2 lakh in case of their accidental or natural death.” A ceremony was organised at the NCH campus at Majura Gate on Saturday, where the nursing staff and safai workers were given the Bima Kavach premium forms in the presence of Limbayat MLA, Sangita Paatil, president of Youth For Gujarat Charitable Trust Jignesh Paatil and former president of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) Paresh Patel. Talking with TOI, Jignesh said, “We all salute Iqbal Kadiwala for his unique return gift. He has paid the one year premium instalment on behalf of 5,700 staff of the government hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gnc-vp-pays-insurance-premium-for-5700-corona-warriors/articleshow/78597519.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Patna||1,140 more test Covid +ve in Bihar, tally crosses 1.94 lakh-mark||PATNA: The state recorded 1,140 fresh Covid cases and 10 more virus causalities in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of Covid cases in the state has increased to 1,94,966. The virus has so far claimed 944 lives in the state. According to the daily bulletin released by the state health department, 1,226 patients were discharged from different hospitals and isolation centres in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,83,007 people have recuperated from the virus in the state. Bihar’s recovery rate reached 93.87% on Saturday. As many as 1,06,817 samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories in the state in the last 24 hours. The number of active Covid cases in the state stand at 11,015. Officially, three deaths were reported in Patna on Saturday, taking the district’s toll to 229. Two Covid patients, on the other hand, died in Banka and Munger districts and one each in Araria, Madhepura and Nawada districts. A 30-year-old man from Madaha in Vaishali district succumbed to the virus at NMCH-Patna on Saturday. The man was admitted to the hospital on October 6. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer for Covid at NMCH, said the man from Vaishali had no comorbidity. “He was suffering from high fever for past 10 days and his saturation level went down by 40% because of which he suffered breathlessness,” he said. AIIMS-Patna reported one death and the victim was a 66-year-old man from Jehanabad district. The man passed away due to Covid late on Friday evening. Altogether 20 Covid patients were admitted to AIIMS on Saturday and 11 discharged. Of 1,140 new cases registered on Saturday, Patna accounted for 255. With this, the district’s count has reached 30,436. So far, 27,806 people have recovered in the district, where active cases stood at 2,401 on Saturday. Among other districts, Saharsa recorded 69 cases on Saturday, Purnia 58, Muzaffarpur 50, Nalanda 40, Madhepura 38 and East Champaran 37.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1140-more-test-covid-ve-in-bihar-tally-crosses-1-94l-mark/articleshow/78595384.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 11, 2020||Patna||RJD fields woman mukhiya in Parihar||PATNA: It’s not often that an educated woman, wife of a senior IAS officer, leaves her job in the nation’s capital to live in a remote village and soon gets elected as sarpanch. And it’s even rare that the husband quits his prestigious job to assist his wife in her social work. Meet Ritu Jaiswal, 43-year-old mukhiya of Raj Singhwahini panchayat in Sitamarhi district, and Arun Kumar, who took voluntary retirement as commissioner in the central vigilance commission in 2018. Before her political journey began, first as the mukhia of seven villages in Sonbarsa block in 2016, and now as the RJD candidate for Parihar assembly seat in Sitamarhi, she was a teacher at a public school in Delhi. “When I first visited my in-laws’ house at Naktakiya in 2013, I was taken aback. The pathetic condition of the villagers hurt me from within. The stories of the legendary Munshi Prem Chand on village life kept revolving in my mind. Poverty, malnutrition, unemployment etc were all around. There were no young men in the villages. There were only pregnant women, malnourished children and widows staying in the villages,” Ritu recalled. Soon, she abandoned her city life and started making frequent trips from Delhi where her husband was posted to work towards changing the living condition of the residents. In 2016, persuaded by the women of the village, she contested the panchayat election and got elected as mukhiya. “It was difficult for me to manage both family and work of the panchayat comprising seven villages. But thankfully I handled it with perseverance,” said Ritu, who received the ‘Champion of Change’ award from Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu last year for her work. Later, her husband opted for VRS in 2018 and started assisting her. Their work in tackling the Covid19 pandemic was appreciated by the Sitamarhi administration and villagers. Kumar said, “It was because of her exemplary work in the panchayat because of which Ritu got the ‘Champion of Change’ award. She received the award from Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu. Last year, she was among five mukhiyas from Bihar selected for a capacity building programme in New Delhi by the Union ministry of Panchayati raj.” Ritu was also honoured with the prestigious Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar 2019 by Union minister of Panchayati raj Narendra Singh Tomar. Out of the 2.5 lakh panchayats in the country, 240 were conferred the national awards. R B P Sinha, a retired chief engineer and resident of Sutihara village, said, “Ritu Jaiswal has set an example for other mukhiyas of the state. Her work as mukhiya of Raj Singhwahini panchayat have been appreciated by one and all. She deserves kudos for her splendid performance as gram pradhan.” Her husband said local people are very enthusiastic about her nomination from Parihar assembly seat.“Initially, I was not sure if she would be able to continue here for long. But her commitment made me change my perception. Now I am assisting her in her work,” he said. After getting the party ticket, she thanked RJD chief Lalu Prasad and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday for selecting her for the Parihar assembly constituency. She said on her twitter handle that she would not let them down and the party. “Now my focus will be on the all-round development of villages under Parihar constituency. Just like Raj Singhwahini panchayat, which now boasts of all basic amenities such as roads with street lights, electricity, drinking water facility, sanitation, healthcare and others,” Ritu said. An overwhelmed Ritu posted, “I have always worked for the welfare and development of the people. Earlier I worked for the panchayat, if given an opportunity, I will serve the people of the constituency as well. In any case, I will remain connected with the people of Sitamarhi, the birthplace of Goddess Sita, whom I always adored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-fields-woman-mukhiya-in-parihar/articleshow/78596005.cms||Ramashankar
October 11, 2020||Patna||Special arrangements for lawyers in Patna high court||PATNA: In a first, special arrangements have been made in Patna high court on the direction of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol so that lawyers could easily avail the facilities of videoconferencing inside courtrooms without putting much effort to arrange infrastructure required for the purpose. Under the arrangement, videoconferencing equipment have been installed in selected courtrooms where lawyers would sit while maintaining social distancing. The judges, on the other hand, will sit in separate courtrooms. Lawyers were barred from visiting high court after complete virtual hearing method only for urgent matters was adopted on March 17 this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. The move was aimed at maintaining social distancing and avoiding congregation. Judges were conducting hearing from their respective residential offices while lawyers appeared for their cases from their houses. Only handful of employees was allowed to visit high court for works which can’t be done from home. The new method was adopted as trial for the first time on Thursday. After its success, the Chief Justice allowed videoconferencing facility inside courtrooms. A division bench and two single benches functioned in which selected criminal and civil matters, including old cases, were taken up for hearing. Lawyers would be provided auto-generated e-passes on their cellphones for specific day on which their case would be listed for hearing. Meanwhile, the HC administration issued a notice on Thursday, permitting all lawyers to remove their files, gowns and other belongings till Sunday from their association buildings inside court premises. Meanwhile, offices of all associations, library, public utility services and canteens in the high court will remain closed till further others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spl-arrangements-for-lawyers-in-hc/articleshow/78581887.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 11, 2020||Kochi||MLA Thomas should resign, face inquiry: CPM||Kochi: P T Thomas MLA, who is facing allegation over facilitating a land deal in which black money is involved, should resign from the post and face vigilance inquiry, said CPM district committee C N Mohanan. Addressing a press conference here, Mohanan said if the MLA does not resign, CPM would resort to agitation. On Friday, Thomas had said that he had visited a house to mediate a land dispute but denied allegation that he had a stake in the land deal, which led to the seizure of Rs 50 lakh by income tax (I-T) officials. “Thomas in his press conference spoke of having seen two bags in the house raided by the I-T officials but said he did not know if it contained money. As a member of the legislative assembly, a law-making body, does he not know that it is illegal to transact huge amounts of cash for land deals. His involvement in the deal is mysterious and needs to be probed by vigilance,” said Mohanan. He alleged that before the lockdown, the family which had rights on the land had reached an agreement for selling four cents for Rs 1 crore 3 lakh but it was reduced to Rs 80 lakh due to involvement of the MLA. “We would undertake agitations adhering to Covid-19 protocol in Thrikkakara assembly constituency and outside if the MLA does not resign,” he said. District Congress Committee president T J Vinod, MLA, in a statement said it would be better for the CPM not to embarrass itself by airing baseless allegations against Thomas, who always maintained integrity and held strong positions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mla-thomas-should-resign-face-inquiry-cpm/articleshow/78595620.cms||---
October 11, 2020||---||Bihar elections 2020: Six-party front likely to hurt NDA and GA||PATNA: The six-party Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) comprising Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha and AIMIM headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, among others, may give NDA and Grand Alliance (GA) a run for their money in the state assembly elections to be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7. The four other constituents of the GDSF are Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Janwadi Socialist Party (JSP) led by former MP Devendra Prasad Yadav and Jantantrik Party (Socialist). The RLSP will contest 100+ seats and AIMIM 50 seats, while the remaining 80 seats would be distributed among other parties in the alliance, sources said. “Kushwaha is the CM face of the GDSF, which was publicly endorsed by Owaisi and Devendra Prasad Yadav last week at a press conference,” RLSP state spokesman Bhola Sharma said. The general understanding in the GDSF is that the BJP’s “subterranean” game plan is to thwart the bid of Nitish to become the state’s CM again, which is being supplemented by the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan with his decision to contest 143 assembly seats. Chirag has also maintained that he will lend support to the BJP’s CM during government formation. “Tejashwi has been leading the GA comprising the RJD, Congress and three Left parties – CPI (ML), CPI and CPI-M. However, the alliance’s pitch has been made slippery by the GDSF. Tejashwi does not stand a chance to become the state’s CM,” Sharma said. The RLSP has its social base among the Koeri and Kushwaha caste people. It is of the view that due to the BJP’s “hidden game” to thwart Nitish from becoming the state’s CM again, the Koeri/Kushwaha caste people will gravitate towards Kushwaha, and by extension, towards the candidates of GDSF who together will also bring in the Muslim and Dalit sections to the fold. “AIMIM chief Owaisi believes a major chunk of the 16% Muslim population in the state will shift away from the GA and the JD(U) led by Nitish, and root for the AIMIM and other constituents of the GDSF,” said an RLSP leader. However, only BSP, RLSP and AIMIM have the record of winning one or more seats in the state’s assembly elections at one time or the other from the 1990 assembly elections. The BSP has its social base among the ‘chamaar (cobbler)’ caste people and has won assembly seats in Bihar only in the 1990, 1995 and 2000 elections. During the 2015 elections, the RLSP won two of the 22 seats it contested as an NDA partner, while AIMIM’s Maqbul Hoda won the Kishanganj assembly seat in the byelection held last year. State AIMIM president Akhtarul Iman has gone on record saying that his party will contest 50 seats in Kishanganj, Purnia, Araria, Katihar, Supaul, Darbhanga, East Champaran, Bhagalpur, Gaya and Bhojpur districts. Seven districts in the state have the Muslim population in the range of 20%-60%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/6-party-front-likely-to-hurt-nda-and-ga/articleshow/78595791.cms||Abhay Singh
October 11, 2020||---||BJP national president JP Nadda to launch poll campaign in Gaya today||GAYA: BJP national president JP Nadda will address the first physical election rally in Bihar amid Covid-19 pandemic for the candidates in Gaya on Sunday. “Nadda ji will kick off the poll campaign at Gaya’s Gandhi Maidan on Sunday. Party state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, former chief minister and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and all the NDA candidates of the 10 assembly segments in Gaya district will be present on the dais,” BJP state secretary Amrita Bhushan said here on Saturday. भाजपा राष्ट्रीय अध्यक्ष श्री @JPNadda जी कल दोपहर 2 बजे बिहार चुनाव के लिए गांधी मैदान, गया में जनसभा को संबोधित क… https://t.co/oOSYDrNISZ— Office of JP Nadda (@OfficeofJPNadda) 1602348064000In NDA, BJP is contesting from four assembly segments while JD(U) and HAM (S) three each in Gaya district. BJP is contesting from Gaya Town, Bodh Gaya, Gurua and Wazirganj, while JD(U) has fielded its candidate from Sherghati, Atri and Belaganj. HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi is himself contesting from Imamganj while his party has fielded its candidates in Barachatti and Tekari. BJP district president Dhanraj Sharma said a 40x30ft stage has been prepared on the north side of Gandhi Mandap. “Sitting arrangements have been made for 7000 people in the pandal after getting permission from the district administration. Those coming to attend the rally will be given entry passes at the gate, but they will have to bring their face masks. No one will be allowed to enter the ground without mask and entry pass. There will be two entry gates. Sanitiser has been arranged at both the gates for each person,” he said. Regarding security arrangements, he said: “Around 150 Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) members will be deployed to ensure that the standard operating procedure (SOP) is followed by everyone. Apart from this, security arrangements by the district administration will also be made as per the protocol.” BJP state co-treasurer Shyama Singh, Gaya district incharge PN Singh and Gaya media incharge Yugesh Kumar were also present at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-national-president-j-p-nadda-to-launch-poll-campaign-in-gaya-today/articleshow/78595816.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Police intensify mask campaign in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Following all-round concerns over the casual attitude among people as they go about their daily lives, Kolkata Police on Saturday launched the second edition of its ‘Mask Up Kolkata’ campaign, urging people to wear them properly. Doctors have already warned that if precautions are not taken during the festive season, Covid-19 numbers may spiral out of control. On Saturday, police commissioner Anuj Sharma launched a teaser campaign #ebarpujoimaskmust (masks are a must this Puja). “We are starting the campaign to make people aware of the threat. If they move around during Puja, they must do so with the mask covering their nose and mouth,” Sharma told TOI. Police have also stepped up action to drive home the point. Since the past week, police have taken action against 220-260 people each day for not wearing masks properly. “We found that even till last month, people at least had the masks near their chins. But from the beginning of this month, we found many roaming without masks. We have decided to crack down in buses and tea stalls where the norms are being regularly flouted. We will also carry out special drives in markets and malls,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-intensify-mask-campaign/articleshow/78596309.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 11, 2020||Hubballi||Parents have reservations about sending children to schools||Dharwad: Against the backdrop of the state government holding deliberations with academicians, teachers and parents on reopening schools for the 2020-21 academic year, most stakeholders in Dharwad district want educational institutions to remain closed for the foreseeable future. Citing the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases across the state, particularly after the lifting of the restrictions, many parents opined that reopening of schools at such a juncture would jeopardise the health of the children. “What we have seen is that, after the lockdown was lifted, most people are not following the safety guidelines. They are not wearing masks, and there is little regard for social distancing. We are not assured of our children’s safety in schools. We do not mind our children missing an academic year, but we are not willing to put their lives at risk,” said Keerti Kulkarni, who has a son in class VII. There is also considerable variance in opinion among teachers on the proposal to reopen schools. On the one hand, representatives of several private aided and unaided schools are eager to have schools reopened, while most teachers feel that the situation is not too conducive to return to the classroom. However, there is the regret among the pedagogues of online classes not being as effective for imparting of lessons as the classroom. Deputy director of public instruction Mohankumatr Hanchate, who served as a nodal officer for effectively handling the Covid-19 crisis earlier this year, said that he could leverage that experience to chalk out and implement the standard operating procedure for Vidyagama. He pointed out that, while there were 25 children at each Vidyagama centre, the batches were divided by three so that there were now only eight children at each centre. “These centres were set up for the benefit of those students who cannot access mobile phones and take part in online classes,” Hanchate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/parents-have-reservations-about-sending-children-to-schools/articleshow/78596392.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 11, 2020||Varanasi||Mentally challenged boy kills elderly couple, held||Varanasi: An elderly couple was hacked to death at Gadholi village in Deogaon Kotwali police station area of Azamgarh district. Their mutilated bodies were found in their house on Saturday morning. The police arrested a mentally disturbed boy in this connection. According to reports, the elderly man, Shrinath Maurya (70) and his wife Maina Devi (65), had been living alone in their house as their son is settled in Mumbai.  As per daily routine, after dinner they went to bed on the verandah of the house on Friday night. They were brutally killed while sleeping. The incident of double murder came to light on Saturday morning when some children while playing near the house noticed their bodies in a pool of blood. They raised an alarm, and local residents rushed to the place after hearing their cries. The heads of the couple were hit by some blunt object. Panic prevailed in the locality, and the villagers immediately informed the police. Senior police officials along with forces reached the village after getting information and started investigation. Azamgarh SP Sudhir Kumar Singh said, “The couple was killed by a mentally disturbed teenage boy. The boy’s family used to keep him in confinement in a room, but he somehow came out of the room on Friday night and committed the crime.” The police have detained the boy and sent the bodies for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mentally-challenged-boy-kills-elderly-couple-held/articleshow/78596356.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Rajkot||Medical store owner ends life over harassment by land grabbers||RAJKOT: A medical store owner ended life due to alleged harassment by land grabbing mafia in Jamnagar. An FIR lodged with the Jamnagar C division police station on Saturday stated that Hitesh Parmar (41) was found hanging in his house on Friday evening. He left a note in which he has accused two persons of trying to take away his land. Hitesh’s wife, Nayna in her complaint alleged that Kanu Boss and Raman Morjariya wanted to grab their 3.5 bigha agriculture land in Juna Nagna village. She stated “My husband was under tremendous pressure due to harassment by the accused. He also talked about this harassment to my son two days back.” On Friday, Nayana went to her in-law’s house. When she came back in the evening she saw Hitesh’s motorcycle but her husband was nowhere found. She approached police station but by that time she got a call from her son that her husband’s body was hanging in the backyard of their house. The police found two notes near television in which Hitesh stated: “I am taking this extreme steps because of harassment of Kanu and Raman. They have also threatened to kill me and my family members.” In the second note, Hitesh has urged his son Harsh to study hard and become a doctor. Land grabbing mafia has been very active in Jamnagar with gangster Jayesh Ranparia’s and his gan leading the pack. SUSPECTED SUICIDE BID BY BUILDER Rajkot: Jamnagar’s well known builder Meraman Parmar was admitted to hospital on Thursday following suspicion that he had attempted suicide.. According to primary medical report poison was found in his blood. However, Parmar denied having attempted suicide. Jamnagar superintendent of police Deepan Bhadran said, “It seems to be some personal matter. But we are investigating it. Parmar has been discharged from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/medical-store-owner-ends-life-over-harassment-by-land-grabbers/articleshow/78597623.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Surat||Skilled Odiya workers play leadership roles in Surat’s ‘twisted fabrics’ tale||SURAT: If the glitter from sparkling polished stones has made Surat the Diamond City, its tale of ‘twisted fabrics’ has also made Surat the ‘Silk City’ — the hub of man-made fabrics like ‘georgette’ and ‘chiffon’. When any diamond story will be incomplete without the mention of skilled artisans from Saurashtra with unmatched polishing skills, Surat’s monopoly of the twisted fabric likewise has been preserved solely by the skilled Odiya textile artisans. Twisted fabrics have fantastic drape, fall, and feel and that it is used in the manufacturing of saris and ladies' garments. Surat has gained a leadership position in ‘twisted fabrics’ across the country, thanks to its skilled Odiya power-loom workers who specialize in weaving on conventional power-loom as well as high-speed water jets and Rapier machines. Industry sources said that about 95% of the twisted fabrics used in garmenting across the country are supplied from Surat. The textile workers from Odisha have protected the art of manufacturing twisted fabric since 1970. There are about 4 lakh dedicated workers from Odisha’s Ganjam and Behrampur districts, who have specialized the skill of manufacturing twisted fabrics in the industry. Out of the total 6.5 lakh power-loom machines, the twisted fabric is manufactured on about 5 lakh machines with a daily production pegged at 3 crore metres per day during pre-Covid times. Chairman of Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI), Bharat Gandhi told TOI: “Twisted fabrics comprise 75% of the total production of MMF in Surat. The special skill that Odiya workers have cultivated is their forte and has remained exclusive to them only. No workers from Uttar Pradesh or Bihar have been able to imitate it.” Talking to TOI, Rajesh Modi, a textile engineer associated with the power-loom industry said that without the contribution of Odiya workers, Surat would have not gained the monopoly it enjoys in twisted fabrics. About a month or so now, the textile industry has been trying all means to bring in its migrant Odiya workers who had returned to their natives five months ago during the lockdown. With most of them still not being able to return, the industry is currently producing less than 10 lakh metres of twisted fabrics per day with its strength of only 50,000 Odiya workers. Ashish Gujarati, leader of power-loom industry told TOI, “We require 300 special trains to bring in the migrant workers from Odisha to protect our monopoly fabric, which is a daunting task!” Vimal Bekawala, power-loom weaver manufacturing twisted fabric in Pandesara said, “I have workers working here for two generations now in my unit. I require 150 workers, against which I have only 10 at my disposal.” Pointer box Twisting a fortune About 95% of twisted fabrics are supplied from Surat Twisted fabric is a combination of polyester, nylon and viscose yarns Of 6.5 lakh power-loom machines, 5 lakh machine produce twisted fabric Average daily production is pegged at 3 crore metre during pre-Covid times Box What is twisted fabric? Twisted fabric is made out of the filament yarn quality including polyester, nylon and viscose, which is twisted on the two-for-one (TFO) and after warping the spindles are readied for weaving the cloth on power-loom machines. Odiya workers have specialized skills of tying very thin knots, which are sometimes not visible to naked eyes, in case the thread breaks on the TFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/skilled-odiya-workers-play-leadership-roles-in-surats-twisted-fabrics-tale/articleshow/78597531.cms||---
October 11, 2020||---||Lady luck smiles on JD(U) farmer cell ex-state chief||PATNA: The lady luck smiled on former state president of JD(U)’s farmer cell, Manoj Kumar, who will now be the party candidate from Minapur assembly seat in Muzaffarpur district. Earlier, JD(U) had nominated Manoj Kumar Kushwaha, but he returned the party ticket on Saturday, alleging local NDA workers’ non-cooperation.  JD(U) leader Lalan Sarraf on Saturday handed over the party symbol to Manoj at the CM’s residence and asked him to file nomination from Minapur, which will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3. October 16 is the last date for filing nomination papers for the second phase polls. Manoj was taken by surprise while working in his farmland at his Mustafaganj village in Minapur area in the morning. “I received a phone call around 8.30am from a senior JD(U) leader when I was working in my field. I was asked to rush to Patna for some urgent party work. Even then, I was not told about the party ticket. When I was on my way to Patna, I started receiving phone calls from some party workers that Kushwaha was going to return his ticket and my name was considered as an alternative candidate,” Manoj told TOI over the phone. “I had initially applied for the party ticket from Minapur, but forgot after JD(U) announced its candidates. I had not thought of getting the ticket,” Manoj said. Earlier in the day, Kushwaha, a three-time MLA from Kurhani, returned the party ticket to senior JD(U) leaders after his candidature was fiercely opposed by the NDA workers of Minapur on the plea of his being an outsider. “In fact, I had asked for the JD(U) ticket from my traditional Kurhani seat, but the party leadership asked me to contest from Minapur and allotted a ticket three days back. When I reached Minapur and started interacting with the workers of JD(U) and ally BJP, I did not find any cooperation. There was also a lack of unity among the JD(U) and BJP workers. Hence, I decided to return the ticket,” Kushwaha told reporters. Asked about his future plan, Kushwaha said, “Will take any decision only after consulting my workers in Kurhani,” he said. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary told TOI that the party symbol for Minapur seat was given to an incorrect person having the same name, because of the mistake committed by the office staff. The error had been corrected and the right person got the ticket. “Both the party leaders have the same name and both belong to the same community. Instead of inviting Manoj of farmers’ cell, the office staff, by mistake, made a call to former MLA Manoj Kushwaha for the party ticket,” Choudhary claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/lady-luck-smiles-on-jdu-farmer-cell-ex-state-chief/articleshow/78596020.cms||Madan Kumar
October 11, 2020||Patna||Lady luck smiles on JD(U) farmer cell ex-state chief||PATNA: The lady luck smiled on former state president of JD(U)’s farmer cell, Manoj Kumar, who will now be the party candidate from Minapur assembly seat in Muzaffarpur district. Earlier, JD(U) had nominated Manoj Kumar Kushwaha, but he returned the party ticket on Saturday, alleging local NDA workers’ non-cooperation.  JD(U) leader Lalan Sarraf on Saturday handed over the party symbol to Manoj at the CM’s residence and asked him to file nomination from Minapur, which will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3. October 16 is the last date for filing nomination papers for the second phase polls. Manoj was taken by surprise while working in his farmland at his Mustafaganj village in Minapur area in the morning. “I received a phone call around 8.30am from a senior JD(U) leader when I was working in my field. I was asked to rush to Patna for some urgent party work. Even then, I was not told about the party ticket. When I was on my way to Patna, I started receiving phone calls from some party workers that Kushwaha was going to return his ticket and my name was considered as an alternative candidate,” Manoj told TOI over the phone. “I had initially applied for the party ticket from Minapur, but forgot after JD(U) announced its candidates. I had not thought of getting the ticket,” Manoj said. Earlier in the day, Kushwaha, a three-time MLA from Kurhani, returned the party ticket to senior JD(U) leaders after his candidature was fiercely opposed by the NDA workers of Minapur on the plea of his being an outsider. “In fact, I had asked for the JD(U) ticket from my traditional Kurhani seat, but the party leadership asked me to contest from Minapur and allotted a ticket three days back. When I reached Minapur and started interacting with the workers of JD(U) and ally BJP, I did not find any cooperation. There was also a lack of unity among the JD(U) and BJP workers. Hence, I decided to return the ticket,” Kushwaha told reporters. Asked about his future plan, Kushwaha said, “Will take any decision only after consulting my workers in Kurhani,” he said. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary told TOI that the party symbol for Minapur seat was given to an incorrect person having the same name, because of the mistake committed by the office staff. The error had been corrected and the right person got the ticket. “Both the party leaders have the same name and both belong to the same community. Instead of inviting Manoj of farmers’ cell, the office staff, by mistake, made a call to former MLA Manoj Kushwaha for the party ticket,” Choudhary claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lady-luck-smiles-on-jdu-farmer-cell-ex-state-chief/articleshow/78601396.cms||Madan Kumar
October 11, 2020||Patna||Students seek reopening of PPU admission portal||PATNA: Many research scholars and students have urged the Raj Bhavan to direct Patliputra University (PPU) to reopen its portal at least for a week for pre-PhD registration and admission to Degree Part I courses. These candidates could not apply either for pre-PhD registration or Degree Part I admission due to the lockdown as well as poor internet connectivity in their areas, especially in flood-hit north Bihar region. Two students – Soumaya and Divya – said they could not apply online for pre-PhD registration with the PPU as the university had opened its portal hardly for a few days in January this year. “Since then, the university has not opened its portal, thereby making it difficult for research scholars to do research with the university,” they said. Manish, a research aspirant in humanities, said the Covid-19 pandemic has caused an irreparable damage to the future of many talented research scholars and students of the state. “As the PPU has not fixed the date for holding pre-Ph D test yet, it can give a chance to research scholars,” he added. Similarly, several meritorious students who scored high marks in senior secondary examinations failed to apply online for their admission in Degree Part I courses due to their inability to access university’s portal. “The university had closed online admission process on August 31, but the admission process could not be completed as yet,” said Degree Part I aspirants Tannu Priya and Vikas. PPU media incharge B K Mangalam said the university has already closed its online admission process for Degree Part I and started admitting students in different disciplines. “The admission process will be completed by the end of this month,” he said, adding the university is strictly following admission guidelines as per the directives of the Raj Bhavan. Mangalam said the university has allowed PhD registration for those students who had completed their pre-Ph D course with the Magadh University but wished to do PhD with the PPU. “The first PG batch of the PPU will pass out by the end of this year. The university will then start a fresh process for pre-PhD registration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-seek-reopening-of-ppu-admission-portal/articleshow/78595421.cms||Kumod Verma
October 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Panchayats pass resolution against stubble burning||LUDHIANA: Accepting the appeal of DC Varinder Kumar Sharma to ensure zero stubble burning in villages, over 90% panchayats in the district have passed resolutions with a vow to not burn the paddy residue left in the field. Senior officials claimed here on Saturday that there were a total 941 panchayats in Ludhiana district, of which 847 have joined hands with the district administration and passed resolutions against the stubble burning menace. The deputy commissioner appreciated the efforts of the panchayats to stamp out the unhealthy practice of stubble burning and also urged the remaining panchayats to cooperate with the district administration in making Ludhiana a zero stubble burning district. He further said that the administration was making concerted efforts in these trying situations to defeat coronavirus in the larger public interest and save precious lives. He once again appealed to farmers to abstain from burning paddy stubble, citing that besides polluting the environment, the hazardous gases might aggravate the Covid-19 situation and could cost more lives. District development and panchayat officer (DDPO) Peeyush Chander said that they were expecting that all panchayats would pass similar resolutions in the coming few days and help the district administration in making Ludhiana a stubble burning-free district. Meanwhile, gurdwaras in villages were also involved by the district administration in appealing farmers not to burn crop residue in open fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/panchayats-pass-resolution-against-stubble-burning/articleshow/78596285.cms||---
October 11, 2020||---||Bihar: Political parties prepare lists of star campaigners||PATNA: To strike a chord with the local voters, different political parties are preparing lists of their senior leaders as star campaigners in the upcoming Bihar election. As per the new Election Commission (EC) guidelines in view of Covid-19, the number of star campaigners for a recognized national or state party has been reduced to 30 from 40 and for an unrecognized party to 15 from 20. Since the EC has also allowed small rallies and public gatherings, every political party has to submit its list of star campaigners to the district election authorities at least 48 hours before the public meeting. For BJP, home minister Amit Shah, party’s national president JP Nadda and minister of textiles Smriti Irani would spearhead the central campaign teamcampaign. BJP state general secretary Devesh Kumar said the star campaigners would be a mix of central and state leaders. “Nadda ji, Amit ji, Smriti ji, party’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, former Maharashtra CM and Bihar election incharge Devendra Fadnavis among other top leaders will be the star campaigners from the central team. From state are Sushil Kumar Modi, union ministers Nityanand Rai, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Giriraj Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad and RK Singh besides Rajiv Pratap Ruddy, Prem Kumar, Radha Mohan Singh, Sanjay Jaiswal and Nand Kishore Yadav,” he said. “The list will be released phase-wise. Some new faces will be there,” he added. Bihar CM and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar along with other senior leaders would be the star campaigners of his party. JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said apart from Nitishji, RCP Singh, Ashok Choudhary, Lalan Singh, Sanjay Jha and Bashishth Narayan Singh and Kehkasha Parveen would be the star campaigners. “The list will be released phase-wise,” he said. Rajiv said the party would hold small rallies and show on virtual platforms through the digital raths. Congress on Saturday released a list of 30 star campaigners, who include Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Meira Kumar, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Shaktisinh Gohil, Sachin Pilot, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Shatrughan Sinha, Shakeel Ahmed, Raj Babbar, Pramod Tiwari, Ashok Gehlot and Captain Amarinder Singh. Bhupesh Baghel, Madan Mohan Jha, Tariq Anwar, former governor Nikhil Kumar, Sadanand Singh, Akhilesh Prasad Singh, Sanjay Nirupam, Kirti Azad, Udit Raj, Imran Pratapgarhi, Prem Chand Mishra, Anil Sharma, Ajay Kapoor, Mohammed Jawed and Virender Singh Rathore are also in the list. Congress’s national general secretary and MP KC Venugopal shared the list with the Election Commission of India. RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi, their sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav and daughter Misa Bharti would be the main star campaigners of the party. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said the list would be finalized in the next few days once the candidates for the remaining constituencies are announced. “Altogether 12 leaders have been selected as the star campaigners so far, including four from Laluji’s family,” he said. “The list will represent all communities. RJD state president Jagdanand Singh is a Rajput while Shivchandra Ram and Uday Narayan Choudhary represent Dalits, MP AD Singh is a Bhumihar, Alok Mehta a Kushwaha and senior leader Abdul Bari Siddiqui represents the Muslim community,” Tiwari said. He said RJD will hold over 100 rallies and small meetings. “However, door-to-door campaigning would be the priority,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/political-parties-prepare-lists-of-star-campaigners/articleshow/78595806.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana to ape Jodhpur in automated skin removal of carcasses||LUDHIANA: The civic body will soon be able to do automated skin removal of dead animals at the under construction carcass utilisation plant. The delegation members comprising mayor Balkar Sandhu and group of councillors who had gone to Jodhpur, Rajasthan, after returning to city have decided to implement the system in the new project. The mayor claimed that next week he would discuss with councillors who had gone to Indore and the best things would be implemented in the city. Sandhu shared, “The main objective was to observe the working of carcass utilisation plant at Jodhpur as we had come to know about better technology there. After visiting the plant we found that before disposing of the dead animals they remove the skin through automatic technology, whereas in our system we had not kept scope for automated removal of skin.” He said they had asked officials to add this thing in the project work so that there should not be any problem at a later stage. The mayor also admitted that in Jodhpur the sanitation condition was little better than Ludhiana as 80% of sweeping job is with female sanitation workers. He said he would call the councillors and officials who had visited Indore next week and then they would discuss the plan. Meanwhile, Congress councillor Rakesh Prashar, who had accompanied the mayor to Jodhpur, said, “It was a good experience in Jodhpur and it was nice that we visited the project before ours got completed. We can bring changes at this moment for better results.” He said they also met the officials of Jodhpur MC and discussed their ways of handling solid waste management system, along with sanitation condition of the city. He said they would discuss all points in detail with other councillors for taking any decision. The carcass utilisation plant is under construction in Noorpur Bet area located at a distance of 30km from the city. The plant will help in disposing of the dead animals in a scientific manner, whereas these days illegal ‘hadda rodi’ is located on the banks of the Satluj of which the National Green Tribunal has taken a strict note and has asked the civic body to stop dumping of carcasses near the water body. Earlier, the deadline was September end but due to Covid-19 it has been extended to December. It remains to be seen whether the authorities will become successful in completing the project by December because now they will have to make the changes with regard to scope of work as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludh-to-ape-jodhpur-in-automated-skin-removal-of-carcasses/articleshow/78596296.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Local swimmers rue absence of all-weather swimming pool||LUDHIANA: Union government’s standard operating protocols for resuming the training of swimmers across the country after almost seven months has brought no relief to local swimmers of the district as the sports department here doesn’t have even a single all-weather swimming pool to continue the training in winter. Every year, the district sports department starts providing training to local swimmers from April till mid-October to prepare them for state as well as national championships. But every year the district sports department shuts down the swimming pool after October 15 as the temperature starts dipping. The district sport department provides swimming training to local players at Punjab Agricultural University in summer but this year, local swimmers could not attend even a single training session of swimming as the central government had imposed strict lockdown in the last week of March following the outbreak of Covid-19. Unable to make any use of the new directives, the sportspersons have now raised the demand before the sports department to establish an all-weather swimming pool by next year. A local swimmer, Ankit Verma, said, “In the absence of a swimming pool, it’s annoying that the players could not get training throughout the year, which will push us back in the performance rating.” Another young sportsperson Jatin Sharma said, “It’s not safe to reopen the swimming pool because it can lead to increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district as there are several asymptomatic patients who could not be traced and could infect so many others.” A local coach with the sports department, Ajay Sharma, said, “As per the procedure, the district sports department runs the swimming centre from April 15 to October 15 and after that we have to close it for the next few months as it is a seasonal centre for the same. We cannot resume the training in the district. The sports department is trying hard to build an all weather swimming pool in the district.” District sports officer Ravinder Singh said, “The sports department is considering the need of an all weather swimming pool in the district and we have already made the higher authorities aware about it. They have given us an assurance to construct one in the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/local-swimmers-rue-absence-of-all-weather-swimming-pool/articleshow/78596293.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Monkeys wreak havoc, bite 2 in Khokhra||Ahmedabad: Two persons including a woman were bitten by a group of monkeys which wreaked havoc in Bhavdeep Park in Khokhra area of the city on Saturday. Pachabhai Ahir (65) was bitten on the head, while Kalpana Joshi was bitten on the back. The residents claimed that for the last two days the group of monkeys had been coming to the area but on Saturday they seemed to have gone berserk, attacking everyone in their sight. Even three kids were injured after they fell while being chased by the simians. Harshad Patel, a social worker in the area, said that he and the residents had called up the fire department and the forest department to trap these monkeys, but the authorities were yet to arrive. Patel said Ahir had to take stitches on his head. The residents of the area were seen wearing helmets and moving in the society armed with sticks to protect themselves from the monkeys. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monkeys-wreak-havoc-bite-2-in-khokhra/articleshow/78596294.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Bathukamma sarees distributed||Secunderabad: Deputy speaker of Assembly, T Padma Rao, launched distribution of ‘Bathukamma sarees’ at Sitaphalmandi GHMC ward in Secunderabad constituency on Saturday. He said that a total of 59,696 beneficiaries of five GHMC divisions including, Sitaphalmandi, Tarnaka, Boudha Nagar, Addagutta and Mettuguda, will get the sarees and opened 20 sarees centres for distribution. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bathukamma-sarees-distributed/articleshow/78597108.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Tackling Covid a tune at a time||“Oru meter thalli nillu pinaala, Corona oora vitu odum paaru thannala," sings Srinivasan at the doorsteps of his audience. He doesn’t expect them to come on to the street to view his performance; he does not intend to take his act indoors either. He is content they are watching him through their windows, from a safe distance. After all, as his song says, if you maintain a distance of 1m, coronavirus will automatically leave the city. Singing to the beats of the ‘dholak’ and ‘kottankuchi thalam’, made with coconut shells, Srinivasan and his music troupe have been travelling across the city to spread awareness about Covid-19 through gaana. "It is our duty to communicate Covid-19 government norms to our people," says the 47-year-old gaana artist from Pulianthope, whose group began this awareness initiative in April. Across the city, since the lockdown began in March, gaana artists have been using their music to create awareness on the coronavirus. While some stick to traditional methods such as street performances, a few have taken to the internet, to stay relevant in a time where live performances are not permitted. The songs, says Srinivasan, stress on the importance of wearing masks, sanitising, maintaining physical distancing, and quarantining. "Explaining how to survive and overcome a pandemic has to be done in a relatable way and gaana has the ability to strike a chord with the larger public," says Nagooran, head of Tamil Nadu gaana artists’ welfare association in Chennai. Nagooran monitors the awareness performances by Chennai gaana artists. "We rent out a small truck and travel to various locations as small groups," he says, adding that they have performed in areas such as Tondiarpet, Vyasarpadi, Korukkupettai, Pulianthope, Chintadaripet, Tambaram and a few locations in Chengalpet and Tiruvallur. Maintaining the safety of not just the crew members, but also the gathering at every location is crucial, says Nagooran, who assigns two group members to ensure physical distancing. Gaana has also been incorporated into street plays in these initiatives conducted by city folk artists. According to folk art researcher Gurunathan M, the simple lyrics of gaana aid in the expression of emotions required for a street play. "Awareness dialogues and songs should impact people in a way they would follow the message delivered," says the academician who also performs in these plays. Since July, Gurunathan and crew have performed over 25 shows in Kannagi Nagar, Velachery, Madhavaram, Royapettah and Perumbakkam. "Young audiences who see our performances tend to dance and sing along. This gives me a sense of satisfaction of having delivered the content. Children, after all, have the ability to persuade the family to follow the safety norms," says the 36-year-old, who quit his IT job to take up folk art. These performances also have an interaction session, where the audience asks corona-related questions from their windows or apartment floors and the crew, and corporation health workers answer from the streets. Some artists with a fan base and media presence have been uploading gaana songs on platforms such as YouTube and Facebook. Smaller independent artists have also been taking up the responsibility to spread awareness. Sivakumar D, a singer from Royapuram, and his two colleagues, who rode their cycles to Thiruvottiyur and Tondiarpet to perform awareness songs in May, also pooled in a sum of `200 to buy masks for their audience. "Though we put in all that effort, it was disheartening to see people shove the masks into their pockets and walk away," he says. "Just goes to show why we need to keep the awareness going."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tackling-covid-a-tune-at-a-time/articleshow/78596295.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
October 11, 2020||Kochi||Globetrotter Moidu dies at 61||Kozhikode: Moidu Kizhissery (61), who visited 43 countries after leaving his home in Malappuram at the age of 10, died at a private hospital, where he was under treatment for kidney ailments, on Saturday. Moidu is survived by wife Sofia, daughter Sajna and son Nadirshan. His unplanned travel across three continents –mostly without even passport or visa during a span of 14 years –is something unheard of. He was caught by authorities from various countries for document-less travel and even injured during the Iran-Iraq war. But, it didn’t deter the traveller in him from seeking the unseen and unexplored. Born in 1959 at Kizhissery near Kondotty as son of Illyan Ahmed Kutty Haji and Kadiyakutty, young Moidu was bitten by the travel bug after he learnt about the travels of Sufi saints at mosques. He boarded a train to Delhi from Kozhikode in 1969 with just Rs 50 and spent the next seven years exploring north Indian states. Moidu even entered Pakistan in 1976, when he was 17. Though he was caught and kept in custody for unauthorized travel by Pakistan, Moidu later managed to continue his journey and moved across Afghanistan where he was caught and suspected to be a spy. Moidu’s eventful journey took him to China, Burma, regions under erstwhile Soviet Union and Iran; where he served briefly in Iran army. He moved to Turkey, African countries and later parts of Europe. He returned home in 1984 after 14 years of globetrotting. Moidu, who was fluent in several foreign languages, had donned several roles as tourist guide, journalist, and religious teacher, among others in various countries during his travel. He had written half a dozen travel books from 2009. The rich collection of artefacts he amassed during his travels was taken over by cultural department for Rs 65 lakh. They are kept on display at Moyinkutty Vaidyar Smarakam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/globetrotter-moidu-dies-at-61/articleshow/78595640.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS plays welfare card, Oppn banks on failed promises||Hyderabad: Normally, sympathy plays a major role in a byelection necessitated due to the death of a sitting member. Now, it is welfare schemes versus the unfulfilled promises of TRS government in Dubbak going to the polls on November 3. Though the local TRS cadre are confident that the votes of beneficiaries of schemes such as Rythu Bandhu, Aasara pension, KCR Kits, Kalyana Lakshmi and Shaadi Mubarak are enough to get one lakh majority , finance minister T Harish Rao is not taking any chances. Accompanying party candidate Solipeta Sujatha, Harish Rao is campaigning vigorously and trying to touch every lane and bylane in rural and urban areas. “You know how I work for the development of the constituency. I assure you all that Sujathamma will continue the development of the constituency and fulfil the dream of her late husband Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy by transforming Dubbak into a model constituency. We are with her and Dubbak will have its first woman legislator,” he said addressing the people at a meeting. On the other hand, the opposition Congress and BJP are highlighting the unfulfilled promises of the TRS government. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy is going around Dubbak, stating that the TRS has failed to deliver 2-BHK houses while KCR’s family is staying in a lavish palace called Pragati Bhavan. “It is time to show KCR and Harish Rao that people of Dubbak cannot be taken for granted at the cost of Gajwel and Siddipet constituencies which have got a lion’s share of funds, while Dubbak has been neglected,” Uttam said at a meeting in Dubbak. BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao said, “The TRS got 89,000 votes in the 2018 polls. Not even 50% of the beneficiaries had voted for the ruling party. The people of Dubbak have been meted out a step-motherly treatment as all the funds have been diverted to Gajwel and Siddipet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-plays-welfare-card-oppn-banks-on-failed-promises/articleshow/78597124.cms||Roushan Ali
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman, daughters rescued||Ahmedabad: A 35-year-old woman, who had come with her two daughters — one six-year-old and the other four-year-old — to commit suicide at Sabarmati River Front under Ellisbridge was rescued on Saturday. According to the volunteers of 181 helpline, the woman and her two daughters were seen walking on the parapet of the River Front Walk Way near Ellisbridge at about 11.15 am in the morning. While the woman was about to jump into the river, local social worker Ashok Vaghela pulled her and saved her and her two daughters’ lives. “The woman said that her husband, who runs a dairy in Isanpur, used to beat her up often,” said a volunteer of the 181 helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-daughters-rescued/articleshow/78596286.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Allahabad||Army job racket: STF nabs kingpin in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A team of Special Task Force has arrested the kingpin of a gang involved in recruitment of medically unfit candidates in the Army. The gang was busted on January 19 and four accused, including two Army personnel, were arrested. ASP STF Neeraj Pandey said, “On Saturday, the STF team received an information that the leader of the gang would be arriving near Company Bagh. Acting on the tip-off, the accused was arrested on the spot by the STF team. On being asked, the arrested person gave his name as Mulayam Singh Yadav alias Ajay alias Sonu.” The accused, Mulayam Singh Yadav, said he was recruited in the Army from Prayagraj district in the year 2003 for the post of GD constable and retired in the month of April 2020. During his service, he came in contact with many military / civil officers and employees working in Military Hospital, Allahabad, Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut, etc., and along with other gang members used to operate the gang, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/army-job-racket-stf-nabs-kingpin/articleshow/78595235.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Varanasi||Division politics is in Oppn’s DNA: CM||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath slammed the opposition for playing divisive politics and trying to divide society on caste and community lines. Addressing party office-bearers of Deoria on Saturday, the CM said, “The opposition’s thinking is dirty and their intentions are dangerous. Division is in their DNA. They first divided the country, and are now trying to divide the society on caste, community and region lines. For them their family comes first, while everything else is secondary.” “Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party ruled the state for 15 years, but have no achievement except spreading corruption and anarchy,” Yogi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/division-politics-is-in-oppns-dna-cm/articleshow/78596373.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Watch worth Rs 1 lakh stolen||Ahmedabad: Amar Parikh, 53, a resident of New Commercial Mill Staff Society in Navrangpura, lodged a complaint at Navrangpura police station on Friday that a wrist watch worth Rs 1 lakh was stolen from his house. Parikh, who runs a share market company at Devasish Building at Sadar Patel Nagar, said that on Friday while he was going to his office, his son, Yash, told him about the missing watch, which he had given to his son in gift. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/watch-worth-rs-1-lakh-stolen/articleshow/78596301.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Foundation stone for new water line||Secunderabad: The Telangana Assembly deputy speaker, T Padmda Rao, laid foundation stone for a new 150-mm water supply pipeline for the houses of 2-BHK scheme, proposed by the TRS government, at Subashchandra Bose Nagar in Sitaphalmandi division. The cost of the new water pipeline goes to Rs 4 lakh. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/foundation-stone-for-new-water-line/articleshow/78597138.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Amangal sparkler could be a secondary diamond||Hyderabad: A farmer in Amangal in the neighbouring Rangareddy district has chanced upon a ‘natural diamond’ and kept the secret to himself. Curious, however, to find out if it was a real diamond or not, he approached a gem testing lab in Hyderabad to analyse it. The lab gave a report saying the ‘fluorescence’ was ‘very strong’ and described the sample submitted as a ‘natural diamond’. According to the gemmologist’s report on September 3, the carat weight of the precious stone was 0.15 ct. The farmer’s identity has not been revealed and the fact that he found the diamond came to light through some researchers of Osmania University, whom he reportedly approached to know more about the stone. The dimensions of the cut diamond mentioned in the ‘Diamond certificate’ is 3.25X2.2 mm. The cost of a 0.15 carat diamond is said to be around Rs 15,000. “Until we get to see and examine it we cannot say for sure if it is a diamond or not. But from the description given, at most, it could only be a secondary diamond,” G Ramadass, retired professor, department of geophysics, Osmania University told TOI on Saturday. Professor G Ramadass is the ‘go to’ man for diamonds as he has carried out studies in the field. In 2016, his paper, authored along with G Sriramulu and M Preeti of department of geophysics, was published in ‘Imperial Journal of Interdisciplinary Research’. The paper talked about diamondiferous points in Nalgonda district, where the studies were carried out. According to sources, the farmer, who found the natural diamond, has been careful not to show it to anyone, except to the gemmologist and a researcher. The farmer was said to be worried as he feared that if he revealed to anyone where it was found, the government might take away his rights over the land. The Centre of Exploration Geophysics in the past had identified 21 kimberlite pipes in Mahbubnagar district. The kimberlite pipes are known to contain diamonds. Last year, National Mineral Development Corporation was given a go-ahead by the Telangana government for diamond prospecting in Mahbubnagar, Gadwal, and Wanparthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amangal-sparkler-could-be-a-secondary-diamond/articleshow/78597152.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur, Jodhpur & Kota civic bodies polls on Oct 29, Nov 1||JAIPUR: The state election commission on Saturday announced the dates for the elections to six Nagar Nigams in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. The elections for the posts of councillors will be held in two phases – October 29 and November 1. The counting of votes will be held on November 3. The elections for the posts of mayors will be held on November 10 (from 10 am to 2 pm) and for the posts of deputy mayors on November 11. The model code of conduct comes into effect with the announcement of polls in these Nagar Nigam areas. The transfer/postings of government employees to and from these Nagar Nigam areas will be put on hold till the elections are over. There are 560 wards in six Nagar Nigams including Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. The polling will be held between 7:30 am and 5:30 pm. In the first phase, elections will be held in 250 wards – Jaipur Heritage (100 wards), Jodhpur North (80 wards) and Kota North (70 wards). There will be 2,761 polling stations in this phase. In the second phase, polling will be held in 310 wards – Jaipur Greater (150 wards), Jodhpur South (80 wards) and Kota South (80 wards). There will be 3,211 polling stations in the second phase. In total, there will be 5,972 polling stations in 560 wards. State election commissioner P S Mehra informed that 35.97 lakh voters will exercise their franchise during these polls. Of the total, 18.76 lakh are male voters and 17.21 lakh are female. There are 41 third gender voters. The highest number of voters are in Jaipur Greater municipal corporation at 12.28 lakh. Jaipur Heritage has 9.32 lakh voters. The election expenditure limit for a candidate contesting for the councillor’s post is Rs 2.50 lakh. A written permission from the election officer will be required for the use of loudspeakers by the candidates. Loudspeakers are not allowed between 10 pm and 6 am. He also informed that around 30,000 election officials will be appointed during the polls. Senior IAS and RAS officers will be appointed as election observers. Around 7,500 EVMs will be used in these elections. A control room has been set up for all election-related queries and complaints. The control room numbers are 0141-2227786, 2385067, 2385059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-kota-civic-bodies-polls-on-oct-29-nov-1/articleshow/78597148.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ludhiana||SBS Nagar residents complain of contaminated water supply||Ludhiana: Residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, E block, have made a complaint to principal secretary, local bodies department, about water contamination in the locality for the past three days. The residents complained that there was a foul smell in water and some of them have even started falling ill, particularly the children. They rued that already due to coronavirus, everybody is scared and now even dengue cases have started coming, so if water-borne diseases spread, then there will be total chaos. However, officials of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) claimed that sewerage board officials were trying to locate the fault even as they blamed the ongoing construction work on Pakhowal road for an ROB/RUB for the same. Due to the ongoing work, the sewerage line is blocked, that has created problem of water contamination in the area. A resident of the area, Arvind Sharma, said, “Though it is a posh locality developed by LIT, but when it comes to providing the basic amenities the area is almost equal to low areas of the city. For the past three days we are getting smelly water and residents are forced to purchase water bottles for drinking purpose from shops.” He said he had already suffered from dengue and now this new issue had cropped up. Sharma claimed that on Friday evening even his grandson was vomiting and the situation was no different in other households of the locality. Another resident of area Jaspal Takkar complained that on one hand the government was asking for maintaining hygiene to avoid spreading of coronavirus while on the other hand the local authorities have failed in resolving the problem of contaminated water supply in the area. “We have made several complaints in the past three days to the officials concerned, but to no avail.” Meanwhile, a senior citizen, Amarjit Singh, said it was not viable for them to purchase water bottles for household work every time. He said the officials should fix the problem as soon as possible, otherwise the situation would go out of control. Executive engineer of LIT Boota Ram said, “We had come to know about the water contamination and have directed the Punjab water supply and sewerage board to look into the matter. The officials of sewerage board are working on it.” The executive engineer of PWSSB, GP Singh, said, “There is no fault in the water supply line in the locality, rather construction work of a flyover is going on at Pakhowal road and it is from there that the sewerage line is blocked. Our employees are there on the spot for fixing the snag and we are hopeful that by evening the fault will be removed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sbs-nagar-residents-complain-of-contaminated-water-supply/articleshow/78596302.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur, Jodhpur & Kota civic bodies polls on Oct 29, Nov 1||JAIPUR: The state election commission on Saturday announced the dates for the elections to six Nagar Nigams in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. The elections for the posts of councillors will be held in two phases – October 29 and November 1. The counting of votes will be held on November 3. The elections for the posts of mayors will be held on November 10 (from 10 am to 2 pm) and for the posts of deputy mayors on November 11. The model code of conduct comes into effect with the announcement of polls in these Nagar Nigam areas. The transfer/postings of government employees to and from these Nagar Nigam areas will be put on hold till the elections are over. There are 560 wards in six Nagar Nigams including Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota North and Kota South. The polling will be held between 7:30 am and 5:30 pm. In the first phase, elections will be held in 250 wards – Jaipur Heritage (100 wards), Jodhpur North (80 wards) and Kota North (70 wards). There will be 2,761 polling stations in this phase. In the second phase, polling will be held in 310 wards – Jaipur Greater (150 wards), Jodhpur South (80 wards) and Kota South (80 wards). There will be 3,211 polling stations in the second phase. In total, there will be 5,972 polling stations in 560 wards. State election commissioner P S Mehra informed that 35.97 lakh voters will exercise their franchise during these polls. Of the total, 18.76 lakh are male voters and 17.21 lakh are female. There are 41 third gender voters. The highest number of voters are in Jaipur Greater municipal corporation at 12.28 lakh. Jaipur Heritage has 9.32 lakh voters. The election expenditure limit for a candidate contesting for the councillor’s post is Rs 2.50 lakh. A written permission from the election officer will be required for the use of loudspeakers by the candidates. Loudspeakers are not allowed between 10 pm and 6 am. He also informed that around 30,000 election officials will be appointed during the polls. Senior IAS and RAS officers will be appointed as election observers. Around 7,500 EVMs will be used in these elections. A control room has been set up for all election-related queries and complaints. The control room numbers are 0141-2227786, 2385067, 2385059.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpur-kota-civic-bodies-polls-on-oct-29-nov-1/articleshow/78598458.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Think twice before you take to keto||CHENNAI: Although among the most popular fad diets, the death of actor Mishti Mukherjee earlier this week due to renal failure — rumoured to have been triggered by the high-fat low-carb ketogenic diet she was on — has doctors and nutritionists in Chennai trying to, quite literally, veto the keto on a war footing. Dr Viswanathan Mohan, director of Chennai-based Madras Diabetes Research Foundation, calls it among the "unhealthiest diets", and explains that the unbalanced nature of the keto diet, which advocates less than 50g of carbohydrate a day, can have oxidative stress on the body, push up cholesterol levels and cause irregularities in the heart due to deficiencies of essential micronutrients such as magnesium and selenium. He says people are enamoured by the diet that is 55%-60% fat, 30%-35% protein and 5%-10% carbohydrates, because it results in immediate weight loss of 15kg to 20kg. "When you don’t eat carbohydrates, your body uses fat as a source of energy, which is known as a state of ketosis. So, you are basically melting the fat away," says Dr Mohan, adding that several of his patients with diabetes have gone on the diet, lost lots of weight, and therefore gone off insulin. "But then because the diet is difficult to sustain, they’ve fallen off the wagon resulting in almost immediate weight gain and uncontrolled sugar levels," he says. Similarly, some overweight people see it as an alternative to bariatric surgery. Two years ago, Praneeth Arem decided to try the keto diet to lose weight fast. But after two cycles of the diet, the 28-year-old pilot-in-training says though he lost 20kg, his cholesterol levels shot up and his physician found he had gall bladder stones. "He told me both were because of the nature of diet. I had to undergo surgery to remove the stones. I decided to quit keto and try a less drastic more sustainable weight loss programme." For a diet to be successful it needs to be sustainable, says nutritionist Shiny Surendran. "The ketogenic diet is a highly specialised diet and needs to be medically supervised. Not everyone should embark on it. And yet, people download instructions off the internet and get on it," she says. The average Indian diet consists of 50% carbohydrates, which makes the keto diet unsustainable in the long term. The diet is sometimes used as a treatment option for people with epilepsy whose seizures are not controlled with medication, says Shiny. "It is also recommended in some cases by neurologists for tumour management. That is how specialised this diet is and one must be careful with it." She says there are around 17 medical conditions for which the keto diet is not recommended as it can have adverse effects that range from diarrhoea to fatigue, renal failure, and ketoacidosis (that can damage the liver, kidneys, and brain), which can be fatal. "The diet is not recommended for those with diabetes or have a family history of high cholesterol," says Shiny. The other danger, says Dr Mohan, is that people get on and off the diet as they place, which can have disastrous results. "It can result in sudden death because of the stress it puts on the body."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/think-twice-before-you-take-to-keto/articleshow/78596308.cms||Kamini Mathai
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||INS Valsura holds webinar||Ahmedabad: INS Valsura organised a three-day webinar on the contemporary topic ‘Artificial Intelligence (AI) for data driven Navy’ on 7-9 October under the aegis of the Southern Naval Command. The webinar was organized on the lines of demystification, demonstration and application of the AI technology. The webinar commenced on October 7 with Commodore Ajay Patney, Commanding Officer, INS Valsura welcoming the participants to the webinar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ins-valsura-holds-webinar/articleshow/78596306.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Martyr’s kin’s protest enters second day, seek action against Punjabi singer||LUDHIANA: The protest by the grandson of the Shaheed Sukhdev, Vishal Nayyar, entered second day as no official from administration turned up to give a hearing to their demand. He had sat on an indefinite hunger strike at Jagroan bridge on Friday afternoon in protest against no action by the district police on a complaint against Punjabi singer and actor-turned-politician Jassi Jasraj for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the freedom fighter during a video clip which went viral on social media a few days ago. Vishal said, “Freedom fighters are most reputable part of our freedom fight and Jassi has hurt the sentiments of the family members of Shaheed Sukhdev by making derogatory remarks against the freedom fighter to dilute their image before a generation in a video clip.” Family members of Shaheed Sukhdev have raised a demand before the district police to take appropriate action for this wrongful act as freedom fighters sacrifice their lives for welfare of the country after fighting the British government during pre-Independence period.” “We are unhappy with the non cooperative attitude of the district administration as they are not listening to our demand of registering an FIR against the Jassi jasraj who makes derogatory remarks against the freedom fight during a video clip few days ago”. “For the past two days, I have been getting full support from local society people who provoked me to take this step to counter such issues for future generation”. “I will continue to raise their voice against such persons and will not uplift the hunger strike until local police give us full assurance of adequate action against such persons in society,” said Nayyar. They said they would continue to raise their voice against this and would not uplift the hunger strike until the local police gave assurance of adequate action against such persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/martyrs-kins-protest-enters-second-day-seek-action-against-punjabi-singer/articleshow/78596305.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||GIDC to float tender for coal block operator in MP by month-end||PANAJI: After receiving chief minister Pramod Sawant’s nod, Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has decided to skip the appointment of a consultant. It will instead directly appoint a mine-developer-cum operator (MDO) through an e-auction. The decision has been taken due to paucity of time, GIDC officials said. Speaking to TOI, GIDC managing director Derrick P Neto said the e-tender will have to be floated within the next fortnight so the MDO can be appointed before November 28. The Union coal ministry has given GIDC till November-end to complete all formalities and take over the Dongri Tal phase II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, which was allocated to the state in September 2019. “We have to float the tender in the next two weeks and we will do so after we get the required government approvals,” Neto said. Initially, industries minister Vishwajit Rane had asked GIDC to appoint a consultant to assist the state corporation in selecting an MDO and guiding the state on utilisation of the coal block. A selection committee, headed by the industries secretary, and a monitoring committee, headed by Rane, were supposed to select the consultant. The process, however, never took off. On October 7, Sawant chaired a meeting with GIDC and industries department officials where he asked GIDC to directly appoint the MDO, without selecting a consultant. “Because of this, some fresh approvals will have to be sought,” Neto said. Since 2016 GIDC has tried to get its hand on a coal block to meet Goa’s industrial power requirement. In 2018, the Union ministry wrote to the state government informing that new coal blocks were in the process of being allocated to states and state government corporations. An earlier attempt to source coal and then supply it to a private power company failed in 2014 when the Supreme Court quashed the allocation of the Gare Pelma sector-III coal block in Chhattisgarh, on grounds that the allocations were done in an arbitrary, non-transparent manner and were against public interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-to-float-tender-for-coal-block-operator-in-mp-by-month-end/articleshow/78597154.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Why double standards: Bapu||Ahmedabad: Former Gujarat CM Shankersinh Vaghela said the government should not have double standards by allowing election rallies on one hand and banning Navratri gatherings on the other. Vaghela said this in Vadodara, where he held a meeting of office bearers and workers of Praja Shakti, his political outfit. “It (ban on gatherings) should be applicable to elections as well. Election gatherings or rallies should not be allowed,” Vaghela said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-double-standards-bapu/articleshow/78596310.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Witness names out, court recalls chargesheet copies||NEW DELHI: Following Delhi Police “inadvertently” revealing the names of protected witnesses in its chargesheet on the riots in northeast Delhi, a city court has recalled the soft copies of the chargesheet and ordered the cops to provide “comprehensive safety and security” to the exposed witnesses. The chargesheet, running into over 17,000 pages, indicts 15 persons, including former JNU student Umar Khalid and other student activists, for the February riots. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said on Saturday, “In the court’s view, there is a mistake on the part of the investigating officer and since the purpose of protecting the identity of some witnesses is to ensure a fair trial and for specific protection to witnesses, an immediate protection order is required to be passed.” The judge, accordingly, ordered the defence counsels — being officers of the court — to return the pen drive containing the names of the protected witnesses “in the fitness of things”. The order added, “The investigating officer can provide fresh copies immediately to the accused persons/counsels. The return of the pen drive shall also pertain to the one supplied to the court itself. The record where the disclosure of the protected witnesses has happened in the judicial file and the pen drive shall be kept in a sealed cover in court and the redacted version shall be filed in court.” Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad earlier submitted that the “life, liberty, safety and security” of the protected public witnesses were of paramount importance. “During the investigation of this case, the identities of some witnesses were kept confidential as contemplated under Section 44 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. It has come to the knowledge of the investigating agency that at least three protected witnesses were approached by persons with vested interests in relation to the present case,” he said. Prasad said that the disclosure of the identities of the protected witnesses was “neither intentional nor deliberate”. Therefore, he contended that it was necessary to extract the relevant documents from the judicial file and replace them with a truncated version, seal the original and keep that on record. Prasad urged the court to direct the accused, their lawyers and associates not to divulge, publish, disclose, disseminate or circulate the identity of the protected witnesses. He also requested the court to direct the defence counsels to return the soft copies of the chargesheet supplied to them and destroy any prints or copies made of the supplied chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/witness-names-out-court-recalls-chargesheet-copies/articleshow/78597157.cms||Aamir Khan
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Fadnavis writes to CM for action against cops in Ankita Shah case||Nagpur: Leader of the opposition in state assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding action against Lakadganj police station officers for assaulting RTI activist advocate Ankita Shah. Fadnavis has also condemned the incident. Shah is set to approach the magistrate court to file a complaint against the Lakadganj police for assault. On March 25, Shah and her husband Nilesh Makheja had gone to the police station to lodge a complaint against a security guard and a neighbour who were hurling stones at stray canines. The cops roughed up Shah and her husband on the grounds that they were not wearing masks and also using cell phone to make videos inside the police station. Earlier this week, District Bar Association too met the City police chief Amitesh Kumar seeking justice for Shah. Other social activists too had met the CP with similar demands. ACP Lakadganj, Balchandra Mundhe, had earlier conducted an inquiry into the incident and submitted a default report following which the then CP BK Upadhyay had levied fine on sub-inspector Bhavesh Kawde and also reprimanded senior PI Narendra Hiware.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fadnavis-writes-to-cm-for-action-against-cops-in-ankita-shah-case/articleshow/78597158.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 11, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP protests against clean chit to Dharamsot||Ludhiana: Members of SC Morcha staged a protest at Samrala chowk on Saturday against the clean chit given to cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in the alleged SC scholarship scheme scam. The BJP leaders stopped traffic at the chowk that led to chaos on the road, adding to the woes of commuters. The protest continued for almost an hour. The BJP workers have demanded a proper inquiry and action against Dharamsot. They claimed that in order to save its minister CM Amarinder Singh had formed a two-member committee, which had given a clean chit to the minister. They claimed that Congress leaders were looting public and rights of even SC students were getting shelved due to this scam. The BJP held this protest in support of the SC community. The leaders demanded a CBI probe in this matter and claimed that they would continue protesting unless action was taken against the minister. Due to the protest, the Amritsar-Delhi road and Chandigarh road saw a huge traffic jam. The commuters rued that for almost an hour there was complete chaos at the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-protests-against-clean-chit-to-dharamsot/articleshow/78596311.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Ouch! That shooting pain in the face||Nagpur: The six months of total and partial lockdown, uncertainty, financial and job stress due to Covid-19 are throwing up different types of ailments. Chronic pain-related problems have bounced back in many patients. “During the pandemic, complaints of facial pain has significantly increased with higher stress levels being the foremost reason,” said pain management specialist Dr Sunita Lawange. Adding that most of “us continue to face a lot of stress due to the uncertainty of this pandemic”, Dr Lawange said, “Stress is one of the most common predisposing factor and stimulus to cause pain. Many patients of neuropathic face pain (known as Trigeminal neuralgia or TN) have attempted suicides due to unbearable pain.” In TN, patients often suffer long stretches of frequent pain attacks followed by weeks, months or even years of little or no pain. “We have noticed that the attacks have intensified in patients during Covid-19 time and the pain-free periods have grown shorter,” said Dr Lawange. The pain typically begins with a sensation of electrical shocks that culminates in an excruciating stabbing sensation within less than 20 seconds. According to Indian Society for Study of Pain, the cause of this pain usually is due to contact between a healthy artery or vein and the trigeminal nerve at the base of the brain. This places pressure on the nerve as it enters the brain and causes the nerve to misfire (known as ‘tic douloureux). The pain often leaves patients with uncontrollable facial twitching and is said to be the most excruciating pain known to humanity. The intense flashes of pain can be triggered by vibration or contact with the cheek such as when shaving, washing the face, applying make-up, brushing teeth, eating, drinking, talking or being exposed to the wind. People with TN avoid social contact and daily activities such as eating and talking because they fear an attack. Pain from TN is very isolating and depressing for the individual. Many develop suicidal thoughts due to this pain. Doctors said that correct and early diagnosis, and management is the first line treatment of the disease. “Following the circadian rhythm of life by keeping a structured routine, maintaining a healthy diet, proper hydration, meditation and exercise can keep any pain related ailment in control. Medical, surgical and radiosurgical options are also available in treatment,” said Dr Lawange. ALL ABOUT TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA Intermittent electric jolt-like pain on one side of face Pain around the eye, over the cheek or around the mouth, nose or jaw Caused by trigeminal nerve dysfunction, more common on right side of face 1,50,000 people are diagnosed with trigeminal neuralgia every year Can occur at any age, most common in people over the age of 50 More common in women||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ouch-that-shooting-pain-in-the-face/articleshow/78597156.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for credit fraud||Ahmedabad: Sleuths of the cybercrime cell held a man from Dariapur, Mohammed Azaz Shaikh, for allegedly buying expensive mobile phones using the credit cards of people who had availed of consumer loans from big stores. He allegedly bought 13 expensive phones using the credit cards accounts of 12 persons and and selling them. Police said that as the accused used to deal in phones, he knew that to process consumer loans from stores he just needed the OTP and customer information. “He used to get the customer data from the website of the bank. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-credit-fraud/articleshow/78596314.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Allahabad||Admin identifies Civil Lines site for protests||Prayagraj: Prayagraj district administration on Saturday identified a separate piece of land to be used exclusively for organising protests and agitations. The identified piece of land is located in front of All Saints Cathedral in Civil Lines. Formerly, the Government Girls Intermediate College (GGIC) was constructed on the land. The administration would give permissions for organising protests and agitations only at the specific site. “As per orders from district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami, protests, rallies and processions would not be permitted at any other location in the district. Those found violating the rules would be punished. The organisers associated with any dharna or protest will have to first seek permission from the authorities before using the site for staging a protest,” said ADM (city) AK Kanojia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/admin-identifies-civil-lines-site-for-protests/articleshow/78595263.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kanpur||GCRS sets up centre at Technopark@iitk, inst looks forward to more cos joining soon||Kanpur: The rapid pace of urban development and the emerging challenges have resulted in sustainability metrics taking precedence over every other development indicator. Geo Climate Risk Solutions (GCRS), a company specialized in the realm of environment risk evaluation and sustainability, has joined hands with IIT-Kanpur to provide geoinformatics based long term solutions for achieving global sustainable development goals. Geo Climate Risk Solutions has set up its R&D centre at Technopark@iitk (IITK Research and Technology after the institute’s due approval. Prof. Avinash Agarwal, professor In-charge, Technopark@iitk said that the IITK Research and Technology Park is currently home to seven companies and three more are expected to join soon. He said that Geo Climate Risk Solutions have also founded their R&D centre at Technopark@IITK. Prof Agarwal has invited other companies as well to become a part of this ecosystem and take advantage of the advanced research done by IIT-K faculty as the best student talent, state-of-the-art research facilities and the international partnerships is available here. He also said that because of these available resources, Geo Climate Risk Solutions as its destination took a decision to set up a research centre at the institute. Despite having offices in Andhra Pradesh Innovation Society and NASSCOM Centre of Excellence (CoE) and IoT, the company chose to set up its R&D base in Technopark@iitk premises, said Prasad Babu, the founder and CEO of the company, who is also an alumnus of IIT-Kanpur. “Being an alumnus of IIT-Kanpur and having closely experienced its research and innovation environment par excellence, it was my obvious choice of returning to IIT-K for setting up our company’s R&D centre. We truly feel that the association with IIT-K will definitely strengthen our R&D initiatives and open doors for huge opportunities,” he added. IIT-Kanpur, currently, has some of the leading experts in the field of Geospatial Technologies and Remote Sensing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gcrs-sets-up-centre-at-technoparkiitkinst-looks-forward-to-more-cos-joining-soon/articleshow/78596395.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
October 11, 2020||Goa||Offence registered in ammonia leak case||Margao: The Cuncolim police have registered an offence under IPC sections 304 A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) after Krishen Kumar, a 22-year-old industrial worker, died following inhalation of ammonia gas that leaked out from a cold storage unit of a fish processing plant at Cuncolim industrial estate, on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/offence-registered-in-ammonia-leak-case/articleshow/78597173.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Will revive Devaraj Urs’s land reforms if voted to power, say Cong leaders||Mandya: Congress on Saturday said it will restore the land reforms introduced by late Devaraj Urs when it returns to power both at the Centre and state. Addressing Raitha Dhwani, a farmers’ rally organised by the party in Mandya, opposition leader Siddaramaiah said the Yediyurappa government is anti-farmer as it has amended the APMC and land reforms Acts yielding to the corporate lobby. “Congress abolished the Jahgirdar and Imam systems, introduced new laws to protect tenants and made the tiller the land owner. But BJP is snatching land from farmers and undermining the principle of cooperative federalism,” alleged Siddaramaiah, who reminded people that JD(S) had refused to join hands with Congress to oppose the land bill in the assembly. Alleging corruption in the BJP government, Siddaramaiah said Yediyurappa had accepted ‘funds’ through cheque when he was CM for the first time, but his family members are more advanced and have started accepting bribe through RTGS. Congress spokesperson and Karnataka in-charge Randeep Surjewala said the party will become a voice of the farming community and farmers’ resistance against the draconian farm bills. He accused the NDA government of conspiring to dilute the pro-farmer Land Acquisition Act-2013, which was legislated by then UPA government. KPCC president DK Shivakumar said Congress had always framed laws keeping farmers’ concerns in mind. “Yediyurappa took oath flaunting a green shawl pledging to protect farmers. But farmers continue to be distressed. The government is paving the way for large corporates to buy farm land. I am proud to say that our legislators have returned the anti-farmers bill in the upper house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-revive-devaraj-urss-land-reforms-if-voted-to-power-say-cong-leaders/articleshow/78596139.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kanpur||10k Two killed, seven injured in mishap on Agra -Lucknow E way||Kanpur:At least two persons were killed and seven others seriously injured after a speeding car crushed the passengers of a private double-decker sleeper bus on the Agra-Lucknow expressway in Tirwa police area of Kannauj district during the wee hours of Saturday. Following the mishap, local police police and UPIEDA personnel swung into action and after arriving at mishap site launched a rescue operation. Police said that the private double decker sleeper bus heading to Lucknow from Delhi was parked on the side of the expressway due to tyre burst at around 3.30 am in Lohamadh village at 187 km milestone in Tirwa Kotwali police station area. The passengers de-boarded the bus on the expressway. “They were waiting for it to repair on the highway when a speeding car hit them and rammed into the bus from behind.Rakesh Kumar Thakur (23) of Mahdaya area of Muzaffarpur in Bihar and Samina (30) of Jaigaon area of Siliguri in West Bengal were killed on the spot, while seven others were rushed to the Tirwa medical college. Their families have been informed and bodies of the deceased have been shifted to district hospital for postmortem. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” superintendent of police Kannauj Amrendra Prasad Singh said. ------ eom||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/10k-two-killed-seven-injured-in-mishap-on-agra-lucknow-e-way/articleshow/78596443.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Vadodara||Weekend jungle safari beckons visitors to SoU||KEVADIA: Bored of being cooped up at home for the past seven months? Break free with an autumn jungle safari at the Statue of Unity (SoU) in Kevadia and enjoy the ride through the sprawling Sardar Patel Zoological Park on the premises. What’s more, the glamour’s not confined just to the wide array of exotic animals including the alpaca, lama, ring tailed lemur, cotton top monkey and capuchin monkey, the visit will get its sheen from a ride on the seaplane — a new feature to added after PM Narendra Modi inaugurates the park along with many other attractions including the seaplane service from Ahmedabad to Kevadia on October 31. October 31 is India’s first home minister Sardar Patel’s birthday and the day is celebrated as Ekta Divas. Modi is likely to travel by the seaplane that will take off from Sabarmati River and land in a lake near the Sardar Sarovar Dam. Nestled amid the Satpura and Vindhya mountain ranges, the SoU premises offers weekend getaway destination for tourists. After staying closed for last seven months, tourists have already started walking in to the Jungle Safari which was reopened on October 1 , and about 1,800 have visited already. A joy train ride through children’s nutrition park to be started from Saturday will be a major attraction as kids will learn benefits of living a healthy life and eating nutritious food through 3D animation. Also on offer are a number of games. For others who may want to pet a rabbit, or with a Persian cat or carry a macaw on their shoulder can spend time at the petting zone! Those having keen interest in plantations have a sprawling Ekta Nursery to visit apart from a butterfly park and a cactus park that too will be opened soon, along with river rafting for the adventure freaks. And for bird lovers, a sprawling aviary awaits them with some rare exotic avian species. The government has also announced a ropeway project that will pass over Narmada River and offer a bird’s eye view of both the world’s tallest statue as well as the sprawling Sardar Sarovar Narmada Dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/weekend-jungle-safari-beckons-visitors-to-sou/articleshow/78596151.cms||Tushar Tere
October 11, 2020||Kanpur||Garotha MLA rides bullock cart to explain merits of farm bills||Jhansi: BJP MLA from Garotha seat of Jhansi district, Jawahar Singh Rajpoot, was seen riding a bullock cart on Saturday, moving around from village to village in his constituency and convincing villagers about the benefits of the recently passed farm bills. Rajpoot, along with his supporters, rode through a dozen villages on a bullock cart in order to assure them of the benefits of farm bills. He also addressed chaupals (meetings) in these villages where he answered several queries of the farmers. Talking to TOI, Rajpoot said, “I recognise as a farmer first, and then an MLA. I believe Prime Minister Narendra Modi, through these farm bills, has freed the farmers from the shackles of brokers and harmful laws that did not allow them to sell their crops according to their own will. Unfortunately, the Opposition is deliberately trying to mislead the farmers, the same way they misled the citizens of the country on the Citizenship Amendment Act and the proposed National Register of Citizens. They are making false claims about the MSP now. Fortunately, farmers of Bundelkhand are convinced with the merits of the bills.” Rajpoot, who is a farmer leader became the first-time MLA from Garotha seat of Jhansi by defeating two-times SP MLA. He is famous for his down-to-earth nature and for is easy approachability to farmers. He had earlier hit the headlines when he rode a bullock cart on the streets of Lucknow during his maiden visit to the Vidhan Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/garotha-mla-rides-bullock-cart-to-explain-merits-of-farm-bills/articleshow/78596425.cms||Arindam Ghosh
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Insurance scam: Three held for duping 1,000 people for years in Delhi||NEW DELHI: This gang of crooks didn’t believe in duping people just once and vanishing. They were so confident about their modus operandi that they laid traps in which people ended up paying them for years while believing they were actually investing in an insurance policy. Their racket was busted after east Delhi Police arrested three members of their gang, who managed to dupe a 72-year-old Mayur Vihar resident of Rs 1.3 crore over six years. Among those arrested is a manager of a reputed bank, who had designed the conjob. DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh said the crooks had contacted the retired UP irrigation department official in July 2014 by posing as employees of an established insurance company. They informed the victim that they were calling him regarding his existing SBI Life Insurance Policy and that a huge bonus was due on it. They asked the victim to pay some money in lieu of service charge and processing fee to transfer the bonus in his account. Once the victim paid, the crooks further wove a web of lies and induced the victim into investing in their new policy and renewing his existing one by promising him exorbitant returns. The victim was promised Rs 10 crore in return for an investment of Rs 1 crore. Till July 2020, the victim transferred them over Rs 1.3 crore. It was only when he demanded to wind up the policy and get the returns that he realised he had been duped. The crooks went underground. The victim then approached police for help. “An FIR under sections of cheating, impersonation and fraud was registered on August 21 and the cops from the ‘special staff’ unit under inspector Satender Khari and SI Sudesh Rana were tasked with arresting the culprits,” DCP Jasmeet Singh said. Using extensive technical and field investigation, the team managed to arrest three suspects from different locations on October 9. The trio was identified as Rajpal (32), Pradeep (30) and Kapil Gupta (30). During interrogation, it was revealed that the gang used to work in four units. One unit was led by Gupta, who along with his associates used to procure the data of policy holders. Members of the second unit called up prospective victims and lured them into investing. The third unit was led by Rajpal, who worked as a sales manager with a bank in Tilak Nagar. He was a sort of kingpin and used to provide the bank accounts in which money was transferred. The fourth part was played by Pradeep who held the bank accounts in which the siphoned money was transferred. They rented the accounts in lieu of a commission. The exact number of their victims is being ascertained. During initial questioning, they confessed to having duped over 1,000 people in the last few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/insurance-scam-3-held-for-duping-1k-people-for-yrs/articleshow/78597161.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lukewarm response to lion safari Gir Sanctuary in Junagadh||AHMEDABAD: The lion safari at Gir Sanctuary in Junagadh, scheduled to begin from October 16 in a limited manner, has failed to draw many visitors amid the Covid-19 scare. The state forest administration has decided to allow only three tourists in a jungle safari jeep instead of six adults. Earlier seven tourists were allowed in the vehicle, including one child with age restriction of 10 years and below. Keeping in view the coronavirus pandemic, the authorities have decided not to allow tourists above 65 years of age as well as those below the age of 10. CCF Junagadh wildlife, Dushyhant Vasavada, said that apart from reducing the number of tourists, each vehicle will be disinfected at regular intervals and then only it would be allowed to go for another safari. Wearing of face masks and use of hand sanitizers have also been made mandatory, he added. The Covid-19 scare has failed to evoke response from visitors, going by the pre-booking numbers for the Gir forest safari. This time of the year, bookings are usually packed with many lining up in the waiting list. But it is not the case this year. For instance, for November 15, post Diwali when the maximum visitors are anticipated, of the 180 safaris scheduled for the entire day, only 17 rides are booked. Similarly for October 18, which is a Sunday, only 20-odd safaris have been booked. In all, there are 180 safaris every day which can accommodate about 1,250 visitors. Wildlife and lion lovers raised concerns about opening the forest area for visitors amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the area. After a tiger at Bronx zoo in New York, United States was tested positive for the respiratory disease caused by novel coronavirus earlier this year, the Gujarat forest department has sounded a high alert to check the presence of the disease in the Asiatic lions of Gujarat. The tiger at Bronx zoo was the first case of a human infecting an animal and making it sick. The Gujarat forest department authorities made all round efforts to ensure that all necessary steps are taken to protect the wild cats from catching the fast-spreading disease. The chances of Gujarat lions being infected with Covid-19 were very low as they live in the wild, unlike the tiger infected at New York zoo. “Back then, there were no cases of people testing positive for Covid-19 in Junagadh area. But today, the situation is different. The forest department needs to be careful that humans do not come in close contact with the wild beasts,” said a source in the state forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lukewarm-response-to-lion-safari/articleshow/78596319.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Marathi medium students get NU question paper in English||Nagpur: Many BA final year Marathi medium students could not appear in the online exams of Nagpur University on Saturday while some attempted just to try their luck even as they failed to understand the question paper which was in English. After overcoming problems posed by one-time password and server crash in last two days, the exam officials were again caught off-guard when many students failed to open the question paper in their preferred language. Father of a student from LAD College told TOI that his daughter had her first paper of Music subject. “She logged in without problem on time. Then a message popped up asking for preferred language. But the options were missing. Before she could do anything the exam started and questions displayed in English. As per instructions, no one was with her in the room. She called up the helpline. The official said she should attempt as she was lucky to log in while many students were facing trouble,” he said. The girl attempted questions based on assumptions. But she and her family are worried as History and Sanskrit language papers are scheduled in the coming days. Students from Pulgaon said no one in their village attempted the Fashion Designing paper as it was in English. “There was no point as we don’t understand English. We have reported the matter to college and will ask University officials on Monday regarding the exam,” they said. Similar complaint were reported from Bhandara Gondia too where students missed the paper. Board of examination and evaluation director Prafulla Sable admitted that complaints were reported regarding selection of language. “The students who didn’t change their language preference opted during the mock test face the problem of getting question paper in non-desired language,” he said. Sable said students didn’t properly select elective while login. He advised them to read instructions on NU website properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/marathi-medium-students-get-nu-question-paper-in-english/articleshow/78597169.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 11, 2020||Chandigarh||First CBG plant in Punjab to go on steam in March||BATHINDA: As part of its efforts to mitigate the crisis-like situation arising out of crop residue burning in Punjab and Haryana, the Union government is setting up the first compressed biogas (CBG) plant in north India in Lehragaga of Sangrur and it is expected to be commissioned in March next year. The CBG plant, being set up under the ‘Sustainable Alternative Towards Affordable Transportation (Satat), will convert straw into CNG. Although the plant was initially scheduled to be commissioned in 2020-end, it got delayed following late arrival of machinery due to Covid. According to sources, the plant authorities have started collecting paddy straw to store it at the plant, as 300 tonne stubble will be used per day in the plant to produce 31 tonne CBG per day. The plant is being set up by Verbio India Pvt Ltd. Five more such plants are coming up in Punjab but those may not be commissioned before early 2022. These six plants will have a combined capacity to produce 70 tonne CBG per day by consuming 2.5 LMT paddy straw per annum. Similarly, 64 such plants are coming up in Haryana. “RBI has included CBG in its list of priority sector lending and the SBI has started loan schemes and oil companies have agreed on a buy-back rate of Rs 46/kg for five years... The CBG projects once commissioned will create a market for straw and provide farmers an incentive not to burn the resource,” said former executive director at Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and currently bio fuels adviser to the company. The first CBG plant in India was set up in September 2019 and many such plants are already operational in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. Environmentalist and executive director of Centre for Science and Environment Sunita Narain said, “Degradation of environment through various means including burning of stubble is worrisome. To overcome it, there is a need to provide income to farmers for the residue and improve environmental sustainability. We need to provide machinery to farmers for in-situ management, provide value to biomass as farmers may not burn if they are paid for the straw.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-cbg-plant-in-punjab-to-go-on-steam-in-march/articleshow/78597167.cms||Neel Kamal
October 11, 2020||Patna||Followers bid tearful farewell to Ram Vilas Paswan||PATNA: The mortal remains of one of the tallest dalit leaders and ex-union minister Ram Vilas Paswan was consigned to flames in Patna on Saturday with full state honours. The atmosphere at Janardan Ghat on the banks of the Ganga was emotionally charged as thousands gathered around the ghat to get the last glimpse of their departed leader whose doors were always open for common citizens seeking help. Son Chirag, who heads the LJP founded by his father, lit the funeral pyre after performing all rituals at 4.32 pm amid gun salute by armed forces personnel in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Modi, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad among other dignitaries. Overcome by emotion, Chirag collapsed on the ground after lighting his father’s pyre as his mother looked on from a distance. Several relatives ran to him with water after which he stood up. The young leader then went up to his mother to console her. Several relatives from Chirag’s maternal side were present at the ghat for the cremation. As soon as the pyre was lit, emotional supporters of Paswan raised slogans such as “Ram Vilas Paswan amar rahein” for their leader one last time. Paswan’s mortal remains, accompanied by Chirag, were carried in an Army truck from his residence at SK Puri around 12.45 pm and reached the ghat via Bailey Road. A large number of party workers and followers walked behind the truck carrying the party flag for several kilometres raising slogans for their departed leader. Many party workers and supporters also followed in cars and bikes. After reaching the ghat, Army personnel carried the remains up to the pyre on their shoulders while the pipe band of Bihar Regimental Centre played ‘Sky Bird’ song. Other Union ministers who were present are Giriraj Singh, Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Ramdas Athawale and Nityanand Rai among other dignitaries from the Centre were present to pay their tributes. LJP’s Karam Shyam, who is a minister in the Manipur government, was also present at the funeral. Apart from the CM, health minister Mangal Pandey, road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav were among prominent personalities who were at the ghat to attend Paswan’s funeral and pay their respect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/followers-bid-tearful-farewell-to-ram-vilas/articleshow/78596332.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Screen kids for mental issues’||Ahmedabad: The top health officials and professionals of Gujarat on Saturday advocated the screening of children for any mental health issues at the earliest levels. A webinar organized by the state government to mark the World Mental Health Day witnessed the participation of several IAS officers and directors of the state-based facilities. The participants said that the state had been following the mental health screening for the primary school children for the past two years with good results. “The initiative will be taken further with the inclusion of assessment modules for toddlers to identify developmental disabilities,” said a state government official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/screen-kids-for-mental-issues/articleshow/78596327.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||20 shock shields, batons to be added to city cops’ arsenal||KOLKATA: Lalbazar is set to add 20 shock batons and 20 shock shields for its special forces — the combat and RAF units. With assembly and KMC elections barely a few months away, the police expect a rise in political agitations and want to be ready to deal with unruly elements. At present, the force has 10 such shields and weapons. “The procurement process is at an advanced stage. We shall close the tenders this Monday,” a senior officer said. Shock (or stun) batons are used to temporarily incapacitate an attacker through a mild electric shock. According to the specifications, these batons will deliver a charge of 1.5 kilo volt (peak voltage) for a maximum of 1 millisecond (a thousandth of a second). The shock shield is capable of generating a similar electric charge, delivering a shock to anyone coming in contact with it. The gear is used against agitators turning violent or berserk. They will suffer a light electric shock and get immobilized for a short period. The shock shield is part of the usual anti-riot gear used by the RAF, a specialized wing of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to deal with riot and crowd control situations. Kolkata Police, in its bid document, has stated that the shock batons will be used only by special forces. Sources said that the batons will be used only against “specific provocations”. “The shock shield delivers a high-voltage, non-lethal effective shock,” he added. The new procurement will ensure that the frontline forces can thwart violence quickly. Apart from the shock batons and shields, the police also plan to acquire more shock resistance fibres, full-body protectors, dragon light (for long-range visibility), loud hailers and tactical zip-tie handcuffs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/20-shock-shields-batons-to-be-added-to-city-cops-arsenal/articleshow/78597162.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Bhoodan’s land for landless: Chandan Pal||Wardha: Stating that movements like Bhoodan and Gramdaan were started to give land to landless farmers in the country, Chandan Pal, the newly-appointed working president of Sarva Seva Sangh (SSS) on Saturday said if such land went to the wrong people, it would be “a matter of regret”. “Land owned by Bhoodan Mandal and Sarva Seva Sangh should be used for proper work. The bhoodan movement was for landless farmers to get land but if scams are happening there, they should be exposed’, Pal said during a press conference. Pal said he would will pay close attention to the issue as the working president. He added the controversy in SSS over the post of president a few days back was regrettable and said the next term would be dedicated to the implementation of Mahatma Gandhi's ideas and spreading Gandhian message in the villages. A press conference was organized by SSS to explain how the body removed former president Mahadev Vidrohi, alleging his misuse of post and helping to grab bhudan land by his close associates. Sarva Seva Sangh was established by Gandhian people to spread the Gandhian ideology. It has a responsibility to achieve the rural development that Mahatma Gandhi intended. Sangh is neither for one person, nor for one organization but it is for the whole society. So we are trying to bring the truth to the fore. I will strive to bring the truth of Bhudan land scam in country on line of Mahatma Gandhi, said, Pal, painting out that Bhudan land is being misused by the Gandhian people. “We will take efforts to get land to landless, needy and deserving persons, and quell grabbing of land by fraudulent means. Bhoodan (land donation) and Gramdaan (villages donation) movements were started by Vinoba Bhave; it was Mahatma Gandhi's dream to make society equitable, and we need to work for the fulfilment of these dreams,” Pal said, asserting there was no land dispute in SSS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhoodans-land-for-landless-chandan-pal/articleshow/78597175.cms||Balwant Dhage
October 11, 2020||Amritsar||2 pending legal issues may stall SGPC polls||AMRITSAR: Parties keen to contest elections for Sikhs’ single largest representative body — Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) — are hopeful of an early announcement now that Justice S S Saron (retired) has been appointed as the chief commissioner of gurdwara elections. However, the Sehajdhari Sikh Party (SSP) claims the SGPC polls can’t be held any time soon as there are pending legal issues. Stating that some Sikh organisations had challenged the formation of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) and its decision was pending in Supreme Court (SC), SSP president Paramjit Singh Ranu said that either the BJP government in Haryana had to scrap it (HSGMC) or the commissioner of the old SGPC had to decide about new jurisdiction of seats as per voters in particular area. “Even seats reserved for Dalits and females will have to be reviewed if new jurisdiction is to be taken into consideration as per their populations,” he said. Even the constitutional validity of the amendment of Sikh Gurdwara Act, 2016, has been challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court. He said the apex court had given Sehajdhari Sikhs special liberty to challenge the same. “The SGPC elections can be only held after deciding these two pending legal matters and the elections can get prolonged till the 2022 legislative elections or take another three to four years to be held,” he said. The current SGPC house, whose validity expired in 2016, was continuing by default as no election was held after 2011. In September 2016, the SC had reinstated the SGPC’s 170-member general house, whose term would now end in 2021. HSGMC president Baljit Singh Daduwal also claimed that the SGPC elections cannot be held till the time SC pronounces its judgment in a case challenging its formation. Of the 60 major gurdwaras in Haryana, HSGMC has control of five. “But we want to make it clear that Sikhs of Haryana can manage gurdwaras on their own, without the help of SGPC and we are fighting for the same,” said Daduwal. Stating that a separate gurdwara body for Haryana was their legal right, Daduwal said, “Under Section 72 of the Punjab Reorganization Act 1966, the state government was directed to create a university, an agriculture university and gurdwara parbandhak committee, which has come into existence and now we want management of all the gurdwaras of Haryana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/2-pending-legal-issues-may-stall-sgpc-polls/articleshow/78597171.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 11, 2020||Kanpur||Retired army personnel succumbs to Covid, 52 new cases surface in Jhansi||Jhansi: A 54-year-old retired army personnel died of Covid, while 52 new Covid cases surfaced in Jhansi on Saturday. Meanwhile, Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi ordered to seize 16 private hospitals for their reluctance in conducting tests. As per the medical bulletin released by DM Vamsi, total positive cases in the district are 7,763, of which 6,078 have been discharged so far, including 39 discharged on Saturday. Presently, active positive cases in the district are 504. Of these, 85 are symptomatic which include 22 severe, 26 moderate and 37 mild in nature. The total number of Covid deaths in Jhansi is 161. The case fatality rate (CFR) is 2%. Currently, 1,020 patients are in home isolation in the district. The deceased army personnel was admitted to L1 CCC Military Hospital with breathing problem and diabetes. Earlier on Friday, a senior police official and his wife were also found Covid positive. Meanwhile, a review meeting of private nursing home owners and doctors with Jhansi DM and other officials was held on Saturday at Nagar Nigam meeting hall. During the meeting, DM Vamsi again appealed to the doctors to conduct antigen tests on all the patients visiting them in order to avoid any kind of risk. He said that all the required kits would be provided free of cost and if negligent attitude is observed, action would be taken under Disaster Management Act. He also ordered shutting of 16 private hospitals for defying the DM’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/retired-army-personnel-succumbs-to-covid-52-new-cases-surface-in-jhansi/articleshow/78596432.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Contractors association allege irregularities in NMC’s accounts dept||Nagpur: Large-scale irregularities have surfaced in Nagpur Municipal Corporation regarding clearance of outstanding bills of the civil contractors. Though bills were pending from February to October, the accounts department, which has no full-time chief accounts and finance officer, has cleared some bills of April out of bills pending for eight months. The NMC Contractors’ Welfare Association has approached municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and urged him to resolve the issue. “Quite often the in-charge CAFO comes to office in an inebriated condition and uses foul language,” the memorandum stated. “CAFO Hemant Thakre takes a lot of time to sign the bills and clear payments as per journal voucher sequence despite lots of requests and complaints,” the association alleged. Thakre refuted the allegation and claimed that he was doing his level best with holding the charge of both Amravati and Nagpur Municipal Corporations. “Since joining I have cleared around 4,000 pending bills and brought them to 1,000-900 files,” he claimed. According to them, the previous CAFO had cleared files of January this year, while dues of contractors were pending since October 2019. “But from February to October so far, only bills for April were cleated out of these eight months bills, while the CAFO reportedly sent back the bills of last financial year to auditors,” they alleged. “In all, there must be around 800 to 1,000 files which are pending idle. Not only contractors, corporators and engineers but the whole city is facing hardship as unfinished works cannot be done without measurement books and file also other formalities like extension of time limit, extra items etc are held up,” the memorandum stated. “He has signed the bills of those who meet him alone in his ante chamber and also clears the bills out of turn of journal voucher sequence which has agitated other contractors who are waiting patiently for their turn. He is most often unavailable in his office even on his allotted days (Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday) hence the already financially exhausted contractors are falling prey to him,” said association president C Vijay Nayudu. Earlier also the association had given letters thrice but things has not changed for any better yet. Contractors are getting impatient and are in agitating mood. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishan B confirmed of receiving complaint against CAFO. The NMC has already approached the state government to depute a fulltime CAFO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contractors-association-allege-irregularities-in-nmcs-accounts-dept/articleshow/78597182.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 11, 2020||Nashik||CP interacts with cops at Bhadrakali police stn||Nashik: Police commissioner Deepak Pandey visited the Bhadrakali police station and interacted with the police personnel there. He also spoke to various citizens and peace committee members of the Bhadrakali area. During his day-long visit, the CP reviewed the functioning of the police station, the progress of pending cases and application with the police station, and also examined the documents related to various cases. A ‘police darbar’ was organised during which police personnel spoke about their various problem to the CP. Many of these problems are related to the pending medical bills, the workload of the police personnel. He also spoke individually to enquire if they had any personal problems which could be affecting their work efficiency. Later in the afternoon, Pandey had a joint lunch with the police personnel, followed by a meeting with the peace committee members of the area and residents of Bhadrakali. With a good mix of different communities, the Bhadrakali police are constantly in touch with the members of all the communities to ensure there are no differences which could disturb the peace. The CP has decided to visit one police station on every Saturday to review the work of the police personnel and guide them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-interacts-with-cops-at-bhadrakali-police-stn/articleshow/78595062.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht ex-jathedar begins lobbying for SGPC polls||AMRITSAR: To mobilise Sikh voters for the ensuing SGPC elections, former jathedar of Akal Takht and president of the Panthic Akali Lehar (PAL), Bhai Ranjit Singh has not only begun whirlwind tours of the state to persuade the prospective voters but also been sending feelers to splinter Akali groups and other political parties, seeking their support. While hoping for an early announcement of SGPC elections, Ranjit on Saturday claimed to have the support of all the splinter Akali groups as well as other political parties for the gurdwara body elections. He said PAL had convened a meeting at Gurdwara Guru Teg Bagadur Sahib, Bhawanigarh, on October 11 to discuss the SGPC elections. “The time has come when we need to free the SGPC from a family’s rule,” he said. The former jathedar said he was touring Punjab villages to garner support and bring awareness among Sikh masses about how one of their supreme institutes had been made subservient to a political party. PAL’s aim was to bring only religious persons for the management of gurdwaras, he said. Given his acrimonious ties with SAD(B) patron Parkash Singh Badal, on whose alleged directions he was removed as the jathedar, Ranjit is hoping to get the support of breakaway factions of SAD(B). “We are in touch with all the political parties and I am sure they will support PAL candidates in the SGPC elections,” he said. Sewa Singh Sekhwan, one of the founder member of splinter Akali group SAD (Democratic), said he foresees a grand alliance in making to take down the SAD (B) in the ensuing SGPC elections. Without naming PAL, he said the party had already made it clear that those contesting SGPC elections won’t be allowed to contest assembly polls “since we have to bring only religious and intellectual persons, and not the politicians, to manage the gurdwara”. As a large number of rural Sikhs, especially farmers, vote in SGPC elections, Ranjit even joined their protest against the three agriculture laws at Shambu border. Ranjit was appointed Akal Takht jathedar in 1996 and removed in 1999, following a dispute between then SAD (B) president Badal and then SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/akal-takht-ex-jathedar-begins-lobbying-for-sgpc-polls/articleshow/78597177.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Panel report makes it 11 Covid-19 deaths in a day in Gadchiroli||NAGPUR: While Covid-19 fatalities and cases are reducing across Vidarbha, Gadchiroli received a shocker on Saturday when the death committee in the district hospital declared that 11 fatalities in the last 10 days were due to Covid-19. The reconciliation increased Gadchiroli’s toll to 32 from 21 in a single day and Vidarbha’s fatalities on Saturday to 42. Overall toll of region reached 4,486 and case fatality rate remained constant at 2.7%. Gadchiroli district administration released a statement on Saturday and claimed that there have been 11 deaths from various parts of the district. “The deaths happened between October 1 and 10. Most of the deceased had severe comorbid conditions. So, the death committee finalized their status on October 10. They were added into the Covid-19 death count now,” reads the statement. Vidarbha’s overall caseload continued to reduce. On Saturday, only 1,362 new cases were reported. Nagpur district contributed highest 627 cases, including 418 from Nagpur city and 201 from Nagpur rural. Apart from Nagpur, new cases in Vidarbha came from Chandrapur (126), Amravati (112), Gadchiroli (109), Bhandara (95), Wardha (74), Gondia (63), Buldhana (56), Yavatmal (37), Akola (32), and Washim (31). Recoveries, as per the latest trend, were about double than total cases. Saturday’s 2,225 recoveries included 832 from Nagpur, Chandrapur (333), Yavatmal (296), Akola (190), Amravati (139), Gondia (99), Wardha (88), Gadchiroli (85), Buldhana (69), Bhandara (63), and Washim (31). Now, out of the total 1,40,990 patients, 1,66,325 have recovered. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 84.8%, which is nearing national average of 85.5%. Only 20,859 patients are under treatment in the region. Overall Covid-19 scenario is improving but fatalities are still a worry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-report-makes-it-11-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day-in-gadchiroli/articleshow/78597184.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 11, 2020||India||‘Water use would be cut by 50% if Indians turn vegan’||NEW DELHI: If the entire country were to adopt veganism, mortality would go down 23%, water use would be cut by half but, counterintuitively, biodiversity loss would be expedited 26%. The WWF’s report on the impact of dietary choices on the planet found no country in the world is on track to meet the 2025 global nutrition targets the WHO had set.“We are producing enough food to feed everyone on the planet, but in the process we are not respecting planetary boundaries. If we did respect all boundaries, however, ...we would only be able to produce food for 3.4 billion people,” the report, released on Friday, said. “Despite the central role of biodiversity in food production, we are losing species at a rate 100–1,000 times greater than the underlying rate during the Holocene and have entered the sixth mass extinction. ” At the current form and rate of consumption in India, the country will lose a species every five years. India is the sixth fastest country losing biodiversity to food production, after Brazil (the fastest), Madagascar, China, Indonesia and Mexico. But if the national dietary guidelines were followed, India would lose a species every four years — close to what a vegan diet would do. A vegetarian diet, surprisingly, would mean it would be every three and a half years — the same that a flexitarian diet (where meat consumption is reduced) would. “The predicted loss in biodiversity in case of adoption of a vegetarian diet wouldn’t be too significantly different from a flexitarian diet because even in case of the latter, the diet focuses primarily on fruits and vegetables, with minimum consumption of meat,” Murli Dhar, director of sustainable agriculture, WWF India, told TOI. This pattern came up in both India and Indonesia, where the problem is not over-consumption but malnutrition. India’s current diet is the second most intensive in the world (requiring about 14.2 crore hectares of cropland), only after China (23 crore hectares). If India switched to vegetarianism, its cropland use would go up to 19.5 crore hectares. However, dietary change would have a significant impact on water use. India needs 411km3 of water to produce its food for the current diet (1km3 is 4 lakh Olympic swimming pools of water). It’s the second most intensive, after China (623 km3). If it switched to a vegetarian diet, it would drop to 260km3. An adoption of a vegan diet would cut water use by half to 209km3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/water-use-would-be-cut-by-50-if-indians-turn-vegan/articleshow/78598018.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
October 11, 2020||Agra||BAMS student attempts self-immolation seeking nod to appear for exams||Agra: A student of Bachelors of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS), who was on a protest with 30 others over cancellation of their college registration, tried to immolate himself on the Palwal Park campus of Dr BR Ambedkar University here on Saturday seeking permission to appear for the upcoming examinations. He was stopped by the other students and policemen deployed there.The student, Monu Yadav, said that the university should either give them permission to appear for the examinations beginning on October 13 or cancel the same.According to sources, 65 students of self-financed KV Ayurvedic Medical College in Etmadpur, who got admission to the institution through NEET counselling in 2018, are now left in the lurch as the state medical education department has cancelled the college’s registration due to blacklisting by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM). Even though the students had approached the Allahabad high court for reprieve, the matter is still sub-judice. Yadav added, “We were allotted the college during NEET counselling. We don’t understand what our fault was. If the college’s registration has been cancelled, we should be transferred to some other college by the university administration. Why are we being penalized by not allowing us for the exams?”Another student Ratnesh Kumar said, “The high court has ordered the principal secretary (medical education) to take a decision in the interest of the students. The next hearing in the case is on October 19. However, the university is planning to conduct the BAMS exams from October 13. We want the university administration to either allow us to appear for the exams or cancel it till a further decision is arrived at by the court.” Yadav further added, “The course is already running late and we can’t afford to waste more time. The state government should intervene in the matter and take time-bound action. We are all in deep mental stress.”University registrar AK Mishra said, “The matter of KV Ayurvedic College is sub-judice. We understand the students’ concern. If the high court orders, we will conduct the exams separately for these students. As of now, we cannot postpone the exams just for one private college.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bams-student-attempts-self-immolation-seeking-nod-to-appear-for-exams/articleshow/78595092.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Vadodara||Burglars target nCov patients’ houses; flee with ornaments, cash||VADODARA: Burglars targeted the locked house of a doctor near Vadodara railway station when the owner had taken his son to Ahmedabad for Coronavirus treatment. According to police, Dr Jagdish Parmar moved to Ahmedabad for treatment of his 18-year-old son along with his wife and daughter on October 3. While his son Jeet was admitted to a private hospital in Bhat, the family put up with a relative in Prahladnagar. On October 5, Parmar’s wife Asmita had briefly come to check at their house and found everything normal. However, on Friday when Parmar’s daughter Priyanshi asked her friend to check on their house, it was found that the main lock was broken. Asmita rushed to Vadodara and found all valuables scattered while the safes were broken. Thieves stole gold ornaments worth Rs 1.2 lakh. But interestingly, they left Rs 50,000 in cash, some foreign currencies and a gold ring untouched in the same safe. Asmita later called police and lodged an offence at the Sayajigunj police station. An MS University professor’s house in Manjalpur too was burgled in a similar manner. Kalpesh Bhavsar who teaches at a Polytechnic College told police that he staying with his wife in the hospital on Race Course Road ever since she was admitted on September 30. On October 5, one of their neighbours called Bhavsar informing him that his house had been burgled. Burglars stole Rs 15,000 in cash from Bhavsar’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-target-ncov-patients-houses-flee-with-ornaments-cash/articleshow/78596160.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bareilly||Inebriated man attempts to burn house with wife and three kids in Bareilly||Bareilly: An inebriated man attempted to set his wife and three minor children on fire when they were sleeping at their house in Ramchandrapuram colony in Subhashnagar area of Bareilly city on Friday midnight.Accused Jeet Singh poured kerosene on the walls of the house and tried to light it up, but luckily, the family members woke up.Even though the household articles and other valuables were completely burnt down, the children were saved and the women, Sunita Devi (35), suffered minor burn injuries while trying to stop her husband. Sunita was taken to a hospital for treatment and her medico-legal was also completed after she made a complaint against her husband, who is absconding.SHO Subhashnagar said, “We have registered an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC and are searching for the accused husband. The condition of the woman is fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inebriated-man-attempts-to-burn-house-with-wife-and-three-kids-in-bareilly/articleshow/78593572.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: NGT summons member secretary of coastal body||PANAJI: Slamming the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) for the third time in 10 days, for being unresponsive to its directives, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the GCZMA member secretary to personally appear before it. “The member secretary, GCZMA is directed to please submit a list of all pending cases against GCZMA with regard to CRZ violation in which the GCZMA has submitted the reply or not, and if reply has not been submitted, he will personally appear before this Tribunal and narrate the reasons why the reply has not been submitted,” said the NGT bench in an order. The NGT’s order came after GCZMA was found not to have filed reply in a matter for two years since 2018. “It is a very sorry state of affairs that in the case pending from 2018 reply has not been filed till date,” it said. The tribunal said that until now it has refrained from imposing any costs on the state officials for not filing replies as directed. “We are of the view to impose certain costs in a like manner so that the officers/officials or representatives of the state should be reminded of their duties, but we refrain to impose any cost in spite of the fact that after more than two years of pendency, the reply has not been filed,” the NGT said. The tribunal said that the GCZMA must respond to allegations that it was directly or indirectly violating orders of the Supreme Court and the high court by turning a blind eye to illegalities violating the CRZ notification. The tribunal also directed Goa government and the GCZMA to henceforth file a reply in cases pending against them well within the time to save the NGT’s time. In an order, earlier this week, the NGT had said that the GCZMA was directly or indirectly helping violation of the CRZ notification by delaying action against illegal structures along Goa’s coast. Prior to this, a fine of Rs 500 was imposed on GCZMA for not filing replies as sought by the tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-summons-member-secretary-of-coastal-body/articleshow/78597190.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Khalistan slogans raised on Sukha, Jinda’s death anniversary||Amritsar: Pro-Khalistan slogans were raised at the Golden Temple complex on Friday during a function held by the SGPC to commemorate the death anniversary of Khalistan Commando Force (KCF) members Sukhdev Singh Sukha and Harjinder Singh Jinda, assassins of former Army chief General Arun Vaidya. They were hanged to death on October 9, 1992 in Pune’s Yerwada jail. Late Gen Vaidya had led Operation Bluestar to flush out armed militants holed up in Golden Temple. The bhog of akhand path was performed on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khalistan-slogans-raised-on-sukha-jindas-death-anniversary/articleshow/78597194.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Temple vandalised in Sindh province of Pakistan||AMRITSAR : A temple was vandalised in Kario Ghanwar area of Badin district in Sindh province of Pakistan on Saturday. According to intelligence sources, a group of Muslim area residents vandalised the temple. Sources said the Hindu community of Kario Ghanwar area is in a state of panic after the incident. A local Hindu resident,Ashok Kumar, reportedly lodged a police complaint against Mohammad Ismail, accusing him and his accomplices of desecrating the temple and threatening the Hindu community, sources said. This is the latest in a series of attacks on temples after the Babri masjid demolition in India. Recently, an Islamist group in Pakistan used its “influence” to stop the construction of a Hindu temple in Islamabad. Even the chief of an Islamist organisation, Jamat Ulema I Islam- Fazal threatened to raise the issue in a Sharia court. Sources said in the case of the Badin temple desecration, police was allegedly trying to divert the line of investigation to ‘save’ the culprits, who allegedly enjoyed the support of a fundamentalist Islamist group of Sindh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/temple-vandalised-in-sindh-province-of-pakistan/articleshow/78597200.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 11, 2020||Agra||MP doctor who met Hathras family tagged ‘Naxalite’||AGRA: Conspiracy theories abound in and around Hathras. On Saturday, posts that a “Naxalite” woman had been staying with the victim’s family and “instigating” them went viral with the hashtag #NaxaliteBhabhi. The “evidence” they cited was a set of two videos in which she was speaking to CPM and CPI politicians at the victim’s house. The woman, Dr Rajkumari Bansal, 41, lives in Jabalpur. She is a demonstrator (lecturer) at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College’s pharmacology department. She told TOI she had gone to Hathras on October 4 to meet the family and returned to Jabalpur on October 6. “I only wanted to express my solidarity. I wanted to get back the next day, but the family urged me to stay on. Today, I was shocked. This is absolutely wrong. How can they say someone is ‘Naxalite’ without any evidence?” Read AlsoWent to support Hathras family, says MP doctor accused of being a NaxalA 40-year-old forensic specialist from Jabalpur, MP, who has been accused by some media outlets of being a Naxalite and living with the Hathras victim’s family “posing as a relative”, has said she never hid her identity before police and had only gone to extend financial and moral support to theOnline posts claimed the SIT investigating the Hathras case had been looking for her. But a senior cop told TOI that an SIT is always formed with a specified mandate. In this case, it is to investigate the role of the police in handling the case. While no police official commented on any investigation into the alleged Naxalite links, they confirmed they are in touch with their counterparts in Jabalpur to verify her antecedents. In the videos, Dr Bansal is seen speaking to the joint CPM-CPI delegation that had visited the family on Tuesday. Sitaram Yechury is heard saying, “This is about seeking justice,” to which she agrees and asks, “How can someone be cremated that late at night? This could happen to anyone. The administration should not get used to this.” In another, she is seen saying, “I have come here because of humanity … I am not related to the family, but I have been here for three days … I want to fight for them.” So why was she visiting them? “I don’t have any political affiliation … I come from a poor family and understand how the system works to suppress the weak … When I read about the cremation, I was shaken. No mediaperson or politician was being allowed to meet the family, so I thought maybe I’d try meeting them as a common citizen,” she told TOI. When she got to the village, the Hathras police had checked her identity, she added. “Floating conspiracy theories around people trying to help is a way to stop others from trying to reach out to the needy.” She said police had not got in touch with her yet. The Dalit girl’s family, meanwhile, said it is tired of fighting rumours. Leaked call detail records have tried to establish a connection between the accused and the family. A letter written by the main accused, claiming he was “friendly” with the victim and accusing the family of beating her up to a critical state, was also leaked. On Monday, four men on their way to Hathras were detained and later faced sedition and terror charges. The victim’s sister-in-law said, “There are so many people coming here from all over after knowing what happened. That doesn’t mean they should be called names and accused of conspiring. We just want justice for our girl.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/doctor-who-met-hathras-family-tagged-naxalite-on-social-media/articleshow/78595103.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Divided by political parties, united by profession as docs||Nagpur: Incumbent BJP MLA Dr Deorao Holi and former Congress MLA Dr Namdeo Usendi may be from different political outfits but their background of being medical officers of the district hospital is a common factor. Dr Holi had Usendi in the 2014 assembly elections. Usendi proved to be a giant killer in 2009 by defeating the then seating BJP MLA Ashok Nete. The doctors-turned-politicians visit their former workplace even today but with a varied vision and objectives. Though they seldom take up their stethoscopes, they claimed to be feeling never out of place once inside the hospital premises. Gadchiroli which has a recovery rate of 74% is suddenly seeing a spurt in Covid deaths with 11 patients succumbing in the last 10 days. So far, 32 persons have died while 2,850 have recovered in the district. With 109 testing positive on Saturday, the caseload in the district has reached 3,852. Dr Holi said he is hoping to see the RT-PCR testing facility kick off soon in the district, which he had been demanding. “The role has changed but the concerned has remained the same. As a doctor, it is very heartening to see that the death rate is lesser in the district and so is the rate of infection,” he said. “I have been going to the hospital as an MLA to see the situation and inspect various facilities available there,” he added. Dr Usendi too said he frequented the hospital during the pandemic for reviewing the treatment facilities and study other requirements. “As a doctor and an MLA, my concern was always to see whether there were adequate oxygen cylinders, quarantine facilities for asymptomatic patients, availability of the medicines and so on,” he said. Dr Usendi said he also met the civil surgeon and district health officials on a number of occasions to review the sitaution in the district. “Apart from offering my suggestions as a doctor and MLA, I have been trying to ascertain whether the government has been extending adequate support and facilities to Gadchiroli as a tribal and backward district,” he said. The former district hospital doctor, now a full-time Congress worker, expressed satisfaction in the manner in which the health department has tackled the crisis so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/divided-by-political-parties-united-by-profession-as-docs/articleshow/78597205.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 11, 2020||Amritsar||Contrition prayer offered at Akal Takht for Baba Bir Singh’s murder 176 years ago||Amritsar: After 176 years, an ardas in contrition — for the killing of Baba Bir Singh Naurangabad and other Sikh generals by the Sikh soldiers of Dogra empire — was offered at Akal Takht. Following the death of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, a Sikh battalion of Dogra empire attacked Baba Bir Singh’s dera and killed him along with other Sikh generals and soldiers. Speaking on the occasion, the officiating jathedar of Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh alleged that even today there were many forces that were trying to create differences within the Sikh community and cautioned the ‘sangat’ to be aware of such forces. Meanwhile, the Vishav Yudh Pehla Te Duja Shaheed Welfare Society (VYPDSWS) launched a website, dedicated to the contributions of soldiers who laid their lives in the world wars. Punjab Cultural Promotion Council head and Khalsa College Global Alumni Association (KCGAA) president Davinder Singh Chhina, who presided over the function, said the website was dedicated to the supreme sacrifices made by the Sikh soldiers. He said they fought for the protection of the beleaguered people who were being victimised by the powerful forces of Nazis and their allied in the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/contrition-prayer-offered-at-akal-takht-for-baba-bir-singhs-murder-176-years-ago/articleshow/78597197.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Goa||Centre extends Mhadei tribunal’s term for a year||PANAJI: The Centre has extended the term of the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal (MWDT) for the third time, and it now has till August 19, 2021 to resolve the water-sharing dispute between Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra after the three states didn’t accept the award. The tribunal requested the Centre for more time to reply to clarifications sought by the three states to its August 14, 2018 order. “This is the third extension to the MWDT after the submission of its final award,” said Goa advocate general Devidas Pangam. Once the award is passed, the affected parties get one year to seek clarifications from the tribunal. Earlier, the Union government extended the term of the tribunal till August 19, 2020. In August 2018, the three-decade old dispute between the three states over sharing of the Mhadei water ended with the tribunal rejecting Karnataka’s demand for 36.5tmc ft of water and allotted it only 13.4tmc ft, including 3.9tmc ft for drinking purposes through diversions, against its demand for 7.5tmc ft. On October 6, 2020, the Goa government filed a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Karnataka for illegal diversion of the Mhadei’s waters to the Malaprabha river basin, and sought a direction to restore the natural flow towards the state. TOI was first to report that Goa would file a contempt petition against Karnataka within 15 days for diverting the Mhadei waters into the Malaprabha basin. The plea has also stated that due to Karnataka’s contumacious acts, there is a sharp reduction of water flow to the Surla nullah that passes through the Mhadei wildlife sanctuary, and is a violation of the Wildlife Protection Act. The plea has sought an “order directing the contemnors/respondents to take remedial and curative actions to make good the loss of water to the state of Goa pursuant to their acts of diversion and to further restore the natural flow of the Mhadei river towards the state of Goa”. Goa said grave and irreparable loss would be caused to the state if Karnataka did not stop water diversion, and sought a joint inspection of the Kalasa site under an independent assessor. The state government has also asked for initiation of contempt proceedings by the Supreme Court against Karnataka for the wilful and deliberate violation of the award passed by the MWDT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-extends-mhadei-tribunals-term-for-a-year/articleshow/78597216.cms||Murari Shetye
October 11, 2020||Madurai||2 die as car, bus collide in Madurai||Madurai: Two people travelling in a car were killed and two suffered injuries when their vehicle collided head on with a bus near Checkanurani in Madurai district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as K Vignesh, 31, Thiruppalai, and his friend R Dineshkumar, 30, from Anaiyur. Police sources said that the car was going at a high speed towards Andipatti, while the bus was coming in the opposite direction towards Madurai. The car driver lost control of the vehicle at Munduvelampatti. The vehicle went past the centre median and collided with the bus coming on the other side of the road. A police team rushed to the spot and rescued the injured. Fire and rescue service personnel were swung into action to retrieve the bodies from the mangled remains of the car. The bodies were shifted to the Usilampatti government hospital for postmortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-die-as-car-bus-collide-in-madurai/articleshow/78597677.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Dalit chief made to sit on floor at panchayat meeting in Cuddalore||CUDDALORE: A dalit woman president of a village panchayat in Cuddalore district has been forced by the vice-president, who is from the locally-dominant vanniyar caste, to sit on the floor during meetings of the local body she has presided over for a year now. This is the latest in a series of incidents of caste discrimination against dalit women since the local body polls in Tamil Nadu last year. The case came to light after the husband of Rajeshwari Saravanakumar, 37, recently circulated on social media a photo of her sitting on the floor during a panchayat meeting on July 17. Rajeshwari said another dalit woman panchayat member, Suganthi Tamilarasan, was also forced to sit on the floor. She accused the panchayat vice-president K Mohanraj of not allowing her to convene meetings of the panchayat on several occasions. Bhuvanagiri police have booked a case against Mohanraj and Therkku Thittai panchayat secretary Sindhuja based on a complaint from Rajeswari under various sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Police arrested Sindhuja and launched a hunt for Mohanraj, who is absconding. “We came to know about the incident on Friday. We have initiated action against the panchayat secretary and suspended her for failing to report the incident. Meanwhile, police have registered cases under different sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” said district collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri, who visited the village on Saturday. “I continued to tolerate the discrimination and harassment hoping that the situation will improve, all keeping the larger interest of the panchayat in mind. But the situation worsened as the days passed by, forcing us to fight for our rights and to perform our basic duties,” said Rajeswari. The panchayat, located 6 km from Bhuvanagiri in Cuddalore district, has six members, apart from the president who is elected directly. Of the six, five are vanniyars, who make up more than 600 of the 700 families in the village, and one is a dalit woman. Mohanraj was elected vice-president by a majority of the panchayat members. His father served as president of the panchayat for three terms. The post was reserved for dalit women before the latest polls a year ago. On Independence day, a dalit woman panchayat member was not allowed to hoist the national flag in nearby Thiruvallur district. A few weeks before that a dalit woman president had complained that she was not allowed to put up her name plate at the panchayat office or to administer the local bodies affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/dalit-chief-made-to-sit-on-floor-at-panchayat-meeting-in-cuddalore/articleshow/78596351.cms||Bosco Dominique
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Female baby found abandoned||Madurai: A newborn female baby, which was found abandoned near the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Saturday morning, was rescued and admitted to the hospital. Police sources said that Mohan, an autorickshaw driver , heard the cries of a baby on the road next to the hospital. When he went and checked, he found the baby covered in a cloth. He took the baby to the hospital with the help of the GRH police. Police checked the CCTV footages available there and found that two women, who came there had abandoned the baby and left the place. Doctors said that the baby’s health condition was good. The baby would be produced before the district child welfare committee once she is discharged. Meanwhile, efforts are under way to trace her parents. A case was registered and an inquiry conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/female-baby-found-abandoned/articleshow/78597678.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Agra||Etah man arrested for obscene comment against CM Yogi Adityanath on FB||AGRA: A 21-year-old college dropout was arrested and sent to jail on Saturday for allegedly posting an obscene comment with a picture on social media against chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Ram Niwas Singh, circle officer of Jalesar, said the cyber cell, on alert since Hathras case, on Friday spotted an obscene and inflammatory post on Facebook against CM Yogi. The cell tracked the man who allegedly posted the content. He was identified as Dushyant Pratap Singh of Nuhukhera village under Jalesar police station, he added. KP Singh, Jalesar police station house officer, said, “On basis of the complaint received from the cyber cell, a case was registered against the accused under IPC section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), besides provision of the IT Act." The man has no political connection, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/etah-man-arrested-for-obscene-comment-against-cm-yogi-on-fb/articleshow/78595120.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bareilly||Inebriated man attempts to burn down house with wife and three kids in Bareilly||BAREILLY: An inebriated man attempted to set his wife and three minor children on fire when they were sleeping at their house in Ramchandrapuram colony in Subhashnagar area of Bareilly city on Friday midnight. Accused Jeet Singh poured kerosene on the walls of the house and tried to light it up, but luckily, the family members woke up. Even though the household articles and other valuables were completely burnt down, the children were saved and the women, Sunita Devi (35), suffered minor burn injuries while trying to stop her husband. Sunita was taken to a hospital for treatment and her medico-legal was also completed after she made a complaint against her husband, who is absconding. SHO Subhashnagar said, “We have registered an FIR under relevant sections of the IPC and are searching for the accused husband. The condition of the woman is fine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inebriated-man-attempts-to-burn-down-house-with-wife-and-three-kids-in-bareilly/articleshow/78593620.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 11, 2020||Agra||65 more test Covid +ve in Agra, active cases now 586||Agra: At least 65 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 6,307. A ward body of SN Medical College was among those infected. A 55-year-old man also passed away during treatment at SN Medical College on Saturday. The patient was suffering from type 2 diabetes, hypertension, septicemia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 131 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Moreover, 48 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of the 5,538 cases reported in the district, 5,590 [88.6%] have been declared as "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district increased from 573 on Friday, to 586 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/65-more-test-covid-ve-in-agra-active-cases-now-586/articleshow/78595125.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||Retired teachers can be hired only as consultants: DHE||PANAJI: The scheme announced earlier this week by the directorate of higher education (DHE) to engage the services of retired doctorate-holder teachers is not meant for reemployment of superannuated teachers by the university or colleges for teaching purposes, the DHE has clarified. Following the scheme’s announcement, there was some criticism that while many younger qualified teachers were still looking for jobs, the scheme was promoting extension in service for retired teachers. The DHE, however, clarified that the scheme is not meant to give extension to retired teachers. Officials said that often government departments or autonomous bodies outsource consultancy work to even those from outside the state for public projects. They said there were doctorate-holding retired teachers who can offer similar expertise to the government departments or autonomous bodies. The new scheme, officials said, is meant to hire teachers with expertise in specific areas for such consultancy-like work only. “If a government department or an autonomous body wants to hire the services of someone for their academic expertise in a particular area for the purpose of a project of public interest, this scheme will come into play. It is not meant for the university or colleges to reengage or reemploy or give extension to their retired teachers,” said director Prasad Lolayekar. Lolayekar said that any government body which seeks such expertise will have to identify a retired teacher themselves. “The intending department or autonomous body will have to identify the person and we will engage them for the department or autonomous body. The teachers to be reemployed will be those with special expertise and therefore it does not mean that services of all retired teachers will be engaged,” said Lolayekar. The scheme allows for engaging the services of retired resourceful teachers for three more years in the government sector. Under the scheme, those eligible will be retired teachers with PhD degree in any specialized area/discipline, who served on regular basis for a minimum of ten years in any educational institution, and who have been residents of Goa for a minimum of 15 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/retd-teachers-can-be-hired-only-as-consultants-dhe/articleshow/78597215.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Solution on reopening cinemas soon: Min||Tuticorin: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju has said that the chief minister will soon come out with a solution with regard to the reopening of cinemas that have been closed for more than six months. Owners of cinemas and the film fraternity have been urging the government to reopen cinema halls. Two days ago, the Centre came out with standard operating procedures (SOP) to reopen cinemas from October 15. Talking to reporters in Tuticorin district on Saturday, the minister said that owners of cinemas have given him a representation on the hardships they will face due to the guidelines from the Centre, which he has taken to the notice of the chief minister. “The CM said that the guidelines are from the Centre and that he will discuss with officials and give a good solution soon,” Raju said. On former Vilathikulam MLA and AIADMK rebel G V Markandayan joining the DMK on Friday, the minister said, “If one person leaves, hundreds will join the AIADMK.” “He is not in the party. He was removed during the parliamentary elections (last year) for going against the party regulations and contesting the (Vilathikulam) bypoll as an independent candidate,” he said. The minister added that many from the DMK are joining the AIADMK and not the other way round.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/solution-on-reopening-cinemas-soon-min/articleshow/78597680.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Nashik||Issues at DCHCs beingaddressed, say officials||Nashik: A number of patients being treated at the DCHCs across Nashik district have been complaining that the staff is rude and hygiene is not being maintained, but district health officials said that a very small number of patients, about one per cent, has grievances and that the issues are being addressed. “Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande has started making video calls to the medical officers and other senior staff at all the DCHCs under the Nashik civil hospital, said the officials. “Raokhande speaks over the phone to at least two patients on a daily basis to get feedback about the facility.” The officials said patients are mainly asked about the food quality at the facility and whether they are getting medicines and injections on time. “While almost all the patients express satisfaction about the food and services at the DCHCs, one percent them complain that at times the staff is rude and bathrooms are not clean,” they said. If such issues are brought to the notice of Raokhande, she immediately seeks clarification from the officials concerned at the DCHC and instructs them to take necessary steps. The civil surgeon has been ensuring that there is sufficient stock of medicines and oxygen at all the DCHCs under her jurisdiction, said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/issues-at-dchcs-beingaddressed-say-officials/articleshow/78595127.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 11, 2020||Vadodara||Couple held for conning people with loan promises||Vadodara: A couple from Vadodara was arrested on Saturday for conning people across the state by promising them different kinds of loans and taking money as processing fees. On receiving numerous complaints from victims, the Cyber Crime police station of Panchmahal range nabbed the couple – Mitesh Shah and Raksha Shah – by tracking their mobile phone numbers. They live at Maheshnagar Society on Dabhoi Road. Police said that the couple used to give advertisements in local newspapers offering all types of loans from different banks. When a person interested in taking the loan would contact them, they used to talk as bank executives in different names. “The accused used to ask for the victims’ documents through WhatsApp and send them forged processing papers. The victims would be told that the loan amount would be sent through cheques in courier and they would then ask to send processing fees through angadiyas,” said a police official. The victims used to get cheques too through courier services, but the cheques used to be returned by banks due to want of balance. During preliminary investigation, it was found that the couple had taken Rs 1.9 lakh from victims in Dahod, Mahisagar and Patan districts. “We are suspecting that there are many more victims and the amount that they have admitted to taking is small. We want people who have been conned to approach us,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/couple-held-for-conning-people-with-loan-promises/articleshow/78596176.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hubballi||Primary teachers demand right to vote in council elections||Hubballi: Teachers of primary schools have sought an amendment to Article 171 (3) (C) of the Constitution to extend the right to vote to the teachers’ seats in the legislative council. Teachers in primary school are not recognised as voters to the teachers’ constituencies of the legislative council. Only those teaching at higher and secondary schools, pre-university colleges and universities, can exercise their franchise in these elections. General secretary of Karnataka State Primary School Teachers’ Association Chandrashekhar Nugil questioned the rationale of denying the vote to the fraternity in the council elections. Pointing to the 66-year-long fight for the right, Nugil said, “We approached Smriti Irani when she was the Union minister for human resource development and DV Sadananda Gowda, when he was Union law minister, seeking recourse. We have sought an amendment to Article 171 (3) (C) of the Constitution that will allow for the inclusion of primary teachers as eligible voters.” Nugil pointed out that the Union law ministry had initiated the process to amend the Constitution accordingly. “In 1997, the ministry had sought the opinion of the states where there was a council, and Karnataka had endorsed the inclusion of primary school teachers,” he added. Basavaraj Horatti, who has represented the Karnataka West Teachers’ constituency since 1980, called for the issue to be discussed in the Parliament, and an amendment passed to extend primary school teachers the right to vote in the council polls. “During M Veerappa Moily’s tenure as the chief minister, the Karnataka government had submitted a petition to the Centre seeking such an amendment, but it was rejected,” Horatti said. Veeranna Madiwalar, a primary school teacher and writer, pointed to the absurdity of the candidacy in the teachers’ constituencies being open to all, while the more than two lakh primary school teachers could not cast their vote for the same seats. “If primary school teachers are not a part of the electoral process, it means that the policy is not complete,” said Madiwalar, who is from the Chikkodi educational district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/primary-teachers-demand-right-to-vote-in-council-elections/articleshow/78596397.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||SL Bhyrappa urges people to celebrate Dasara at home this year||Mysuru: Kannada writer and novelist SL Bhyrappa expressed concern over the government’s reported plan to allow public gathering during Dasara celebrations. Speaking after being felicitated with the Shivarama Karanth Huttur award at Pramati Hillview School at Kuvempunagar on Saturday, Bhyrappa said that with the surge in cases in the district contributing to the state’s spiralling Covid-19 caseload, it is best if people celebrate the Naada Habba at home. “There is no need for people to be allowed to participate in the Dasara inauguration atop Chamundi Hills or the procession at Mysuru Palace. It is better people don’t venture out,” he said. Bhyrappa said that Dasara celebrations should be restricted to performing puja to Sri Chamundeshwari atop Chamundi Hills and to the the golden howdah at Mysuru Palace. “There is no need for people to gather during these events. Mahouts will handle the howdah. Certain people are claiming that their business will suffer if Dasara is not celebrated. Why should people suffer for somebody’s business profit? The government should ensure that there is no gathering of people during Dasara,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sl-bhyrappa-urges-people-to-celebrate-dasara-at-home-this-year/articleshow/78596037.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||Cong calls out govt over water claims||Panaji: The Centre’s claims that Goa is the first state to provide 100% tap water connection is another ‘jhumla’ of the Narendra Modi government, Congress said on Saturday. The party said that while people in urban areas face water shortage, in the villages people rely on water bodies for their water needs. Congress challenged Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to visit Goa to check his ministry’s claim that Goa has provided all its residents with piped water. “The tall claims made by the jal shakti ministry that Goa is the first state in the country to provide 100% tap water connections in rural areas is another ‘jhumla’ because people in the villages still depend on their wells or nearby rivulets for daily consumption of water,” North Goa Congress president Vijay Bhike said. Bhike said that in urban areas, many people face a similar water scarcity and depend on tankers or borewells for water supply. He said that Mapusa residents have to contend with water shortage or contaminated water flowing through the taps. In the state capital and other towns, residents have to manage with water supply for just a few hours every day. “The announcement is like rubbing salt on the village people who have to pull water from the wells or walk a long distance to get water from nearby rivulets,” said Bhike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-calls-out-govt-over-water-claims/articleshow/78597217.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Allow offshore casinos, river cruise boats to begin operations’||PANAJI: The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has requested the government to open offshore casinos and river cruises in view of the recent guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs. A separate standard operating procedure (SOP) for the same will be issued shortly. TTAG president Nilesh Shah said they have written to the government as the Union home ministry has permitted entertainment parks and similar places – but those outside containment zones – to open with effect from October 15. “We have to send a positive message so that tourists start planning their holidays to Goa. We can’t wait till the vaccine is introduced,” said Shah. River cruises are the biggest attraction among domestic tourists, and many think their Goa trip will be incomplete if they do not include a boat ride in their itinerary. A tourism stakeholder said that offshore casinos are also a huge big draw among Indian visitors. “They may gamble or not, but tourists certainly will like to see that different world which they have only read or seen in movies,” he said. Shah said they stakeholders will adhere to the guidelines of the ministry of home affairs. Some of the SOPs for river cruises suggested by TTAG mention that boat premises should be sanitised regularly, and cleaning may be conducted every week. All touch points at public places, be it door handles, table tops and railings are to be cleaned continuously with a disinfectant. Emergency numbers should be displayed at prominent places, while a separate area should be earmarked in case anybody takes ill, whether it is an employee or a visitor. Premises must have functional CCTV cameras to track and trace movement of people, if the need arises. Staff must wear masks and strictly follow social distancing norms. Proper attendance logs of entry and exit are to be maintained. All employees should be trained to be follow best hygiene practices, and more importantly, they must undergo medical screening and should be covered under health insurance, TTAG has suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allow-offshore-casinos-river-cruise-boats-to-begin-ops/articleshow/78597218.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||239 cases of liquor worth Rs 7.2 lakh seized at Patradevi||PANAJI: State excise seized 239 cases of liquor of different brands worth Rs 7.2 lakh, on Saturday, while it was being smuggled out of Goa via Patradevi check post. This is the third seizure in the last two months. “The Bhiwandi-bound truck even had a bike to mislead us. The driver said he had no knowledge that vehicle contained alcohol stock and whom it was to be delivered,” an official said, adding that in most cases, vehicle drivers are completely in the dark. They are also unware from which place or factory vehicle was loaded, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/239-cases-of-liquor-worth-rs-7-2-lakh-seized-at-patradevi/articleshow/78597254.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Marginal drop in active tally, recoveries exceed new cases||PANAJI: Goa’s mortality count touched the 500-mark on Saturday with eight Covid-linked deaths reported during the past 24 hours. Of this, 235 deaths were reported in September and 70 deaths between 1 and 10 of this month. The tally of active cases marginally dropped to 4,657 with recoveries during the day exceeding new cases. As many as 460 people were cured, while 343 more people tested positive on Friday. The state’s total caseload stands at 37,934, including 32,777 recoveries and deaths. The deaths of six men and two women were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim and ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. The men who died were a 78-year-old from Vasco, a 58-year-old from Pernem, an 86-year-old from Merces, a 51-year-old from Mapusa, and two others from Margao and Curtorim, both of whom were 67 years old. Two women – a 75-year-old from Margao and a 68-year-old from Cortalim - succumbed to the virus. All the persons were suffering from one or more co-morbid conditions. On Saturday, Panaji reported 30 more cases, although since the start of this week its tally of active cases has dropped below the 200-mark. Meanwhile, Porvorim continues to see more cases, but the increase noted is still less than what it witnessed last month. Mapusa, another centre that has been reporting high number of cases – at least 20 to 25 a day – though occasionally, its numbers are less than 15 or 20 cases a day, had a total of 243 cases on Saturday. Though Margao’s active tally has fallen to 296, there is no respite yet since the infection hasn’t contained to show a marked difference in the cases detected. Ponda also is going through the similar phase, with its count of active cases at 237. A senior GMC doctor said that Goa may see a drop in cases post mid-October, subject to diminishing rain activity, that will create a less conducive environment for the virus to sustain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marginal-drop-in-active-tally-recoveries-exceed-new-cases/articleshow/78597236.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Local efforts help improve habitat of migratory birds at Keoladeo Park||JAIPUR: Efforts to improve the habitat of migratory birds at Keoladeo National Park with the help of local villagers during Covid-19 crisis have started yielding results this season. Extensive habitat operations in wetland blocks including repair of wetland edges, de-silting, deepening of water bodies, removal of invasive alien species, have resulted in good nesting painted storks and other species. Forest administration is expecting this would attract even more migratory birds in coming winters. DFO Mohit Gupta said, “The nesting domestic species attract migratory birds as they indicate availability of food in the surroundings and favourable environment.” The habitat operations at the park were held under NREGA, employing nearly 600 people each day and generated more than 60,000 mandays of work during April-July. The innovative approach of park administration to associate maximum number of locals with park activities has not only improved habitat for migratory birds, but has also developed a greater sense of responsibility among them towards the UNESCO World Heritage Site. Also, the removal of prosopis juliflorawas was undertaken using local forest samitis, thereby further generating employment in addition to MGNREGA. One more aspect was involvement of rickshaw pullers of the park in removal of African Catfish from the park. This has helped them in earning money when tourism in the park has taken a hit. Gupta said, “After the participation, the locals have been proactive towards illegal activities around the park and even helped in arrest of several poachers, eliminating hunting even from outskirts of the protected area.” Setting an example for the first time in Rajasthan, ecodevelopment committees directly helped the poor. To gather the support of locals, the administration distributed ration kits in 14 villages to identified poor people which mainly included, old widowed women, specially abled persons and the downtrodden. Moreover, to control poaching activities more than 700 ration kits were distributed by the park management with each kit having 20kg wheat, 5kg sugar, salt, 2kg pulses and other essentials like cooking oil. “This has brought the local villagers close to the park and this will go a long way in generating long-term support for forest conservation among forest-dependent communities,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/local-efforts-help-improve-habitat-of-migratory-birds-at-keoladeo-park/articleshow/78596384.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||MP demands pan-India exam centres for CRPF recruitment||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to the director general of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), A P Maheswari, requesting to allot examination centres across India, for the exam to held on December 20, to recruit paramedical staff for the CRPF. Venkatesan said that this will greatly benefit aspirants from Tamil Nadu and the Union territory of Puducherry.The CRPF issued a notification calling for applications for 789 Group B and C non-ministerial, non- gazetted, combatised paramedical posts with the last date of application being August 31. The MP said the notification has listed only nine centres for the exam of which two are in the southern region, five in northern region and one each in western and eastern regions.“There is nothing wrong in having five centres in the northern states. But, equity is not there for the other parts of the country in distribution of examination centres. There are no examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry,” he said and added that this unequal distribution would put candidates from the region in great difficulty, especially in the context of the Covid-19 scenario where movement of people is difficult.Venkatesan said that this should not be a deterrent for aspirants competing for the posts. He appealed to the CRPF DG to increase the number of exam centres and ensure proper distribution across the country, including at least one each in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.He also sought a revised notification with extension of deadline for submission of applications by one more month along with additional exam centres to accommodate more applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-demands-pan-india-exam-centres-for-crpf-recruitment/articleshow/78597704.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Goa||Canca body evicts vendors from roadside||Saligao: The Verla-Canca panchayat on Saturday evicted hawkers who were illegally occupying the main road and hampering traffic movement. Following a complaint by panch member Sagar Lingudkar, sarpanch Milton Marquis and panch members conducted an inspection, following which the vendors squatting along the road were evicted. Earlier, during the lockdown, the panchayat had allowed vendors to sell wares along the road. However, after Unlock 4.0, a notice was issued banning sale of items along roadsides. “I want to send a clear warning to the vendors that if they do not stop selling their goods along the road, we will confiscate their goods. This a major district road (MDR) and we will not tolerate such illegal hawking,” said Marquis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canca-body-evicts-vendors-from-roadside/articleshow/78597246.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Smaller batches, grievance system & load testing hold key: Experts||Nagpur: Even as Nagpur University’s final year students continued to face problems in online exams on their phones for the third day in a row on Saturday, experts suggested some measures to solve the problem. They said smaller batches of not more than 100 for every slot rather than just three or four in the day, grievance system and load testing are crucial for error-free experience. This, they say, would reduce the load on the server and also help officials to address grievances as soon as they are reported, beside identifying problems. MKCL regional coordinator Shashikant Deshpande said whether load testing with 50,000 to 60,000 users was done before holding actual exam needs to be asked. “Cellphones pose unique problems. Load testing helps service providers address most eventualities before the actual event. We have been conducting mock test for 50,000 students across the state without any issues daily,” he said. Deshpande said how much time is given for the app to shut in case of internet disruption also matters. Former director of GH Raisoni Engineering College Preeti Bajaj said the college held online exam for 5,000 students under her watch without a glitch. “We had one in-house software and one from open source at Raisoni College. Online exam is not rocket science. It can go well if there is support system and technology experts involved in planning and execution,” said Bajaj, who is now vice-chancellor of Galgotias University. “Round-the-clock monitoring of grievance is a must in online exams and a committee to moderate issues like power failure or bandwidth issues,” said Bajaj under whom Raisoni was probably only NU college to hold online exams in the last five years. Vishal Jain, director of GEEBEE Education which provides online training to overseas universities, said, “A trial phase like pre-board exams could have tested the capacity. Thousands of students logging in at the same time can jam even the best possible online exam in the world. Instead of asking all students to begin in one slot, they should have formed smaller groups with more slots,” Jain said. Jain said big universities should have been case studies for conducting online exams. “Even they have students in small batches. Technical people need to work round the clock and much also depends on the capacity of the server,” he said. Jain added, “Lots of students start uploading the paper at the same time which again impacts the server. These technicalities must be kept in mind. They could have been able to plan better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smaller-batches-grievance-system-load-testing-hold-key-experts/articleshow/78596393.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Shoot Rajura tiger, says MP Dhanorkar||Chandrpaur: Member of Parliament (MP) Suresh alias Balu Dhanorkar on Saturday joined other local leaders in demanding shooting order for dreaded Rajura tiger RT-1, which is responsible for eight human kills. Dhanorkar took details of the capturing operation underway in Rajura from Chief Conservator of Forest (CCF), Chandrapur, NR Pravin and then called forest minister Sanjay Rathod to press his demand. Dhanorkar claimed over 20 villages spanning into two ranges were reeling under the tiger’s terror since last 22 months. Apart from taking eight human lives, the tiger has injured three farmers, inflicting them with permanent disability. The forest department has installed over 150 camera traps and multiple teams of foresters are tracking the problem tiger in the forest, but have failed to capture the beast. The MP said even as crops are ready for harvest, farmers and farm labourers are afraid of risking their lives by going into the fields. Agricultural operation in the area has been drastically hampered due to tiger terror, he added. Dhanorkar summoned CCF Pravin to present the reasons for failure of forest teams in capturing of the tiger. He then talked to forest minister Sanjay Rathod on phone and briefed him about the tiger’s terror, while repeating the demand of issuing shooting order against the problem tiger. Former MLAs from Rajura, Wamanrao Chatap and Sudharshan Nimkar, have already raised the demand of shooting the Rajura tiger for safety of people and their cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shoot-rajura-tiger-says-mp-dhanorkar/articleshow/78597279.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 11, 2020||Nashik||300mcft more water okayed for city, state’s nod awaited||Nashik: The civic body’s demand for more water for the city has been sanctioned, however, it needs a final approval from the state authority. The district body reserving water for drinking, agriculture and industrial purposes has sanctioned 300 million cubic feet (mcft) of additional water to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) as per its demand, subject to approval from Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA). The NMC received 5,200 mcft water between October 15, 2019 and July 31, 2020. It had demanded 300 mcft more for the corresponding period in 2020-21, citing rise in population and thus consumption of water. “Given that there was good rainfall across Nashik district and the major and minor dams are filled to the optimum level of storage, the NMC demand has been sanctioned,” district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said, after a meeting with the officials from the water resources department, the zilla parishad and the NMC, along with the Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation (MIDC). It may be noted that the since 2017, the MWRRA reserves and allocates water after the district bodies across the state of Maharashtra have finalized their proposals by the end of October. The district body takes into consideration the demands of water users be it corporations, councils and other constituents including industries and farmers before sending its proposal. “As per the norms, the cities with population less than 50 lakh are eligible for 135 litre per capita daily (LPCD) of water. We have proposed this arrangement to the MWRRA that will sanction only if the demand is appropriate,” the WRD sources said. The sources also pointed out that since the proposals are based on the norms of the MWRRA , the body generally sanctions the proposals from the district bodies with minor corrections. “The NMC demand earlier were turned down because it didn’t fit the conditions. This year, we are confident that the proposals would be allowed,” the officer said. The NMC now stands to get 3,800 mcft of water from Gangapur Dam complex, besides 400 mcft of water from Darna Dam and 1,300 mcft of water from Mukane Dam adding up to 5,500 mcft of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/300mcft-more-water-okayed-for-city-states-nod-awaited/articleshow/78595152.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 11, 2020||Goa||Drain flooded fields before panel poll: Carambolim ryots||PANAJI: In a meeting of the Dhado Tenants’ Association, Carambolim farmers demanded that as per court orders, the process of draining the submerged fields in the area be carried out, before holding elections to elect a managing committee scheduled on Monday. The high court of Bombay at Goa had in an order dated August 24, directed the Tiswadi mamlatdar to issue orders to the tenants’ association to drain the water within a reasonable period. While Bharat Fotu Naik had filed the petition praying for restoration of the fields before the high court, the mamlatdar had issued an order dated September 23 directing compliance of the court directive. The court had also directed the mamlatdar that Naik’s plea be treated as a consolidated representation and may be treated and disposed of as per the law. Following the mamlatdar’s move to hold the election on Monday, October 12, members of the Dhado assocation held a meeting on Saturday in Carambolim. Sadanand Kholkar, a farmer explained to the farmers that despite the court order to drain the fields, the election process was being proceeded with as a first step. The court had also directed that the sluice gates also be operated properly to prevent damage to agricultural fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drain-flooded-fields-before-panel-poll-carambolim-ryots/articleshow/78597323.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Degraded lands along 390km stretch of Chambal river to be revived via NREGA||JAIPUR: State’s rural development department has decided to revive degraded lands along the 390km stretch of Chambal river, as a part of ravines reclamation project, through MGNREGA. The project will be launched soon in collaboration with forest and other departments. Eight districts — Baran, Bharatpur, Bundi, Dholpur, Karauli, Kota, Sawai Madhopur and Tonk — will be covered under the ravine reclamation project. Around 6.49 lakh hectare land along the Chambal river stretch is degraded. A presentation on ravines land reclamation by the rural development and panchayati raj department focuses on ensuring protection of table land along the ravine areas by arresting the process of gully head extension and reclaiming degraded lands to their optimum production levels. The project also emphasises on restoring ecological balance aligned with synergistic community, increasing vegetative cover, enhancing subsurface water storage and strengthening livelihood support systems. Under technology interventions, GIS-based mapping of ravine areas will be done, along with categorisation of ravines into core, buffer and fringe areas; indentification of districts, blocks, gram panchayats and villages; area treatment plans in KML/KMZ formats for easy dissemination; web-based app for data collation; real time data collection and monitoring of gathered data; and geo-tagging of affected areas and implementation strategies. Some of the solutions proposed for reclamation of ravine areas include — construction of farm and graded bunds, contour/field bunds, peripheral bunding, bench terracing, land levelling and shaping, plantation (bamboo as well), gully plug, creating trenches, constructing gabions, anicuts, masonry check dams, waste weirs and earthen dams, loose boulder structure, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/degraded-lands-along-390km-stretch-of-chambal-river-to-be-revived-via-nrega/articleshow/78596430.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Two lawyers held for cheating court by forging bail documents||THENI: Two lawyers from Theni district have been arrested for cheating the court by creating forged documents and using them to get bail for their clients. Inquiries revealed that they have got bail for at least 35 people through fraudulent means. The accused were identified as S Kani, 32, from Kuppinayakkanpatti village and his junior K Ramadevi, 23, from Bodi. They have been involved in the fraud for the past two years. The incident came to light when fellow lawyers suspected foul play in the way they get instant bail for their clients. A police officer said the court requires cash or property as bond to release a person on bail. In case the person does not appear after summons, then the court can forfeit their property. The accused lawyers, who have an office at Thevaram Main Road and practising at the Bodiyanakkanur judicial magistrate court, forged documents for bail applicants to produce them in court stating that they have required property in their names. Few months ago, Chandrasekar, an advocate from the same court submitted a petition to the Theni chief judicial magistrate court to conduct an inquiry into the documents produced by the accused advocates. Inquiry with revenue officials found that the documents bearing the seals and signatures of village administrative officials, were fake. After obtaining a report from the revenue department, the Bodinayakkanur JM court initiated an inquiry. Based on a complaint from the head clerk of the court Jaminthar, a case was registered with the Bodinayakkanur Town police. The duo was booked under five sections of the IPC including 471 (using forged documents as genuine ones), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 464 (making a false document). They were arrested on Friday. A search was conducted in their office, but officials said that no incriminating documents were seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-lawyers-held-for-cheating-court-by-forging-bail-docus/articleshow/78597753.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nashik||Divisional commissioner tells collectors to help kin of farmers who committed suicide||Nashik: Divisional commissioner of Nashik Radhakrushna Game has directed the district collectors of all five districts to initiate a special assistance programme for the relatives of deceased farmers who have committed suicide.“The programme aims at understanding the needs of the families of the farmers who, for some economic and other reason, took the extreme step and bring these families into the mainstream,” Game said.According to the commissioner, 1,347 farmers committed suicide across the division that includes Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts.All the district collectors have been asked to ensure that revenue and rural development officials visit the homes of all such farmers and understand their immediate requirements and in what way the administration can contribute.“There could be a requirement of a well, or power connection for the well, or perhaps concerns about children’s education or marriage. There could even be issues related to their land,” Game said referring to a few situations that the families may be facing. “We have asked the officers to conduct a survey of all these families and note down their immediate needs and also chalk out plans that could help resolve the issues,” he added. The programme was launched on October 2 and it is expected that the survey part will be completed within a month’s time. After that, district collectors are expected to chalk a plan to provide help through existing government schemes.“It becomes very difficult when the breadwinner of a family suddenly passes away and the entire responsibility falls on the women and the children. At such times, it is the responsibility of the administration to help them out,” Game said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/divisional-commissioner-tells-collectors-to-help-kin-of-farmers-who-committed-suicide/articleshow/78595178.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 11, 2020||Business||Vedanta fails to find enough shares to get itself delisted||MUMBAI: Metal tycoon Anil Agarwal’s attempt to delist Vedanta Ltd from the stock exchanges has “failed” as he did not get the required number of shares in the open offer, which concluded on Friday. For a delisting to be successful, promoters should have the support of at least 90% of the non-promoter shareholders. Without mentioning the final price of Rs 320 per share, the promoters said the delisting offer had “failed”. Agrawal owns 50.14% in Vedanta and he had made a delisting offer to the company’s public shareholders who hold the remaining 49.86%. In a regulatory filing, Vedanta said the total number of shares tendered by the public stakeholders were 125.47 crore, which was less than the minimum number of shares required to be accepted under the delisting rules. The promoters needed 134.12 crore shares to cross the 90% holding threshold. As a result, the promoters “will not acquire any equity share tendered by the public shareholders in the delisting offer and (Vedanta’s) equity shares will continue to remain listed on the stock exchanges”. The company further said that “all equity shares tendered in the delisting offer will be returned to the respective public shareholders”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vedanta-fails-to-find-enough-shares-to-get-itself-delisted/articleshow/78598023.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||NMC hikes Asha workers’ honorarium by Rs1,000||Nagpur: Seven months after engaging Asha workers in Covid-19 related works, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday hiked their monthly honorarium by Rs1,000. “Now, it will be Rs4,000 per month,” said Vijay Zalke, chairman of NMC standing committee which approved a proposal from health department in this regard. Along with Asha workers, the committee also gave green signal to hike honorarium of around 402 health workers by Rs1,500 per month. Zalke told TOI that 402 health workers and 594 Asha workers have been working as contact tracers, screening residents in every nook and corner of the city, assisting in conduct of rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests since the Covid-19 outbreak in the city in March. He admitted that these workers were grossly underpaid during the health crisis. The panel’s chairman the hike in monthly honorarium will create additional financial burden of Rs11.97 lakh per month on the NMC. “We have given nod for a provision of Rs35.91 lakh for three months from October,” he said. The panel also gave its nod to auction already scrapped three small fire tenders, three emergency fire tenders and three ambulances to the earlier bidders. “If the NMC invites fresh tender for auction of scrapped fire tenders and other material, the cost would further reduce due to depreciation,” said Zalke. The panel also okayed medical officer Dr Sarita Kamdar’s medical leave for 89 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-hikes-asha-workers-honorarium-by-rs1000/articleshow/78596418.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati University online, offline exams from Oct 12||Nagpur: The Amravati University (AU) on Friday announced that its exam for undergraduate and postgraduate final year students will be held in both modes — online and offline — from October 12. As on Friday evening, the university had received 5,300 requests from students for offline exams at 99 centres in the district. AU’s board of examinations and evaluation director Hemant Deshmukh released a video explaining the entire process of the final year examination. The SGBAU Pariksha App had over 50,000 downloads. Deshmukh requested students to reinstall the latest version of the app as major corrections were made to ensure seamless conduct of the exams. Internet connectivity requirement would be minimal for the online exam. “Students will need internet connection only for logging in and downloading the question paper. As soon as the paper starts, a timer for 90 minutes duration will also begin and lock the paper on scheduled time irrespective if the mobile phone is connected to internet or not,” he said. Students will have to reconnect, in case, they prefer switching off their data connection during exam time, to submit the paper. “In the meantime, no change can be made in the paper once the duration is over,” Deshmukh said in the video. The App will not work on Apple handset but only on Android 5.1 and above configuration mobile phones. The multiple choice questions (MCQs) pattern would be followed in both online and offline modes. “We will be providing QMR sheets to exam centre. Around 100 QMR sheets would be kept even at centres where no student has requested offline mode. In case, there is change of mind or app issues, students should be able to appear in the exam,” he said. If physically challenged students wish to appear in offline mode, they will get all assistance beside 20 minutes additional time as per government norms. The divyang students need to attempt only 33% questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-university-online-offline-exams-from-oct-12/articleshow/78592632.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Dist minister meets son of teacher who succumbed to Covid||Hassan: District minister K Gopalaiah on Saturday called on the son of a 55-year-old teacher, who died of Covid in September. It is being alleged that the teacher contracted the disease while travelling to take classes under the Vidyagama programme. Her husband who contracted virus from her, died a day before she breathed her last. Their only son, who too contracted the disease and has recovered, and is now hale and hearty. Swarna worked at the Government Higher Primary School at Kudurugundi village, which is around 15 km away from the city. She was residing with her husband Manjunath ,60, and son Dheemanth at Sathyamangala extension in the city’s outskirts. Manjunath was a priest in a temple at Kattaya village in Hassan taluk, and was also an astrologer. Dheemanth is a final year BCom student. She was travelling to the school daily to take classes under the Vidyagama programme, which was started from August 4. “On September 26, the teacher succumbed to Covid. She was in a designated Covid hospital for nearly a week. Her husband was a diabetic and had hypertension. She didn’t have any premedical conditions, but was symptomatic. She was hospitalised and had difficulty in breathing. She was on ventilator support,” stated district surgeon Dr Krishnamurty. DDPI K S Prakash said, “Around 250 teachers are reported to have been infected till date in Hassan. Hassan taluk has 60 teachers, the highest in the district, who have contracted Covid, followed by Belur and Arkalgud, with 55 and 44 teachers who have been infected, respectively. A total 6 infected teachers have died, 2 each from Hassan and Holenarsipur, and 1 each from Belur and Arsikere.” District in-charge minister K Gopalaiah met Dheemanth at his house on Saturday morning, and consoled him. The teacher’s husband and son were her primary contacts. They too tested positive for Covid. As most of their relatives stayed at Bengaluru and Mumbai, none of them attended the funeral which was conducted by the villagers .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dist-minister-meets-son-of-teacher-who-succumbed-to-covid/articleshow/78595850.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Call to revive native trees of Madurai||Madurai: Nature experts have stressed the need to rejuvenate and replant native trees that thrived in Madurai in the bygone era, saying such species will help restore its biodiversity. Amateur ornithologist Dr T Badri Naryanan and researcher of native plants in Sangam Literature, N Karthikeyan, threw light on this aspect while participating in a joint virtual meet titled “Restoration of Natural Heritage of Madurai,’’ organised by CII and Young Indians on Saturday. They said much was known about the cultural heritage of Madurai, but there was a lot to learn about its rich natural heritage. Karthikeyan pointed out that in Sangam literature, ‘Paripadal’ and ‘Silapathigaram’’ spoke about the abundance of trees that thrived on the banks of Vaigai. Though they belonged to different periods, both spoke of identical trees. In fact, Vaigai was described as a river of flowers in those songs. Dr Badri Narayanan said evergreen trees had lined the banks near the waterfront and deciduous trees a little further away. Kadamba trees had thrived along the banks. Karthikeyan said Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple had the fossilised trunk of a tree inside it. A live tree not known to many, and over 60 feet tall, thrived near its western tower. The other common tree was Marutham, (terminalia arjuna) which could grow up to 30 feet, and acted as the buttress for other trees growing on the river bank. The flowers of these trees attracted insects. ``It is these insects that help the birds to thrive. If these trees were present, house sparrows would not be so scarce now,’’ said Dr Narayanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-revive-native-trees-of-madurai/articleshow/78597786.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 cases drop in rural areas||Nashik: The number of Covid-19 cases in the rural areas of Nashik dropped from 361 to under 200 on Saturday, thus bringing down the overall figures for the day from about 800 to just above 700. The district has 8,396 active cases and 1,061 patients were discharged. The district registered 15 deaths – 13 of them from Nashik city and two from Nashik rural. The Malegaon Municipal Corporation has not reported any deaths due to Covid-19 in the past three days.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-cases-drop-in-rural-areas/articleshow/78595182.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Meerut||Another sadhu found dead;3 in a fortnight in west UP||Meerut: Days after two sadhus were found dead under mysterious circumstances in Meerut and Baghpat districts, the body of “another sadhu” — the third one — was found floating in the Yamuna in Baghpat’s Nevada village on Saturday. Police fished out the body and sent it for postmortem. Police said they were, meanwhile, trying to establish the identity of the deceased, who appeared to be in his middle adulthood and had saffron attire when fished out. The post-mortem report would ascertain the reason for his death, said police. On September 24, the body of an ascetic was fished out of a pond in Tikri area of the district. Police also fished out the body of another sadhu from the Upper Ganga canal in Sardhana region of Meerut. The bodies remained unidentified. Meanwhile, targeting the Yogi government for these mysterious deaths, UP Congress on Saturday tweeted, “Body of a sadhu found from Yamuna river. Three such bodies have been found in the last one month. Atrocities on sadhus are not ending in UP, jungle raj is at its worst.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/another-sadhu-found-dead3-in-a-fortnight-in-west-up/articleshow/78595191.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Not very comfortable with home-based exam on mobile: NTA chief Vineet Joshi||The National Testing Agency (NTA) has established itself as the country’s premier exam conducting body, with JEE and NEET being its flagship tests. As the shift towards online exams grows, amplified by the pandemic, quite a few institutes have run into technical problems while conducting them. NTA’s director General Vineet Joshi speaks to TOI about the planning which goes into conducting an online exam, infrastructure required and future technology which may come into play. The general view is that conducting online exams is easy. All you require is a software, computers and an agency to handle the process. That thought process is a trap and one needs to be careful about it. You cannot get into a computer-based test without going over the minutest details. Right from planning candidate load, centres, data secrecy to execution of the exam itself, every single step requires months of meticulous planning. Every phase is planned to the minutest details and tested way before the D-Day. You have to be very careful while choosing the partner who conducts the exam, the software being used etc. How safe and successful are home-based proctored exams, through smartphones? We tried this in some places this year. Some small exams were conducted in the said format due to Covid-19 pandemic. But we are not very comfortable with this because we got many complaints about unfair means being used in such exams. Can students give exams on their mobile if they are present inside a designated secure exam centre? Yes, it’s definitely doable but there are obviously concerns related to malware in mobiles. Care has to be taken about other software present in the mobile, and how it can be removed or disabled during exams. So, it depends upon the type of software you are using to conduct the exam and the IT infrastructure at the centre. But people are working on the idea and it’s probably what the future may look like. What are some of the key things an online exam conducting body has to keep in mind? There are multiple things here. First is meticulous planning of entire process, right till declaration of results. Then comes secrecy of data being collected. Be it questions or candidate’s personal data, answers etc. You have to ensure that candidate’s responses (answers) are saved immediately in a safe and secure server where no unauthorized access can happen. Then comes the handling of exceptions which emerge on the exam day. Power can go off, some switch may not work etc. Handling students’ anxiety and working on the problem are also crucial. Quick processing of the data post exams is important as you can’t leave it lying around with your local service provider. That’s where allegations of manipulation can crop up. For online exams, do you simulate technical crisis as part of preparation? That’s an integral part. Each and every system involved in the process is tested. We conduct a mock test on every single computer across India on which the final test will be taken. Also, we do not leave everything to the local service provider, but have NTA observers present at every centre. When conducting an online exam, which part is one which really worries you? It has to be the technology part. This is something which can go wrong at any point of time. There is always a possibility that exams won’t start on time. Conducting offline or online exams, which is easier? For online exams, the workload is on the front end. You have to really work hard right up to the day of the exam. For offline, the maximum workload is at the back end. Is online exam possible only in MCQ? Not at all. Online exam can be conducted in any format. You can write a paragraph there. There could be audio or video questions as well. It has a wide scope. Is NTA mandated to conduct exams also for universities and schools? The bigger mandate for us is to help universities and school boards to improve their examination system. Under this we also conduct exams for JNU, Delhi University and also another one in Punjab. So, this is something which we are already doing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-very-comfortable-with-home-based-exam-on-mobile-nta-chief-vineet-joshi/articleshow/78596438.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Akkulam rejuvenation to focus on water quality monitoring||Thiruvananthapuram: Akkulam rejuvenation project being implemented with KIIFB fund is expected to focus more on water-quality monitoring than beautification and ensuring tourism facilities. The detailed project report for Akkulam rejuvenation for which tenders have been called has recommended 24 water-quality monitoring stations at 10 points. They are at Akkulam lake, Veli lake, lake entry point, Medical College stream, Amayizhanjan, Ulloor, Pattom, Pazhavangadi canals, Thettiyar and Parvathy Puthanar. Water-quality monitoring has been proposed to get a picture of whether water can be used for drinking, sanitation, health, commercial and industrial use, and agriculture and irrigation. Determining water quality requires the measurement and analysis of specific characteristics, including temperature, dissolved chemicals and bacteria. Water-quality parameters that are typically determined through field-based monitoring include temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, conductivity and turbidity, according to project report. During the study, water samples were collected from various locations along Ulloor Thodu, Pazhavangadi Thodu, Pattom Thodu , Medical College Thodu, Kannammoola stretch, Thettiyar stretch and some samples from the lake. The samples were assessed for physico-chemical parameters namely pH, electrical conductivity, total dissolved solid, dissolved oxygen (DO) and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). It was found that in almost all the samples the DO content was less than the desired level, which proves that the lake is not in a good condition. The BOD values were also high and the study recommended that it has to be brought below 10 mg/l as per CPCB guidelines. Following the site inspection, the project team has noted that a lake can be rejuvenated in a sustainable manner only if its connecting stream network and its watershed are rejuvenated to a great extent. “During the lean period of flow, there is stagnation in the flow due to solid-waste dumping into the streams and in such situations, the sewage inflows have a great negative impact on the condition of water in the streams,” the study notes. Pazhavangadi Thodu was found to be the most polluted with high BOD value and less DO value, as per the report. Pazavangadi Thodu originates near the Observatory Hills and flows through the highly urbanised areas of Thiruvananthapuram city (Aristo, Thampanoor, Pazhavangadi, Vanchiyoor, Pattoor) to join the Amayizhanjan Thodu at Pattoor. The field inspection showed that the canal passes through the thickly populated urbanized area with many of the commercial establishments, discharging their waste that is highly organic in nature to the canal. Moreover it is seen that, a large amount of waste (including solid waste and plastic waste) was also seen deposited at many places along the canal (at Thampanoor, Pazhavangadi, Vanchiyoor etc) which affected free flow of water. The project report recommends providing screens at different locations to arrest the suspended/floating debris and treatment systems aided by green technologies to bring down the BOD levels in the water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/akkulam-rejuvenation-to-focus-on-water-quality-monitoring/articleshow/78595848.cms||Aswin J Kumar
October 11, 2020||Nashik||Over 3,700 criminals under police watch in Nashik||NASHIK: The top police officers of Nashik Range have identified 3,765 habitual criminals in their respective jurisdiction and appointed 2,793 police constables to monitor their daily activities The scheme called ‘criminal adoption ’ has been implemented by Pratap Dihavkar, the inspector general (special) of Nashik Range. Police officials said most of these criminals have committed dacoities, robberies, chain snatching, vehicle thefts, extortion, house burglaries and repeatedly commit the same offences. Police said they have to keep a close eye on those criminals who have been arrested for property offences and under the Arms Act over the past seven years. The activities of the criminals will be reported by the policeman who has ’adopted’ them in every 15 days to their respective heads. Ahmednagar police have singled out 895 such criminals who will be monitored by 596 police personnel, Jalgaon police have identified 1,144 criminals and appointed 675 police personnel, Nashik rural police have identified 967 such criminals and appointed 821 police personnel, Dhule police have identified 647 criminals under 589 police personnel while Nandurbar police have identified 112 criminals and assigned 112 police personnel. Senior police officials said the criminal adoption scheme will create a deterrence among the criminals, which would eventually help in controlling offences like thefts, robberies and dacoities across the Nashik region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-3700-criminals-under-police-watch-in-nashik/articleshow/78595226.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 11, 2020||Nashik||Nashik bars & restaurants allowed to function till 10pm||Nashik: Heeding to the demands of restaurant and bar owners, the district administration has allowed these establishments to remain open till 10 pm.District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said: “The restaurants and permit rooms can allow people to enter the premises till 9 pm and should shut operations by 10 pm. No person should be allowed entry after 9 pm in the hotels and restaurants.” Bhujbal was briefing the media after a meeting of district authorities including collector, police commissioner, superintendent of police and municipal commissioner to discuss on the demands of the hotel and bar owners.Till Friday, the bars and hotels were allowed to stay open from 7 am to 7 pm. However, from Saturday, the bars can function from 11 am to 10 pm and the restaurants can stay open between 8 am and 10 pm. The Association of Bar, Hotels and Restaurants (ABHAR), Nashik, had opposed the government decision of allowing bars to function only from 7 am to 7 pm, saying that business usually picks up in the late evening.ABHAR president Sanjay Chauhan said the decision of the district administration would bring some respite to the owners of the restaurants and bars. “We welcome this decision as bars function more in the evening. This will definitely help generate some employment for the local people here,” Chavan said.The association is also demanding relaxation in the annual registration fees since there were no operations for more than six months. Chavan too said: “The government should consider relaxing the bar registration fees for the next year as the business had remained closed for six months and it will take another six months for the situation to normalise.”8pm deadline for shops Bhujbal, however, pointed out that the other establishments — shops and stores — have to shut by 8 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-bars-restaurants-allowed-to-function-till-10pm/articleshow/78595200.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||Triple Talaq crusader Shayara Bano joins BJP||Dehradun: Triple talaq crusader Shayara Bano formally joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of state president Bansidhar Bhagat on Saturday. The 38-year-old, a resident of Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, said she wants to “eliminate misconceptions about the BJP among the minority community”. As far back as 2018, Bano had mentioned that if given an opportunity to join the BJP, “she would be willing”. Talking to TOI soon after joining the saffron party, Bano said, “There is a prevalent conception among Muslims that the BJP is not a good party and acts against the minority community. I want to root out this belief. This is the reason I decided to formally join the party – to prove to people that it treats Muslims equally.” On asked if she was hoping to contest elections, Bano said it wasn’t the reason she had joined the party but “wouldn’t say no to a ticket”. “I will do whatever my party asks me to,” she said. Welcoming Bano to the party, Bhagat said “a strong woman who can overturn century-old malpractices will take the party to the next level”. “I wish her success in life and believe that she will work for the party with the same dedication with which she fought for her rights,” he added. Bano was instrumental in bringing about the Supreme Court’s landmark judgment making triple talaq illegal in 2017. Bano had moved the court in 2016, four months after being divorced by her husband through speed post, who also kept custody of their two children. “I know first-hand what it feels like when your life partner leaves you by just writing the word “talaq” thrice in a letter. Muslim women need to raise their voice against this practice. They have to fight for themselves.” She had married Rizwan Ahmed in 2002 and allegedly faced domestic abuse for the next 13 years at her in-laws’. Four years on, she lives in Kashipur town in Udham Singh Nagar with her son and daughter, who study in class 8 and 10 respectively. “I may have had to face trauma and torture because of the divorce but after this battle, my daughter will not have to face the same fate. I want her to study and grow in life. Even I pursued an MBA after my divorce,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/triple-talaq-crusader-shayara-bano-joins-bjp/articleshow/78595209.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Contact transmission rising steeply in district||Thiruvananthapuram: Active cases in the district increased further on Saturday after a slight dip for two days as district recorded 1,310 Covid-19 cases — the highest single-day tally so far. Contact transmission has been rising steadily over the last few days and on Saturday, cumulative contact transmission in the district stood at 97.1%. On Saturday, 905 people recovered from infection. The contact transmission has declined slightly in September and by the second week it has climbed at a steady pace and by October first week, transmission has peaked rapidly in the district as local spread rose from 96 to 97%. In the past 10 days, 80 people died of Covid-19 in the district. Nearly 10,000 positive cases were reported in the same period and test rate has also increased significantly in the district with daily tests crossing 7,000. The recovery rate in the district has increased from 67.62% to 72.08% since October 1. The capital also continues to have the highest mortality rate in the state and since October 1, death rate increased from 0.66% to 0.69%. Among the persons confirmed with Covid-19 on Saturday, 11 people were under home isolation. A total of 226 people were categorised as those without known source of infection. A total of 527 patients are females and 783 are males. A total of 142 patients are aged below 15 and 193 persons are aged above 60. On Saturday, 4,483 people were brought under disease surveillance in the district on Saturday. A total of 31,510 people are currently under observation in the district. A total of 2,919 persons completed observation period in the district on Saturday. As many as 12,127 persons are currently under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/contact-transmission-rising-steeply-in-district/articleshow/78595874.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Day 3: NU scores well as all exams conducted smoothly, except minor hitches||Nagpur: After the first two days of debacles, Nagpur University managed to smoothly conduct its 2,500 online examinations on Saturday, except minor hitches. It however took a major decision to grant extra 15 minutes to students of science and English faculties before the papers, to avoid congestion in the server, as their quantum is more in these subjects. “Today also, the students faced connectivity problems in science subjects, as about 1,400 of them logged in at the same time of 1.30pm. Many of them received messages of ‘something went wrong’ as the server took time to process the entries. So, we’ve decided to grant 15 minutes extra to all examinees from science and English subjects, so that they shouldn’t rush simultaneously,” Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable told TOI. On Saturday, NU received just about 40-50 complaints, as against hundreds on Thursday and thousands on Friday, regarding its first ever MCQ tests. Those were mostly from science faculty papers of biotechnology and biochemistry due to server problems. The successful conduct of papers on the third day brought a big relief to anxious final year students, who’re miffed due to Maharashtra government’s flip-flop over the exams that led to inordinate delay of over four months and now due to server fiasco. “Slow net connectivity is a major problem everywhere, but students get panicked due to exam tension, when they couldn’t connect to the server. Today over 1,600 students appeared for science exams and after receiving messages of ‘something went wrong’, they started calling NU helplines simultaneously. As a result, the helplines get engaged all time and then students complained of NU officials not responding,” Promarc officials said. After anti-virus in the server forced NU to cancel all 3,000 papers on Friday, its officials along with those from Promarc Software Limited worked past midnight for rectifying the system to avoid such incidents. “After the fiasco, we blocked all ports of anti-virus for app server and increased firewalls of the database server. We also connected them directly through Ethernet. Yesterday, we worked till past midnight doing mock runs on servers several times to avoid any technical glitches,” a relaxed Sable said. Despite repeated instructions from NU, the examinees committed the same mistakes while downloading and operating the ‘Pariksha App’ on Friday. “All of them were told to update app daily before papers, but they didn’t do it. Some downloaded app from an old link on the website when it wasn’t available on Google Playstore. Now, we have removed that link from the website,” the director said. As there are no papers on Sunday, top NU officials would be meeting in the afternoon to take a review of the first three days of exams and carry on improvements. “From Monday, major exams would commence where the number of students would be over 8,000. So, we’re taking all precautions to avoid technical snags or other reasons for smoothly conducting the exams. We had also tested our server capacity today,” Sable said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-3-nu-scores-well-as-all-exams-conducted-smoothly-except-minor-hitches/articleshow/78596453.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Couple forge own death certificates in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In a unique case of cheating registered at Karanj police station on Friday, an insurance agent of LIC, Parag Parekh and his wife Manisha Parekh, both residents of Maininagar East, were arrested for allegedly forging death certificates of each other and obtaining the insurance settlement claims of Rs 15 lakh and Rs 25 lakh. Inspector D V Tadvi of Karanj police station said that they have arrested both accused after getting their Covid-19 tests done on Saturday evening. According to the FIR lodged by senior manager Kaushik Shah of LIC at Jivan Prakash Building on Relief Road, Parekh had taken a term insurance policy in the name of his wife Manisha on January 1, 2012 for Rs 15 lakh and used to pay the premiums regularly. On May 5, 2016, Parag produced a bogus death certificate of his wife and after primary investigation he was given the benefit of Rs 15 lakh. Inspector Tadvi said that meanwhile Parag transferred his own policy of Rs 25 lakh to Gandhinagar branch in March 2017 and put his wife’s name as nominee. “Here also his wife obtained a forged death certificate of his husband and produced the forged documents in the LIC office to obtain the benefits. According to our information his wife too has obtained the benefit of Rs 25 lakh,” added Inspector Tadvi. According to the FIR, in the audit conducted in July 14, 2020 it came to light that after the faked death of his wife, Parag had put his wife’s name as nominee in his own LIC policy. “Later an internal inquiry was ordered and the whole scam came to light. Based on the internal inquiry, LIC has registered a complaint with us. We have arrested the accused and produce them at the judge’s bungalow on Sunday,” said Inspector Tadvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-forge-own-death-certificates/articleshow/78595868.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Hope ‘unlock process’ will be over post-Diwali: Maharashtra minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said he expected the “unlock process” in Maharashtra to be complete post-Diwali (November 16) with the rider that the chief minister would take a final call on it, besides pledging to slash the price of real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test to Rs800-1,200. “We have already opened most of the activities. Few things, including religious places, schools, colleges and gymnasiums, remain. Discussions on how to allow these to open are on and according my estimation, the unlock process will fully get completed post-Diwali,” Tope told TOI, adding that the CM would decide on the unlock issue. He said, “A surge in cases is expected in the winter months as experienced in European nations. Hence, citizens and administration should not be lax about social distancing guidelines while the state carries out the unlock process.” On the further downward revision of the cost of RT-PCR test, Tope said its price would be brought in the range of a minimum of Rs800 to a maximum of Rs1,200, from the existing price of Rs1,200 to Rs2,000 He said the indigenous kits available in the markets now were cheaper and so more people could go for “on-demand” tests. He said Maharashtra was one of the few states that aggressively brought down the Covid-19 testing and treatment cost in the private sector. Some laboratories questioned the move of reducing the rate of RT-PCR tests further. A spokesperson from a private laboratory said, “Reducing the rate from Rs4,500 to Rs1,200 would make it non-viable for us. How will employees be paid at these laboratories?” The RT-PCR test rates were reduced to the range Rs1,200-2,000 in the month of August from the earlier Rs1,600-Rs2,000. The rates vary depending on where the samples are collected. If one approaches the laboratory directly, the minimum rate is applicable. The rate for collecting samples from home is higher. The minister said despite having nearly 500 laboratories in the estate, the tests per million were at 60,126 — way below Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Stressing that there was no need to increase the number of laboratories in Maharashtra, Tope said, “We have the capacity to increase the capacity of tests in each laboratory and I would urge the district administration to ensure that they ramp up the testing further.” Citing the state’s high positivity rate, the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health (PHFI), Bengaluru, Giridhara R Babu, told TOI, “It is indicative that fewer number of tests were done at a time when the prevalence was high.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hope-unlock-process-will-be-over-post-diwali-health-min/articleshow/78596446.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fewest deaths per day in six months recorded in Oct||Ahmedabad: With an average of 11 daily deaths in the first 10 days of October, the lowest average daily deaths in six months for the state. The average daily deaths of Covid-19 patients were 27 in June, 19 in July, 19 in August and 14 in September. Analysis of the daily death figures show 11 is the lowest daily tally in state since April.Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 51,288 tests – the lowest in 24 days – taking the total tests conducted so far to 49.61 lakh. Compared to average daily testing of 69,540 in September, the number has dropped to 54,343 in the first 10 days of October, recording a drop of 21.8%.The number of daily average cases have also dropped from 1,365 in September to 1,302, recording a drop of 4.6%.Gujarat in the last 24 hours recorded deaths of 10 Covid patients, taking the total Covid death toll to 3,560. The latest reported deaths included four from Ahmedabad, three from Surat, two from Gandhinagar and one from Rajkot. The deaths in Surat reached near 800 with the cumulative toll of 798 as the Covid deaths figure for Ahmedabad reached 1,845, Vadodara 195 and Rajkot 149.As on Saturday evening, Gujarat had 5.94 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fewest-deaths-per-day-in-six-months-recorded-in-oct/articleshow/78596456.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Extension outlets of Indira Rasoi to attract crowds||JAIPUR: Failure of Indira Rasoi outlets to attract people has prompted the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to open extension counters in many parts of the city. Unlike Annapurna Rasoi, the project launched by the BJP government during its tenure when food was served from a truck, the Congress government decided to open Indira Rasoi with seating arrangements. The daily target of the rasoi was 600 people, but not even 50 are eating at the outlets. TimesViewThe irregularity in the functioning of Indira Rasoi indicates that the state government has relaunched the social welfare project in a hurry. The flagship scheme of former CM Vasundhara Raje earned praise due to its mass outreach. Only by renaming it and launching it at a time when the state is facing a financial crunch appears to be a political move. The claim to provide fresh food from the cooking stations spread across the city turns out to be a farce. It is high time that the government reviews its strategy and go back to using mobile food vans, which will make it easier to reach out to people rather than the existing kiosks, which are hardly visible and not attracting crowds.Mahesh Saini, manager of the outlet at Ambekar Bhavan in Transport Nagar, said on an average only 30 people come to the outlet daily. “Around 15 people come for lunch and 20 for dinner. It’s a bit far away from the crowd and so the response is low,” said Saini. A similar scenario was seen at the outlet near Tila No. 5 at Jawahar Nagar slum area. About 500 metres from Ambedkar Bhavan, it’s extension counter is being constructed under Transport Nagar flyover. Reason: Nearby bus stop where labourers from the city outskirts gather. The JMC expects it will attract people. Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater Commissioner, Dinesh Yadav said, “Since the footfall is low in the outlets, we have decided to open three extension counters – Pratap Nagar, Murlipura and India Gate, Sanganer. Similarly, in Heritage, counters will open at three places. We hope that if the counters are taken near the main road, sale will increase.” The outlets in SMS Hospital and JK Lone Hospital are getting good footfall since the facilities are frequented by a lot of people. “Patients and their family members come in good numbers. For lunch, our footfall is good but during dinner time, three vans arrive at the gates of SMS Hospital where free food is being served by social workers,” said Sandeep, manager of the outlet at SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extension-outlets-of-indira-rasoi-to-attract-crowds/articleshow/78596463.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Meerut||Contractor’s henchmen thrash JE after he finds discrepancy in road construction work||Bijnor: A road contractor and his henchmen thrashed a district panchayat department’s junior engineer (JE) after he asked them to stop the road work as he had found some “discrepancy”.The incident took place at Khetapur village under the Nehtaur police station limits in Bijnor. According to the JE, Naveen Kumar, “A road is being constructed in the village. I had gone there to inspect the construction work when I found that substandard material was being used in the road work. I asked the labourers to stop the work. Meanwhile, the contractor and his henchmen rushed to the scene and misbehaved with me. Some of them even hurled abuses and attacked me. I have filed a complaint against them.”Nehtaur station house officer, Satya Prakash said, “Police have registered a case against all the accused under relevant sections of the IPC. We have initiated a probe."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/contractors-henchmen-thrash-je-after-he-finds-discrepancy-in-road-construction-work/articleshow/78595220.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 11, 2020||Meerut||Retired irrigation dept staff shot deadas son weds girl from another caste||Meerut: A 65-year-old former irrigation department employee was shot dead by four persons supposedly because his son had married a woman from another caste. The incident occurred in Khurja town of Bulandshahr, late on Friday. The deceased suffered three bullet wounds.According to his wife, the assailants not only killed him, but also threw him into the bushes near the house. Police sources said that deceased Netrpal Singh's son, Nitin, a bank employee, had married a woman outside his caste. And the latter's family was not happy with the development.Police have filed an FIR against four, including the woman's father and brother. Notably, the victim's family had apprised the chowki in-charge of a possible attack on the family, but he took the warning lightly. The SSP has suspended chowki in-charge and a constable.Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said, "The couple - in their mid-20s - are educated and chose to get married. The newly wedded bride had come to Netrapal's house only three days ago. The woman's father had also conveyed to Nitin's family that there was no ill will. But, on Friday evening, the woman's family killed him. Four persons have been named and efforts are on to arrest them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/retired-irrigation-dept-staff-shot-deadas-son-weds-girl-from-another-caste/articleshow/78595233.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Troops of Territorial Army celebrate 72nd Raising Day||Pune: The Territorial Army (TA) battalions of the Southern Command of the Indian Army marked their 72nd Raising Day on Friday. The Southern Command has 13 TA battalions based in different locations, including Pune and Kolhapur. Two ecological TA units focus on afforestation in the arid region of Marathwada in Maharashtra, and Rajasthan deserts along the Indira Gandhi canal.Lieutenant General CP Mohanty, Southern Army Commander, extended his wishes to all serving officers and personnel of the TA. “Command zone, extending from Kerala to Gujarat and Andaman, consists of thirteen Infantry TA battalions, that have their permanent locations in Kannur, Coimbatore, Belgaum, Kolhapur and Pune, among others. They not only provide rear area security, but also assist in flood relief and aid the civil authorities in times of crisis. This is despite the bulk of the unit being deployed in Jammu and Kashmir and Northeastern region for security,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/troops-of-territorial-army-celebrate-72nd-raising-day/articleshow/78596461.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Cops film taxi touts at Kolkata airport to stop fleecing of passengers||Kolkata: Police have resorted to videographing taxi touts at the Kolkata airport in an attempt to stop the racketeers from fleecing passengers. TOI had on October 2 reported how taxi touts had returned to airport, now that there’s a rush of passengers ahead of the festive season. Now that train operations are yet to normalize, many first-time flyers are using the airways to commute; they are not quite aware of the availability of transport—pre-paid taxis, app cabs and buses—from the airport. The touts have mostly been targeting them, waylaying them at the exit doors and offering them taxi rides at double-triple the normal rates. But with registered complaints being few and far between, cops have been finding it hard to produce evidence in court, as a result of which, the touts have been let off scot-free. So now, police have decided to film the unscrupulous operators. Cops claimed the initiative would serve three purposes: gather first-hand evidence of touts in action admissible in court; act as a deterrent to scare them away and boost confidence among passengers. Airport officials lauded the effort but said caution should be maintained so that no photograph of vital installations be taken and the cops should ensure that that images should never be made public. TOI was at the airport on Friday when officers of the Airport traffic guard, armed with a digital camcorder, started recording touts as they approached passengers coming out of the airport and the result was instantaneous: the operators disappeared from the terminal within minutes. Police pointed out that they had tried a variety of ways—increasing police presence to raising the number of pre-paid taxi kiosks and even booking touts for extortion—but so far had been able to do little to prevent them from fleecing passengers at the airport. In the past, cops said, they had arrested a number of touts but they were let off in want of evidence as neither passengers nor airport authorities turned up in court to identify them. TOI had reported on February 19 this year how a Barrackpore court had permitted a police plea for test identification parade of a group of touts at a Dum Dum jail but airport officials missed three dates and the touts were finally released on bail. “We have started to videograph the illegal car operators now. Under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, if digital evidence is provided following the set procedures, it is admissible by the court of law and doesn’t require any corroborative evidence,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner (traffic) of Bidhannagar City Police. He added the footage would be stored in their database for a significant period of time to ensure it was available for production any time cops needed to bolster their cases. “Apart from serving as evidence, seeing men in uniform videograph them from a close distance will act as a deterrent for touts and is bound to make passengers more confident. It will prevent them from falling prey to the miscreants,” Sarkar said. “This is a novel initiative and if it works out, cops should continue. Touts have been one of the most plaguing problems at this airport. But as I reached Kolkata on Thursday, none bothered me,” said Jayanta Goswami, a frequent flyer between Kolkata and Guwahati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-film-taxi-touts-at-airport-to-stop-fleecing-of-passengers/articleshow/78596481.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Mental health helpline launched in Madurai||MADURAI: A mental health helpline to deal with the increasing distress among people in and around Madurai district was launched jointly by MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation and HCL Foundation with the support of Madurai Corporation on Saturday. Minister for revenue and disaster management R B Udayakumar inaugurated the ‘Speak 2 Us’ helpline (93754 93754), a first of its kind initiative for southern districts in the presence of Madurai district collector T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan. Addressing corporation school teachers and students, Udayakumar said that people are not giving importance to mental health as much as the physical health. When mental health is not at its best, one cannot concentrate on constructive work. Everyone has their own problems and problems are everywhere. One cannot escape from it hence it is better to deal with it, he said. “People should make use of the helpline when they feel distressed. Suicidal tendency comes when the mind is at a weak point. A brief talk to someone can bring about change in the mindset. The helpline number will be very useful,” he said. Madurai Corporation commissioner said that HCL has been providing various support to schools run by the civic body. Happy schooling, a mental well-being program organized by MS Chellamuthu Trust and HCL foundation has made a remarkable difference among students. Robotic labs are functioning at five schools supported by the HCL foundation. He said that it would be implemented in 10 more schools with the support of the foundation. Madurai district collector T G Vinay said that people should enjoy and appreciate every moment in life to keep away from getting stressed out. “When one becomes distressed, one should open it up to release the pent up emotions. Institutional support to ‘Speak 2 Us’ will help in addressing the emotional issues faced by people,” he said. As many as 40 trained counsellors have posted to attend calls. In the beginning, counsellors will be available between 9 am and 6 pm. The timing will be extended further and made available round-the-clock, authorities said. Founder of MS Chellamuthu Trust Dr C Ramasubramanian, associate vice-president and centre head of HCL technologies, director of Speak Nandini Murali, chief educational office R Swaminathan and corporation educational officer P Vijaya were present. Director of CSR arm of HCL foundation Nidhi Pundhir joined the function through video conferencing from Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mental-health-helpline-launched-in-madurai/articleshow/78597790.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Task force moves to reduce reliance on rapid antigen kits in Pune||PUNE: Pune district authorities, in a change in testing strategy, will now focus more on using RT-PCR devices instead of relying heavily on rapid antigen kits. The task force on Covid mitigation has asked the administration to increase the testing device ratio to 70:30 — 70% carried out through RT-PCR devices. These devices have been more accurate than the antigen test kits, which have reported high false negative rates. A negative test result via antigen kits also have to be reconfirmed with an RT-PCR test. Subhash Salunke, the technical advisor to the state on Covid control and containment, said there is a need to change testing strategy. “The ratio of testing should focus more on RT-PCR tests because of the devices’ good test specificity and sensitivity. In fact, we will encourage people who are in high-risk groups and heavily affected regions to opt for RT-PCR tests,” Salunke said. The Centre, during a recent Covid-19 review meeting, had asked the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Delhi to ramp up RT-PCR testing, which is also the gold-standard test for SARS-CoV-2 as per the Indian Council of Medical Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-moves-to-reduce-reliance-on-rapid-antigen-kits/articleshow/78596460.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Books help patients cope with fear||Mysuru: In sub-divisional Government Hospital in Sagar taluk, besides medicines, the hospital staff also provide Covid patients with books — spiritual, fiction, non-fiction, biographies and current affairs — to help them overcome fear, stigma and other psychological challenges. Sagar Hospital is not alone. McGann District Hospital in Shivamogga too have launched a similar initiative on an experimental basis. Covid patients are being welcomed with books at these hospitals. The library at Sagar Hospital was started on September 29 by the hospital staff, while the one at McGann Hospital opened on Friday. These hospitals have over 500 books available exclusively for Covid-19 patients. Similarly, in Covid Care Center, Mandakalli in Mysuru, the patients take participate in several indoor games including, skipping, rings, carroms and badminton. Libraries at the Covid wards of these hospitals is the brainchild of Nanjunda Swamy MS, an x-ray technician at the Sagar Hospital. Swamy, who is also the district unit president of Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Department Employees Association in Shivamogga said Covid-19 patients stay alone at the hospital ward as their relatives and friends are not allowed. “In such a situation, it is the duty of all to infuse confidence among them. Many of them look depressed. So, I proposed this idea of setting up a library in the Covid ward. Sagar MLA Hartalu Halappa donated 100 books for this library. Now with the help of donors, associations and book publishers, we have over 500 books in the library. Hospital civil surgeon Dr Prakash Bhonsle, taluk health officer Dr KS Mohan, assistant commissioner Dr Nagaraj, doctors and paramedical staff at the hospital encouraged the initiative. Now the same experiment is being carried out at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. McGann Hospital library has over 500 books. “We are planning to increase it to 2,000 books soon,” he said. Rajesh Suragihalli, Shivamogga district health officer said the books are helping the patients fight loneliness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/books-help-patients-cope-with-fear/articleshow/78595876.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 11, 2020||Vadodara||OSD: Vadodara successfully overcomes first wave of Covid||VADODARA: Vadodara, this week, successfully overcame its first wave of Covid-19 pandemic that had started spreading in April, revealed Dr Vinod Rao, officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in Vadodara on Saturday. “We were expecting peaking to start from June. All our containment and surveillance efforts helped in delaying it by two months. It started in the end of August and receded in the beginning of October,” Rao said, adding that unlike many other major cities of the country, Vadodara managed to have gradual and staggered peaking. Rao said that the days of highest hospitalization in Vadodara was between September 15 and September 20 with around 3,300 patients across all government and private hospitals together. The highest occupancy of ventilators of around 360 ventilators was also in the same period. The occupancy in all government and private hospitals currently stands at around 2,250 beds and 250 ventilators. “This include all the patients from rural talukas of Vadodara and patients from other districts. We expect it to reduce further for two weeks and then stabilize,” he said. The overall occupancy rate in all hospitals stood at 37% on Saturday evening. He appealed citizens to take proper precautions during the festive season otherwise Vadodara would witness a second wave in November-December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/osd-vadodara-successfully-overcomes-first-wave-of-covid/articleshow/78596195.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Worried over rise in burglary cases, Kondhwa housing societies step up security measures||PUNE: Worried over the surge in thefts and burglaries, committees of housing societies in Kondhwa — including Salunke Vihar Road and NIBM Road — are alerting residents via group messages and proposing formation of groups to help the security guards when required. A housing society on the Salunke Vihar Road had recently sent out a group message to its residents about the thefts and requested volunteers to come forward for the safety of the society. Times ViewThe initiative of some housing societies in Kondhwa to form groups to help the security guards reflects residents’ fear and lack of confidence in the law enforcers. The police should immediately initiate some confidence-building measures in the area. They should step up patrolling and increase their visibility on roads. Also, the police should hold parleys with select office-bearers of the societies to boost the morale of people.“Thefts are occurring and we must organize ourselves. While the housing society is closely guarded, we have the option of keeping residents from both buildings on alert to nab thieves. Guards can be of help only to an extent. I request volunteers from both buildings,” the message read. A resident of the same society told TOI that the message and theft cases were worrying. “Even though we live within the walls of a housing society, this is worrying. We hope that the police are taking care of the problem,” he said. Residents of another housing society, in the NIBM Road area, held a meeting earlier this week and instructed guards about night patrolling. “We are closing our gate an hour early, at 9pm. The guards have been told to move around the society at regular intervals,” one resident said. Another society, which has three buildings, has randomized the location of its guards. “They have been strategically placed and communicate by blowing whistles. We plan to further improve lighting in the society and also checked if all CCTV cameras are working,” an office-bearer of the society said. Police, however, have claimed instances of theft have reduced this year, with an increase in patrols and police visibility. on the roads “All property crimes in Kondhwa and jurisdictions of five other police stations have reduced this year compared to 2019, mostly because of the pandemic,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache said. Bawache said they were monitoring known criminals. “We have increased patrolling, police presence on roads and stationed our vehicles at fixed points. We are constantly communicating with housing societies to enhance their security,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worried-over-rise-in-burglary-cases-kondhwa-housing-societies-step-up-security-measures/articleshow/78596501.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctors condemn hate posts by ‘artists’||Ahmedabad: The members of Gujarat chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) have written to Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani condemning social media posts against medical fraternity and requesting the government to ‘stop the activities.’ ‘The state and local branches of IMA have been campaigning against political, religious, social or any other congregation/ gathering to prevent spread of Covid-19. Our motive is not to protest against any specific group. But even then, if this section is affected, we request the government to announce a package for them,’ stated a letter signed by Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of IMA Gujarat. The letter mentioned that some persons ‘for their own benefit’ are spreading misinformation about doctors. ‘They are threatening to hold plays outside their homes or clinics. We strictly condemn such activities,’ reads the letter. Dr Kirit Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), also wrote a mail to the CM, pointing out abusive posts against Dr Mona Desai, past president of AMA; Dr M M Prabhakar, OSD at Medicity; Dr Mukesh Maheshwari, pathologist; Dr Vasant Patel and Dr Mitali on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctors-condemn-hate-posts-by-artists/articleshow/78596464.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt hosp inflates bill, reduces after netas step in||Nagpur: Despite home minister Anil Deshmukh warning private hospitals of strict action for overcharging patients, people continued to be fleeced by them. In yet another case in the city, the family of a Covid-19 patient went through extreme hardship due to a hefty bill that they were asked to pay at the time of discharge. On October 4, the 57-year-old mother of Kapil Jumade was hospitalized at a private hospital and research centre in Dhantoli. After being admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for two days, the patient was shifted to general ward where she was kept for four days. When she was discharged, Jumade was shocked to find that the bill was Rs1.8 lakh. He had already deposited Rs60,000 in advance. “This amount did not even include medicine and pathology charges,” he said. When Jumade saw the bill, he realized that they had been charged for ICU services for six days, whereas her mother was in ICU for only two days. Apart from this, the hospital had also charged them for various other services like pulse oxymeter, PPE kit, high flow oxygen, food charges and consultation visits. When he raised objections with the hospital staff, they agreed to offer some discount but Jumade was still not satisfied. He then sought help from top political leaders of the city. According to senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari who intervened in the matter, the hospital was not following the prescribed government rates. “The family demanded to get the bill cross checked from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s auditing team but the hospital did not provide them their contact. After our intervention, the bill was reduced to Rs40,000 from Rs1.8 lakh. The hospital staff even returned Rs20,000 from the deposited advance amount,” said Tiwari. Objecting against the rising cases of discrepancies in bills of private hospitals, general secretary of state Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha Shivani Dani said, “How will family members connect with the audit team when hospitals do not provide their contact details and the teams are not always present in the hospital. NMC should display their names and contact details at all hospitals. If needed, the number of auditors should also be increased.” Stating that NMC’s effort of setting-up auditing teams at hospitals is helping out many families, additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said, “Pre-audit teams are available at all hospitals. In case they are not for some reason, hospitals have to mandatorily provide their contact numbers. If they fail to do so, people can immediately contact the team at nearest Covid hospital. Or they can directly approach my office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hosp-inflates-bill-reduces-after-netas-step-in/articleshow/78596472.cms||Manka Behl
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Collector permits traders to keep shops open till 9pm||Kolhapur: To avoid rush of customers during closing hours of shops, Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai has permitted the traders to keep their outlets open till 9 pm. An order to this effect was issued on late Friday night. Traders in the city said that allowing shops to remain open beyond 7pm will help them recover the business lost during the last few months owing to the peak of Covid-19 pandemic. They also said that customers, especially office-goers, find it difficult to make purchases if the shops close early. Office-goers usually return from work in the evening and approach shops for making purchases. If the shops stay open beyond 7pm, such people are able to buy essentials they need without worrying about the outlets being shut. “The decision has been taken considering the upcoming festival period. Shop owners have to ensure all standard operating procedure are followed at their respective shops. We, too, will ensure that rush is avoided at shopping centres or market places and see to it that all precautions are taken to ensure there is no further spread of Covid-19.” Meanwhile, Desai has also allowed restaurants and permit bars to operate till 10pm. The owners of bars and restaurants had claimed that they could not pack up by earlier deadline of 9pm due to the increase in customer footfall. The order, however, states that bars and restaurants should not allow more than 50% of the occupancy capacity. “Local vigilance teams will be set up to monitor restaurants and bars. These teams will have at least one representative of the association. The team will be authorised to take strict action if the establishment is found violating rules,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/collector-permits-traders-to-keep-shops-open-till-9pm/articleshow/78595889.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hubballi||Shettar, Bommai have lost grip on administration: Horatti||Hubballi: Senior JD(S) member and MLC Basavaraj Horatti on Saturday came down heavily on the state government, particularly home minister Basavaraj Bommai and Dharwad district in-charge minister Jagadish Shettar, for failing to resolve the dispute between the Hubballi-Dharwad police commissioner and the deputy commissioner of police. DCP (law and order) P Krishnakant’s letter containing allegations of prevalent corruption in the ranks ruffled quite a few feathers in the twin cities’ police top brass and the tiff with Hubballi-Dharwad commissioner R Dileep soon spilled out into the public domain. Taking exception with the rift playing out in the public, Horatti said, “In four decades of my political career, I have never seen a commissioner and DCP fighting in this manner. I do not know if the reason is money or something else. Although I have heard about constables having conflicts with head constables, this is the first I am hearing of IPS officers fighting amongst themselves. Such incidents are very embarrassing.” He added, “The home minister is from Hubballi, and the district in-charge minister is Shettar, a very senior politician and former chief minister. But they have lost their grip on the administration but for which such tiffs between two senior cops cannot have occurred. Either the twin cities’ top cop or both the commissioner and DCP must have been transferred but this dd not happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shettar-bommai-have-lost-grip-on-administration-horatti/articleshow/78596361.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nashik||‘Follow safety norms during Navaratra’||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation has urged city residents to adhere to the safety protocols during the festival period to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Authorities said that much like the period after Ganapati festival, when a spike in Covid-19 cases was reported, cases are likely to rise after Navaratra too. “Our apprehension is that after Navaratra festival per day cases could spike to about 800-900 a day as against 500-600 cases daily at present. We had witnessed a similar trend soon after the 10-day long Ganapati festival,” sources in the administration said. According to the sources, despite repeated appeals, a section of people did not follow safety protocols such as wearing masks, avoiding overcrowding, maintaining physical distancing etc during the Ganapati festival.“This has repercussions. More residents were infected as compared to the prevailing trend. We have managed to bring things under control. But if people do not act responsibly, we will again see a spike of cases after Navaratra,” added officials. NMC has already come out with an SOP for the mandals of the city celebrating the festival. The civic body has put restrictions about size of pandals and height of idols. The civic body will not allow any kind of cultural events, including garba dance, as it would lead to large gathering .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/follow-safety-norms-during-navaratra/articleshow/78595237.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Low voter turnout can go against BJP in civic polls||JAIPUR: Political preparations for the municipal elections are gradually picking up steam in the six prominent municipal corporations after the Supreme Court directed the election commission (EC) to notify the programme. While many aspirants have started queuing up at the doors of their respective constituency MLAs, senior party leaders have started devising poll policies. As coronavirus cases continue to climb, senior leaders of both the parties are worried that many infection-wary voters may not turn up on the polling day and this will make the contests unpredictable. However, tension seems to be more in the BJP camp as these wards were once impregnable BJP citadels. A senior BJP office-bearer said, “Voting in minority-dominated and slum areas will not require much effort, but it will be a tough task to persuade middle income groups and people living in the posh areas. Congress can benefit in such circumstances,” The elections to the six municipal corporations of Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota are crucial for both BJP and Congress as it could change the sentiment and landscape in the next assembly elections. While Jodhpur is the home district of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, Kota is the home turf of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal. In such a situation, credibility of these two leaders will be at stake in these elections. Jaipur being state capital will draw every spectator’s attention. After the two municipal corporations in Jaipur — Heritage and Greater — were formed, Congress is riding high on a hope to form a board in Heritage this time. A former office-bearer in the Congress party said, “In Jaipur Heritage, all assembly seats were won by Congress MLAs. Moreover, there are a large number of minority voters in Hawa Mahal, Kishanpol and Adarsh Nagar, which is the traditional vote bank of the Congress. In such a situation, if the minority voting is good then there is possibility of Congress forming the board.” Strategists in BJP are focusing more on Greater Jaipur as its sitting MLAs have a stronghold in Malaviya Nagar and Sanganer constituencies. Moreover, there are less minority votes and slums in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/low-voter-turnout-can-go-against-bjp-in-civic-polls/articleshow/78596486.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man murders father for money from property sale||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old man, a resident of Ambli Road, bludgeoned his father to death with a stick on Friday afternoon following a dispute over the sale of a piece of land in their ancestral village, Chanasma in Patan district, and his mother’s jewellery. The accused, Suresh Rabari, then fled his home as neighbours gathered there but Sarkhej police nabbed him within hours of the incident from Ambli railway station. Sarkhej police inspector B B Goyal said that the accused was sent for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test. Acccording to the FIR lodged by the deceased’s 21-year-old daughter, Surekha, her father Magan Rabari, 65, worked as a security guard and she is a helper at a school in Thaltej. She stated that two days ago, her brother Suresh had a quarrel with his father about the sale of a piece of land in their village and the jewellery of her mother, who had died. She said Suresh wanted all of the proceeds of the sale. “She intervened and defused the situation. On Friday, her father returned home in the morning after doing his night shift. He had his food at about 12.30pm and then both the complainant and deceased went to sleep,” said Goyal. The FIR says that at about 1.30pm, Surekha got up to drink water and she saw Suresh hit her sleeping father on his head with a stick and started screaming for help. “On hearing her cries their neighbours rushed in and snatched the stick from Suresh. While they were taking Magan to Sola Civil Hospital, Suresh escaped. Magan was later moved to Asarwa Civil Hospital where he died,” said Goyal. Goyal said they rushed to the spot immediately and dispatched a team to catch the accused. “We found him at Ambli Station and nabbed him,” added Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-murders-father-for-money-from-property-sale/articleshow/78595880.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Politics over Indira Rasoi continues||JAIPUR: The Congress government, which discontinued former BJP government’s popular meal scheme ‘Annapurna Rasoi’ and relaunched it as Indira Rasoi, seems to be caught on the wrong foot. The scheme was launched at a time when the government was facing a major financial crisis and it has failed to become as popular as the government would have wanted it to be. Annapurna Rasoi was introduced by former CM Vasundhara Raje on December 15, 2016. It was launched amid fanfare and was touted as a flagship scheme of the Raje government. The budgetary allocation of the scheme was kept at Rs 245 crore per year. It hit a dead end with the formation of new government in December 2018. It was relaunched on August 20 to mark the birth anniversary of former PM Rajiv Gandhi. It was renamed as Indira Rasoi or Indira Kitchen after former PM Indira Gandhi and the rules were rehashed to project it as free from corruption. Raje expressed her anger over the move and called it an act of ‘vengeance.’ News reports claiming that rasoi vans were not seen at designated places and questionable food quality has given the opposition a fresh ammunition to attack the government. “We understand that the name of the scheme was changed by CM Ashok Gehlot to please the Congress family. But the problem is that they have failed to serve the purpose of delivering the food on time and at the right place. Soon after relaunch, the scheme ran into trouble as several mobile vans stopped delivering food. The menu has been slashed and due to poor quality of food it is not finding takers,” said BJP state president Satish Poonia. He challenged the state claim of providing meals to 1.50 lakh persons every day. Justifying the renaming of Annapurna Rasoi to Indira Rasoi, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas told TOI that his party had brought fundamental changes in the scheme to provide relief to over 4.5 crore people per year. “Unlike the BJP which had a centralised food preparation system, the food is being prepared at several places in order to provide fresh and hot meals. Every day, the food passes through rigorous quality checks. I invite BJP leaders to eat food from any place before they question its quality,” said Khachariyawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/politics-over-indira-rasoi-continues/articleshow/78596467.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra generates most Covid waste, Pune & Mumbai ‘problem spots’||PUNE: Maharashtra has been generating the highest volume of Covid-linked biomedical waste in the country from June this year, data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has shown. A staggering 1,359 tonnes of pandemic discard was generated in August in Maharashtra — also the only state on the list of affected regions where the tonnage has risen to four-digit levels. Officials attributed the increase to two key reasons: the number of Covid cases in the state (well over 14 lakh, which is India’s highest) and flawed disposal practices by hospitals treating the infection. “Hospitals may be considering some volume of trash that is not biomedical waste as Covid waste,” a senior CPCB official said. “It’s necessary to have proper segregation at the hospital-level itself. This data is indicative of what has been happening across the country during Covid-19,” the official added. A high-level CPCB task force, which has been reviewing Covid waste volumes in Maharashtra, has now asked the state’s pollution control board (MPCB) to engage its hazardous waste processing unit in Taloja to treat Covid-linked biomedical waste. “There are two problem spots in Maharashtra, from where the maximum waste is being generated: Pune and Mumbai. So the trend does not encompass the entire state. Pune has just one biomedical waste incinerator, which cannot treat all the incinerable biomedical waste being generated in the city,” the CPCB official said. Areas within Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits generate nearly five tonnes of Covid-linked biomedical waste daily. This trash, which includes PPEs, gloves and other items, is sent to Taloja (Raigad district) because the incinerator in Pune is being mostly used to incinerate non-Covid medical waste. Subhash Salunke, an advisor to the state on Covid-19, said, “Compared to other states, Maharashtra has a high number of Covid patients and hospitals. But the use of medical material, including items such as PPE kits, has also been higher in the state. It is basically the overuse of such items during patient care that makes us a huge Covid-19 biomedical waste producer.” Salunke said the healthcare sector has to pay more attention on Covid waste disposal. “State authorities should focus on increasing the number of facilities that can process this biomedical waste. Also, hospital administrators should ensure judicious use of medical material that can end up as biomedical waste,” he added. The CPCB data showed that Karnataka and Kerala generated the second highest volumes of Covid-linked biomedical waste in August — at 588 tonnes each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-generates-most-covid-waste-pune-mumbai-problem-spots/articleshow/78596509.cms||Neha Madaan
October 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No bidders for temporary toll plaza at Thiruvallam||Thiruvananthapuram: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has received zero response to a tender floated to operate a temporary toll plaza that will come up at Thiruvallam on Kazhakkoottam–Karode national highway-66 in the city. It is assumed that the presence of byroads near the proposed toll plaza, which may lead to ‘leakage’ of revenue, is what discourages bidders. NHAI is constructing a permanent toll plaza at Thiruvallam. They are also setting up a temporary toll plaza nearby to collect toll till the permanent toll plaza becomes operational. The NHAI had floated tenders inviting bidders twice for the temporary plaza. But in both occasions, the response was the same. Speaking to TOI, a senior official of NHAI said though bidders did not respond officially, some of them contacted them informally and raised their concerns. “They fear that local motorists can avoid the toll plaza by taking the byroads nearby, which may lead to huge monetary loss,’’ the official said, adding that the bidders are expecting only inter-state heavy vehicles to pay toll. Though the NHAI has not been able to offer a solution to their concerns, they are planning to invite tenders again hoping that someone would respond, the official said. The toll plaza coming up at Thiruvallom is the only one along the Kazhakkoottam–Mukkola NH 66 stretch. The first phase of the stretch from Kazhakkoottam to Mukkola will be officially inaugurated and commissioned to the state jointly by minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday. Once completed, the 33.3km-long stretch will provide easy connectivity to vehicles travelling from northern parts of the capital district to Tamil Nadu bypassing the city and Karamana–Kaliyikkavila old highway stretch. The NHAI had initially planning to set up toll plaza at Aakkulam. But, this was shifted to Thiruvallom at the request of state government. The reason cited by the state government was that since it is located in the cyber corridor of the city, techies and daily commuters will be affected. Following this, the new ideal spot was located between Thiruvallom and Vellar. However, in a feasibility study report submitted in 2016, National Transport and Research Centre (NATPAC) had pointed out the possibility of people using the road via Thiruvallom, Pachalloor and Vazhamuttom to skip the toll payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-bidders-for-temporary-toll-plaza-at-thiruvallam/articleshow/78595903.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nashik||Hosp to be converted into DCHC||Nashik: The district officials are converting the 100-bed sub-district hospital in Manmad into a 100-bed dedicated covid health centre (DCHC) as the Covid-19 patients in Manmad city and its surrounding areas have to rush to Nashik city for oxygen or ventilator support when needed The DCHC will be converted in a week, said senior officials of the Nashik Zilla Parishad. Officials said Manmad city is among the crowded cities in the rural district, which has quite a few oil companies and other industries. Pregnant women can deliver babies in the primary health centres and other non-covid patients can go to Manmad municipality hospital and the railway hospital, said the officials. The Manmad DCHC will have beds with oxygen and ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hosp-to-be-converted-into-dchc/articleshow/78595248.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: DPS East ordered to close from next year, fined Rs 50 lakh||AHMEDABAD: The directorate of primary education, Gujarat government, has slapped a fine of Rs 50 lakh on the Delhi Public School (DPS) East and ordered to shut down the controversy-ridden school after the end of current academic year. The school was functioning irregularly, without proper no-objection certificate permission from the state government between the year 2008 to 2011, according to an order issued by DPE on October 9. The school run by Manjula Pooja Shroff, one of the trustees, had in 2011 submitted a proposal for opening a new school at the same location, according to the order. “A fine of Rs 50 lakh has been slapped on the school and a decision has been given to shut down the school in 2021 after the end of ongoing academic year,” stated to M N Patel, district primary education officer, Ahmedabad. The school was functioning illegally between 2008 and 2011, so to ensure that the career of students who have studied and passed out in this period is not ruined, the decision of imposing a fine has been taken, said an official in the state education department. DPS East has from 2008 to 2011 collected fees to the tune of Rs 2 crore from the parents of students of which 75% of the amount has been spent. The balance of Rs 50 lakh has been fined and has to be paid by the school in two months, the order stated. The school had illegally raised caution money from the students of which Rs 38 lakh is still to be returned back to them. The order states that as many as five students studying at DPS were from overseas and no due process was followed for their admission. No details about their local guardian was given either, it states. The students from Class 1 to Class 8 and currently studying at DPS East are affiliated with Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board and hence the district education minister has to ensure that they are smoothly transferred to other schools. In all, there are about 450 students in the primary and secondary section at DPS East. The operations of the DPS East, situated at Hirapur, were taken over by Gujarat state government last December after the school landed in a controversy in connection to an ashram run by self-styled godman Nithyananda, located on the school premises. The school authorities have in the past claimed they did not have any connection with the ashram authorities. “If that was the case, how come 24 students from the ashram were given admission without any consent letter from the parents?” the order reads. The school has grossly violated the norms for running an academic institution as well as breached the trust of the government and parents. “The manner in which many students were given admission raises a question mark on the security and well-being of these young children,” the order read. The school was facing closure after it was found that the management did not have necessary no-objection certification (NoC) from the state government. The school authorities had allegedly forged NoC documents of the state government to get affiliation from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The Central Board had last year decided to cancel its affiliation with the school, however the government intervened and decided to take over the operations of the school till March 31 so students did not have to suffer in the middle of their academic year. But due to Covid-19 situation, the government decided to run it for another year, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dps-east-ordered-to-close-from-next-year-fined-rs-50-lakh/articleshow/78595894.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Recoveries top new Covid cases yet again, toll drops to 40||PUNE: Covid-19 recoveries exceeded new cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) for the tenth consecutive day on Saturday, taking its cured count and tally to 2.65 lakh and 3.05 lakh, respectively. As many as 2,084 patients were discharged in the PMR on Saturday as against the addition of 1,795 new cases. Among teh day’s recoveries, as many as 1,117 were recorded in the PMC limits, followed by 529 in the PCMC areas and 438 from the rural parts. The region recorded 40 more deaths due to the infection, including 22 from the PMC limits, 13 from the rural as well as Cantonment areas and five from the PCMC areas. The daily positive count in PMR continued to stay below 2,000 for the second consecutive day on Saturday. The PMC limits reported 703 new cases on Saturday, while the PCMC limits added 440 new patients. The rural and Cantonment areas together reported 652 new cases in the last 24 hours. The civic authorities said though daily count had recorded a drop in last few days, the administration was prepared with the plan to tackle the situation if cases go up again. “Next couple of weeks are crucial because of the festive season. Citizens need to take all necessary precautions to avoid unnecessary gatherings to prevent spread of virus,” civic officials said. As per the report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, a total of 9,425 sample were tested on Saturday, including 4,231 from the PMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-top-new-cases-yet-again-toll-drops-to-40/articleshow/78596525.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Son of sarpanch candidate attacked||Jaipur: Two unidentified accused allegedly threw acid on the son of a sarpanch candidate in Shivdaspura police station area late on Friday night. The victim was taken to a hospital and is in stable condition, though cops are yet to arrest the accused. The victim, 22-year-old Mukesh Kumar, is the son of the candidate contesting the sarpanch election from Chaksu. The incident is of Titariya village. SHO Indraj Marodiya said, "The incident happened around 12.30am when Mukesh was walking near the village. Two accused on a bike stopped and threw acid on him." According to officials, Mukesh suffered 15% burns and was taken to a hospital where he is undergoing treatment and is said to be stable. The victim did not recognise the accused due to darkness and cops are questioning other villagers to find possible clues in the case. "Since it was a village area, there are no CCTV cameras through which we could find leads. We will question the victim’s family as well to get more details into the matter. At this point, we do not know the identity of the accused," added the SHO. Cops are also looking at it from a political enmity angle. "As the election was on Saturday and the attack happened just the night prior, the possibility of it being politically motivated cannot be ruled out. We will look into the role of the other candidates as well to see if any one of them had a hand in this. However, at this point, we will look into the aspect that it was due to some personal reason which was only related to Mukesh. Once he is better, we will question him again to find the suspects in the case to further the investigation," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/son-of-sarpanch-candidate-attacked/articleshow/78596517.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Want to be a Daan Veer and spread cheer?||Khushroo Poacha calls himself a serial soulpreneur (a compassionate entrepreneur who touches the hearts of distressed people). “What do I do? I see people suffering, who somehow connect with me and there is an innate urge that drives me to alleviate their pain in whatever possible measure,” he says. The Covid pandemic introduced Khushroo, a railway employee, to many such despairing souls needing immediate help. Known for his transparent approach (as evident in his previous initiatives indianblooddonors.com, Neki Ka Pitara, Seva Kictchen etc), he has built a network of those ready to extend a helping hand. His latest endeavour is ‘Daan Veer’ (a person who is liberal in generosity). Khushroo explains: “I started with distributing masks and sanitizers when the pandemic broke out in March. This was followed by distributing food kits in Nagpur, Pandharkawda (Yavatmal) and Melghat (Amravati). In April, I received a phone call from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray acknowledging my efforts to reach out to those left helpless due to lockdown. That phone call saw my mobile number getting circulated in other states as well. The Chhattisgarh government officials started sharing my number with the migrants stuck in Maharashtra. I started helping them to connect with people or NGOs in their vicinity with food, transportation etc. “Once the migrants’ issue eased, I started receiving requests from all over the country for small financial help for meeting diverse needs like buying medicines, grocery, milk for children, smartphones for e-school, paying electricity bills, conducting funerals and so on. Initially, I declined many requests as they seemed beyond my reach,” he said. For someone who doesn’t rest until a solution is in sight to alleviate the sufferings of people seeking his help, Khushroo was disappointed. “After many sleepless nights, the thought of letting needy people whom God had connected with me to fend for themselves haunted me. I realized I cannot alone make a difference,” he says. So, Khushroo tapped his social media network. “About 15 days ago, an idea to share such requests on Facebook struck me. I started sharing stories of the needy and asked my friends to remit small amounts like Rs10/50/100 or as per their wish to these people directly. This clicked and suddenly I found out that these requests were addressed within a day and that’s how the ‘Daan Veer’ initiative was born. For example, a man called up from Thane saying that he and his wife had not eaten for two days and his daughter was being fed rice water. I shared his request on Facebook and within 24 hours he received Rs15,000,” says Khushroo. An asthmatic woman from Delhi, whose husband was left jobless due to lockdown, wanted Rs2,600 for her daughter’s college fees and for her medicines. She received Rs18,000 in 24 hours. Similarly a girl from Nagpur wanted a sewing machine as her mentally ill father had left the house and mother was bedridden. Her request was taken care of within five minutes. A Jalna boy needed money for his mother’s treatment for kidney ailment. Within 24 hours of posting his request, he received Rs16,000. Khushroo, who even got a call from Chennai, has many such stories to narrate. About a week ago, he formed a dedicated WhatsApp group and the members do their bit by contributing directly to the recipient’s account whenever a request comes in. The group has 60 members. The latest request came from one Ravina Pappu Jadhav, 25, a farm widow from Pandharkawda, on Thursday. Her husband committed suicide due to crop failure and heavy debts. The land and house is mortgaged and she was on the brink of starvation. Their house collapsed due to heavy rain and she needed urgent help for healthcare of elderly mother-in-law and education of her 8-year-old daughter. Khushroo posted the request on the WhatsApp group at 5.30pm and in 24 hours, the Dan Veers contributed Rs48,551. “I will be happy if Daan Veer is able to help even one person every day. The key aspect of the initiative is that money goes directly into the beneficiary’s account. We don’t intend to do big amounts but small amounts with love,” he says. And what makes this initiative unique is that neither the ‘Daan Veer’ nor the recipient is known to each other. However, Khushroo ensures a confirmation that the needy person has received the required help and is elated when the recipient expresses gratitude to their faceless benefactors. The amounts are small and those who contribute don’t feel the pinch. Small contributions make up a substantial amount for the beneficiary, he says. While many contribute out of compassion, there are some who wanted to know if the money was landing in the hands of people who actually need it. “A person called up questioning the authenticity of those making the requests. I only said that if one starts being judgemental, one cannot do any good. Each one of us can make a difference in someone’s life. People are connected to you for a reason and you respond. The universe connects,” says Khushroo. (Khushroo Poacha, a TOI Nagpur Hero awardee, can be contacted on 9561011264)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/want-to-be-a-daan-veer-and-spread-cheer/articleshow/78596536.cms||Manish Sakharwade
October 11, 2020||Meerut||Assailants pump 3 bullets into Meerut farmer||MEERUT: Unidentified gunmen barged into the house of a 50-year-old farmer at Kinoni village in Meerut's Rohta area on the intervening night of October 9-10 and fired multiple shots at the sleeping man. He was hit by three bullets and died on the spot. The victim was identified as Ranveer Gurjar, said police. The motive for the murder is yet to be ascertained but sleuths believe that it could be due to a domestic dispute. Sources said the deceased, one among five siblings, was unmarried and lived with the family of his younger brother. "Our teams are looking at all possible angles," said Meerut SP (Rural areas) Avinash Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/assailants-pump-3-bullets-into-meerut-farmer/articleshow/78595242.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Pune||Non-Covid medical care may resume in PCMC hospitals||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) may soon resume treatment for non-Covid patients at all its civic hospitals, pending a final review of the contagion situation in the twin cities. Civic officials said they were positive about resuming non-Covid treatment. At present, all civic facilities are exclusively treating Covid cases, which is proving to be an inconvenience forthe other patients. Santosh Londhe, chairman of the PCMC’s standing committee, said the administration should also look into non-Covid patients’ plight now that active cases have come down significantly. The decision to allow 50% non-Covid treatment at all civic facilities was taken in Thursday’s standing committee meeting, Londhe further said. Lodhe said administration and health officials have been advised to keep separate entrances and tools for the two wings in each facility. He said the patients from the low-income group had been gravely affected by the unavailability of civic medical care. A civic official said they would wait till the festive season was over to introduce any changes. “We cannot say when the situation could change and we will not take any chances. Some civic facilities will only allow 100% non-Covid treatment or not at all to avoid any chance of infection. This depends on whether Covid-19 treatment requirement sees a decline in the twin cities. The ongoing sero survey will give us a comprehensive picture of infection spread in civic limits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/non-ncov-medical-care-may-resume-in-pcmc-hosps/articleshow/78596518.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||4th phase polls: 82.36% turnout till 5.30 pm||Jaipur: As the fourth phase of elections to 897 gram panchayats ended on Saturday, 82.36% polling took place till 5.30pm. The highest polling percentage was recorded in Jaisalmer's Sam panchayat samiti at 93.39% and the lowest was recorded in Jalore's Jasawantpura panchayat samiti at 70.38%. In the first phase, the polling percentage was 83.50%; 84.67% was recorded in the second phase and 83.69% in the third phase. In all, 4,629 candidates contested in the fourth phase of panchayat elections to 897 gram panchayats - for the post of sarpanchs. There were 11,373 candidates in the fray for the post of panchs. Twenty six sarpanchs and 3,714 panchs had already been elected unopposed. Meanwhile, in Jaipur, 750 candidates contested for the posts of 107 sarpanchs (gram panchayats) and 1,482 candidates were in the fray for the posts of panchs. In Chaksu panchayat samiti, one sarpanch was elected unopposed in one of the gram panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4th-phase-polls-82-36-turnout-till-5-30-pm/articleshow/78596521.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Updation of non-agri properties till October 20||HYDERABAD: The state cabinet has decided to extend updation of non-agriculture properties for 10 more days till October 20. The updation of properties was already taken up by the municipal authorities and supposed to be completed by October 10. The cabinet also decided to allow conversion of agriculture land to non-agriculture land on Dharani website without human interference. Amendments to the GHMC Act for continuing BC reservations for the forthcoming elections, incorporating 50% quota for women was also approved. The cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao discussed various issues, especially amendments to various Acts, for nearly four hours. Amendments to the GHMC Act and the Revenue Act would be placed before the legislative assembly and council on October 13 and 14 for the legislative nod. To promote townships in the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), especially around outer ring road, the government put forth an integrated township policy which would be released soon. The government is planning to announce sops to developers of various townships. The cabinet also approved minor amendments to the registrations process. Senior officials said for the convenience of farmers, agriculture produce procurement centres would be set up in villages. In view of the pandemic, the government had set up 6,000 procurement centres in villages and procured the produce. “Since the Covid-19 situation continues, the cabinet has decided to adopt the same policy for the ‘vanakalam’ season,” the CMO officials said. The cabinet urged the farmers to ensure that humidity does not exceed 17% in their agri produce and bring it to the procurement centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/updation-of-non-agri-properties-till-oct-20/articleshow/78596528.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to hold assembly session on farm laws: CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the state government will soon hold an assembly session to discuss the agriculture laws. “We are examining the laws constitutionally to see how we can stop its implementation in the state. Our priority is to safeguard the interest of farmers and save them from big corporates,” said Gehlot. Gehlot was speaking at a farmer’s conference organised by the ruling Congress at Birla Auditorium on Saturday. Tearing into the laws, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the central government has taken the advantage of Covid-19 situation and passed the bills in both the Houses in an arbitrary manner. “The Centre didn’t hold any discussion with state governments, farmers and experts. The agriculture is the right of the state government which was undermined by the central government,” said Gehlot. Questioning the intention of the central government, Gehlot said farm laws will create difficulty for the farmers. “It is an attempt to finish the mandi system and giving a free hand to the corporates to take advantage of the vulnerable condition of the farmers. The contract system in the new laws is suitable for farmers with landholding of 500 acres or 100 acres,” he said. “The average land holding is less than 2 acres in the country. The tall claims by the central government will prove to be counterproductive for the farmers,” said Gehlot who accused the central government of interfering in the functioning of state government. Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) has termed agriculture laws as ‘pro-capitalist’. State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said that agriculture laws are meant to provide benefits to the corporates at the expense of farmers. “The Congress has cleared to stand with the farmers at any cost. Our party is committed to farmers and we will go to any extent to defend Congress. Farmers in the state are eager to hit the streets, but the government has assured them to stay indoors and safe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-hold-assembly-session-on-farm-laws-cm/articleshow/78596512.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Mangaluru||150 plasma donors feted in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Wellness Helpline, a platform of doctors, district officials and NGOs formed to fight Covid-19 along with various organisations to encourage blood donation, felicitated 150 plasma donors at Hidayah Foundation on Friday. MLC Pratap Simha Nayak, who lauded the efforts of Wellness Helpline, recollected how plasma was quickly arranged for one of his relatives. Wellness Helpline coordinator Khasim Ahmed said the helpline was launched in coordination with doctors. “Our volunteers have been on the field lending humanitarian services for the past eight months. With the support of NGOs, our services commenced during the lockdown period with the distribution of food packets to stranded workers and other underprivileged. Our other services are providing information on hospitals and government schemes, spreading awareness on Covid-19, setting up a platform of doctors for tele-consultation, counselling, guiding patients, supplying PPE kits and oxygen cylinders, and coordinating with hospitals for admissions,” Ahmed said, adding: “Plasma donation by corona warriors and heroes of the pandemic have been the most successful and popular programme. This has helped bout 150 ailing patients recover.” Hidayah Foundation chairman Mansour Azaad presided. District surgeon Dr Sadashiva, Dr Thajudeen, Dr Janardhan Kamath, Dr Priya Ballal, Dr Giridhar and convener Asif Deals were present. Asif from Expertise and Razak from KMT felicitated the guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/150-plasma-donors-feted-in-mluru/articleshow/78595911.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Priest cremated in Karauli after family’s demands met||JAIPUR: The negotiation between the family of the priest, who was burnt alive in Karauli on Wednesday and died on Thursday night, and officials finally reached an end with the latter agreeing to most of the demands, including transfer of Sapotra SHO and patwari. The victim’s family will be given a compensation of Rs 10 lakh along with a contractual job for one of the members. The villagers called off their protest and the priest was cremated on Saturday evening. The family had initially refused to cremate the victim till their demands were met and even threatened to bring the body to Jaipur to agitate here. One of the five accused has been arrested while another one was detained. The victim was identified as 55-year-old Babulal Vaishnav, while the accused was identified as Kailash Meena. The incident is of Bukna village in Karauli where Vaishnav was the priest of Radha Gopal temple. Karauli SP Mridul Kachawa told STOI, "The victim’s body was brought to his village on Friday evening, but at that time, the cremation could not be done. On Saturday, the family put forth certain demands and after daylong talks, we agreed to their demands." Officials also claimed that teams are at work to trace the remaining accused and adequate security has been provided to the priest’s family. While the family had initially demanded Rs 50 lakh and finally were assured of getting Rs 10 lakh. Apart from this, they will also be extended help from Indira Aawas Yojana. The cremation was finally done on Saturday evening before sunset. On Friday itself, cops had assured the family that role of the local police would be looked into by an Additional SP rank officer, but due to immense pressure from various sides, it was decided to transfer out the SHO and patwari According to officials, another version of the incident is that the priest set himself on fire, but his statement before he died against the accused is considered sacrosanct and a case of murder under IPC Section 302 has been registered against the accused. In his statement, the victim said that he, along with his family, did farming on 15 bighas of temple land which the accused had apparently been trying to grab illegally. On Wednesday, around 10am, Meena and four others came to the victim’s house following which they had an argument. During this time, Meena allegedly threw petrol on the priest and set him on fire and he was referred to SMS Hospital in Jaipur, but did not survive leading to protests by Brahmin community across the state. As per the village norms, no one lit a stove till the cremation. Sources told STOI that the land dispute had also reached the village panchayat which had asked Meena not to interfere and let the priest continue to live there. Apart from getting nationwide attention, the matter gained political momentum as MP Kirorilal Meena was also part of the dharna staged by the villagers and a three-member team reached the victim’s village as well. The deceased priest is survived by wife and seven children. Guv calls up CM Governor Kalraj Mishra held a telephonic conversation with CM Ashok Gehlot on Saturday expressing concern over the law and order as well as crime situation in the state, including burning of the temple priest in Karauli and gang-rape of a minor girl in Barmer. The CM assured him that all the accused in the various cases will be brought to justice and officials have been asked to conduct a thorough investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/priest-cremated-in-karauli-after-familys-demands-met/articleshow/78596530.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Meerut||Bypolls: SP candidate, supporters booked for violation of model code of conduct||BIJNOR: In one of the early cases of the violation of model code of conduct in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh assembly by-elections, Samajwadi Party candidate from Naugawan Sadat seat in Amroha Javed Aabdi and around 70 of his supporters were booked for taking out a rally on vehicles with posters, flags and banners. Police also impounded at least four SUVs. Amroha superintendent of police Vipin Tada said, “A case has been against SP candidate Javed Aabdi and his 60 to 70 unidentified supporters for violating sections 171 ( Wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Four cars being used in the campaign without permission were impounded.” The Naugawan Sadat seat — one of the seven assembly seats going to bypolls — has been lying vacant since the death of former UP cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan. Besides SP’s Saiyyad Javed Aabdi, BSP and Congress have fielded Furkan Ahmed and Dr Kamlesh Singh, respectively. BJP is, however, yet to open its card, but rumours are rife that the saffron party may field Sangeeta Chauhan — wife of former cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan — who visited Amroha shortly after the death of her husband. The by-elections are scheduled for November 3, while the counting of votes will take place on November 10. The process of filing nomination papers started on Friday. The last date for filing nominations is October 16 while the last date for the withdrawal of nominations is October 19, according to officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bypolls-sp-candidate-supporters-bookedfor-violation-of-model-code-of-conduct/articleshow/78595255.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 11, 2020||Pune||Former MLA dies of multi-organ failure||PUNE: Former Shiv Sena MLA Suresh Gore, (56) who represented Khed tehsil, died of multi-organ failure at a private hospital here on Saturday. He tested positive for Covid on September 17 and was admitted in Ruby Hall clinic on September 22. Gore was put on ventilator on October 3. “His repeat swab test for Covid came negative on October 5, but his clinical condition didn’t improve,” said Sanjay Pathare, medical director of the hospital. Gore was the first Sena MLA from Khed tehsil during 2014-2019. He also served as the vice-president of Zilla Parishad, Pune, in 2009. He was elected to the ZP thrice on NCP ticket from Chakan. Gore joined the Shiv Sena in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-mla-dies-of-multi-organ-failure/articleshow/78596533.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad to get 15km cycle track||AURANGABAD: A 15km stretch is being earmarked as a cycling track in the city as a part of the Cycles4Change initiative of the Smart Cities Mission. The initiative is aimed at helping smart cities implement cycling-friendly plans in response to the challenges presented by the pandemic. Routes under consideration for the installation of separators include Kalagram, Cidco N-1 to Aurangabad caves via Delhi Gate, Panchakki and Bibi ka Maqbara, railway station to the airport via Jalna Road and Connaught Place circle, said smart city deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam. Already, a handlebar survey of these routes is being carried out with participation of citizens, civic body and smart city officials, traffic police and others. Based on the findings, pop-up cycle lanes and other interventions will be planned. AMC administrator and ASCDCL CEO Astik Kumar Pandey along with police commissioner Nikhil Gupta and members of Get Going, Aurangabad Cyclist Club and Aurangabad District Cycle Association and others are currently discussing the implementation of Cycles4Change. “This is our city and we will make it ourselves. Citizens will be carrying out the work of installing plastic bollards, painting signboards and organising events,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-to-get-15km-cycle-track/articleshow/78595259.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court refuses to summon scribes in 2008 blasts case||AHMEDABAD: A special court hearing the 2008 serial blasts case has turned down a demand from the accused persons that journalists and editors of four newspapers should be summoned so that they could throw light on the arrests and remand proceedings that had taken place in August 2008. In rejecting the request to summon journalists, designated judge A R Patel said that the information published in dailies is not an absolute truth and the testimony of journalists cannot prove court records wrong. After bomb blasts rocked the city of Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008, and 56 persons lost their lives, the city police made first arrests on August 15 and remand proceedings ensued thereafter. Some accused wanted to examine journalists and editors for the news reports on arrests and remand proceedings. The defence lawyers argued that it is necessary that the journalists remain present in court to tell the court from where they had sourced information regarding arrest of the accused persons and their subsequent remand. Declining the request, the court said that the case records have all documents related to arrest and remand procedure including magistrate’s orders related to all accused persons in all 35 complaints pertaining to the blasts – 20 registered in Ahmedabad and 15 in Surat. The question arises as to whether the arrest memos, remand applications tendered in court by the investigators and the magistrate’s orders should be accepted as true or the versions of the journalists and editors when they appear before the court. The judge further observed, “In my opinion, the information published in newspapers is published by journalists and editors and it is not like an absolute truth for which they should be summoned before the court. By placing editions (of the dailies) in court, the arrest memos, remand applications and magistrate’s orders lying with the court records are not going to be proved false.” The court further asserted that if both the documents are compared, court records should be believed as correct. Therefore, there is no point in summoning the journalists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-refuses-to-summon-scribes-in-2008-blasts-case/articleshow/78595907.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Kolhapur businessman held in Rs 2.2 crore duping case||PUNE: A businessman from Kolhapur was arrested on Saturday on the charge of duping a Pune-based jeweller of Rs 2.2 crore. The businessman, Anand Gundesha (42), from Pujanagar in Kolhapur and jeweller Debu Mujumdar (48) from New Budhwar Peth knew each other since 2017. Mujumdar in his complaint stated that Gundesha, who ran a business of selling template gold ornaments to jewellers in the state on a commission basis, sent him gold for getting template ornaments manufactured. “Since I had been doing business with Gundesha for a while, I trusted him,” Mujumdar stated in his complaint. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar from the Faraskhana police said, “Gundesha had collected template ornaments weighing 5.899kg from Mujumdar on various occasions since last year, but failed to pay for them. He moved to Kolhapur after the lockdown, and told Mujumdar that he was unable to clear the dues due to the financial constraints. He did not even return the unsold jewellery to Mujumdar.” The businessman has been booked under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kolhapur-bizman-held-in-rs-2-2-crore-duping-case/articleshow/78596545.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Cops urge PMC to remove Sangamwadi BRTS route||PUNE: The Yerawada traffic division has urged the Pune Municipal Corporation to dismantle the Sangamwadi Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor to streamline traffic movement on the oft-congested stretch. The traffic police had approached the civic body in January and July, and again last month, demanding that the width of the footpath on the stretch be reduced as well, as it is not a residential area and has few pedestrians. “The corridor is underutilized and beset by frequent — often fatal — accidents between 2017 and 2019. The number of fatalities reduced after restrictions were imposed on movement of traffic on the corridor this year,” assistant inspector Somnath Padsalkar of the Yerawada traffic division said. He said the corridor occupies a large part of the carriageway, leaving little space for the movement of other vehicles. “The traffic builds up from Shadal Baba Dargah junction to Sangamwadi bridge multiple times in one day. Removal of the corridor will ensure smoother movement of traffic along the stretch,” Padsalkar added. He pointed that there weren’t any bus stops along the corridor. “Furthermore, the movement of private buses in the area is very heavy, especially at night. The narrow carriageway leads to chaos. The frequency of BRTS buses is very low in the area and the corridor may not be required,” he said. The idea ws, however, criticized by civic activists. “If they feel the corridor is underutilized, they should increase the frequency of buses instead of bringing down the infrastructure. What about the Metro? If they feel it is being underutilized once it starts running, would they take steps to increase ridership or bring down the Metro infrastructure?” Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch said. “It is a misconception that the corridor is underutilized. The police count utility by the number of vehicles and not the number of people. A lane with two buses running per minute carries more people than two lanes of mixed traffic in the same period. The corridor is underutilized as there are insufficient buses. The remedy is increasing the frequency of buses, not demolishing the corridor,” Harshad Abhyankar, director of Save Pune Traffic Movement, said. Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), which operates the BRTS, said they haven’t received official communication from the police. “The police cannot take such a call. The municipal commissioner is the proper authority. The police cannot just ask for the removal of the corridor,” Jagtap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-urge-pmc-to-remove-sangamwadi-brts-route/articleshow/78596544.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A alumnus named dean at Harvard||Ahmedabad: Srikant Datar (67), an alumnus of PGP programme at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) in 1978, has been named the dean of prestigious Harvard Business School (HBS), announced the school authorities on October 9. Datar will be the 11th dean of the B-school and will start his term from January 1, mentioned a release by the HBS. Prof Errol D’Souza, director of IIM-A, tweeted on Saturday: ‘Proud moment for the IIM Ahmedabad. Srikant Datar, an alumnus and former board member of the institute, has been appointed the dean of Harvard Business School. Congratulation Srikant.’ Datar, a CA, did PhD in business at Stanford University and later went into academics — first at Carnegie Mellon and later at Stanford University. At the IIM-A, he was coordinator of student affairs council and had also won ‘outstanding overall performance’ award. He was part of the Board of Governors from 2012 to 2018. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-alumnus-named-dean-at-harvard/articleshow/78596553.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Land-grabbing FIR filed against six including notary||Ahmedabad: Becharji Thakor, 32, of Shela in Sanand Taluka of Ahmedabad district lodged a complaint against six accused Chintan Bharwad of Bavla, Dilip Nai of Vejalpur, notary Altaf Hussain Malik of Dholka, and Kanuji Thakor , Ataji Mangaji and Arvind Thakor on Friday alleging that based on a forged power of attorney with bogus thumb impressions, the accused cheated him of a piece of land belonging to his mother Amratben Karsanji. The land is located at Shela vilalge of Sanand taluka. Bopal police have registered a case under sections of forgery and cheating against the accused.The complainant has alleged in the FIR that Bharwad forged signature and thumb impression of his mother, made a sale deed on August 20, 2018 and got it notarized by Altaf Hussain Malik of Dholka. “According to the complaint Kanuji Thakor and Ataji Mangaji signed as witnesses. Later they made an irrevocable power of attorney. The power of attorney was signed as a witness by Arvind Thakor and notary Altaf Hussain Malik made an entry of it in his books. Bopal police said they are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/land-grabbing-fir-filed-against-six-including-notary/articleshow/78595924.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Meerut||Recovery certificate worth Rs 100 crore issued to BSP MLC and partner for causing pollution through mining||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Saharanpur district administration has issued a recovery certificate to BSP MLC Mehmood Ali and his partner Amit Jain for causing “immense pollution in Saharanpur through large-scale mining”. The fine has to be deposited with the Pollution Control Board. The case pertains to an NGT order in 2016 in which the Green Tribunal had directed five persons involved in mining operations to pay Rs 50 crore each as fine. However, all of them had approached the Supreme Court against the order. According to sources, Mehmood Ali, Amit Jain, Dilshad, Wajid Ali and Vikas Agarwal were slapped with a fine of Rs 50 crore each and a local stone crusher was also fined Rs 2.5 crore by the NGT in 2016. Later, except Mehmood Ali and Amit Jain, all accused managed to get relief from the apex court. In March this year, the NGT again asked the district administration to recover the penalty from Ali and Jain. Following this, on October 6, the district administration issued a recovery notice to both of them. Additional district magistrate (finance) Vinod Kumar said, “The Supreme Court this year turned down their case and supported the NGT order and asked the administration to recover the penalty from them. The DM has issued recovery notice to them and the procedure of the recovery is underway. Action is being taken into the matter.” When contacted, Mehmood Ali alleged that the district administration is acting under political pressure because he is a BSP leader. “They want to suppress the voice of the opposition. Therefore, such actions are being taken,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/recovery-certificate-worth-rs-100-crore-issued-to-bsp-mlc-and-partner-for-causing-pollution-through-mining/articleshow/78595267.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 11, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan kneels to thank Mandsaur, Congress takes a dig||BHOPAL: PCC chief Kamal Nath on Saturday took a dig at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for kneeling on the dais in Suwasra in Mandsaur district with folded hands before the crowd. The incident occurred on Friday at a BJP workers’ meeting in Suwasra, which is one of the 28 assembly seats going for bypolls on November 3. Nath tweeted a photograph of Chouhan on Saturday and said, “If leaders do not sell false dreams, do not raise false hopes, do not make false announcements, do not break coconuts in false inaugural programmes before elections but fulfil every promise made to the people and do not give false flowery speeches thinking people can be fooled”. “For the sheer greed of power, politics is tarnished through bargaining and by humiliating the mandate, if people’s welfare is always a priority then the public makes you wear the crown on your head, you never need to kneel down,” Nath added. A video is also going viral showing Chouhan at the Suwasra BJP workers’ meet. While addressing the meet, he says, “Today, my heart is saying that Shivraj, you must sit and bow your head before the people of Neemuch and Mandsaur and thank party workers here.” After this, he steps up in front of the dais and kneels down with hands folded before a cheering crowd of BJP workers. Chouhan thanked the people of Mandsaur and Neemuch and said that if he has been able to become chief minister for the fourth time, it is because of the people of these two districts. He said that Mandsaur gave all seats to BJP in the 2018 assembly elections except for Suwasra that Congress won by a slim margin victory of 300 votes. Congress’ former MLA Hardeep Singh Dang, is now a BJP minister and the saffron party’s candidate in the upcoming bypolls. Reacting to Nath’s tweet, BJP said that in the 2018 elections, the voting percentage was in favour of Chouhan. “BJP was in power for 15 years and in 2018 voting percentage was higher for our party even though we lost by a few seats. But people of this state avenged this in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which BJP secured victory in 28 out of the total 29 constituencies,” state BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal said. “Ever since Chouhan became chief minister, he has said that Madhya Pradesh is his temple, people are the gods and he is the priest. Former chief minister Nath may not approve of kneeling before the people but Chouhan will continue to serve the people of the state,” Agarwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-cong-spar-over-naths-criticism-of-shivrajs-kneel/articleshow/78596548.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 11, 2020||Pune||ZP’s ‘agri ambulance’ to test soil samples, guide farmers||PUNE: The Zilla Parishad (ZP) has introduced an ‘agri ambulance’ as part of a maiden attempt to conduct soil tests in different villages of Pune district and to guide farmers about using the right fertilizers, be it chemical or organic, to boost crop yield in a scientific manner. The vehicle would be run by Krishi Vidnyan Kendra (KVK), Baramati. “Agriculture experts and supporting staff will carry out the tests and suggest fertilizers to the farmers to improve fertility based on the test report,” said Anil Deshmukh, agriculture development officer of the ZP. In the first phase, soil testing would be carried out in Baramati, Indapur, Daund, Bhor and Velhe. “Farmers often use excessive chemical fertilizers to get a good harvest and ignore bio-fertilizers. This unscientific method of tilling the land has created problems for many farmers in the longer run, namely sugar cane cultivators. Our experts would suggest viable crop patterns to them as well,” Deshmukh added. “A proper combination of chemical and bio fertilizers is needed to maintain the nutrient ratio of the soil. Farmers are unaware about it and hence soil testing is needed,” said Balasaheb Padghamal, former district agriculture officer of Pune. “Many farmers cannot afford to visit a laboratory in Pune so we came up with this solution,” said another agricultural department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zps-agri-ambulance-to-test-soil-samples-guide-farmers/articleshow/78596555.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Cases down in Satara dist, except some small villages||Kolhapur: Satara district is witnessing a decline in Covid-19 patients barring a few small villages, where 314 people tested positive for the contagion and 14 died in the last 24 hours. Of the 41,295 positive cases in the district so far, 32,752 recovered and discharged from hospitals. A total of 1,346 deaths have been recorded while the number of active patients is 7,197. Morvale villages in Jawli taluka identified 16 cases while three were found in Panchagani. In Khatav taluka, Katar Khatav recorded eight cases while seven patients were identified in Pusegaon village. In Chanchali village of Koregaon taluka, 11 people tested positive. Lonand and Shirval in Khandala taluka added four and three cases, respectively. Six patients were found in Masur in Karad taluka. Satara taluka added 77 cases, including 48 from Satara town while Karad taluka reported 48 new cases, which included 18 from Karad town. Phaltan and Wai recorded 19 and 10 cases, respectively. A total of 13 cases were reported from Khandala while and seven from Mahabaleshwar. Khatav recorded 30 cases while 16 people in Maan taluka tested positive. Koregoan added 39 patients. According to the officials, 13 out of 14 deceased were senior citizens. Eight are men while six are women. Satara tehsil recorded eight deaths while five deaths took place in Karad tehsil. Remaining death was reported from Patan tehsil. Meanwhile, district collector Shekhar Singh said that the jumbo hospital, which was inaugurated on Friday, will be open for patients from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cases-down-in-satara-dist-except-some-small-villages/articleshow/78595930.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Pune||Rahul Shrirame Pune’s new DCP, traffic||Pune: Rahul Shrirame was appointed as the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) for the city’s traffic division on Saturday as per transfer orders issued by the state home department late on Friday night. Similarly, Priyanka Narnavare has replaced Swapna Gore as DCP (Zone I). Amid ongoing infrastructural projects in Pune, Shrirame would be facing an uphill task while preventing traffic jams and reducing road fatalities. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said Shrirame would have to understand the issues plaguing city traffic and take decisions to improve its condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rahul-shrirame-punes-new-dcp-traffic/articleshow/78596560.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to discourage corn cultivation||HYDERABAD: Telangana government has decided to discourage corn (maize) cultivation in yasangi (summer agriculture season) in view of unfavourable conditions— marketing and storage facility— prevailing in the country. Going by the present conditions, it may not be possible to get minimum support price (MSP) for corn. However, farmers, who want to still go for corn, are free to cultivate it. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao held a meeting with agriculture officials and experts on crops that need to be encouraged as part of regulatory cultivation and marketing in the state. The experts informed the CM the new agriculture bill, approved by the Centre, had created adverse conditions for corn. They said with the policy decisions on corn import, getting MSP for corn was unlikely. Now, anybody could sell their produce anywhere in the country and the reduction of taxes on the import of commodities has become a curse on the poor farmer. During the meeting, it came to light that there was a surplus of 28 crore metric tonnes of corn in international market. “As on date, there is a requirement of 2.42 crore MT of corn in the country, but the country produced 3.53 crore MT. This means, there is a surplus of 1.11 crore MT. Adding to this, corn is cultivated in 2.04 crore acres in the country and 4.10 crore MT will soon hit the markets,” the officials informed. Officials said in the given scenario, there were enough reserves of corn not only for this year, but also for the next. To make matters worse for local farmers, the Centre has decided to import five lakh MT. The Centre also reduced the import duty on corn from 50% to 15%, which would result in the corn, produced in the country, not getting MSP, causing more misery and heavy losses to farmers. Agriculture minister Niranjan Reddy said in order to get Telangana farmers a reasonable price for corn, the state government had discussions with poultry farmers. Since states like Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and UP were quoting a very cheap price for poultry feed, poultry farmers in the state were not ready to buy corn produced within the state. “Under these dire circumstances, if farmers in Telangana go in for corn cultivation in summer, they will incur heavy losses,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-discourage-corn-cultivation/articleshow/78596566.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||JEE-Adv toppers continue strong showing||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh boy Gangula Bhuvan Reddy, who bagged the second rank all-India in the recently-released JEE-Advanced results, has shone again by securing third rank in the Andhra Pradesh Eamcet-2020 engineering stream. Meanwhile, Landa Jitendra of Vizianagaram — who secured first rank in the OBC-NCL category and 14th in the open category in the Advance results — secured tenth rank in the AP Eamcet. Batch-mates at a junior college in Vijayawada, both Bhuvan and Jitendra attained good ranks in the Telangana Eamcet results too. Bhuvan belongs to Proddatur in Kadapa district and Jitendra hails from an agricultural family in Lavidam of Gurla mandal in Vizianagaram district. Speaking to STOI, Bhuvan and Jitendra said they would like to pursue CSE at IIT-Bombay. “The major differences between the JEE Advanced exam and Eamcet are the number and depth of questions and time management. While there were 54 questions in the JEE-Advanced exam, we had to answer 160 questions in three hours for the Eamcet,” said Bhuvan. “The depth and complexity vary from JEE to Eamcet and time management is crucial in Eamcet. Attempting more competitive exams would make a student habituated to the examination environment and make one more confident,” said Jitendra. Overall, five students from Telangana made it to the top 10 in the engineering stream of AP Eamcet results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/jee-adv-toppers-continue-strong-showing/articleshow/78595456.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||190 cases and six deaths in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district registered as many as 190 coronavirus cases, including 61 from the city, along with six casualties on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 46,699, of which, 39,776 have been discharged after successful recovery. At present, 5,382 people are undergoing treatment at various facilities while 1,541 have succumbed to the infection. On Saturday, 964 patients were discharged from various Covid facilities — the highest recovery in a single day so far in the recent months. At present, the total number of cases in the city stands at 14,144, of which, 343 have succumbed to contagion. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Saturday closed another Covid Care Centre in the Line Bazaar area of the city. Civic officials said that the facility has been shut temporarily. The area was one of the nine Covid-19 hotspots in the city and has reported highest number of cases after Rajarampuri. Sangli identified 250 cases, 12 casualties As many as 250 Covid-19 cases were reported in Sangli district on Saturday, taking the total number of patients to 40,894. Of these, 34,837 have been discharged. A total of 4,545 patients are currently undergoing treatment at various facilities in the district. With the addition of 12 Covid-related deaths on Saturday, the district’s casualty toll has reached 1,512. Miraj hospital gets post-covid treatment centre A post-covid treatment centre has been started at Government Medical College, Miraj. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhari said that over 30,000 Covid patients have been treated so far and that they may suffer from post-treatment issues. Doctors at the centre will help such cases in every possible way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/190-cases-and-six-deaths-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78595933.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Supercomputers will accelerate research’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Council on Science & Technology (GUJCOST) recently delivered supercomputers – Param Shavak – to 10 state-based science and technology institutes. The computer with 96 GB RAM and accelerator technology will help the ongoing research projects and can prove themselves crucial in cutting-edge research in fields like molecular biology, medicine development, artificial intelligence and deep learning among others, said experts. Prof K S Dasgupta, director of Gandhinagar-based Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology (DAIICT), said that the institute was working on several projects with organizations such as Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO). “Supercomputer at the institute will accelerate research projects,” Dasgupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/supercomputers-will-accelerate-research/articleshow/78596562.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC refuses to stay medical teacher recruitment||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has refused to stay the state government from recruiting doctors for 686 posts of medical teachers in government medical colleges on 11-month contracts after doctors with specific qualification of Diplomate of National Board (DNB) challenged the recruitment over their non-inclusion. The high court, however, admitted the petition on Thursday by the Association of DNB doctors which has questioned the state government’s decision of not following the criteria laid down by the Medical Council of India (MCI) for education qualification for the posts. It claimed that the government has wrongly excluded doctors with DNB degrees whereas it is equivalent, and should be treated so, to postgraduation courses like MD and MS. The association has urged the HC to direct the government to include DNB as a qualification along with the present education qualification criteria like MD, MS and MCh for different posts of medical teachers in government colleges. To this, the state government maintained that the state government has placed education criteria slightly higher than the ones prescribed by the MCI, but it is well within its rights and powers to ask for certain qualifications to fill the posts. The state government had come up with an advertisement on May 29 seeking online applications of medical professional candidates for appointment on contractual basis for 686 vacant posts of professor, associate professor, assistant professor and tutor in various subjects in government colleges and attached teaching hospitals. The advertisement came to be issued by the government after it came under fire when the Gujarat high court castigated it for its poor response to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-refuses-to-stay-medical-teacher-recruitment/articleshow/78596598.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Mystery over promoter’s death in Behala home||KOLKATA: A 46-year-old promoter, who had not been able to walk much on his own ever since he met with an accident in 2016, was found hanging from the staircase railing on the fourth floor at his residence in Parnasree, Behala, on Friday night. Police said it looked like Indrajit Das had died by suicide. The family, however, wanted them to probe the homicide angle, too. “We have sent Das’s body for post-mortem. The body was found in a position, which typically indicated suicide. He had used a scarf to end his life. But we will comment only after receiving the post-mortem report,” said DC (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas. Das, claimed police, had met with an accident in 2016 and had a crushed bone that made it difficult for him to walk. He was also diabetic. Without a job for the past four months due to the lockdown, he was also under stress over Covid. “All these things might have pushed the victim to take the extreme step,” said an officer. Police said that around 8pm on Friday, his wife and two daughters went out to buy stationery items. When they returned around 8.30pm, they could not find him at home. “One of the daughters went to his room but did not find him there. As they started looking for him, they found him hanging on the floor above, where he had reportedly carried a heavy chair all by himself,” police said. “The family said when they had left, Das was wearing home clothes but he was found hanging in a pair of jeans and an expensive t-shirt, which he usually wore outside. The family claimed Das had not mentioned any plan of going out.” His body was taken to Vidyasagar hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Police said they were taken aback that the victim had managed to drag a chair up the stairs when he himself could hardly walk.  The incident, reported hours before World Mental Health Day, has led experts to consider ways in which Covid-related stress could be fought. The central health department has already sent some suggestions. “Feeling lonely or sad is common. Stay connected with others. Communication can help you connect with family and friends... if the feeling (depression) worsen, call helpline for advice from a mental health professional or contact your doctor or mental health experts...” say the suggestions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mystery-over-promoters-death-in-behala-home/articleshow/78596615.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hailing from a family of docs, Sainath’s self-motivation was key to his success||Visakhapatnam: Local boy Vavilapalli Sainath, who topped AP Eamcet engineering stream, hails from a family of doctors. While Sainath’s father V Ramesh is an orthopaedic surgeon, his mother Padmaja is an MD in physiology. Sainath’s parents supported his endeavour to pursue engineering. He had already achieved an JEE Advanced all-India rank of 173 and 17 in the OBC category. Sainath told STOI that he wanted to pursue CSE (Computer Science and Engineering) at IIT-Bombay. A bright student, Sainath has shone in various Olympiad exams and has even got a seat at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore. He also excelled in various recent entrance tests, including that of the BITS Pilani. Speaking to STOI, his father Dr V Ramesh said, “He is self-motivated. His own interest in academics and guidance from his college helped him get the first rank. We are happy to see him topping the AP Eamcet.” Dr V Ramesh said that Sainath has always been good at mathematics and they encouraged him in that direction. — Umamaheswara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hailing-from-a-family-of-docs-sainaths-self-motivation-was-key-to-his-success/articleshow/78595479.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Fresh Covid-19 cases under 3,000, but Delhi records 48 deaths||NEW DELHI: The national capital recorded 48 more Covid-19 deaths on Saturday, taking the death toll to 5,740, while 2,866 fresh cases took the infection tally to over 3.06 lakh. On September 29 as well, 48 fatalities were reported in the city, the highest number of deaths recorded in a day since July 16, when Delhi saw 58 fatalities. The 2,866 fresh cases came out of the 49,736 tests conducted the previous day. The tally of active cases on Saturday rose to 22,007 from 21,955 the previous day. The total number of cases has climbed to 3,06,559, according to the daily bulletin issued by Delhi government. The number of containment zones in Delhi slightly dropped to 2,715 from 2,727 on Friday. The positivity rate on Saturday stood at 5.76% while the recovery rate crossed 90%, the bulletin said, adding that the case fatality rate stood at 1.87%. Meanwhile, state health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said Delhi government has ordered shifting of Covid-19 patients from North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital to its own facilities, days after the resident doctors went on a ‘symbolic indefinite strike’ over pending salaries for the last three months. According to the state health department, out of the total number of 16,114 beds in Covid hospitals, 10,811 are vacant. Officials said 1,021 beds in Covid care centres are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who have returned by Vande Bharat Mission and bubble flights. Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days, with the count on several times crossing the 60,000-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-cases-under-3k-but-city-records-48-deaths/articleshow/78596568.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bengaluru||From fests to convocations, Bengaluru students miss campus buzz||BENGALURU: When colleges announced in March they would have to close down for a few days due to Covid-19, little did students know this would last for over six months, snatching away some of the most precious days of campus life. TOI catches up with a few students from city colleges — mostly in their final year — to find what they are missing the most, traditions specifically meant for them and the nostalgia they cherish. * In the final year at NLSIU, one has a little time in hand and students to sit at Navalgund Park and AIR Book Cafe and play board games late into the night. Our canteens remain open till 3am. What we really miss is studying together late nights for exams and projects. There are some traditions for final-year students including a formal dinner before the convocation where parents are invited. There’s a high tea with teachers; a week of cultural events with a different theme every day; and fifth-year treats, where a final-year student takes his favourite juniors out for a treat anywhere in the city. After all the hardships in the first year, you really start enjoying college when you reach last year, and we missed half of it. - Aishwarya Jain | graduated in September 2020 from National Law School of India University* Going to other campuses for fests is one of the most fun-filled activities. Some of my closest friends were made during such trips. It’s a team-building exercise — you go with a group of students who are not your classmates, the environment and the experiences are irreplacable. I was a regular for Model United Nations, debating and other literary activities. Participation in various clubs in colleges has dropped. I was hoping to stand for student elections — speeches, voting and finally the making of the student body who would address students’ concern are all thrilling. All that’s lost. — Quazi Hamza Irfam | final-year student, journalism and mass communication, Dayanand Sagar University* We didn’t get to finish anything. When we were told college would be closed for three days, we thought we’d be back after that. That we would never go back came as a rude shock. There was no farewell party, no convocation and no student day where prizes are given out. Being in the student council, the signing-off day is an important part for us. That was our last activity — sign off from clubs or positions we held. The teachers put up a performance and felicitate us. Everything ended abruptly. — K Rebecca Raj | former student president, Jyothi Nivas College* It’s not easy for a fresher to get into the dance club, but I did it in my first year. When I got selected to head the dance club, Footprints, this year, I was thrilled. There were many things I wanted to do for it. There are eastern and western teams and I wanted to start a classical one too. I had choreographies planned for our functions, like flash mobs. I planned special weekend sessions. I’m disappointed that none of this could take off. I miss rehearsals and the fun we had as a team. — Aneesh Gupta | final-year civil engineering, RV College of Engineering* Almost every year, we celebrate Pet Day where all students bring pets to the college and spend the day playing and enjoying their pets’ company. We have the talent show, activities for pets and students that everyone is so pumped about. We clicked so many pictures last year and miss it now. The day was just adorable. There was also the Ethnic Day for which we had already bought our outfits but never got a chance to wear them. Everyone was upset. Even Swagath Fest, which is like a Fresher’s Fest to welcome first-year students went virtual. It was nothing like the physical one. — Aryan Anup | second-year undergraduate film-making course, St Joseph’s College (Autonomous) * For final-year students like me, this Cul-Ah would be the last one. The preparations that would begin months earlier is something we’ll miss the most. The DJ party with friends and the work behind the scenes. We had planned to make the most of it. We also miss fields trips and internship opportunities. For someone like me who was away from home, I miss the independence, the way I’d prepare breakfast, head to college and take care of things myself. — Rimi K Chakraborty | final-year BA, Mount Carmel College* I miss getting icecream from Nandini during lunch break. I miss running to 9am classes while blasting music on my earphones. I miss sitting on the red benches and reading a book, I miss watching random football/basketball matches after college and definitely the random street plays on campus. Most importantly, I miss the library. We’re just hoping we can make it to our convocation. This would have been our last ethnic day and we were looking forward to it. There were so many beautiful pictures waiting to be clicked — Suryatapa Chakraborty | final-year BA student, Christ University||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-fests-to-convocations-students-miss-campus-buzz/articleshow/78596243.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Suspension of Vidyagama sparks fears of rise in child labour among teachers||Mangaluru: The state government’s decision to temporarily suspend Vidyagama programme has received mixed response from the student and teacher community in Dakshina Kannada. As of today, data available from the DDPI office, 29 children, 55 government teachers (40 have recovered) have been infected with the virus. Among 55, Mangaluru South and North have recorded 13 and 15 cases, respectively, among teachers. It is followed by Moodbidri (12 teachers), Puttur (nine teachers), Sullia (four teachers) and none in Belthangady. Malleswamy, DDPI, who was infected with the virus a month ago, is on the path of recovery. The government school teachers have raised a concern that stoppage of the programme will have an adverse impact on rural children. It will also pave way for child labour. “We don’t know how much the ambitious Vidyagama programme benefitted government school children, but it did stop a lot of them turning into child labourers,” pointed out a senior government teacher. A month ago, STOI had reported that whenever there were long school holidays, children studying in government schools in rural and few in city areas, would go to work in fields, de-husk areca, join hotels or garment shops to support their families. This stopped with Vidyagama taking off. Under the programme, teachers visited children in their locality on alternative days and kept a close watch on their academic performance as well other activities. Another section of teachers who were infected with the virus were a relieved lot. “Undoubtedly, the Vidyagama programme was successful in Dakshina Kannada. On the other hand, it exposed teachers and students to the virus,” said a senior teacher from Moodbidri who has now recovered from the coronavirus infection . The teacher and a colleague used to travel about 20 km daily to reach out to children. “We both tested positive and so did our family members,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/suspension-of-vidyagama-sparks-fears-of-rise-in-child-labour-among-teachers/articleshow/78596158.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 11, 2020||Vadodara||Dry state has turned Gujarat into a drug hub: Shankarsinh Vaghela||VADODARA: Gujarat has become a hub of drugs because of the “hypocrite prohibition policy of the state government”, alleged former chief minister Shankarsinh Vaghela on Saturday. In Vadodara for an interaction with a group of citizens crusading for removal of prohibition law, Vaghela said that the youth in the state are driven to consume psychotropic substances owing to liquor ban. “If the government really wants to protect its young generation from the menace of the drugs, this anti-human policy should be removed,” Vaghela said. Gujarat has prohibition in place as the state is considered land of Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel. “But the context in which they (Bapu and Sardar Patel) talked for the necessity of prohibition, that context may not be scientific today,” Vaghela said, adding that Gujarat shares borders with Union territories and other states where people go to consume liquor. But the moment they step in to Gujarat, boozing turns into a criminal act. “This is an artificial prohibition while implementing it breeds corruption,” he said. “As chief minister I had proposed that license to consume liquor be given liberally and the powers of police be given to excise department. But the then Congress chief Sitaram Kesari did not agree,” said Vaghela, who formed his own party in 1996 after leaving the BJP and became the chief minister with the support of Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dry-state-has-turned-gujarat-into-a-drug-hub-vaghela/articleshow/78596225.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Man kills 75-year-old mother in Vijayawada||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 75-year-old was murdered by her son after she refused to give him money for liquor. The woman was identified as Kasibhatla Lakshmi of Kancharapalem. The incident took place on Tuesday but police had initially booked a case of suspicious death. However, investigation revealed that she was killed by her son, Chakravarthi. Lakshmi was a resident at an old-age home and had been brought to Vijayawada to attend a family function and was staying at a lodge near Gokul Theatre. Chakravarthi initially told cops that he found his mother lifeless in the lodge after returning from the railway reservation counter. Noticing blood from her mouth, police registered a case of suspicious death. Upon investigation, cops found out that Lakshmi had Rs 3,000 with her for essentials which her son came to know about. He started pressurising her to give the money. When she refused, Chakravarthi strangled her to death. He was taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-kills-75-year-old-mother/articleshow/78595493.cms||Siva G
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP, Congress gear up as assembly bypolls draw near||Ahmedabad: Even before the BJP could announce its candidates for the eight assembly seats where byelections will be held next month, three former Congress MLAs who defected to the BJP earlier this year, said they have received the mandate to contest and announced the dates when they will file their nomination papers. Jitu Chaudhary on Saturday said that he will file his nomination papers on Oct 12 for the Kaprada seat, Pradyumansinh Jadeja said he will file his papers on Oct 13 from Abdasa and J V Kakadiya said he will file his papers from Dhari on Oct 15. All three were elected from these seats on Congress tickets in 2017. Voting for byelections to eight assembly seats will be held on November 3 and counting will take place on November 10. Gujarat BJP chief C R Paatil is expected to visit Delhi and finalize the party’s candidates with the central leadership. Congress leaders also met over the past couple of days to decide on their candidates. Two ticket hopefuls of the Congress for the Dhari seat in Amreli district — Suresh Kotadiya and Jeni Thummar — have begun campaigning, expecting to be given the Congress ticket. Both Thummar and Kotadiya on Saturday said that they will abide by the party’s decision and work towards its victory in the bypoll. Eight Congress MLAs had quit the party ahead of the Rajya Sabha election earlier this year, because of which these byelections are being held. Of the eight, five formally joined the BJP. Star campaigners not named within stipulated time Santoshsinh Rathod, an RTI activist, has written to the ECI and the chief electoral officer, saying the stipulated ten-day period after the announcement of the bypoll dates has passed and no party has named any star campaigners. “According to the Representation of the People Act, if a star campaigner canvasses in the election, the expenses will be shown as made by the candidate concerned. If the parties named star campaigners, then the expenses of the star campaigner would be billed to the party. We have asked the ECI to take note of this,” Rathod said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-congress-gear-up-as-assembly-bypolls-draw-near/articleshow/78596619.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Trichy||15K saplings planted on Lalgudi railway station premises, Miyawaki way||Trichy: Following the success of the Miyawaki method of tree plantation drive carried out by the Trichy corporation in Srirangam with 10,000 saplings last year, the revenue department in Lalgudi has emulated the same by planting 15,000 saplings at the Lalgudi railway station on Saturday. This is the largest-ever tree plantation drive taken up under Miyawaki method in a single day in the district. The initiative is intended to promote ‘walk through forest’ by providing pedestrian platforms. The revenue department sought permission from the Southern Railway for carrying out a mass plantation drive on the 1.65 acres of land. Officials said that 57 types of flower and fruits bearing trees and saplings were planted. “We have planted 3-4 native breed saplings per square metre to ensure a dense forest-like ambience. Drip irrigation facility is provided to water all the 15,000 saplings,” S Vaithyanathan, RDO, Lalgudi told TOI. Water from the railway station will be used to irrigate the saplings. Around 200 volunteers and government officials took part in the drive which cost Rs 5 lakh, as it involved clearing the vast space and procuring the rare native tree breeds. The cost was sponsored by good Samaritans in Lalgudi. For the next three to six months, Lalgudi town panchayat will oversee the maintenance and watering of saplings. “Similar mass plantation drive is on cards in Kallakudi and Samayapuram towns too,” the RDO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/15k-saplings-planted-on-lalgudi-railway-station-premises-miyawaki-way/articleshow/78596613.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 11, 2020||Hubballi||Lack of sufficient staff hobbles tenement schooling in Kalyaka Karnataka||Raichur: Owing to the lack of sufficient number of teachers in Kalyana Karnataka, tenement schooling – an initiative that was launched by proactive pedagogues to prevent dropouts among students from underprivileged sections of society in view of the Covid-19 crisis – has failed to reach a considerable number of students in the region. The state government’s apathetic attitude towards the initiative, reflected in its failure to sanction sufficient posts, is depriving hundreds of children the chance to continue their learning. The state government is yet to appoint teachers to 14 schools across Ballari, Koppal and Raichur districts, which were expanded to high schools in 2018-19, as part of a Kalyana-Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) initiative. Although each school needs at least 10 teachers to take classes for students of classes nine and ten, these institutions have been holding the fort by tasking primary school teachers to take additional lessons during free periods, and bringing on board guest teachers, who are not very well paid. The state government had allocated Rs 1 crore for the expansion of these 14 schools in the three districts. However, owing to the upward surge of the Covid-19 graph in the region, primary school teachers are apprehensive about taking on extra work, while guest teachers are not willing to risk their health, particularly when the pay is not too rewarding. Sharanabasappa, headmaster of the Donga Rampur High School in Raichur district, pointed out to TOI that nearly 60% of the students in the institution had no access to smartphones and therefore could not attend online classes. “Tenement schooling is their only hope. I am the only teacher for the whole school. How can I do justice to all students, for whom the only hope of escaping poverty is education?” Sharanapasappa asked. In addition to handling the onerous responsibilities at the Donga Rampur school, Sharanabasappa is lending a hand to ease the burden of the poorly-staffed Mallata High School. “We have created WhatsApp groups for students, but very few students are able to use these facilities since most parents of our wards do not have smartphones. More than 1,500 students are studying in the 14 schools that were expanded to high schools two years ago,” he said. A teacher at one of these schools in Koppal opined that the situation had worsened in the aftermath of the Covid-19 crisis. He urged the government to take cognisance of the gravity of the situation and appoint teachers to these schools lest many children drop out. Syed Hafizullah, an activist who has been fighting to ensure education to children from across sections of society, said that Kalyana Karnataka had a poor track record when it came to children dropping out. “Just when there was hope of this problem being rectified, the pandemic cropped up as an obstacle. Students in these schools do not have the privilege of attending online classes,” he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lack-of-sufficient-staff-hobbles-tenement-schooling-in-kalyaka-karnataka/articleshow/78595939.cms||Shreyas HS
October 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Post floods, python sightings go up in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: The recent incident of a 15-feet-long rock python getting entangled in a fishing net at Devarapalli in Thotlavaluru may have come as a shock for locals, but forest department officials say it’s not new and that such incidents happen once in a while, particularly during the monsoon or soon after floods. Krishna river, from where the python was rescued, has been in spate for the last few weeks due to incessant rains in the catchment areas upstream. This resulted in the river getting linked to its endpoint at Hamsaladeevi where Krishna meets the Bay of Bengal. Forest officials said pythons get washed towards Vijayawada from the river’s upstream. They also suspect areas around Krishna estuary may have become a breeding ground for snakes who make their way to the city during heavy rains. Since August this year, Krishna district forest officials have received at least six calls about rock pythons being spotted in around Vijayawada. Last year, officials rescued five rock pythons from Eluru canal bridge in Prasadampadu, Chittinagar and Krishna Lanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/post-floods-python-sightings-go-up-in-vij/articleshow/78596625.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 11, 2020||Delhi||‘Delhi govt to be ready for post-fest surge’||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said Delhi government would make necessary preparations to tackle the expected post-festival surge in Covid-19 cases. However, Jain didn’t comment on the expert committee report advising the government to prepare for 15,000 cases a day. Declining to share his own assumption on the expert group’s advice, Jain said last time when deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia predicted a massive jump in cases, it was termed as fear mongering. “The highest per day cases in Delhi so far is 4,500. Only experts can say whether 15,000 cases a day would be reported or not. I do not want to comment on the committee’s report. I am not doubting it or contesting it. In the last 10 days, less than 3,000 cases per day have been reported,” he said in a press conference. The expert group, headed by Dr VK Paul of NITI Aayog, in a recently submitted report to Delhi Disaster Management Authority advised Delhi government to prepare for 15,000 per day Covid-19 cases surge. The report suggested that winter months make respiratory illnesses more severe, festival-related gatherings could lead to sudden rise in cases and patients from outside Delhi might also arrive in large numbers. The expert group was asked to prepare a revised Covid-19 management strategy by DDMA. When asked if the government was ready to handle 15,000 cases a day, Jain said it was a hypothetical question but as of right now, the government does not have infrastructure to handle such a load. However, the minister said that even when 4,500 cases were reported in a day, 50% beds in Covid hospitals were vacant. “We have 16,000 beds. We will expand the health infrastructure as the cases start increasing, we have done it earlier also,” said Jain. As for the precautions the government is taking to ensure the number of deaths does not rise due to the combined impact of Covid and pollution in winter months, Jain reiterated the importance of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene in defeating Covid-19. He urged people to follow them strictly to protect themselves from the viral infection. “If 100% people wear masks, then it will definitely create a difference and we will see the lesser transmission of the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-be-ready-for-post-fest-surge/articleshow/78596606.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC reviews facilitiesto mark shelter day||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Saturday reviewed the facilities being provided to those residing at night shelter homes in the city to mark the World Shelter Day. These homes are temporary facilities for women, children, elderly, destitute, people with disabilities, deserted families or individuals who cannot afford lodging and boarding to have a safe stay during the night. Aurangabad municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey appealed to the needy citizens to claim benefit of the facilities. During the current pandemic, special attention is being paid to ensure hygienic conditions and social distancing at the shelters. The civic body, along with the National Livelihood Mission, runs these night shelter homes through social welfare organisations and NGOs. Senior officials, including additional commissioner-I BB Nemane and assistant commissioner Nandkumar Bhombe visited the shelters, where counselling sessions, health camps, seminars and workshops were held. As per the list provided by civic body, there are half a dozen night shelter homes in various parts of the city. The authorities said these facilities are a major relief for homeless people, especially women, who are forced to stay on footpaths and public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-reviews-facilitiesto-mark-shelter-day/articleshow/78595290.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn launches survey to know locals’ interest in cycling||Trichy: Trichy corporation has launched an online survey to get an idea of locals interested in cycling and infrastructure to promote non-motorised transport. The feedback will help the urban local body participate in ‘India Cycles4Change Challenge’, an initiative by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) to implement cycling-friendly initiatives in major cities.A recent survey by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) suggests cycling would increase by 50-65% once cities return to normalcy after Covid-19 lockdown. To tap the demand, MoHUA has come out with the initiative to help urban local bodies transform and promote cycling. As a part of the initiative, the corporation released the online survey on its official website comprising nine questions.Trichy corporation will prepare a scale-up plan to promote cycling in the city and the same shall be submitted to MoHUA, which will shortlist from 141 participating cities. The selected cities will be supported by experts to implement the plan. The cities not shortlisted will be given additional attempts to revise their plan and resubmit.“We will conduct the survey for a week to understand the feasibility. Based on the feedback, we will discuss with stakeholders including city police to draft the next step to encourage cycling,” said S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner. The local body plans to use the two-wheeler lane recently earmarked by the city police as an exclusive tracks for bicycles. Trichy corporation has only a few days left to submit their proposal as MoHUA as October 14 as the last date to submit the plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-launches-survey-to-know-locals-interest-in-cycling/articleshow/78596602.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 11, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Posters claim woman dead, complaint filed with police||TRICHY: A 23-year-old widow in Perambalur town lodged a complaint with the Perambalur police after wall posters claiming she was dead surfaced in various parts of the town. The incident came to light after her relatives made enquires with her family on seeing the posters. Police identified the complainant as Roshini alias Ammu, daughter of Selvaraj, hailing from Elambalur road in Perambalur town. The woman was married to a man named Veeraraghavan hailing from Salem in May 2018. The couple was said to be staying in Hosur. In March, Veeraraghavan committed suicide over a family dispute and Roshni moved to her parent’s house in Perambalur. On Friday evening, posters appeared in Perambalur claiming that Roshini had passed away on October 7. Paying homage to the woman, the posters were credited to grieving “family and friends”. However, the posters did not have the name of the press where it was printed. Further investigations are under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/posters-claim-woman-dead-plaint-filed-with-police/articleshow/78596626.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||Tharoor-led panel asks Prasar Bharati, NBA to share views on media ethics||NEW DELHI: Representatives of public service broadcaster Prasar Bharati, the News Broadcasters Association and the Press Council of India have been asked to appear before the parliamentary committee on information and technology headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on October 15 to share their views on ethical standards in media coverage. The panel will also record oral evidence of representatives of the ministry of information and broadcasting. The matter, among the I&B ministry related issues that the committee has decided to consider this year, assumes significance in backdrop of the “racket” busted by the Mumbai Police earlier this week relating to “fraudulent” manip ulation of Television Rating Points (TRPs) involving three channels — Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. Apart from ‘Ethical Standards in Media Coverage’, over the course of the year, the House panel will review functioning of the Prasar Bharati organisation and problems and challenges faced by the film industry, functioning of the Central Board of Film Certification and the outreach done by Doordarshan channels. On Friday, Congress MP Karti Chidambaram, a member of the committee, wrote to Tharoor that the “recent issues surrounding” TRPs “have cast doubts on the legitimacy and reliability of the system”.  “There is a need to understand this situation. In light of this, it is important that the standing committee on information technology take up this issue. Therefore, I request you to call before the committee concerned officials of the responsible ministry, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, to seek necessary clarification on the current situation and remedial measures,” Chidambaram said. Speaking to Times Now earlier in the week, Union I&B minister Prakash Javadekar has said that the “TRP system is managed by BARC” and is a “creation of the broadcasters themselves”. While urging broadcasters to “improve the system” if there are any problems, he said, “I say media should not be TRP-driven.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tharoor-led-panel-asks-prasar-bharati-nba-to-share-views-on-media-ethics/articleshow/78598041.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Trichy||Only 40% RTE seats filled in Trichy, thanks to 1-km rule||Trichy: With many families bearing the economic brunt of Covid-19 by way of job loss and salary cuts, tough competition was expected for the seats reserved for the underprivileged in private schools under the right to education (RTE) Act this year. However, only less than 40% RTE seats could be filled in 313 private schools in Trichy district. A total of nine schools didn’t receive applications for even a single seat while only 21 schools could fill all the available RTE seats. Many parents could not apply for the seats as their residence was not located within a kilometre from the school they wanted, a prerequisite for applying. Officials said they had to disqualify half of the applicants as their residence was not located within this distance from the school. This was evident in the numbers as a total of 3,216 RTE applications were received against 4,207 available seats in the district but only 1,659 could be admitted finally.“If the distance norms were relaxed, we could have filled at least 3,000 seats in Trichy alone,” said a senior official from the office of district chief education officer. Trichy district chief education officer S Shanthi admitted that despite good response from parents, less number of RTE seats could be filled. Though awareness among parents has been increasing every year, the distance norm led to disqualification of many applicants, she said. With the state government announcing extension of RTE admission, they hoped to fill all the vacant seats.An advertisement is expected to be released soon by the school education department for RTE admission and schools will also display the list of vacant seats on their notice board. However, officials say that without relaxing the 1 km distance norm, extension of the date will not serve any purpose as the applications will have to be rejected again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-40-rte-seats-filled-in-trichy-thanks-to-1-km-rule/articleshow/78596657.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Health licence: Food body letter backs govt decision||NEW DELHI: The row over restaurants and eateries obtaining a health trade licence from civic bodies is refusing to die down. To simplify the operation of restaurants and eateries, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently decided to end the requirement of the licence for hotels and restaurants. This was opposed by the city corporations citing safety concerns. On Saturday, a letter written recently by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to city municipal corporations came to light. With the enactment of Food Safety and Standard Act, 2006 and the commencement of Food Safety and Standards (licensing and registration) Rules 2011, the sole authority for issuance of licence and registration of food business operators lies with the central or state licensing authorities appointed under the provisions of said act by the respective commissioner of food safety, the September 7 letter stated. FSSAI executive director (compliance strategy) Shobhit Jain, in the letter, had directed the corporations’ commissioners to ensure that no separate food licence was issued by their offices. “It is requested to immediately look into the matter and ensure that no separate/additional food licences are issued by your offices and any food business operators who are doing business under your jurisdiction or are planning to start a new food business may be directed to obtain the same from FSSAI,” the letter read. Reacting to the letter, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed, “The BJP-run corporations do not want to abolish the permit raj, so it wants to continue giving health trade licences to restaurant owners. CM Arvind Kejriwal recently instructed the corporations that no such licence would be needed anymore but the corporations were opposing the direction.” However, the corporations maintain that operational measures looked after by the local bodies are not overlapping with the FSSAI requirements and the licences are issued after checking several important factors. “The health trade licence is issued by the public health department after ensuring that all norms are fulfilled. We check whether the building is structurally safe, it has obtained a safety certificate from a registered architect or structural engineer and whether it has all fire safety measures in place,” said Anamika Mithlesh, mayor of the south corporation. “We have already replied to FSSAI,” added the SDMC mayor. Leader of the House Narendra Chawla said: “AAP is trying to create a perception among people that MCDs are charging money unnecessarily but we are concerned about the health and safety of Delhiites.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the FSSAI order was still being examined. “If Delhi government is really interested in ensuring ease of doing business for hoteliers and restaurants, they should withdraw the excise licence first for which every restaurant owner has to proceed through touts,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/health-licence-food-body-letter-backs-govt-decision/articleshow/78596662.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Trichy||Daily testing raised to 3K samples in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: After Thanjavur district reported a spike in Covid-19 cases, the health department has increased the number of daily tests from 2,000 samples to 3,000. Officials cite movement of people between Kumbakonam and Chennai as one of the reasons for the spike in the number of cases.However, the district administration has taken efforts to make sure that people follow lockdown norms.The district has been reporting 230 to 260 positive cases on a daily basis. Once it touched 280 taking the tally to 13,436, making the district on top among the eight central districts in the state.Meanwhile, on Saturday, after several days the number of cases came below 200 in Thanjavur (189). Kumbakonam being a business hub in the district, a large number of people travel to various places from here, particularly to Chennai for business. Traders have a direct connection with Chennai. Officials said this may lead to the number of cases increasing in Thanjavur district.Officials also said that many people are least bothered about wearing face masks. Despite imposing a fine of Rs 200 for not wearing masks, people found roaming around the city without wearing one, they added. However, officials said that the district’s discharge rate is 88%. The fatality of the district is also less than 1%. The occupation of Covid-19 wards in hospitals and Covid-19 care centres is only 30%.Meanwhile, district collector M Govinda Rao said that they have intensified contact tracing and the number of containment zones. “We have intensified our field camps. Wherever a case is reported, we are conducting intensive contact tracing and containment measures are initiated in those areas. Lots of people’s movement is there to Chennai from Kumbakonam. That is also one of the reasons for the spike,” district collector told TOI.The district collector expressed hope that the continuous monitoring process would definitely bring down the number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/daily-testing-raised-to-3k-samples-in-thanjavur/articleshow/78596654.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Bangladeshi woman held for human trafficking||Hyderabad: A couple, including a Bangladeshi woman, was arrested by Rachakonda police for their alleged involvement in human trafficking. According to police, Moyna Akter a Bangladeshi national has been arrested several times for organising prostitution and other offences since 2015. She married G Anjaneyulu in 2017. Anjaneyulu was aware that she was illegally staying in India and had managed to get her a voter ID. Police learnt during the investigation that Moyna was earlier married to a Bangladeshi national but had separated about 10 years back. She then moved to West Bengal along with her two-year-old baby before shifting to Hyderabad. The arrested couple are booked under Section 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery), 471 (forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and Foreigners Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bangladeshi-woman-held-for-human-trafficking/articleshow/78596697.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Trichy||BDU students demand arrest of asst prof for ‘sexual harassment’||Trichy: A section of students staged a protest outside Bharathidasan University (BDU) seeking action against a faculty member who allegedly sexually harassed a research scholar. Students along with family members of the victim gathered in front of the university campus demanding action against the faculty member on Friday. The victim had approached vice chancellor P Manisankar in January complaining against K S Jayachandran, assistant professor in the Bioinformatics department, of sexually harassing her. The vice-chancellor referred her complaint to the internal complaints committee (ICC) which found the accused prima facie guilty of misconduct. Though the ICC report was placed at the recently concluded meeting of the syndicate, it was not discussed as Jayachandran had gone to court on the case. While a case has been registered at the Navalpattu police station based on the complaint of the victim, students who staged protest sought the arrest of the assistant professor. A protesting student said it has been over six months since a complaint was lodged with the university and the police station, but no action had been initiated against the assistant professor. Later in the day, registrar G Gopinath carried out talks with the students and requested them to call of the protest saying the case is in court and appropriate action will be taken based on the court direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-students-demand-arrest-of-asst-prof-for-sexual-harassment/articleshow/78596636.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bird deaths: VZM village to reduce usage of pesticides||Visakhapatnam: The death of hundreds of migratory birds at Chellamnaiduvalasa in Vizianagaram district due to suspected pesticide poisoning has moved some people in the village to launch a campaign on curtailing the use of pesticides in farms. Thousands of migratory birds from Siberia and other parts of the globe arrive in Chellamnaiduvalasa in June every year for nesting. They lay eggs, hatch them in November and leave the village in December. Over 500 birds were found dead near the trees and other places in the village last month. Former sarpanch of Chellamnaiduvalasa village Parinaidu said locals treat the migratory birds as their guests. “We see the death of birds as a bad omen. Excessive use of pesticides in the farms is suspected to be the reason behind the deaths. We have started awareness camps in the village on the need to protect the birds by reducing the use of pesticides. We can’t expect immediate results, but we are confident the villagers will gradually reduce the usage of pesticides and will follow the organic method,” he said. Chellamnaiduvalasa has a population of over 1,200 and most of them are farmers. A veterinary team led by assistant veterinary surgeon Ch Lalitha, head of animal disease diagnostic centre, visited the village and conducted post-mortem on a few dead birds. The samples have been sent to Animal Biological Research Institute in Vijayawada. “We suspect that the birds died after consuming pesticides in the fields. The birds feed on snails that are largely found in the fields. We will get the report soon and chalk out a plan to protect the remaining winged visitors,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bird-deaths-vzm-village-to-reduce-usage-of-pesticides/articleshow/78596684.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad Cantt soon to be covered by CCTV cams||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Cantonment Board is set to get CCTV cameras installed under the ambitious smart city project to maintain checks on the areas and keep a close eye on the movement of unwanted elements. The installation work is set to begin in the coming week for which the strategic locations has been identified by the Aurangabad city police. As of now, the cantonment area does not have any CCTV cameras installed at public places. It is also the area with comparatively lesser number of privately installed CCTV cameras at commercial establishments. Vikrant More, the chief executive officer of the cantonment board, said, “ These CCTV cameras will be installed at strategic locations and will come handy even for the cantonment board.” There have been incidents in the past, where the city police struggled to get direct and indirect evidence for sensitive cases. Nikesh Khatmode Patil, the deputy commissioner of police zone-I, said the cantonment area is one of the most crucial entry and exit points of the city, which makes it essential to monitor it. All the routes leading to Waluj based industrial area, apart from Pune, Mumbai and other interstate national and state highways, pass from this area. The sensitivity surrounding the important establishments in the area including army cantonment, income tax office, regional forensic laboratory, makes it more important for the law enforcement agencies to keep a check on this area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cantt-soon-to-be-covered-by-cctv-cams/articleshow/78595299.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Design student satellites’||Ahmedabad: On the concluding day of World Space Week, Gujarat Council on Science & Technology (GUJCOST) hosted a webinar on theme of ‘Student Satellites’ where experts from SAC-ISRO, PRL and other scientific institutions in and around Ahmedabad had participated. Nilesh Desai, associate director, SAC-ISRO, said that in past few years, several universities and academic institutes have participated in ISRO’s space programmes. “The number however is not encouraging. We urge the students and faculties to grab the opportunity to fulfil the dream of designing a student satellite to advance technology development,” he said. Other panellists including Dr Asha Chhabra and Chirag Dewan from SAC-ISRO talked on the research opportunities and student engagement initiatives by the organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/design-student-satellites/articleshow/78596694.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Nat’l award for Jaisalmer folk artist||Jaisalmer: Renowned devotional folk singer Mahesha Ram Meghwal of Chantagarh village in Jaisalmer district will be felicitated with Loknayak Jayaprakash National Award on October 11. The award is given by Lokanayak Jayaprakash International Studies Development Centre (LNPISDC) to people in different fields. Besides Meghwal, Kathak dancer Rama Das, director Subhash Ghai, lyricist Sameer and author Ajit Rai have also won the award.Chantagarh is a small village around 60km from Jaisalmer. General secretary Abhay Sinha said LNPISDC has been constantly working for promoting the core values and ideologies of renowned social leader Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan. Apart from its many social, economic, environmental and health programmes, the organisation has also been doing a series of educational, cultural and creative works for spreading awareness on cultural conscience among the youth as well as for uplift of the poor and downtrodden sections of society for the last two decades. He said that the award was instituted by LNPISDC three years ago with a vision to identify and recognise outstanding persons of society who have made remarkable contribution on a largescale in their respective fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/natl-award-for-jaisalmer-folk-artist/articleshow/78596688.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi corporations plan to use smog guns & sprinklers, better waste handling||NEW DELHI: To prevent dust emission at landfills during biomining of waste, civic agencies in the city have decided to install anti-smog guns and engage sprinklers. Keeping in view the upcoming winter season when pollution levels are likely to increase, the three municipalities have also finalised measures that were shared during a meeting with Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar.  Track the pollution level in your cityThe joint meeting on Friday was attended by the mayors of north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations. “Besides regular exercise of paving and greening of open areas and roadsides, we have kept targets for systematic processing of waste so that incidents of dumping of garbage or debris on roadsides can be minimised. While the anti-smog gun will be installed at a landfill by October 15, three aerobic drum composters and three bio- methanation plants will be installed for waste processing by December-end. We also aim to achieve 100% segregation of waste at source in 27 municipal wards by December 31. At least 87 sites have been identified for dumping construction and demolition waste,” said north corporation mayor Jai Prakash. There is also a plan to set up a material recovery facility by November 15 in collaboration with Chintan, an NGO, under Zakhira Flyover. “We have already deployed 18 road sweepers and 130 water sprinklers of different capacities. We have also deployed patrolling teams in pollution hotspots,” said a north corporation official. From July 2015 till August 2020, 5,772 challans were issued and Rs 4.8 crore collected from construction sites. For biomass burning, 7,942 challans were issued and Rs 3.2 crore collected. There are six hotspots in north Delhi, including Jahangirpuri, Mundka, Bawana, Narela, Rohini Sector-16 and Wazirpur. The east corporation, which has recently engaged a private concessionaire for door-to-door collection of segregated waste and de-centralised processing, has kept the target of December 31 for covering all 64 wards. “We will try to process the majority of waste and the remaining will go for the centralised process at Ghazipur. Here, we have engaged two sprinklers for mitigating dust pollution,” said an east corporation official. A south corporation official said that 100% treatment of wet waste had started in 12 colonies and 40 other colonies had been provided facility of drum composting. “This will help in minimising transportation of water to a landfill and save fuel. Work has already been awarded for installing a smog gun at the landfill site,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-plan-to-use-smog-guns-sprinklers-better-waste-handling/articleshow/78596707.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 11, 2020||Goa||Goa's covid toll hits 500, state's deaths/mn still highest in India||PANAJI: Goa touched a new low on Saturday after its Covid mortalities touched the 500-mark. The tiny state’s deaths per million, 323, is also among the highest in the country. Goa, with a population of 15.49 lakh, took 143 days to reach its first 100 deaths in the initial days of the pandemic. However, the mortality rate has since risen rapidly, with 100 deaths now reported every fortnight. Goa’s positivity rate, too, has also touched a worrying 30%. This puts Goa’s figures far higher than the national average. On Friday, TOI reported that the national positivity rate is 8.2%, and while Goa has seen 323 deaths per million, the John Hopkins Coronavirus resource centre puts India's national figure at around 79. Even as deaths continue to spike — including those who are “brought dead” without knowing their Covid-19 status — the state has drastically dropped its testing. From aggressively testing an average of 5,300 samples a day in July, Goa’s number fell to 3,000 in August and 2,000 in September. This month, the state is testing even fewer people — an average of 1,600 per day, with its expensive machines lying unutilised, contrary to the strategy of test, track, trace and treat. “Several patients being brought dead or coming to hospital with Covid pneumonia don’t know their status, and have never been tested,” said a doctor working in casualty. “The only way to decrease mortality is to aggressively test, isolate and treat people. Contact tracing to test and isolate contacts and break the chain of transmission is very important.” From conducting solely RT-PCR tests — the gold standard for Covid testing — the state now relies heavily on rapid antigen testing, known for a high percentage of false negatives. Thus, the state misses out on many asymptomatic cases, who end up spreading the infection. Goa medical college’s (GMC) head of pulmonary medicine, Dr Durga Lawande, attributes the deaths to many patients reaching hospital late due to stigma, fear of the consequences of being labelled a Covid patient, or silent hypoxemia — a unique phenomenon to Covid where a patient doesn’t appear breathless or uneasy despite blood oxygen saturation dropping. Many of the patients who have succumbed have been elderly with several comorbidities, besides being tested positive for Covid. “Some are complicated cases of diabetes, hypertension, ischemic heart disease and kidney disease,” said Lawande. “In addition to these, they have Covid, and as a result, their deaths are sometimes fast forwarded. Although Covid is only one of the causes, their deaths are labelled as Covid deaths.” The younger are not being spared either. “Several young patients take Covid lightly and stay home for even eight days with a fever, not believing it could be Covid,” she said. “Once they come in, they have already developed severe bilateral pneumonia, and it’s difficult to save them.” Some experience worsening of symptoms but don’t give importance to it because they get a false sense of security after having tested negative on the antigen test, she added. On Friday, chief minister Dr Pramod Sawant said that the mortality rate from April to September was similar to the same period last year. However, he didn’t take into account the sharp drop in road accident deaths during the lockdown. Sawant also attributed 95% of Covid mortalities to co-morbid conditions, and the other 5% to late reporting. A doctor who worked on the Covid frontline said that if this is the case and the state is allowing home isolation, there must be strict monitoring of persons with comorbid conditions. “Goa has a high incidence of lifestyle diseases, and if co-morbidities are responsible for the deaths, there must be a blanket rule that anyone with co-morbidities must be admitted in a Covid care centre or Covid hospital, where their parameters can be closely monitored,” the doctor said. Aggressive treatment and medication in the first week of infection will also ensure that it doesn’t progress, and bring down mortalities, IMA-Goa president Dr Samuel Arawattigi said. “We are lacking somewhere when it comes to identifying patients who are going from mild to moderate to severe,” he said. Once patients with moderate to severe Covid infection are brought in, oxygenation and ventilation have to be started vigorously the moment they reach casualty, said consulting physician Dr Oscar Rebello. “Oxygen therapy is the key and has to reach a patient in time to save lives. They cannot be kept waiting in casualty,” he said. Rebello also said the high Covid mortality figures in the state could be due to better death reporting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-toll-hits-500-states-deaths/mn-still-highest-in-india/articleshow/78597516.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Facebook ‘friend’ siphons off over Rs 1.6 crore from retd officer||VISAKHAPATNAM: A retired Naval officer from Vizag city was duped off Rs 1.63 crore by cyber criminals who posed as Facebook friends. City police said this is the biggest financial cyber fraud to have been committed till date in Vizag and in the state. The modus operandi of the criminals resembles that adopted in other cybercrimes of a similar nature. The retired officer, who has been a resident of the city for a few years, received a friend request on Facebook in June from a person posing as one Sandra James from the United Kingdom. He accepted the friend request without suspecting anything and a few weeks later, Sandra James started to chat with him. Sandra James then said she wanted to send him expensive gifts. In July, the retired officer received a phone call from another woman, Anitha, who claimed to be calling from the customs department, New Delhi. Anitha said Sandra James had sent a parcel for the officer and asked him to pay Rs 22,500 as clearance charges for claiming the parcel. Believing her, the officer deposited the money in a bank account. Later, he received more phone calls from Anitha and was told the parcels contains pounds worth over Rs 1 lakh, a gold watch, diamond jewellery, an iPhone and Apple laptops, among other gifts. He was asked to pay more money to claim the parcel. The retired officer ended up depositing over Rs 1.6 crore in different bank accounts. When he failed to receive any gift, he realised he had been duped and approached the cybercrimes police station. Speaking to TOI, inspector of cybercrimes police station, RVRK Choudhary said they have registered a case. Though this is not the first honey trap case in the city, it is the biggest cyber fraud in the city and in the state as the victim lost Rs 1.63 crore. The Covid-19 outbreak has also hit investigation, he added. “We have been appealing to netizens to beware of online friends sending you costly gifts as it is fraud by cyber crooks. People have to understand why an unknown online friend would send you costly gifts,” said RVRK Choudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/facebook-friend-siphons-off-over-rs-1-6cr-from-retd-officer/articleshow/78596723.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural reports 205 new cases, 3 deaths||Kolhapur: Solapur rural reported 205 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of confirmed patients to 27,598. Of these, 4,506 are currently active. On the other hand, as many as 394 patients were discharged from various facilities. Three patients, including one man and two women, succumbed to the contagion on Saturday. Of the recent cases reported from rural areas of Solapur, Pandharpur and Malshiras both identified 52 cases each. Barshi and Sangola added 36 and 22 new patients respectively. Pandharpur taluka reported the highest number of patients so far – 5,432 – but Barshi which has identified 5,048 confirmed cases till now, has recorded the highest deaths in Solapur rural. Barshi and Pandharpur had registered 158 and 131 deaths till Thursday. Malshiras taluka has witnessed 4,671 positive cases so far with 87 deaths. North Solapur taluka has the lowest number of cases at 704 along with 30 deaths. Sangola has registered 2,131 positive cases until now along with 27 deaths. Solapur city, on the other hand, registered 52 new cases on Saturday while 76 patients were discharged from various facilities. The city also witnessed one Covid-related death. A 38-year-old woman who tested positive for the contagion, hanged herself at her house in Bhagydaya Nagar. She was brought to the hospital in critical condition and was declared dead later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-reports-205-new-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/78595965.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Trichy||Demand for special trains to Chennai, Bengaluru from Nagai||TRICHY: The Nagore-Nagapattinam Rail Users Association has urged the Southern Railway to operate trains between Karaikal and Chennai and Bengaluru and Karaikal ahead of the festival season, which starts from mid-October. In a representation to the general manager of Southern Railway, secretary of the association M Sithiq said, “We request the authorities to consider operating overnight special express trains from Karaikal to Chennai Egmore daily and also a day time daily special express train between Karaikal and Bengaluru.” These trains will be helpful to the locals of Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts and Karaikal region of Puducherry in the absence of regular train services to Chennai and Bengaluru which are cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic. The special trains should be operated in lieu of daily express trains which were operated to Chennai (train no. 16176/16175) and Bengaluru (train no. 56513/56514) from Karaikal, Sithiq added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-for-spl-trains-to-chennai-bluru-from-nagai/articleshow/78596693.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||MESTA to contest election||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra English School Trustees Association (MESTA) has decided to take part in the upcoming Marathwada graduates’ constituency election. Sarjerao Tayade-Patil, the association’s founder president, said on Saturday that MESTA has decided to contest the election to raise the voice of scores of unemployed graduates. The association has made efforts to enrol least 70,000 graduates in the voters list. He claimed that none of the issues of the schools, especially English-medium, and other non-grant ones were being resolved.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mesta-to-contest-election/articleshow/78595322.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Sakal Maratha demands more seats in govt medical, engineering colleges||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: Sakal Maratha forum has demanded addition of seats in government medical and engineering colleges for the benefit of Maratha students affected by the interim stay granted by Supreme Court over reservation under socially and educationally backward category (SEBC). Due to the demand of the Maratha forum, the state government has postponed the exam of state public service commission. The students of other communities are not happy with the postponement. Rajendra Kondhare, leader of Sakal Maratha forum at Kolhapur on Saturday, said holding exam with 2.5 lakh students will be injustice to those from rural parts in the pandemic situation. When asked whether the Maratha’s will demand postponing of the rounds for the admission to medical and engineering colleges same like the admissions for junior colleges have been postponed, Kondhare said, “We have suggested the government add supernumerary seats to those colleges. It will ensure at least some Maratha students get accommodated. The rest can get private colleges, and the gap in the fees between the government college and the private college will be reimbursed by the government. We are expecting the decision regarding these suggestions in coming four to five days.” Maratha community is divided over seeking benefit of economically weaker section (EWS) category. Kondhare and some of his colleagues fiercely oppose the EWS category, stating it will hamper the pending legal battle over SEBC reservation. “We are expecting the interim stay to be vacated soon. At this juncture, it is not legally okay to get into EWS,” added Kondhare. The state government meanwhile has issued notification on Saturday asking local authorities to resume the issuing of SEBC certificates to Maratha students. The issuing of the SEBC certificates was stopped after the interim stay by SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sakal-maratha-demands-more-seats-in-govt-medical-engineering-colleges/articleshow/78595988.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Commercial vehicle sales continue to dip||AHMEDABAD: With businesses not fully recovering and production levels much below full capacity, the sale of commercial vehicles has continued to take a major hit in September as well. According to data by Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA), the sales of commercial vehicles declined from 4,011 to 2,277 vehicles in September year-on-year. Industry players suggest that transport vehicles are either operating at part capacity with some being off the road. As a result, sale of new vehicles have taken a hit. “Slowdown in business across various sectors such as garments, textiles, chemicals, and white goods, has impacted the sales of commercial vehicles in the state. Though sales have marginally improved over the past two months, the annual decline continues to remain. As demand in the industries has dropped significantly, many vehicles are lying idle and demand for new vehicles has dried up,” said a transport company owner. Commercial vehicle sales failed to revive ever since the lockdown was eased. Data by FADA suggests that commercial vehicle sales showed a whopping 75% decline in July this year against the same period last year. The upcoming festive season is expected to boost demand but that will remain limited to the passenger vehicle segment alone. There will be no significant change as far as the commercial vehicle sector is concerned indicate industry experts. “With banks and NBFCs also gearing up with various festival offers to woo retail customers, auto sales is expected to witness a renewed growth and may close at par with last year. Passenger vehicles and two wheelers are anticipated to lead the way,” reads a statement issued by FADA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/commercial-vehicle-sales-continue-to-dip/articleshow/78596736.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||87% patients recover in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The district reported seven deaths due to Covid-19 in the 24 hours ending on Friday night, taking the total number of casualties to 990. A total of 30,584 patients have recovered from the contagion so far. The district administration said the recovery rate has been impressive as 87% of the total patients have recovered. The district reported 150 fresh Covid patients by Friday. With this, the total number of cases rose to 35,107. There are 3,533 active cases. Of the deceased, which includes six women, six patients succumbed at the government medical college and hospital. A 95-year-old patient died at a private hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/87-patients-recover-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78595313.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Monsoon preparedness in districts reviewed||Madurai: Monitoring officers for various southern districts have been conducting review meetings on the monsoon preparedness in the districts for the past two days. In Ramanathapuram, its monitoring officer Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, conducted a review meeting on monsoon preparedness in the presence of district collector K Veera Raghava Rao. As many as 3500 first responders have been identified in the district to work in teams for immediate rescue operations, 15 zonal level teams led by officials in the cadre of deputy collectors and also in the 429 village panchayats in the district, he said. Thirty two shelters have been identified to house people in the event of floods. Medical teams and required equipment to repair any road damaged during the rains is also constituted, he said. Similarly, monitoring officer for Dindigul, Mangat Ram Sharma conducted a review meeting on Friday, in the presence of district collector M Vijayalakshmi. He said that steps should be taken to identify the electric posts that are in the danger of falling during rains or heavy winds and fix them. All shutters in small dams should be checked and repaired, he said. In Tirunelveli, monitoring officer Apoorva chaired a meeting in the presence of district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. The district has 633 first responders. Stepping up dengue prevention activities was also stressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/monsoon-preparedness-in-districts-reviewed/articleshow/78597802.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Boy injured in ear as teacher slaps him||KOLKATA: A nine-year-old student at a reputable English-medium school in south Kolkata was seriously injured in his ear when his private tutor allegedly slapped him. The Class-IV boy had to be taken to hospital. The alleged incident took place in Picnic Garden on September 20, but the boy’s mother lodged a complaint only on Friday night. Cops at the Kasba police station have registered a case of grievous hurt. The accused is yet to be traced. The mother said the delay in lodging the complaint was because she was getting her son treated. According to the boy’s mother, the tutor, who lived near their house, had begun teaching the child a few weeks before lockdown. He had apparently initially complained to her that her son was inattentive, but she didn’t take it too seriously. On the morning of September 20, when the tutor was teaching the boy, he allegedly hit him so hard that it caused traumatic perforation injury in his left ear, which started bleeding. “Hitting is never an effective way of disciplining a child. Study shows it impacts a child’s mental health and perpetuates the damaging message of violence,” said a counsellor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/boy-injured-in-ear-as-teacher-slaps-him/articleshow/78596746.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||District rejig proposal gains momentum||Visakhapatnam: The reorganisation of districts in the state may happen before the end of the year as the government hopes to complete the process before the next Census is taken up in 2021. No reorganisation can take place once the Census starts. The government has reportedly asked all district collectors to fix boundaries of the new districts that will be carved out of the existing 13 districts. Following bifurcation of undivided Andhra Pradesh in 2013, Telangana got 10 districts which its government later reorganised to 33. The AP government plans to reorganise 13 districts into 25 districts as per Lok Sabha constituencies. The government had formed a committee headed by chief secretary Nilam Sawhney to study the proposal to create new districts. “Higher authorities in the government at Amaravati had already asked the authorities in the districts. Because the Census is a lengthy process which will continue for one-and-a-half years to two years during that time no reorganisation would be allowed. Keeping this in mind, the government is planning to complete formation of new districts by the end of December this year,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity. However, in Araku LS constituency that falls under the jurisdiction of four districts, the government is expected to face administrative difficulties to its plan to form new districts. While Araku LS constituency may be bifurcated into two districts, various tribal associations have raised demands to divide it into three districts, with each Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) constituted as a separate district. Sources said the district administrations is looking into the issue and clarity on the matter is expected next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/district-rejig-proposal-gains-momentum/articleshow/78596742.cms||Siva G
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||3 arrested for robbing Rs 70,000 cash||Kolhapur: Shiroli MIDC police have arrested three people from neighbouring Karnataka state’s Belgavi in connection with a robbery involving Rs 70,000 cash. The suspects have been identified as Kamruddin Nur Ahmed (25), Riyaz Babusab Waddanwar (29) and Abdul Latif Mohmmad (26), all residents of Kittur in Belgavi district. They were nabbed within 48 hours of the incident. Police said that they had recovered stolen cash from the suspects and a motorcycle which the trio used to commit the crime. Chintamani Sanjay Madiwal, a resident of Majrewadi in Shirol taluka, had lodged a complaint with the police in this connection. According to him, suspects approached him regarding the sale of a truck. When he went to meet them at the said location, one of them kept him engaged in conversation while the other two fled with his bag containing cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-arrested-for-robbing-rs-70000-cash/articleshow/78595979.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Even with Covid, March-August deaths this year fewer than 2019||PANAJI: Statistics released by the state government have revealed that Goa’s total mortality rate from March to August (the first six months of the pandemic) this year was less that the corresponding period of 2019. The six months this year saw a mortality rate of 4.08%, with 6,404 deaths, as opposed to the 6,633 deaths during the same period last year, at a rate of 4.26. However, the statistics make no mention of cause of deaths. For instance, it doesn’t take into account the long lockdown which brought road traffic accident fatalities down by 25%. One senior doctor at GMC told TOI it would be interesting to know how many people died due to pneumonia before the pandemic arrived in corresponding periods. “I’m sure the number of pneumonia deaths since March will be much higher than before,” he said. “The deaths due to pneumonia (now called Covid pneumonia) would be around 60% higher.” On Saturday, Goa’s Covid death toll touched the 500-mark as eight more people succumbed to the virus. Of these, 235 were reported in September. As many as 70 deaths have been reported till October 10. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said on Friday that there was no variation in the mortality rate during the first six months prior to the pandemic and the six months of the pandemic. A senior doctor attached to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, said it needs to be seen through what prism the death statistics are read. The government may be dishing out data to quell panic among people, he said. “It is a fact that people having co-morbid conditions and those above 60 years of age are still vulnerable to the virus,” he said, adding that The doctor said that the virus has to be dealt with seriously since even after cure, people face longterm effects of the disease, as well as the chance of reinfection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/even-with-covid-mar-aug-deaths-this-year-fewer-than-19/articleshow/78597522.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Varsities plan online courses to fill exchequer||Mysuru: After being barred from offering distance education courses, universities in the state have decided to foray into online courses expecting a huge revenue potential. The universities are planning to offer tailor made courses for international students. Kuvempu University in Shivamogga, which is facing an annual revenue loss of Rs 20 crore due to cancellation of distance education courses, has decided to offer 13 online courses. Among them, three are undergraduate courses while 10 are postgraduate courses. “October 15 is the last date for submission of application for University Grants Commission (UGC) to take approval. We are planning to launch 13 courses including BA, BCom and BBA. Those courses don’t require labs and can be offered online. We are partnering with many agencies to attract students. We are using our state-of-the-art multimedia lab to offer video classes. Students from any part of the world can join our courses,” said registrar SS Patil. “We are confident of a good response from students. As per UGC guidelines 2017, we are offering only those courses which are offered in regular mode by the university,” he said. In Mysuru, University of Mysore (UoM) is getting ready to offer 13 online courses including 10 PG courses, said registrar R Shivappa. “M.Com, MCA, MSc (IT), MBA, MBA (dual specialisation), MBA (finance), MBA (HRM), MBA (marketing management), MBA (operation management) and MBA (supply management) are the proposed PG courses. These courses are tailor made for international students. Those who fulfil our eligibility criteria can join our courses from anywhere in the world. From admission to test, all the process will be online,” he said. “Online courses have huge demand. They will help students minimise their travel and are beneficial to students in all ways,” he added. Karnataka State Higher Education Council executive director Gopalakrishna Joshi said now only KSOU can offer distance education courses. “However, universities can offer online courses at their level,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/varsities-plan-online-courses-to-fill-exchequer/articleshow/78595980.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 11, 2020||Nashik||Three held for killing man over brawl||NASHIK: The Nashik rural police on Friday arrested three people in connection with a murder in Vadner Khakurdi, near Malegaon, on October 5. The suspects have been identified as Chetan Pawar (25), Heramb Sonawane (19) and Umesh Patil (26), all residents of Himmat Nagar, Camp, Malegaon. The police said that on October 5, Kishor Prabhakar Jagtap (31), resident of Himmat Nagar, Malegaon was found dead by the roadside in the Vadner Khadkurdi area. A case of murder was registered with the Vadner Khakurdi police. Taking serious note of the incident, on the instructions of superintendent of police Sachin Patil, additional SP Sharmishtha Gharge Walavalkar, who has temporary charge of Malegaon additional SP and SDPO Malegaon and other senior officials rushed to the spot and instructed the Vadner Khakurdi police about the course of investigation. Investigation revealed that the day before the murder, that is on October 4, Jagtap had an argument with some people. The rural police swung into action and identified three people involved in the argument. The three people initially tried claimed innocence in the matter. After sustained questioning, the three suspects confessed to the crime and told the police that they had murdered Jagtap since he had abused them under the influence of alcohol. The trio beat him up and choked him to death after which they took the body to a deserted place in Kukane village and dumped it along the roadside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/three-held-for-killing-man-over-brawl/articleshow/78595991.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Marathon organised in Ajmer to spread awareness on coronavirus||Ajmer: Over hundred participants took part in a 5k marathon organised to spread awareness against coronavirus in Ajmer on Saturday morning. People were also asked to follow Covid guidelines and exercise regularly to boost immunity. In the coming days, the district administration will also organise cycling and football matches to create awareness in the city.The marathon was organised by the Ajmer Municipal Corporation as part of the ongoing awareness campaign. "Our aim is to bring people of Ajmer together to launch a collective fight against the coronavirus," said Devika Tomar, deputy Commissioner, (administration), AMC. She further said, using mask must become a habit and maintaining social distance be added as a manner. Many youths and veterans participated in the marathon that started from Patel Stadium and culminated at New Choupati near Regional College. The first three participants were honoured with shields. "We are encouraging people to participate in such programmes. Around 123 people participated in the marathon. A cycling competition will be orgainised on Sunday," said Gajender Singh Ralawata, deputy commissioner (development), AMC.The awareness campaign had kicked off on October 2 and AMC initiated various activities. The corporation also took to social media engaging people in various competitions, especially youths and students. Posters are also being pasted outside many houses in the city stating not to enter without a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/marathon-organised-in-ajmer-to-spread-awareness-on-coronavirus/articleshow/78596739.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Dwarka residents ask for help to keep 380 trees alive||NEW DELHI: Members of Dwarka’s Residents Forum for Sector 22 and 23 wrote to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and Delhi government on Saturday, asking for assistance and care for around 380 trees transplanted in Dwarka’s Sctor 23 district park as part of the NHAI Dwarka Expressway project. The letter stated that while the trees, transplanted in January, were faring well with 90% growing new leaves, lack of care, watering or providing them essential nutrients through chemical treatments has left several trees with a termite problem and withering leaves. The forum says while monsoon rains helped them, no watering has been done for months and they will require attention in order to survive the winter. “This is to bring to your attention that the trees transplanted by you in the district park, Sector 23, Dwarka are dying at a fast rate. While initially when the trees were transplanted in the month of January and February 2020, these were doing very well and almost 90% of them had regenerated. At that time, these were also being looked after regularly. But, for over a period of last about two months or so, there is no one looking after them. The pits are dry as these have not been watered since the last rains are over and many have developed a termite problem,” said Praveen Dutt, secretary of the forum in his letter. Dutt added that every passing day, two to three of the trees are dying, and around 50-60 trees may soon die if no immediate care is provided to them. Bijender Sehrawat from the Pochanpur Gram Sabha in Dwarka, which lies adjacent to Sector 23, said while the initial results were positive, the trees have been abandoned and not only do they require water, but adequate nutrients and insecticides to get them through the winter. “A one-year window is crucial for any transplanted tree and some have dried up already,” said Sehrawat. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday had announced that Delhi’s draft tree-transplantation policy had been approved by the cabinet, under which it would become mandatory for at least 80% of the trees to be felled for any development project to be transplanted elsewhere. Under NHAI’s project, over 5,000 trees had to be transplanted. Kejriwal had stated at least 80% percent of the transplanted trees have to survive and a tree-transplantation cell was also being created under the forest department to oversee problems related to this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dwarka-residents-ask-for-help-to-keep-380-trees-alive/articleshow/78596753.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Elderly woman robbed of gold chain in Turkapally||Hyderabad: An elderly woman was allegedly robbed by an unidentified man in her Turkapally home in Yadadri police limits. According to police, Pushpammma (76) and her 80-year-old husband were sleeping inside the bedroom when a person entered the house and stole a four tola gold chain at around 3am on Saturday. The couple alerted the cops at 6am and a case was registered. “We have found no signs of break-in or marks on the compound wall. The complainant has alleged that the offender had threatened them. She gave away her gold chain. However, her gold earrings and silver anklets were not stolen,” said Yadadri inspector G Narsaiah. Police checked CCTV camera footages in the nearby area to identify the offender. “No CCTV cameras are facing the house, while some are located close to the main road. We have taken up the investigation,” Narsaiah said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elderly-woman-robbed-of-gold-chain-in-turkapally/articleshow/78596745.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad admin told to find land for Ayush hospital||Aurangabad: Guardian minister Subhash Desai has directed the Aurangabad district administration to look for an ideal place for setting up of Ayush Hospital within a month. Addressing the district planning and development meeting on Friday, Desai said that the Covid-19 recovery rate in the district has reached 87% mark and concerted efforts need to be undertaken to wipe of the contagion from the district.The minister said that though provisions have been made preferably for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, the government would also provide funds for other sectors like agriculture, education and rural development to carry out necessary works. Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel drew Desai’s attention towards the fact that Ayush fund has already been sanctioned for setting up of a hospital for women and newborns and that it requires at least 2 acres of land. He demanded the minister to set up the hospital within the city limits. Following this, the minister directed the district collector to search an appropriate place for the hospital within a month.Meanwhile, former speaker Haribhau Bagade expressed his displeasure stating that the funds meant for special groups under Prime Minister housing schemes have lapsed as they remained unutilized in the district. He demanded the administration to focus its attention on completing other schemes. MLA Atul Save, on the other hand, drew attention of the meeting towards the bad state of security arrangement on the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) premises as well as the poor shape of city roads. Horticulture minister Sandeepan Bhumre, who represents Paithan constituency, said that efforts would be made to submit new proposals for betterment of roads in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-admin-told-to-find-land-for-ayush-hospital/articleshow/78595327.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Hotel & restaurant association organises RT-PCR tests for staff||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Hotel & Restaurant Association has started conducting RT-PCR test camps for staff and senior managers of its member hotels in association with the municipal administration, said AHRA president Harpreet Singh Nirh said on Saturday. “We have also approached the Aurangabad District Hoteliers Association (ADHRA) and they too have agreed and started conducting tests of the staff of their respective members,” Singh Nirh said.There are about 200 members of both the associations — AHRA and ADHRA, said Sunil Chaudhary secretary of AHRA. Officials concerned, including district collector Sunil Chavan, police commissioner Nikhil Gupta and municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, have been informed of the development, he said. In addition, camps are being held at every hotel under the watch of these officials.“As we have opened the door to our guests locally and internationally, the hotels in Aurangabad are now committed to delivering upgraded luxury experiences that address the most important needs of well-being and safety of the guests as well as staff through responsible practices that are immensely relevant in the unprecedented circumstances we face today,’’ said Nirh, adding that “We are already following the hygiene protocol earmarked by various authorities, including the ministry of Health and Family Welfare, tourism authorities of both the centre and the state, the Ministry of Home Affairs and also the FSSAI Covid guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hotel-restaurant-association-organises-rt-pcr-tests-for-staff/articleshow/78595330.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Raj BJP chief attacks CM over rising crimes||Jaipur: Raising concern over spiralling crimes in Rajasthan, state BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday said chief minister Ashok Gehlot has no right to continue on his seat. He was speaking to mediapersons here during his one-day visit to the city. Poonia said crimes have increased in Rajasthan during the tenure of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. As per NCRB data, state has witnessed 4.35 lakh cases which include over 3 lakh cases under sections of IPC. Over 10% of them were heinous crimes. Atrocities against women shot up 14.8% and the crime rate has gone up 59% in 2019 as compared to 2008, Poonia alleged.Poonia alleged that the state government if concealing real data on Covid-19. “The state government is playing the game of covering up data on Covid-19 deaths and infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-bjp-chief-attacks-cm-over-rising-crimes/articleshow/78596747.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||PM meet on mining delayed as Union mines minister tests +ve||PANAJI: The two crucial meetings on resumption of mining activities in the state, which were supposed to be held in Delhi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi before October 15, have been postponed after Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi tested positive for coronavirus. Speaking to TOI, Sawant said that a team of state government officials, including the director of mines and geology, was supposed to travel to Delhi for the first meeting, but it was cancelled after Joshi contracted the infection. “I was supposed to go to Delhi on October 13 and 14 to attend the second meeting, but it has now been delayed,” Sawant said. On September 30, Sawant met the prime minister in Delhi and said that Modi would have a meeting with bureaucrats and another political one to discuss and resolve the state’s mining issue. Sawant had said that the meets will happen before October 15, and that he was looking forward to a positive outcome in the coming days. Sawant explained in detail the mining issue to Modi, that if the industry doesn’t start, the state’s economy would be in the doldrums. He had appealed to Modi to bring in a legislative cure to restart the industry. “The PM is positive about restarting mining activities in the state,” he had said. The CM had urged Joshi to permit a deemed second renewal, so that mining can start and continue till 2027. The state had earlier urged the Centre to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. Sawant had said that if the erstwhile Congress government completed second renewal process in 2007, the industry wouldn’t have had to grind to a halt. There has been no mining activity in Goa since March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government had filed a review petition on February 7, 2018, in the apex court against the same order. When Sawant met Modi in March, he had urged the PM to file an affidavit before the Supreme Court in support of resumption of mining in the state. The state has been holding meetings with Union ministers to resolve the issue. Two mining companies had approached the SC for extension of mining leases till 2037. The state government had subsequently maintained that the mining leases could be extended up to 2037, as per the contention of the companies, but that it would abide by the decision of the court. It also said that the mining companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8(A) of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they were entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pm-meet-on-mining-delayed-as-union-mines-min-tests-ve/articleshow/78597523.cms||Murari Shetye
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||13-year-old girl shot dead in Alwar, accused at large||ALWAR: A 13-year-old girl was shot dead in Alwar’s Malakheda police station area, when she had gone to a nearby shop to buy groceries. The deceased was identified as Khushi Meo, while a case has been lodged by her father against the two brothers Mehboob and Ansar, who own the grocery shop. Sajjan Kumar, SHO, Malakheda police station said, “The girl had gone to the shop when one of the accused shot her with a country-made pistol. The bullet went through her eye and she died on the spot. We reached the spot as soon as we received the information and her body was kept in the mortuary after which the post-mortem was done.” Cops have registered a case, though they are yet to establish whether it was an accident or if the girl was shot intentionally. The father, in his complaint, wrote that when Khushi went to the store, the two brothers were sitting there and when the child asked for household items, Ansar allegedly shot her. Following this, they allegedly kept the body on a charpoy and fled from the spot. The crime spot was also covered in blood and at the time of murder, the victim’s father was out for work. When the villagers saw Khushi’s body on the bed, they informed the police. At present, there is no report of sexual assault in the matter and the victim’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy. “We are trying to determine the reason behind the murder which would tell us if it was a spur-of-the-moment crime or pre-mediated. Our team is looking for the two accused. Their arrest and interrogation should give us the motive behind the murder, though we will also question the victim’s family to ascertain if they had any grievances against the accused,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-yr-old-girl-shot-dead-in-alwar-accused-at-large/articleshow/78596743.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Youth dies after getting cheated in suicide pact||VIJAYAWADA: A youth died by consuming weedicide-laced alcohol as part of a suicide pact that he had with his friend at Edlapadu in Guntur district on Saturday. The two had decided to commit suicide together after their dispute over a girl went public. According to Edlapadu police, Prem Chand, who was already married, was in a relationship with another married woman. Later, his friend Gopi Verma entered a relationship with the same woman. There was an altercation after which village elders intervened. Both friends then met up again and decided to end their lives. Little did Gopi Verma know that Prem Chand had no intention of keeping up the pact. On Saturday morning, Gopi Verma drank the liquor after which Prem Chand revealed his real intentions. Gopi Verma was rushed to a hospital where he revealed the matter to the police. A case of murder was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youth-dies-after-getting-cheated-in-suicide-pact/articleshow/78596756.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Public prosecution to be made more effective, says AG||Hyderabad: Advocate general BS Prasad has assured the public prosecutors (PPs) working in various criminal courts that the state is committed to the cause of ensuring speedy justice and strengthening the infrastructure in the offices of the PPs. The AG who held a meeting with 50 PPs at the state bar council office said that there was a need to revamp the system of public prosecution to make it more effective. Scores of PPs who participated in the meet narrated their problems like lack of sufficient space for them to function in the current offices. The need to expeditiously clearing the chargesheets, timely furnishing of the relevant material, etc, too were discussed. It can be recalled that the high court a few days ago had directed the state government to fill all the vacant PP posts in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/public-prosecution-to-be-made-more-effective-says-ag/articleshow/78596760.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||17-yr-old girl ‘ends life’ in Jhalawar||Kota: A 17-year-old girl from SC community and a student of Class XII allegedly committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling fan in her room while the family members were away near Madarikha Talab area under Jhalawar city police station on Friday night.On the report by the deceased’s parents, police have booked two youths of two nearby villages for abetment of suicide under Section 306 of IPC and Section 3 of SC/ST Act. The body was handed over to family members after postmortem on Saturday morning. Failure in love is reportedly stated to be the reason behind the extreme step by the minor girl, however, no suicide note was recovered from her possession. “A 17-year-old girl, identified as Puja Kumari Bairwa, a student of Class 12 and resident of Madarikha Talab allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself with a saree from the ceiling fan of her room around 8pm on Friday while the family members were away,” said Balbir Singh, circle inspector (CI), Jhalawar city police station. When the family members returned home later at night, they found Puja hanging, he added. The parents in their report to the police named two youths identified as Pankaj Lodha of Devdungri village and Raj Patidar of Badi Raipura village. They alleged that Pankaj had called Puja on her mobile on Thursday and even brought Raj Patidar on conference call and forced her to speak to him due to which their daughter sunk into depression and took the extreme step, the CI said. Police are yet to investigate the reason behind the suicide, he further said.  On the basis of the report, police have booked the two youths for abetment of suicide under Section 306 of IPC and Section 3 of SC/ST Act and initiated investigation, he added. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem by medical board on Saturday morning, he added. Initial inquiry into the matter revealed the deceased girl was having an affair with one of the two accused youths, Raj Patidar and she had been in depression and in disheartened state for past some days as she had come to know that the youth was going to be engaged to some other girl, a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-yr-old-girl-ends-life-in-jhalawar/articleshow/78596754.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy writes to CJI about some judges||VIJAYAWADA: The ongoing war of words between the Andhra Pradesh government and the judiciary took a turn for the worse on Saturday after chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to Chief Justice of India, Justice S A Bobde complaining against a senior Supreme Court judge and some AP high court judges. Jagan has urged the CJI to “consider initiating such steps as may considered fit and proper, to ensure that the state judiciary’s neutrality is maintained”. Copies of the letter were released to reporters on Saturday night by advisor to the state government and former chief secretary of AP, Ajeya Kallam.  The letter was dated October 6, the day Jagan had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the state’s various issues and release of funds promised under AP Reorganisation Act. Kallam said it was submitted to the court on October 8. In the annexure to the letter, Jagan expressed “pain and anguish” that the “august institution of the high court is being used to destabilise and topple the democratically elected government”. He submitted an annexure pointing out instances of how matters important to an opposition party had been allocated to select judges in the high court. Jagan referred to the investigation launched by the state government against former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu in the building of Amaravati. Referring to the harsh observations of the high court on a PIL seeking probe into the death of former registrar general allegedly due to Covid-19, Jagan said the advocate-general brought to the notice of the HC that it is unfairly hostile to the state government. Then the standing counsel of the high court offered to file an amended paragraph in his petition. Jagan also referred to the orders of the high court on issues ranging from fire mishap at a Covid-19 care centre to arrest of Naidu in Visakhapatnam and Covid-19 guideline violations by YSRCP MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-complains-to-cji-about-1-sc-some-hc-judges/articleshow/78597532.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Youth held for provocative messages on social media||KOTA: Kota rural police on Saturday arrested a 25-year-old youth from Sultanpur town of the district and seized his mobile phone for allegedly posting provocative messages against a particular religion. Waqar Younis, a resident of Sultanpur town, filed a complaint on Friday alleging that he received a provocative and objectionable message on his social media account from Pawan Jangid, said Kota rural SP Sharad Choudhary. Younis further stated in his complaint that the message hurt his sentiments and it could spoil social harmony. Acting on the complaint, police lodged a case under Section 295 of IPC against Jangid and initiated an investigation into the matter, the SP said. A police team led by Sultanpur SHO Chhuttanlal arrested Jagid on Saturday and seized his mobile phone which was used to post provocative messages on social media, he added. SP Choudhary appealed to people not to post and share on social media any message that could spoil social harmony or hurt public sentiment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-held-for-provocative-messages-on-social-media/articleshow/78596757.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Temples struggle to enforce distancing in festive season||Madurai: Large crowds thronged temples in Madurai city and suburbs on Saturday, it being the last auspicious Saturday in the month of Puratasi. Though many devotees wore masks, few seemed to care for physical distancing, indicating how crowd management is going to be a major problem for temples this festive season.The special pujas in temples, especially Vishnu temples, on Saturdays in Puratasi month are very popular among devotees and this year was no exception. The temples saw a good turnout as the month began just as the government gave permission for reopening them to the public after the lockdown. In the first few days, the temple administrations were able to ensure that the devotees complied with Covid-19 prevention norms and wore masks, sanitized their hands and maintained social distancing. However, there was no social distancing in many of the temples for the special Saturday services in the past four weeks.``It is difficult to make people understand that they would have to take turns to see the pujas performed to the deities. They jostle with each other to get a view,’’ said Krishnan, a priest at a temple. Tamil Nadu Temple Employees Association president S Shaji Rao says that the inability to control crowds is prompting many temples to stall rituals like `Kollu’ during Saraswathi puja, in order to control the crowds. “Though the rule says that people above 60 should not be allowed, it is mostly aged people who come to the temple. Without proper IDs, they claim to be below 60 and demand permission. We cannot deny it because this also is a sentimental issue,’’ he said.Online registrations are also not helping many temples that implemented it as people who are not tech savvy turn up claiming ignorance about it. The only solution is to restrict the number of entries by conveying if the day’s quota is full, through an SMS, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temples-struggle-to-enforce-distancing-in-festive-season/articleshow/78597803.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Locals step up to make Mandrem hill green again||PANAJI: For over three years, a group of young men led by college teacher Rudresh Mhamal have been making their way up the Mandrem hilltop every Sunday morning. Since June 2017, this group has planted around 2,500 saplings of indigenous tree species on the once-barren hilltop. Every Sunday, Mhamal and his friends or students spend around three hours watering, preparing water harvesting trenches or cutting the grass around these saplings. Although the initiative was started by Mhamal, it is now the collective dream of the village to see the Mandrem hilltop green again. The panchayat, too, passed a resolution at a 2018 gram sabha to carry out afforestation work here. As it was government land, locals took into confidence officials of the forest department, the Goa state biodiversity board, and the board’s village biodiversity management committee. “Most of us come from farming families,” said Mhamal. “But over the years, this coastal belt started getting crowded with tourism-related activities. We realised that our generation is not able to recognise the medicinal plants around us, nor were these plants easily available anymore. The wild fruits we used to pluck for the matoli during Ganesh Chaturthi were also not found locally any longer.” Mhamal began his work of planting saplings in Mandrem in 2010, starting with spare spaces in the backyards of his friends, neighbours and other villagers. His initiative received a boost when Mhamal gathered his friends to collaborate with the forest department to help line the Mandrem coast with 700 Casuarina saplings. “I work at Vidya Prabodhini college in Porvorim, and I took help from the college’s NSS volunteers and other locals to begin the plantation drive atop the Mandrem hill,” he said. “Initially, we did not succeed, as it (Mandrem) is a highly-commercialised tourist location now; many would go there in the evenings to drink, and the saplings would be destroyed.” But over the years, he learnt that if his project was to take off, it required backing from the community, the panchayat, and the village biodiversity management committee. “Every Sunday, we spend time from 8am to 11am atop the hill,” said Vasant Narulkar, one of the volunteers. “To start with, 70 saplings were planted. The saplings are procured from the biodiversity board and are only of indigenous varieties like aamla, jamun, etc, which once existed here but are no longer seen here due to overexploitation in the past ten years.” Once the saplings in a patch are mature enough to survive on their own, the group moves on to another patch. “It is a 45-degree hill, and we had to dig trenches to retain rainwater for irrigation,” Mhamal said. “The plants have to be watered by us from January to June. In summer, we have to cut the grass so no one burns the dry grass and harms the saplings, and we plant new saplings once the monsoon arrives. This year itself, we have planted 1,200 saplings.” Some Sundays, Mhamal finds himself checking on the plants alone, but he sticks to this ritual, whether or not he has help. “Seeing our work in the area, my group ‘Tree of Hope Challenge’, made up of around 30 persons, has now been called by a government body to help monitor a project of replenishing vegetation on the Mandrem coast which helps retain the sand dunes,” said Mhamal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-step-up-to-make-mandrem-hill-green-again/articleshow/78597526.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Only 33% hosp beds occupied by Covid patients in Jaipur, Jodhpur||JAIPUR: The number of serious Covid-19 patients who require hospitalisation is gradually decreasing across the state. Merely 33% hospital beds are occupied by Covid patients in Jaipur and Jodhpur, which boast of maximum number of active cases in Rajasthan. TOI on Saturday spoke to the health department authorities and doctors engaged in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “On September 24, Rajasthan had 18,993 active cases, with 10,576 people under home isolation while 5,516 were admitted to the hospitals without oxygen while 2,902 were on oxygen support at various hospitals across the state. However, after almost 15 days on October 9, we had 21,398 active cases in the state out of which 15,719 people are under home isolation, 3,707 are in hospitals across the state without oxygen support, while 1,972 are in hospitals on oxygen support. These figures clearly say that people requiring hospitalisation are decreasing,” Akhil Arora, principal secretary, medical and health, told TOI while quoting the figures. Also, various hospitals are seeing a decline in the admission of patients. “Out of 4,135 beds in various hospitals across Jaipur only 1,392 are occupied. So, we are left with nearly 2,743 beds in Jaipur which include 412 ICU beds,” said Dr Narottam Sharma, chief medical and health officer, Jaipur. Also, patients complaining of severe pneumonia are also dipping. “There is also a drop in the patients coming with severe pneumonia after Covid-19 which is also indicating that fatality is decreasing. Earlier, people with very mild symptoms also were reserving hospital beds which is no longer the case, so the occupancy at hospitals is decreasing,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital, who is also in-charge of RUHS. The medical teams who are in touch with the patients under home isolation are observing that their fever is healing after three days of medication. “Initially, people under home isolation were complaining of fever for at least six days. But now fever is subsiding in merely three days in many patients,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-33-hosp-beds-occupied-by-covid-patients-in-jaipur-jodhpur/articleshow/78596761.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||Minor drop witnessed in number of positive cases, toll stands at 1,636||Jaipur: A minor drop was seen in the number of Covid-19 cases on Saturday, when 2,123 cases were reported in state, which took the cumulative count to 1,56,908. Also, comparatively fewer cases (365) were reported in Jaipur. Though Jaipur’s total count was 25,758 out of which the city is left with 9,083 active cases. Also, 15 deaths were reported, which took the death count to 1,636. Moreover, the number patients who require hospitalization is also decreasing. The mortality rate in the state is now 1.04 per cent while the mortality rate in Jaipur is nearly 1.31 per cent. “The measures like remdesivir, plasma therapy, prone position therapy are yielding good results and the fatality is decreasing. Also, we have seen a significant drop in patients having severe pneumonia symptoms,” Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent SMS Hospital told TOI on Saturday. Out of the 365 cases in Jaipur, 38 were reported from Mansarovar, Sanganer (23), Jhotwara (23), Renwal (22), Jagatpura (16) and 10 cases were reported from Pratap Nagar. “There are camps being held across the city in which people are coming in big numbers to get themselves tested. Timely tracing and identification of cases is the need of the hour to contain Covid in the city,” said an official with the health department. Apart from Jaipur, the districts where 300 or more cases were reported were: Jodhpur with 349 cases and Bikaner where 300 cases were reported. Also, Alwar saw 204 cases on Saturday. Around 2,209 people were discharged from hospitals across the state, which included 512 patients from Jaipur, 293 from Alwar, 199 from Bhilwara, 141 from Bikaner, 128 from Ajmer and 100 from Jodhpur. Two deaths each were reported from Ajmer and Dungarpur, while one death each was reported from Banswara, Baran, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Kota, Rajsamand and Sikar districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-drop-witnessed-in-number-of-positive-cases-toll-stands-at-1636/articleshow/78596765.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||2 held with smack worth Rs 60 lakh||Dehradun: In a major crackdown on the sale of narcotics in the state capital, the Dehradun police on Saturday arrested two drug suppliers and seized smack worth Rs 60 lakh in the international market from their possession. Both the accused are Moradabad residents, who brought drugs from Bareilly and supplied it to peddlers, who further sold it to their clients, especially students, in Dehradun. The two accused have been identified as – 20-year-old Vimal Kumar and 26-year-old Pushpendra Singh. While Vimal is a BA student, Pushpendra repairs electronic equipment for a living. On ground of suspicion, the police team questioned the two men near ISBT under Patel Nagar police station of Dehradun. “They failed to give proper responses to the questions of our police team. Following which, they were checked and the narcotics was seized from their possession,” said DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi. The official added, “They admitted that the drugs were purchased from Bareilly and that they had come to Dehradun to supply it further to the peddlers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-held-with-smack-worth-rs-60-lakh/articleshow/78595368.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Will ensure removal of encroachments: TSWB||Hyderabad: Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) here on Saturday made it clear that the process of removing encroachments from Waqf lands would be ensured with immediate cancellation of registrations. Waqf Board officials were on inspections to identify abandoned and neglected properties in Hyderabad and Cyberabad limits. They have warned to take legal action against land grabbers who continued their trend to occupy Waqf lands unlawfully. Mohammed Saleem, chairman of TSWB, accompanied with concerned department officials, visited the grabbed lands at certain places in Hyderabad. Following inspection, Mohammed Saleem told media that Waqf Board, with the help of police, inspected Waqf lands and the mosque located inside the International School premise at Shaikpet. The mosque, said to be notified in gazette no. 26-C, was built during Qutb Shahi period and has been abandoned for years. However it is likely to open for prayers very soon. “TSWB is committed to safeguard and reclaim Waqf properties with the help of police and other departments. Unlawful registrations will be cancelled as early as possible. Also, abandoned century old mosques will be rehabilitated and the protection of all Waqf lands will be out top priority," said Mohammed Saleem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-ensure-removal-of-encroachments-tswb/articleshow/78596774.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Smart city work in Chithirai streets will be over by Dec: Min||Madurai: The work being carried out in Chithirai streets around the Meenakshi Amman temple under the smart city scheme will be completed by December, said minister for cooperation, Sellur K Raju.The minister said this after inspecting the projects such as cobble stone laying work in Chithirai street, construction of storm water drains and installation of ornamental street lights on Saturday. Raju said that the cobble stone and storm water drain works are being carried out at Rs 8.57 crore. The storm water collected through the drains will be let into the Vaigai river, just like the drainage system that existed during the Pandya era, he said.The work on installing about 148 street lights to enhance the beauty of the city and to attract tourists, and ornament lights in Chithirai street, would be completed before Diwali, he said. Smart city work carried out in Masi streets will come to a halt in a week’s time and will resume only after Diwali, to facilitate shopping.All the projects carried out under the scheme will be completed and brought to public use before April next year, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/smart-city-work-in-chithirai-streets-will-be-over-by-dec-min/articleshow/78597807.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||3 held as Doon police busts IPL betting racket, Rs 25 lakh seized||Dehradun: Three persons were held by city police on Saturday for inviting bets on the ongoing IPL matches. Besides documents and diaries, Rs 25.59 lakh in cash was seized from the possession of the accused. The arrested persons are from Khurbura areas of the state capital. The accused have been identified as brother duo Ajay Jaiswal and Hariom, and Chirag Chaddha. While eight cases have been filed against Jaiswal, his brother Hariom has been named in four cases. All these cases against the brother duo are registered in different police stations of Dehradun. DIG Arun Mohan Joshi said, “The Kotwali police received inputs that Ajay, who was earlier named in cases for organising illegal bets, was running an online betting racket on the IPL matches from his residence.” Subsequently, a team headed by SP City Shweta Choubey was constituted and the raid was conducted. “During the raid, four persons were found in a room of the house. They were organising bets on the match between Rajasthan Royals and Delhi Capitals,” the SSP said. While one person managed to escape the spot, three others were caught. “We are going through the documents, the diaries, and the registers that we have seized from them to get into the depth of the matter,” he said. The official added, “We are also going through the phone call records to find out those who were involved in the crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-held-as-doon-police-busts-ipl-betting-racket-rs-25-lakh-seized/articleshow/78595379.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 11, 2020||Jaipur||6 mths on, Double Decker runs with 168 passengers||Jaipur: One of the most popular trains on Jaipur-Delhi route — Double Decker superfast — got a lukewarm response when it restarted operations from Jaipur railway station on Saturday. Only 168 passengers boarded the train, against its capacity of nearly 1,500 passengers. TOI on Saturday morning visited railway station to see the response. “We got 107 passengers from Jaipur Junction railway station while 61 boarded the train from Gandhi Nagar,” said Sunil Beniwal, chief public relations officer, NWR. Though the number of passengers was very low as the train resumed services after six months, the passengers were satisfied with the arrangements. “Everything is clean and most importantly, there is no rush at the railway station. I have travelled a lot in this train. Hopefully, I will continue to do so,” said Nikita Agarwal, who works in a multi-national company based at Gurugram and was travelling in C-3 coach of the train. While most of the passengers were wearing masks, many of them were also wearing face shields and were carrying sanitisers. Railway authorities stated that the train will gradually pick up passenger load.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-mths-on-double-decker-runs-with-168-passengers/articleshow/78596770.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Private tutor held for rape of teen||KOLKATA: A private tutor, Bipul Chandra Biswas, along with his friend, allegedly raped his 14-year-old student for three consecutive days since Wednesday, filmed the act on their smartphones and threatened to upload the video online if she raised her voice. Biswas, a resident of Barasat, was arrested on Saturday though the police are still looking for his friend. But Biswas’s wife refuted the allegations and said, “My husband is innocent. He was framed as he is a political activist in the area.” According to residents of the area, Biswas, a resident of Subhaspally, has been married for nearly eight years and has a six-year-old son. A local said Biswas used to visit the home of the Class-IX student to teach her. “On Wednesday, the tutor asked the girl to accompany him to a lawyer, apparently for a correction in her birth certificate. The girl and her family didn’t suspect anything. But instead of going to the lawyer’s place, he, with the help of his friend, forcibly took her to an abandoned house, where the two sexually abused her,” a relative of the girl said. The two allegedly filmed the act on their phones and threatened to upload the video if she complained. The accused allegedly raped her again on Thursday and on Friday. The incident came to light on Friday evening, when the survivor returned home late. “We found her traumatized. On being repeatedly asked what had happened, she broke down and narrated her ordeal. We never imagined that Biswas, our neighbour, could do this,” the girl’s father said. As the news of the alleged assault spread, angry residents barged into Biswas’s house on Saturday morning and vandalized it. They dragged Biswas out of his house and beat him up before handing him to the police. A senior officer investigating the case said, “The girl’s statement has been recorded and she has been sent for medical examination. Biswas has been remanded in police custody for five days.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-tutor-held-for-rape-of-teen/articleshow/78596790.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||NGRI to study kinematics of Himalayas to identify quake hazard||Over the last 60 years, the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) has contributed to earthquake risk seismic zoning, aquifer mapping, diamond findings and research in the field of earth sciences. On its diamond jubilee, institute directorDr VM Tiwarispeaks to U Sudhakar Reddy on NGRI’s growth and future plansTell us about the origin, growth and milestones of NGRI. Considering the importance of geophysical research, the central board of geophysics (CBG) was set up in 1949 for coordinating geophysical activities and research in India. The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) took over the CBG, which later led to the establishment of NGRI. It was on October 11, 1961, we started from a small centre in Osmania University. In 1962, we shifted to the current 150-acre campus. We started airborne-based geophysical studies in 1966 using aircraft and now we are in the phase of using drones. With Russia’s help, we did deep seismic sounding. We found out India’s oldest rock in Odisha in 2018, which is 3.9 billion years old. What are the major contributions of NGRI, especially in geophysics? NGRI is built and sustained by talented and dedicated scientists. NGRI publishes the highest number of papers in geosciences. The groundwater studies have helped in delineation of aquifers and their dynamics. How does the seismology wing of NGRI work towards earthquake alerts and mapping? Are there any changes in zonation of seismic zones in the country?In 1967, the seismological observatory was first established and instruments were calibrated to conform to the worldwide seismograph network. Some of the key findings include thick crust under the Himalayas and in Tibet. We launched deep seismic sounding (DSS) in 1972 under the Indo-Soviet collaborative programme. The first DSS profile from east to west coast of India from Kavali to Udipi provided the crustal thickness and geometry of deep penetrating fault zones of Dharwar greenstone belts. We found out Koyna reservoir areas have been triggering a series of earthquakes. We are currently digging a 7km deep bore in Koyna and we have already done a pilot project of 3km borehole to know more about quakes. Are there any recent findings of minerals, especially hydrocarbons, gold, diamond and other precious metals in India, especially Telangana and AP?  An integrated exploration project with geophysical and remote sensing has led to the discovery of richly diamond-bearing kimberlite in Vajrakarur region of AP. Kadapa basin is a treasure house of minerals. NGRI is also working on civic urban infra issues like water quality, water pipes, road digging, etc. Can you elaborate? We did extensive studies on water quality at Jawaharnagar dump yard, Patancheru and other areas in Hyderabad. We did ground penetration radar studies in Hyderabad to find about the Nizam-era pipelines and their condition. Is NGRI planning collaboration on research and development? Our future plans include probing the structure and kinematics of Himalayas for assessment of earthquake hazard potential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngri-to-study-kinematics-of-himalayas-to-identify-quake-hazard/articleshow/78596773.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 11, 2020||Meerut||Lekhpals to be held responsible for stubble burning in Bijnor||Bijnor: Lekhpals and kanoongo (revenue clerk officer) will be held accountable for any stubble burning in the area under their jurisdiction in Bijnor district. Additional DMs and tehsildars will be monitoring the situation, said district magistrate Ramakant Pande after a meeting with them here on Friday. An announcement to the effect made at all the 1,150 village panchayats in the district. On their part, lekhpals are setting up their network of informers at villages to get inputs about stubble burning.Paddy is cultivated in 55,000 hectares in the district. Post harvest, farmers usually burn the stubble to clear the way for the next season. The fumes spread, causing a haze that chokes even Delhi-NCR. At present harvesting is on. Steps are being taken to prevent air pollution this year.Uttar Pradesh is the second largest rice producing state with almost 5.86 million hectares under paddy cultivation, producing about 12.5 million tonnes of rice. According to a joint industry-government report, last year, paddy farmers in UP, Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan produced about 48 million tonnes of straw, of which about 39 million tonnes were burnt, leaving Delhi-NCR region gasping for breath in winter. The Air Quality Index (AQI) hovers between “very poor” to “severe” for over two months with just a handful of clear and sunny days in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lekhpals-to-be-held-responsible-for-stubble-burning-in-bijnor/articleshow/78590311.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Two smugglers felling sandalwood tree at MM Hills held||Mysuru: Foresters at the Male Mahadeshwara (MM) Hills Wildlife Sanctuary arrested two individuals for allegedly smuggling sandalwood trees in the early hours of Saturday. Around 1.30am on Saturday, Kollagal buffer zone range forest officer Praveen Kumar received a call from residents of the Kabini staff quarters, who informed him that a trio of miscreants were chopping sandalwood trees. Kumar, accompanied by deputy RFOs Deepak Mahalingam and Pramod, forest guards Ningamma and Eshwarappa and driver Ramu, rushed to the spot and were able to apprehend Arjun an Shivu, both of whom are 23 years old, and are residents of KM Doddi in Maddur taluk in Mandya. MM Hills deputy conservator of forests (wildlife division) V Yedukondalu expressed the forest department’s commitment to root out gangs involved in smuggling forest contraband. “We have noticed that young people are becoming a part of these activities. We are investigating the nexus between those arrested, the middlemen and illegal traders so we can put an end to this menace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-smugglers-felling-sandalwood-tree-at-mm-hills-held/articleshow/78596014.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||CM asks youth to turn into entrepreneurs||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday encouraged the youths of the state to take up entrepreneurship. In an interactive webinar on social entrepreneurship, the CM said that the youths of the state should tap the potential of resources available locally and tread on the path of self-employment. He claimed that entrepreneurship will help individuals and also the state in the long run. “Uttarakhand is blessed with natural resources and there are many opportunities for people to start their own work. Through CM Swarozgar Yojana, we are encouraging such budding entrepreneurs to come forward and make their mark,” said Rawat. Citing examples, the CM said that in the last few months, some individuals have done “extremely well” and have become an inspiration for others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-asks-youth-to-turn-into-entrepreneurs/articleshow/78595392.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 11, 2020||Madurai||More parents ready to spend on devices as online edu continues||Madurai: As schools and colleges across the state continue to remain shut, parents have become increasingly anxious about their children missing out on online learning and are now more inclined to spend on gadgets and internet data. While online learning was meant to be temporary till schools reopen, parents, teachers and students now feel it is becoming a necessity.“In our household, we have only one smart phone, which is mine, and my son has to use it for online classes. How long can he keep doing it? I think colleges will continue with online classes for a longer time and maybe even have online exams. I can’t bear to see my son left behind,” said N Baskaran, father of a second year student at an arts and sciences college in the city. He said he is forced to consider buying a laptop even if it meant taking a loan. Many other parents echoed similar sentiments even though schools and colleges have not made it compulsory to buy a device.T Uma said she bought a second-hand laptop to help her daughter, who is in class XII, study without depending on her smart phone. Internet data is also adding to the financial burden. “For regular online classes, several GBs of data is consumed a month and data pack has to be recharged regularly. My daughter also has to download videos for studying and submit assignments online. Getting data packs has become like getting groceries each month,” said Uma.“What started as a temporary fix to keep them engaged at home is now turning out to be a must for children. At least if parents knew when schools would reopen, they could relax and wait. With that being uncertain, they fear their children will struggle to pick up and even fail if they don’t learn through online classes,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. Some schools conducting online tests, even if the marks are not considered important by them, is also adding to the pressure of parents. “By now, parents are also feeling that digital learning is here to stay. Though there was much resistance in the beginning, they are also equally learning. That is why they are considering investment in electronic gadgets to help them in the long run,” said C Shanthi, a PG teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-parents-ready-to-spend-on-devices-as-online-edu-continues/articleshow/78597813.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Farmers worried asyellow rain alert out||(done) Kolhapur: The IMD, Mumbai, has issued a yellow alert for Kolhapur and Sangli district, signalling heavy rain over the next four days, triggering worry among the farming community. The kharif crops are in the harvesting stage and fruit-bearing crops such as grapes in Sangli district are in the flowering stage. Kolhapur district agriculture superintendent Dyandeo Vakure said farmers have been advised to cut the paddy crops that are ready for harvesting immediately. “The damage caused to paddy crops is caused mainly by the strong wind accompanying the rain. It causes uprooting or falling of standing crops. If it rains for a long period, there will be water-logging, leading to poor yield of crops such as soybean,” he said. Mumbai-based weather expert Shantanu Patil said the rain will be mainly due to the low pressure belt in the Bay of Bengal. “The cloud bands are moving along the north-east direction. Once the atmospheric situation becomes conducive, heavy rain along with thunder will be evident at isolated places till October 15.” In Sangli’s grape belt, the cutting of stems is under way. The application of chemical to the stem leads to flowering and then the fruit. Many such vineyards are in the flowering stage. The farmers have undertaken the stem-cutting process earlier this time to avoid damage to the fruit in case of untimely winter rain. Shailesh Pawar, a grape farmer from Nagaj village of Sangli district, said, “After the rain alert, we have decided to get the stem-cutting done immediately. There is shortage of skilled workers. I have decided to rope in my family members and relatives.” Last month, heavy rain damaged the pomegranate crop in Atpadi taluka of Sangli district. This time around, farmers are seen taking precautionary measures to reduce the damage to the crops if it rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/farmers-worried-asyellow-rain-alert-out/articleshow/78596059.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Pass resolution against Farm Acts: Congress||Hyderabad: Congress MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy urged CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to pass a resolution against the new Farm Acts in Telangana. “Now that a special session of the assembly has been convened to make amendments to the GHMC Act, the ruling TRS should also adopt a resolution against the three new Farm Acts which would immensely harm the farmers. The Congress MLAs will support the resolution. Congress governments in other states are also adopting such resolutions,” Venkat Reddy said in a letter to the CM on Saturday. He also asked the state to reconsider its decision on the layout regularisation scheme on humanitarian grounds. “The LRS is a financial burden on the people. TRS government should regularise unauthorised plots free of cost,” said Venkat Reddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pass-resolution-against-farm-acts-congress/articleshow/78596783.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Man strangled after argument||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old mechanic was murdered by his two roommates in Lalaguda on Saturday. The victim was strangled to death.  Both the accused work in a tent house. Based on the information given by the house owner, police reached the spot immediately and arrested both the accused under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Meanwhile in an another case at Nizamabad district, a woman who went missing a week ago, was found murdered in Munipally forest. The victim is from Jagtial district. Police have registered a case under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-strangled-after-argument/articleshow/78596777.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Need to make pollution a political agenda: AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party’s Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj on Saturday said in order to tackle air pollution, greater awareness was needed to make it a political issue. “While upper middle class people do look at pollution as an agenda to cast their vote, the lower strata still focuses on the most basic aspects. Until pollution becomes a political agenda, fighting against larger lobbies, which are behind the vehicle sector or the coal industry, will be tough,” Bharadwaj asserted. Speaking at a virtual inter-disciplinary environment agenda roundtable on “Fixing Delhi’s pollution,” the AAP MLA said action was required across various sectors, and issues like “dust pollution” were easy targets, as there was no lobby behind these. Thermal power plants continue to breach the deadlines set for them to switch to cleaner technologies. The automobile industry was not getting enough attention, he added. “We need action in each sector for a change to come, which is gradually taking place, and awareness is also gradually increasing among people,” said Bharadwaj. Experts in the session said public participation was crucial to control local sources of pollution. Mohan George, scientist at Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), said while problem areas are well-known, considerable manpower and time are wasted catering to complaints at the ground level, which generally revolve around garbage that has been set alight, or illegally dumped C&D waste. “We cannot fight this problem alone and support of the people is extremely important. If dumping garbage in the open can be stopped, many problems will get solved locally,” added George. Experts also say practical solutions need to be looked at in managing Delhi’s local sources, with focus required on reducing waste generation. “It is easy to say waste needs to be lifted up, but where will it go? We need to reduce the garbage being generated, which also reduces the chances of it being burnt,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment. Others suggested action plans at the ward-level. “Focusing at the micro-level and at the ward or constituency level can help us narrow down problems considerably,” said Atul Goyal, president of the apex RWA body, United Residents Joint Action. Sanjay Upadhyay, an environmental lawyer, says clarity on the role of institutions in India still remains a problem, particularly around agencies, such as CPCB, EPCA and state pollution control boards. “Is CPCB a regulatory body, or a body that collects data? We still need to know which institution is responsible for taking action and the simpler it is, the easier it will be to execute rules and laws,” added Upadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bharadwaj-need-to-make-pollution-a-political-agenda/articleshow/78597815.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 11, 2020||India||We’re a data science-driven body that deals in facts & evidence, says BARC||NEW DELHI: With Mumbai police launching an investigation into the alleged manipulation of TRPs by three private news channels, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), the key rating agency for TV broadcast networks, said on Saturday that BARC ratings remained true to purpose and that the ratings agency is a “data science driven joint-industry body” that deals “only in facts and evidence”. Even though the ratings agency acknowledged it is not “insulated from intrusion attempts”, BARC chief executive Sunil Lulla, in a statement to BARC subscribers said, “Despite over 44,000, and growing, metered households spread across the entire country, we recognise that BARC is not insulated from intrusion attempts by unscrupulous individuals through various forms of inducement. Hence, we have taken several steps to ensure that these attempts are quickly identified, and the homes are de-installed, removing their impact, if any, on audience estimates. We continue to strengthen our vigilance mechanism and also leverage data science rigorously ensuring the audience estimates robustly reflect actual viewership.” He also said BARC India had authorised Meterology Data Pvt. Ltd. (MDL), its subsidiary which “functions at arm’s length”, to undertake panel home operations through its authorised vendors, one of who is Hansa Market Research Private Limited, the complainant in the FIR filed in Mumbai. With growing concerns that manipulated TRPs not only affect channels’ valuation, but also impact advertising spends by governments and businesses, the ratings agency also sought to clarify that it was BARC’s vigilance team that reported that five BARC India panel homes, serviced by Hansa, were showing some abnormality. “As is the protocol, Hansa was advised to investigate further. The Hansa audit showed that the said employee was suspected to be involved in tampering and influencing the panel household members…Basis the information provided by Hansa, Mumbai police registered a FIR dated October 6...,” the BARC statement said. The agency said the suspected homes have been removed from reporting and added that BARC has “strictly followed our established vigilance and disciplinary committee guidelines to deal with such isolated attempts”. “In spite of what may get reported or opined in the press, our governance continues to be robust and all of us at BARC continue to be driven by only one goal: to generate ratings that you rely on which are deeply rooted in science, free of any bias and truly reflect ‘What India Watches’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/were-a-data-science-driven-body-that-deals-in-facts-evidence-says-barc/articleshow/78598046.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||One dead, another hurt as pickup vehicle falls into gorge||Uttarkashi: A person was killed and another sustained injuries after the pickup vehicle they were travelling in fell into a gorge at Mori region of Uttarkashi district on Friday evening. According to TOI sources, two villagers, both residents of Mora village, were heading towards their home on Friday when the accident took place. Their vehicle fell into a nearly 200-foot-deep gorge from Mori-Odata road near Thali village, killing 24-year-old Vineet Chauhan on the spot. The injured person has been identified as Harpal Chauhan, 42. Soon after the accident, police pulled out the injured villager from the gorge and sent him to a local medical facility for primary treatment. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer of Uttarkashi, said, “The injured villager is out of danger and has been discharged from the hospital and the body of the deceased has been sent for postmortem examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-another-hurt-as-pickup-vehicle-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/78595398.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Criminal found murdered in Sangli village||Kolhapur: A criminal on police record was found brutally murdered on a road at Kanth village of Jat taluka in Sangli district on Thursday in what police suspect to be a fallout of his alleged affair with a woman. Police said the body of Dhanaji Mahadeo Mote (43), a resident of Kanth, was found his head crushed with a stone. Nagesh Bhima Landge has been arrested in the case. Police have recovered a country made revolver, cartidges and a stone with blood stains from the spot where the body was found. “Dhanaji, who is married, had an affair with a woman from the same village, resulting into frequent quarrels between him and the family members of the woman, who had also lodged a complaint against him,” said police. According to police, the woman’s family members later sent her to another city to avoid tension. However, Dhanaji uploaded his photo with the woman on social media, which went viral, probably leading to the murder. Police said Dhanaji has offences registered against him in various police stations in Sangli district, besides those registered by the Karnataka police. Man held for dad’s murder Meanwhile, in Bilur village, police arrested one Sadashiv Bhimu Jambgod after his sister, Mahananda Rajendra Kore, filed a complaint that he murdered their 84-year-old father over some family dispute. According to police, Bhimu’s family admitted him to a private hospital on Monday, saying that he had fallen from a height. He was moved to Sangli civil hospital after his condition became critical and died on Thursday. Mahananda later lodged a complaint that his brother had hit the man with a stone as he was angry because he had given some gold ornaments and cash to her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/criminal-found-murdered-in-sangli-village/articleshow/78596068.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Protest in Kolhapur to cancel transfer of civic chief and city Dy SP||Kolhapur: Activists, workers of all ideologies, parties and associations staged a demonstration at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk in the city demanding cancellation of transfer of Kolhapur municipal corporation (KMC) chief Mallinath Kalshetti. Kalshetti has been replaced by district collector of Gondia Kadambari Balkawade. She is the wife of newly-appointed district police superintendent Shailesh Balkawade. The protesters demanded that Kalshetti’s transfer should be cancelled and he that he should be reinstated as the civic chief. Balkawade has started working since the last two days. Kalshetti is yet to be given his next posting. In addition, the protesters demanded cancellation of transfer of city deputy superintendent of police Prerna Katte who has recently been transferred to Pimpri-Chinchwad. Leftist youth leader Girish Phonde said, “All common people have demanded the cancellation of these transfers. Kalshetti has done good work, especially during floods. The sudden transfers of good officers has made common people angry.” Several messages are pouring in through various social media platforms where people are offering support of both Kalshetti and Katte. Some activists even alleged that political leadership has failed to stop the premature transfers of good officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/protest-in-kolhapur-to-cancel-transfer-of-civic-chief-and-city-dy-sp/articleshow/78596070.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC staffer dies after getting stuck in flooded cellar||HYDERABAD: A 54-year-old Telangana High Court employee died late on Friday evening, after getting stuck in the inundated cellar of his apartment complex in Musheerabad. The incident took place around 7.30 pm when, B Raj Kumar, took the elevator to reach the parking lot in cellar of Gayatri Sai Sree Enclave soon after heavy rain lashed the city. Raj Kumar is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son. The high court employee lost his mother 11 days ago. His body was found near the lift around 12.30 am by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) disaster response team. Though prima facie it appears to be a case of drowning, police said they are waiting for the post mortem examination report to ascertain the actual cause of death. A case under section 174 (suspicious death causing death) of the Crpc has been registered. “We suspect that water gushed into the lift as soon as Raj Kumar reached the cellar. Since a part of the lift was open, we believe he was able to open it but couldn’t make it out of the cellar,” said an official part of the rescue operation, adding: “Whether there was a short circuit in the lift or not is yet to be confirmed.” Officials said the cellar of the four-storey building, which has residential and commercial properties had water up to six feet when they reached the spot. According to his family members, Raj Kumar, who was a court master in the high court (personal assistant to a judge) and lived on the second floor of the apartment, had stepped out to go to the supermarket. “But when he didn’t return even after an hour, we got worried and tried contacting him. But he had left his phone at home and only taken his motorcycle key,” said Santosh a relative of the deceased. He added: “We then called all the relatives, but everyone said that Raj Kumar isn’t with them. That’s when we started searching for him on the main road and lodged a complaint with the police. Suddenly, the thought of Raj drowning in the cellar stuck our mind and we called authorities.” Blaming civic authorities for failing to check the inundation, Raj Kumar’s daughter, G Vaishnavi said her father died due to GHMC’s negligence. “Also, when we are paying maintenance fee, the association of the building should have ensured that the lift is being maintained properly; there should have been a security guard too,” said the grieving daughter. GHMC officials, however, said the government cannot be blamed for everything. “The incident happened inside the apartment. More than 15 cm of rainfall was recorded in the city and monsoon teams are working round the clock. We can’t be blamed for everything,” said S Srinivas Reddy, zonal commissioner, GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-staffer-dies-after-getting-stuck-in-flooded-cellar/articleshow/78597576.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No drop in vegetable prices, stocks to arrive||HYDERABAD: Excess rainfall this monsoon has not only affected the arrival but also the quality of vegetables and thereby causing a slight increase in the prices. Over the last few weeks, vegetable vendors have been receiving low quality produce from the farmers as supplies have taken a hit following the incessant and heavy rains that lashed the state last month. Onion prices, which shot up to around Rs 70 per kg in the retail market, continue to be around Rs 43 per kg in the retail market. Similarly, lady finger is costing around Rs 50, almost 10 higher than it was last month. “There has been no drop in the vegetable prices since the last few weeks. I am buying vegetables for half a kg and avoiding larger quantity of vegetables,” said Vijay Anand, a buyer from Dammaiguda. According to consumers, many vegetables such as cauliflower and spring onions are not easily available at various retail stores. Officials said the produce in the retail market is the one harvested in February and that new crop is expected to arrive in the markets only by October end. “The prices will drop in the coming weeks as we are expecting fresh crop from districts such as Suryapet, Vikarabad where the damage has not been as high as it was in Kurnool, Rangareddy, Mahabubnagar,” said an official from agricultural marketing department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-drop-in-vegetable-prices-stocks-to-arrive/articleshow/78596788.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||70 shops to be relocated for Mandai Metro station work||PUNE: A long pending proposal to relocate 70 shops in the Mandai area to make way for the underground Metro station work is likely to see the light of the day in the next dew days. The decision to shift the shops — operated by fruit, vegetable vendors and grocers — was taken at a recent meeting between Pune Municipal Corporation, MahaMetro and local elected representatives. As it stands, the plan is to move the shops on a temporary basis to a nearby location — possibly a PMC-owned property — and rehabilitate the vendors in the Mandai area once the work is completed. MahaMetro said this site has been a sticking point, as it has not been able to make any progress on the Mandai Metro station due to a lack of the required space. “The work plan is ready. We are waiting for PMC’s permission for the temporary relocation of the vendors and their rehabilitation once the work is ready. We will construct makeshift shops for them once the temporary location is finalized,” a MahaMetro official said. The vendors have for long demanded that they be relocated in the vicinity as they feared a loss of business if they were to be moved to any other location. Local representatives and civic officials have already visited the site to identify potential locations for the relocation. Corporator Hemant Rasne said the proposal has been under discussion and that a detailed plan would be finalized soon. “All the stakeholders, including vendors, MahaMetro and PMC, will be part of the process. They will be kept informed when the plan is being finalized, to avoid any complications,” Rasne said. Sources said a proposal to shift the shops to the parking lot of a local building was under consideration. However, PMC has not been able to make any headway on this front. Rasne said they were keeping all options open for both the temporary and permanent relocation of the vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mandai-shops-to-be-shifted-to-facilitate-underground-station-work/articleshow/78596808.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Shut primary schools taking heavy toll on development of students: Teachers||Madurai: As schools continue to remain shut due to Covid-19, teachers of primary schools in the district said they are concerned about the learning curve and physical development of students at the primary level in the long run as currently the emphasis is on safety of children and there s no hurry in reopening schools.“Children in this age group have to consistently learn, especially reading and writing languages, to retain knowledge. If such situation continues, in the next few years, it will be a struggle for students,” said Moses, teacher at a government primary school. As of now, government school students are being asked to watch ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ programmes and learn from home. However, teachers said that due to lack of monitoring, the results have not been promising.“Unfortunately, many parents said that though they have been asking their child to watch the programme and do some reading and writing, children are not listening or concentrating enough. Parents also can’t be blamed as they too have work to attend to or are not educated. We sometimes see children in our village not even following the routine of brushing, bathing and even eating on time,” said the headmaster of a government school.In some schools, like Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School, teachers went to children’s homes to teach lessons at doorstep. However, even such schooling has been time consuming for teachers and has limitations. “With the current faculty strength, we are not able to cover all pupils every day. So often, it is like, every student would have two days of class for a few hours in a week. Consistency is lacking. Further, lack of nutritious food through noon meal scheme, medical check-ups, health supplements etc. can take a toll on their physical health too,” said K Saravanan, headmaster of the school.In private schools as well, there is no significant difference as only few schools are holding live online classes for students at primary levels, that too for limited hours. “For students at the primary level, it is difficult to make them concentrate even for a short time in live classes. Recorded video lessons and assignments are also given to students. We are trying our best to give them fun activities to do at home. We are unsure of how we can continue in the long run as not all parents can supervise learning of their child,” said S Vijayalakshmi, English teacher at a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shut-primary-schools-taking-heavy-toll-on-development-of-students-teachers/articleshow/78597820.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||Portals of Hemkund Sahib closed for winter||Dehradun: The portals of the revered Sikh shrine — Hemkund Sahib — were closed on Saturday for the winter season. The closing ceremony was held in the presence of around 1,350 devotees. Located at a height of over 15,000 feet in Chamoli district, Hemkund Sahib was visited by around 8,500 devotees in the 36 days during which it was opened. Last year, more than 2.39 lakh pilgrims had visited the revered shrine. After a six-month break, the portals of the temple were reopened this year in June but due to Covid-19 pandemic, people were allowed to visit the shrine only from September 4. Seva Singh, the chief of Hemkund Sahib Management trust, read the last Ardas of this year and the portals of the shrine were closed on Saturday afternoon. The Ardas was also followed by the recitation of Sukhmani and Shabad Kirtan. During winter, the area remains snow-clad and the thick cover of snow continues till April. “Even amidst the pandemic, the yatra of Hemkund Sahib continued and it was possible because of the support of administration and police. The Hemkund Sahib trust expresses gratitude to all those who made the yatra possible,” said Seva Singh. Meanwhile, the temple of Lokpal dedicated to Laxman, Lord Ram’s brother, which is situated nearby Hemkund Sahib, was also closed for the winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/portals-of-hemkund-sahib-closed-for-winter/articleshow/78595415.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy rains inundate low lying areas||Hyderabad: The rains that battered the city on Friday troubled people on Saturday as well. Cellars, bylanes and roads were inundated as affected people shifted their valuables and vehicles to safe locations. People were seen pumping out water from cellars in Musheerabad, Kavadiguda, Jawahar Nagar, Deepthi Sri Nagar, Kushinagar Colony in Miyapur, Nadeem Colony in Tolichowki and parts of Kukatpally housing board phase five. In Nadeem Colony people expressed their dissatisfaction against the government by standing in inundated lanes. Several residents from this locality said that a permanent solution to this problem is the need of the hour. “After every spell of rain, officials and staff from line departments visit the low lying areas and pump out water. Government should ensure the safety of honest taxpayers,” said TS Kumar, from Kushinagar Colony, Miyapur. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-rains-inundate-low-lying-areas/articleshow/78596793.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Adolescent girls more suicidal than boys||LUCKNOW: A recent study conducted in Uttar Pradesh by a US-based NGO has revealed that adolescent girls have higher suicidal tendency in comparison to boys. The study, called ‘understanding the lives of adolescents and young adults, was supported by Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and David & Lucile Packard Foundation. According to NGO Population Council, 7,825 adolescents (aged 13-19 years) were covered across the 75 districts for the study in 2015-16 and the same candidates were interviewed in 2018-19. “The study revealed that 11% of married girls aged 15-19 years had seriously considered attempting suicide in 2018-19, while the figure was 8% in 2015-16. For unmarried girls of the same age group, the share was 6% in 2018-19 and 5% in 2015-16,” read the report. For unmarried boys, the figure was 3% in both 2018-19 and 2015-16. Among boys of the same age group, 2% had thought of ending their lives in 2018-19 and 1% in 2015-16, stated the report. The study also found that 3% of married girls had claimed to have made a plan on how they would commit suicide. Besides, 3% married girls in 2018-19 had admitted that they had tried at least once to end their lives. However, the figure was zero for boys in the same category. Chairperson of Population Council Niranjan Saggurti said, “Reasons behind increase in suicidal tendency among married girls included early marriage, marital violence, dowry harassment, pregnancy, miscarriage, infant death, infertility and reproductive tract or genital infection. For unmarried girls, injury and illnesses, death of a family member, and education-related stress were top reasons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/adolescent-girls-more-suicidal-than-boys/articleshow/78597586.cms||Arvind Chauhan
October 11, 2020||Pune||Moisture incursion, heat shower rain in several parts of Maharashtra||PUNE: Several places in the state, including Pune, Aurangabad, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur, on Saturday experienced rain and thunder because of moisture incursion and high heat load in what could probably be the last leg of monsoon showers this season. Pune recorded 11.6mm rain on Saturday. The showers were accompanied with thunder and lightning — a typical feature when the city experiences high day temperature and moisture incursion during a withdrawing monsoon. But Lohegaon did not record any rain, as per the Met department. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI, “The well-marked low-pressure area over the east-central and the adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal has been causing moisture incursion over the state. The system is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the central Bay of Bengal during the next 12 hours. There is also a possibility that the system may further intensify into a deep depression till Sunday. It is likely to move towards west-northwest and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast during October 12 forenoon/noon.” He said the effect of the system was likely over Maharashtra in the form of light to moderate rain in parts of the state from October 11 to 13. Another system is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal on October 14, which would cause rain to intensify over the state after October 13. “We expect moderate rain in Pune district on October 14, with heavy rain at one or two ghat locations,” he said. Kashyapi said the day temperature had been high over the past few days and was expected to stay above 30°C over parts of the state. “These temperatures, associated with the moisture incursion because of the systems over the Bay of Bengal, are likely to cause convective rainfall activity in parts of Maharashtra during the next few days, accompanied with thunder and lightning. This rain will not be like the vigorous monsoon period of July and August,” he said. The day temperature was above 33°C in both Pune and Lohegaon on Friday. It remained above 30°C in the past few days, including Saturday. This played a key role in the thundershowers witnessed in the city on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/moisture-incursion-heat-shower-rain-in-several-parts-of-state/articleshow/78596800.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Aurangabad||MIDC urged to clear drains, jammed nullas||Aurangabad: The Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) has approached the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) to address issues arising from rain waterlogging, leakage of drainage pipes and jammed nullas in the industrial estates. Satish Lonikar, the CMIA secretary, said the recent spell of heavy showers had aggravated problems for the industries already hard-hit by the Covid-19 outbreak. The CMIA had requested MIDC to hold an urgent meeting with the officials concerned, where the representatives of the affected industries apprised the authorities about the issues they are facing and the damages they have incurred. Lonikar said industries have asked for regular repair and maintenance of the stormwater drain system, yearly maintenance of trenches and nullahs before the monsoon and removal of the nullah encroachments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/midc-urged-to-clear-drains-jammed-nullas/articleshow/78596073.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Brahmakamal blooming in off-season stumps many||DEHRADUN: Changing weather patterns are likely causing Brahmakamal — a rare flower that grows at elevations between 3,500-4,800 meters — to bloom off-season in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district while low tourist activity and resultant lack of pollution may have led the plant to be seen in lower altitudes in another part of the state. Brahmakamal (Saussurea Obvallata) is Uttarakhand’s state flower which blooms during mid-monsoon (July-August). This year, however, a team of forest officials in Rudraprayag which had gone on high-altitude patrolling in the Himalayas found several of the flowers in bloom in October. As images of the white-hued blossom went viral on social media, it piqued the interest of netizens and scientists alike. The divisional forest officer of Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary, Amit Kanwar, who shot the photos in Nandi Kund in Chamoli district, said changing weather patterns may have impacted the flowers. “There was sufficient snowfall this year as opposed to previous years and the snow melted late as well. These factors are likely to have influenced the flower’s blooming.” The first snow of the season at Nandi Kund in Chamoli along with blooming of BrahmkamalExperts said that in Pithoragarh district this year, the flower was spotted blooming even at lower altitudes of 3,000 meters. Brijesh Singh, a local conservationist, said absence of tourist activity during lockdown helped keep pollution away which could have led the flowers to expand their territory and move lower into the hills. Anup Chandra, senior scientist at the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, told TOI, “It may be possible that the flower is blooming in October due to lack of pollution this year. Or these could just be sporadic cases of stress blooming. The flower could also have been a sub-species. Adequate research is needed to understand this better.” Watch Uttarakhand: A rare flower Brahmakamal blooming in off-season stumps many||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-brahmakamal-blooming-in-off-season-stumps-many/articleshow/78595428.cms||Shivani Azad
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana reports 1,800 new infections||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday recorded 1,811 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative number of positive cases to 2,10,346. With nine fatalities the overall toll due to the virus in the state is 1217. A total of 2,072 persons recovered on Friday and with an impressive recovery rate of 87.01 percent the overall recoveries in the state stand at 1,83,025. The number of active cases is 26,104.The recovery rate has surpassed the national average of 85.7 percent. Meanwhile, the authorities have once again reiterated that those suffering from flu or influenza like symptoms must report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay. Among the districts, GHMC recorded highest numbers with 291 new cases, followed by 171 in Medchal Malkajgiri, 138 in Rangareddy, 108 in Nalgonda and 100 in Karimnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-1800-new-infections/articleshow/78596812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Commuters rue traffic jams as Panjagutta FOB works delayed||HYDERABAD: Deep excavations on either side of the Panjagutta stretch for building a foot over bridge (FOB) are posing a threat to the commuters. With work going at snail’s pace, the heavy downpour on Friday has led to the condition turning from bad to worse. As 60% of the road is either blocked or filled with water, motorists are enduring a nightmarish experience due to heavy traffic jams. According to Panjagutta traffic cops, on an average 5,000 to 8,000 vehicles move on this stretch and the traffic would be doubled during peak hours 8.30 am to 12 pm and 5 pm to 9 pm. The excavation work, that started two months ago, is going on at two of the busiest locations in front of Hyderabad Central and Panjagutta ACP office. Due to the constant traffic, relocating sewer lines, underground cables etc is taking time. Indira Rathod, GHMC executive engineer (Khairatabad), said that heavy rains are also acting as a deterrent to the work. “Due to incessant rains, we are facing a lot of difficulty. As per the schedule, we should have started concrete work and finished constructing the platforms by now. But with sudden downpour, all our plans are on hold,” Rathod said. Meanwhile, commuters are criticising the civic body for the inordinate delay. “Everyday we are facing severe problems due to traffic jams and rains have made the matters worse. They could have completed the works during the lockdown,” said Phani Sekhar, a motorist. “The Panjagutta stretch is known for leaked water and drainage pipes. Now FOB works has increased our traffic woes,” said V Rukmini, a private employee. When TOI contacted Panjagutta traffic inspector M Ravi, he said: “We are doing our best to ease the traffic. We have deputed one sub-inspector and four cops to regulate the traffic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/commuters-rue-traffic-jams-as-panjagutta-fob-works-delayed/articleshow/78596830.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 11, 2020||Erode||392 fresh cases in district as active cases rise to nearly 5K||Coimbatore: The caseload remained below 400 for the second consecutive day on Saturday, when the district recorded 392 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 36,725. However, the number of active cases surged to 4,919 with just 216 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. While the number of active cases is still below the 5,000-mark, the district has the second highest number of active cases in the state after Chennai (13,577). At 2,319, Salem has the third highest number of active cases. A senior corporation official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “While we are insisting on hospitalization in 95% of the cases for at least five days, the dip in cases is giving the ESI Hospital and top private hospitals some breathing space.” The total number of patients recovered from Covid-19 in the district now stands at 31,319. The recovery rate has touched 85.2%, the highest in the past three and half months. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 487 with four more patients succumbing to the virus in the past two days. Among the deceased were two men aged 54 years. While both of them were diabetic, one had hypertension too. Both were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. One of them was hospitalized on October 2 and tested positive for the virus the next day. He died of bilateral bronchopneumonia on Thursday night. The other one was admitted to the hospital on October 1 and tested positive the next day. He also died of bronchopneumonia on Friday. The remaining deceased were in their 80s - an 84-year-old woman and an 89-year-old man. The woman with diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease and hypothyroidism was hospitalized on September 26 and she died of bronchopneumonia and acute respiratory distress on Thursday. A diabetic, the man was tested positive for the virus on October 4, but he was hospitalized only on Wednesday. He was admitted to the Government Medical College in Erode, where he died of pneumonia and respiratory failure on Friday. Last week, private laboratories were again asked to send every nasal swab sample they declare positive to Chennai for quality control checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/392-fresh-cases-in-district-as-active-cases-rise-to-nearly-5k/articleshow/78601903.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||392 fresh cases in district as active cases rise to nearly 5K||Coimbatore: The caseload remained below 400 for the second consecutive day on Saturday, when the district recorded 392 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 36,725. However, the number of active cases surged to 4,919 with just 216 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. While the number of active cases is still below the 5,000-mark, the district has the second highest number of active cases in the state after Chennai (13,577). At 2,319, Salem has the third highest number of active cases. A senior corporation official, who didn’t want to be named, said, “While we are insisting on hospitalization in 95% of the cases for at least five days, the dip in cases is giving the ESI Hospital and top private hospitals some breathing space.” The total number of patients recovered from Covid-19 in the district now stands at 31,319. The recovery rate has touched 85.2%, the highest in the past three and half months. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 487 with four more patients succumbing to the virus in the past two days. Among the deceased were two men aged 54 years. While both of them were diabetic, one had hypertension too. Both were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. One of them was hospitalized on October 2 and tested positive for the virus the next day. He died of bilateral bronchopneumonia on Thursday night. The other one was admitted to the hospital on October 1 and tested positive the next day. He also died of bronchopneumonia on Friday. The remaining deceased were in their 80s - an 84-year-old woman and an 89-year-old man. The woman with diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease and hypothyroidism was hospitalized on September 26 and she died of bronchopneumonia and acute respiratory distress on Thursday. A diabetic, the man was tested positive for the virus on October 4, but he was hospitalized only on Wednesday. He was admitted to the Government Medical College in Erode, where he died of pneumonia and respiratory failure on Friday. Last week, private laboratories were again asked to send every nasal swab sample they declare positive to Chennai for quality control checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/392-fresh-cases-in-district-as-active-cases-rise-to-nearly-5k/articleshow/78595430.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hindu Rao doctors, nurses to abstain from work from today||NEW DELHI: Unpaid for three months, doctors and nurses of Hindu Rao Hospital, which is currently a Covid facility, will abstain from performing their duties from Sunday onwards. Despite the mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation giving an assurance to the resident doctors that they would find a solution for payment of pending salaries, the doctors’ union on Saturday decided to go ahead with their protest plan. On Saturday, 20 Covid patients admitted in the hospital were shifted to Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital (17) and Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital (3). “The mayor came to meet us but gave only verbal assurances. We had even written to the lieutenant governor on Friday for his kind intervention regarding the corporation’s persistent inability to pay salaries of healthcare workers. They are working hard in the pandemic and need salaries to manage their expenses. We demanded regularisation of payment and immediate disbursement of pending salaries but there was no reply from the other side,” said Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, president of Resident Doctors’ Association, Hindu Rao Hospital. “Around 40 doctors were engaged to look after patients in the Covid ward and from Sunday, we all will abstain from work,” he added. Meanwhile, the civic agency aims to resume the normal operations at the hospital from next week. “Now that Covid patients have been shifted, the hospital will be sanitised on Sunday and the OPD services of all departments will most likely resume from Monday,” said an official. Mayor of the north corporation, Jai Prakash, said, “We have received nod from the district disaster management committee for converting Hindu Rao back to a non-Covid hospital. We are only waiting for a formal letter from the committee.” Prakash also accused Delhi government of playing politics over Hindu Rao Hospital. “Ever since the hospital has been converted into a Covid-19 facility, Delhi government has not given a single penny for operation. It wants to create an atmosphere of anarchy by not giving funds so that they can take advantage of it in the upcoming corporation elections.” In a press conference, health minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said the municipal corporation should hand over its hospitals to Delhi government if it was unable to run them. “The doctors and the medical staff of Hindu Rao Hospital have given a notice of strike. There are Covid patients admitted in the hospital and we have directed the authorities to shift them to Delhi government hospitals. I want to request the corporation to pay salaries to its staff as soon as possible. If the north corporation cannot pay the salaries of staff of Kasturba Gandhi and Hindu Rao, it can place these hospitals under Delhi government. We will run these hospitals better than them and will also release the salaries of the staff,” Jain added. “BJP is playing politics at the cost of the health of people. I do not think they are short on funds. They impose heavy taxes on people and collect hefty money, but nobody knows where all that money goes. Their job is to play blame game,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-doctors-nurses-to-abstain-from-work-from-today/articleshow/78597822.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 2 held for running fake friendship club in Lake Gardens||KOLKATA: A team of Hyderabad Police, with help from cops at the Lake police station, arrested two real estate agents — Ananda Kar and Buddhadeb Pal — on Friday for allegedly running a fake friendship club through a call centre at a rented house in Lake Gardens. Police suspect that the call centre was a front for an online flesh trade racket that was being run alongside a fraudulent telephonic dating service. The police seized several mobiles, SIM cards, a laptop and some documents from the house. Cops said that customers would strike a deal online and then the women would be given fixed hours to talk to them. The owner of the house stated that he had kept a copy of the PAN card, EPIC and Aadhaar card of the accused tenants. He also had a copy of their trade licence. He handed over all the documents to the police. Cops said there were reports of numerous fake friendship clubs and dating agencies masquerading as call centres in different parts of the city. “Woman telecallers would engage in sex chats with clients for Rs 5,000-Rs 50,000,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-held-for-running-fake-friendship-club/articleshow/78596819.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 11, 2020||Pune||Two men snatch senior citizen’s chain in Hadapsar||PUNE: Two men riding a two-wheeler snatched the gold chain of a 73-year-old woman near Ravi Darshan housing society at Hadapsar around 6.30am on Friday. Senior inspector Humraj Kumbhar (crime) from Hadapsar police station said the woman, a homemaker, and her niece were on a morning walk when the suspects snatched her chain and sped away. Kumbhar said, “The woman raised an alarm but before passers-by could react, the chain snatchers passed via Sadhana housing society and Saraswat Co-operative Bank, reached Pune-Solapur Road. They fled in the direction of Loni Kalbhor.” The woman has registered a first information report (FIR) against unidentified men under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. “The men, riding the scooter, were wearing masks. We are checking CCTV cameras to establish the routes used by the duo. We hope to detect the robbery at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-men-snatch-senior-citizens-chain-in-hadapsar/articleshow/78596813.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Five Telangana boys in AP Eamcet top 10 list||HYDERABAD: Five students from Hyderabad figured among the top 10 rankers of AP (Eamcet) engineering stream, results of which were declared on Saturday. While V Sainath from Vizag stood first, Telangana student Kumar Satyam secured second spot. The other top rankers from the city include M Likhith Reddy (4th), C Koushal Kumar Reddy (5th), Sai Teja Varanasi (7th) and Hardik Rajpal (8th). Incidentally, this same bunch of Hyderabad boys excelled in the other entrances too this year – JEE and TS (Eamcet). While Sai Teja bagged the top rank in the engineering stream of the TS (Eamcet), Koushal and Hardik walked away with the fourth and fifth rank respectively. In fact, MP-boy Hardik who has been studying in Hyderabad since class 8 even aced the JEE (Advanced) by securing the sixth position on the Common Rank List. Speaking to TOI soon after the results, the student of Narayana Junior College, Madhapur, said that he had dedicated the last one year to IIT preparation and used to study from 6 am to 10 pm every day. Even Sai Teja, despite his top rank in TS (Eamcet) said he’d join computer science stream at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and take a transfer in the second year to either Stanford University or Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The 17-year-old stood 51st in JEE (Advanced) Meanwhile, in the agriculture stream of AP (Eamcet), the top rank went to, G Chaitanya Sindhu, from Tenali. There was a significant spike in the pass percentage by 13% this year compared to that of 2019. EAMCET could not be held as scheduled in May due to Covid-19. This is the first time in the history of the entrance examination that EAMCET was conducted in September and results declared in October. Consequently, the academic year will start late.  Telangana student Kumar Satyam secured second spot. The other top rankers from the city include M Likhith Reddy (4th), C Koushal Kumar Reddy (5th), Sai Teja Varanasi (7th) and Hardik Rajpal (8th)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-t-boys-in-ap-eamcet-top-10-list/articleshow/78596806.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Motorcylist killed after being hit by truck at Pisoli||Pune: A grocery businessman riding a motorcycle died after his vehicle was hit by a speeding truck at Pisoli corner on Katraj-Mantarwadi bypass around 2pm on Saturday. The accident threw vehicular traffic out of gear for more than an hour. The Kondhwa police have arrested truck driver Manu Raju K (35) from Tamil Nadu for causing death of Sandeep Kocheta (35) of Dattanagat in Ambegaon owing to negligence. The accident forced local residents from Undri and Pisoli to intensify their demand for repair of the bypass. Assistant inspector Lekhraj Shinde from Kondhwa traffic police said, “Kocheta and Manu were heading towards Khadi Machine Chowk via Undri. Kocheta tried to overtake the truck from left, instead of right. The impact of the accident was such that the truck hit the bike after Manu failed to notice the motorcyclist. The victim came under the front left side wheel and died of multiple head injuries. The victim was not wearing a helmet. We cleared the traffic jam after deploying additional manpower.” Businessman Rajendra Bhintade from NIBM Road said, “The condition of the road is so bad that it has become difficult for heavy and light vehicles to pass through the bypass at peak hours. The officials concerned should take cognisance of the accident and repair the road.” Laxman Bandal, sarpanch of Wadachiwadi gram panchayat, said, “We have time and again launched agitation and submitted memorandum to the public works department for filling the potholes and repairing the bypass, but nothing has happened so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcylist-killed-after-being-hit-by-truck-at-pisoli/articleshow/78596829.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Police arrest one of four fugitives who escaped from Gandhi hosp||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police on Saturday announced the arrest of Soma Sunder, one of the four prisoners who escaped from Gandhi Hospital while undergoing Covid-19 treatment more than a month ago. Officials said that he was involved in eight automobile thefts along with three others in the last few weeks. They committed three offences in Madhapur, two in Sanathnagar and one each in Balanagar and Bachupally. The police recovered nine vehicles from their possession. Earlier, Sunder was involved in 46 vehicle thefts. On Saturday. Police are still on the lookout for three other fugitives — Mohammed Javed, Abdul Arbaz and Narasimha — who escaped from Gandhi along with Surender. Police said that Javed was the prime conspirator who instigated others to escape. After escaping from the city they went to Karnataka and took shelter in the house of Javed’s relative in Gulbarga. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-arrest-one-of-four-fugitives-who-escaped-from-gandhi-hosp/articleshow/78596831.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||Elderly just 10% of Covid caseload, but 50% deaths||Lucknow: Elderly have been worst hit by Covid-19 among all age groups in the city. People above 60 years of age constitute only 10% of the total infections since the outbreak in the city, but comprise nearly 50% of deaths, reveals the pandemic data obtained from the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office. The data shows that till 5pm on Saturday, a total of 57,532 people contracted the infection since the outbreak on March 11. Of these, only 5,987 (10.4%) are above 60 years of age. However, of the total 767 Covid-19 deaths, 374 (48.8%) have been of elderly. This means that almost every second Covid-19 death was of a patient above 60 years, underlining the vulnerability of the elderly. “The casualty rate of elderly is high because most have comorbidities like diabetes, heart, kidney diseases and other chronic illnesses,” said Dr Vikram Singh of RMLIMS. Dr D Himanshu of KGMU said, “In many cases, we found that elderly patients who opted for home isolation could not assess that their condition is aggravating. By the time they came to hospital, their lungs were critically damaged and they could not be saved.” “The reason why the ratio of people above 60 contracting infection is less is that most remain indoors,” said an officer involved in contact tracing. Despite staying at home, the elderly still contracted infection from their young family members who moved out for work or from domestic helps, vegetable or milk vendors or visiting relatives. In contrast, the 21-40 age group had the highest share of 26,848 (46.7%) in caseload, but accounted for only 95 casualties, about 12.4% of the toll. Incidence rate in the young is high because it is the most active and mobile among ‘working class’, but casualty is low because of high immunity levels, said experts. The 41-60 years age group comprised 31% (17,856) of the caseload and 37.4% (287) of the toll. “This age group is less active than 21-40 but has comorbidities,” said experts. Kids (0-10 years) were least affected followed by teenagers (11-20 years) because of less exposure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/elderly-just-10-of-covid-caseload-but-50-deaths/articleshow/78597604.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Building owner among 2 dead inside septic tank in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A labourer was killed while another was injured after they fell unconscious while cleaning a septic tank of a building. The owner of the building, who went into the tank to save the men, also died in the incident on Saturday afternoon. Police received a PCR call around 4.45pm about three people falling inside a septic tank in Molarband in south-east Delhi’s Badarpur. At the spot, the cops found that one of the three men had already been taken out by bystanders and locals. The man was identified as Manoj, who was taken to a hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, fire department personnel also arrived at the spot and pulled out the other two men after a 30-minute operation. They were taken to Apollo hospital but declared dead on arrival. One of them was identified as Devender (40), a labourer, and the other as Satish Chawla (60), the owner of the building. Police that the incident happened at a four-storey building that has 18 rooms and 18 families living there as tenants. Chawla resided in another building in the area and ran a grocery store. For the past few months, Chawla had been requested by tenants to get the septic tank, located in the basement, cleaned. However, he had been unable to find a cleaner due to the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic. Finally, he got in touch with a contractor, Manoj. Devender worked as a washerman but agreed to assist him in cleaning the tank. Devender went inside first, but felt giddy and fell down. Manoj and Chawla then tried to rescue him, but fell inside as well. DCP (southeast) R P Meena said that an FIR under Section 304A (causing death due to negligence) of the IPC has been registered and investigation is underway. The bodies will be handed over to the families after a postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/building-owner-among-2-dead-inside-septic-tank/articleshow/78597828.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: After lockdown low, breweries eye collaborations to bubble up sales||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Local breweries are eyeing collaborations and outlets to push sales, as the Covid-19 pandemic has hit hard their business. During the initial stages of the lockdown in May, over 60,000 litre of craft beer had to be discarded. Effingut brewery has recently launched the first in its retail chain of craft beer growler stations, called Effingut 2 Go, at Kothrud with plans to open 12 outlets across Mumbai and Pune in the next six months and then expand to Nashik, Kolhapur and Ahmednagar. “The concept of the retail-oriented Effingut 2 Go revolves around distilling the experience into a 15-minute time frame, while ensuring extended and dynamic safety protocols for social distancing. Within four months, we have custom-designed proprietary growler fillers using the ‘counter-pressure filling technique’ to ensure full automation once a bottle is placed into a machine. It infuses each bottle with beer gas to remove all oxygen in a closed, pressurized and highly sanitized environment,” said Manu Gulati, funder and master brewer, Effingut. Manu Misra, a craft beer evangelist and food and beverage consultant, said, “As one of the first customers to visit the Effingut 2 Go store, I was happy with the experience. The merchandise was well thought out and the variety in food was a pleasant surprise. If I were looking for a silver lining, this lockdown has brought industry members closer — food brands and breweries are collaborating more than ever. Through the efforts of the Craft Brewers Association of India’s Maharashtra chapter, the launch of growlers (food grade packaged beer containers of 1-5L volume) has been a boon.” Nakul Bhonsle, president of the Maharashtra chapter of the Craft Brewers Association of India, said, “The concept of a growler or filling station is new to India. But to our luck, the government was supportive. We were able to address all their concerns about safety and sanitation of these growlers. Permission of growlers has given us a fighting chance to survive this crisis. In the long run, growlers will help the industry grow much more than only on-premise sales.” Bhonsle, who also runs a local brewery, said, “Great State Ale Works is a production-only brewery, selling in bulk (20/50lit kegs) to bars and restaurant for on-premise consumption. Our direct interaction with beer drinkers was minimal. With the introduction of growlers, we became a business-to-consumer (B2C) business almost overnight.” Rohan Rehani, co-founder at Moonshine Meadery, said, “We initially pivoted into temporarily turning our Meadery into a facility that manufactures sanitizer. The government wanted local distilleries to take this up to regulate the inflated price of the sanitizer. When the Maharashtra government permitted home delivery of alcohol, we set up an ad-hoc system with the help of wine store partners and started facilitating home delivery via our portal.” Bhonsle said they would also launch beer assessment kits, with reading material, an assessment card and proper tasting glasses, to help the customer learn more about the characteristics about beer and how to judge them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-lockdown-low-breweries-eye-collaborations-to-bubble-up-sales/articleshow/78596825.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||16-yr-old goes missing, family seeks help on social media||Hyderabad: A 16-year-old girl student went missing from Hayathnagar three days ago after a tiff with father. As there was no trace of her, the worried family took social media to get details of her whereabouts. The missing girl, a class 12 student and resident of Laxmi Ganapathi Colony, Tattiannaram, Hayathnagar, had a tiff with her father over chatting on the mobile on October 7. The family recalls it was a usual movie time after dinner. “We have a no-cellphone rule for her after 10 pm. But when her father saw her chatting late at night, he scolded her that led to a small argument between the two,” the missing girl’s mother, said. That same night she left the house without her cellphone or any cash. “Before we go to bed, we leave our three dogs inside the compound. She stepped outside with the dogs that night. After 10 minutes, she was nowhere to be found,” she added. It was around 1am,” the 16-year-old’s mother added. Till 2.30am, the couple searched for her at nearby places and then rushed to the police station. A missing complaint has been lodged and the police have formed teams to search for the missing girl. “Seven teams were formed to trace the girl. The victim is not carrying her phone, which has made it difficult to trace her. However, our teams are checking CCTV camera footage,” Hayathnagar police said.  “I am worried about her safety. She is neither carrying her phone nor money. How is she surviving outside?” the girl’s worried mother said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/16-yr-old-goes-missing-family-seeks-help-on-social-media/articleshow/78596828.cms||Aditi Mallick
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Toddler killed as SUV hits two-wheeler||Coimbatore: A one-and-a-half-year-old girl, riding with her parents on a motorcycle, died after a sports utility vehicle (SUV) hit the two-wheeler at Kovilpalayam here on Friday. Police identified the deceased as C Thikalvizhi, daughter of M Chinnaiyan,27 and Sathya, 24. “Chinnaiyan, a native of Salem, is an assistant manager in a private firm at Sivananda Colony. The couple, who also has a son, stay in a rented house at Kurumbapalayam. They had left for a hospital at Kovilpalayam on Friday morning to vaccinate Thikalvizhi. Sathya, who was riding pillion, had kept her daughter on her lap. When they were nearing Raja Hospital at Kovilpalayam, an SUV hit the bike from behind. Sathya and Thikalvizhi fell on the road and suffered head injuries. The minor girl died without responding to treatment at a hospital,” a police officer said. The Kovilpalayam police have registered a case against the unidentified SUV driver and are collecting CCTV footage from the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/toddler-killed-as-suv-hits-two-wheeler/articleshow/78595453.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Seasonal flu, viral fever haunt people in times of pandemic||HYDERABAD: Symptoms of the common flu and viral fever have worried residents in times of a pandemic. Cautioning against unnecessary panic, doctors advise rest and staying calm as the best route to recovery. “Almost 60% of cases coming to us over the past week have been patients, including children, having symptoms of the common flu, often accompanied with a sore throat,” said Dr P Avinash, a family physician and paediatrician. He suggested that for a common cold, steam inhalation and gargling were the best options, and, for those with symptoms of viral fever, a mild course of antibiotics. With slight weather change, residents feeling under the weather are hitting the panic button. Shweta Rao, a resident of Gachibowli, said, “My child developed a fever a few days ago and was advised paracetamol. In fact, someone had said that even when his temperature becomes normal to give the medicine for an additional day in view of the pandemic.” Busting the myth, Dr Avinash said any extra medication is unnecessary and can be counterproductive. For children, he said any vaccines that have been missed must be given and for those with reduced immunity, an inactivated influenza vaccine is a good option in consultation with a doctor. Manish Reddy from Banjara Hills said when he had developed a fever, couldn’t help thinking of the worst. “I thought of getting a Covid test done, but the doctor asked me not to rush. Fortunately, it subsided within three days.” While doctors suggest not taking any stress, they say immediate quarantine as the most responsible way to handle the situation. “Whether you have Covid or not, it is best not to expose your family and friends,” physician Dr Ramakrishna said. Dr Rizvan Ahmed, consultant physician – internal medicine, Continental Hospitals, said, “One should wait for three days before getting a Covid test done, any sooner could get a false negative which is of no use.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seasonal-flu-viral-fever-haunt-people-in-times-of-pandemic/articleshow/78596824.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hubballi||Man found murdered at construction site||Kalaburagi: A 25-year-old man was found brutally murdered at an under-construction building near an eatery on MG Road here on Saturday morning. The deceased is Dastagir, a resident of Naya Mohalla. Morning walkers saw the body at 5.30am and informed the building watchman, who in turn alerted the police. Police suspect that the murderers may have killed Dastagir before 11pm on Friday at some other place and dumped the body at the construction site. The reason behind the murder is not yet known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-found-murdered-at-construction-site/articleshow/78596376.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||First freight train carrying 1k bikes chugs out of Mysuru||Mysuru: After its success with the weekly Kisan Rail to help farmers with timely transportation of their perishable goods from Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and other districts to other regions in the country, South Western Railways Mysuru division on Saturday started to operate similar weekly freight trains to transport automobiles goods from the region. This new move aims at helping local industrialists to transport their automobile and industrial goods. On Saturday, the first freight train carrying 1,000 TVS two-wheelers in new modified goods (NMG) rake loaded from the city’s Kadakola and chugged off towards Changsari near Guwahati, which is about 3,000 km from Mysuru. It will reach its destination within 55 hours. Sources in Mysuru railways told STOI, the division railway resumed this operation after a gap of five years. All these years, automobile goods were transported by road from Mysuru and they reached their destination after nearly a fortnight . Transporting automobile goods and vehicles in freight trains also reduces carbon emissions. This mode cuts down the time taken to deliver its newly built vehicles from its plants to dealers in various cities across the country. Business Development Unit, which oversees the transportation of automobiles in freight trains, plans to operate weekly freight trains depending upon orders from Mysuru. It has received another order from TVS Company for transportation of another 1,000 two wheelers from its Kadakola plant till Howrah in West Bengal next week. "NMG rakes are modified coaches to facilitate the easy movement of automobiles. One full NMG rake has 25 coaches. On an average one coach can carry 40 two-wheelers thus carrying around 1,000 vehicles in one move" said Priya Shetty, divisional commercial manager and senior public relations officer, SWM. Apart from agriculture commodities transportation on Kisan Rail also transporte iron ore towards, Goa and Maharashtra. SWR launches mobile app The commercial department of Mysore division SWR has launched a mobile application named ‘SWIFT’ known as Single Window for Integrated Freight Transportation for the benefit of customers.This app will be a one-stop destination to access requisite details for customers. It helps customers trace the contact number of parcel staff, special trains running, and types of wagons for different types of commodities and interact with officials. It can be downloaded from Play Store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/first-freight-train-carrying-1k-bikes-chugs-out-of-mysuru/articleshow/78595953.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Duo arrested on charge of forging ration cards||Pune: Two men were arrested on Saturday on the charge of running a racket of creating and circulating fake ration cards in Pimpri Chinchwad. Police said the duo contacted many people in the last few days and delivered fake ration cards to them. Sub-inspector DS Kokate of the Nigdi police said, “We have arrested Altaf Mohammed Shaikh (29) of Talawade and Rajendra Dada Kasbe (55) of Kalewadi.” The duo used to operate from the parking lot of a commercial complex in Akurdi, he said. “Shaikh acted as an agent and used to contact people seeking ration cards while Kasbe prepared them. Shaikh used to poach people seeking new ration cards from near the ration card and citizens’ facilitation centres in Nigdi and Akurdi,” Kokate said “It is not yet known where the duo sourced the papers and rubber stamps from nor how long they have been operating for,” Kokate said. “It has been confirmed that they have issued ration cards to many people against a certain fee,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-arrested-on-charge-of-forging-ration-cards/articleshow/78596834.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||‘Aarogya Vatika’ at 2 more parks||Lucknow: Taking forward its campaign of planting plants with medicinal value in parks, Navbharat Times will inaugurate its ‘Aarogya Vatika’ at Napier Road and Mayur Residency Colony on Sunday. ‘Aarogya Vatika’ is a special health corner initiated by Navbharat Times where herbs and plants with medicinal value and ones that boost immunity will be planted in various parks of the city to make citizens aware about their health benefits. The Aarogya Vatika near LMC zone six office at Napier Road (part I park) will be inaugurated at 8.30am by UP urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon. The other Aarogya Vatika at Mayur Residency Colony (near Kukrail Picnic Spot) will be inaugurated at noon. All parks under Lucknow Municipal Corporation have been chosen for the initiative. Citizens will plant herbs like tulsi, giloy, ashwagandha, stevia, lemongrass and khas while maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. People can also join the events online as NBT will live-stream them on its Facebook page. Those who want to set up an ‘Aarogya Vatika’ or are setting up one in their area may send an email to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatika-at-2-more-parks/articleshow/78597609.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Covid patient ignores doctors’ advice, leaves hospital after test row||BENGALURU: An elderly man rejected doctors’ assessment that he had Covid-19 and left a private hospital on Friday, citing a negative RT-PCR test. Doctors at Cura Hospital on Kanakapura Road said it was most probably a false negative as other medical investigations, including a chest CT scan, had revealed active infection in 78-year-old Kailash Sodhi. But Sodhi, who was admitted to the hospital on October 5, argued with the staff, asking why he was given a bed next to a confirmed case when his RT-PCR test was negative. There was drama as he called his lawyer-friend, who sought police’s intervention. Sodhi took the discharge and went home. Dr Ameen Shams, the critical care in-charge at Cura, said Sodhi and his friend failed to understand the complexity of the issue. “They kept arguing without considering the possibility of a false Covid negative test. The patient has not developed breathlessness, but his lungs are affected as per the HR-CT scan. We had explained his condition to his daughter and nephew, and he was given three doses of Remdesivir. He still wanted to go,” Dr Shams told TOI. Sodhi said he was admitted to an isolation ward for suspected cases on October 5, and the next day, his samples were taken for an RT-PCR test. The negative report arrived on October 7. Sodhi alleges that despite the report, he was shifted to a ward for Covid-19 patients. “I had tested negative — that’s what a doctor told me. I was advised to be in the hospital for one more day, but on October 8, they moved me to another ward, where there were positive patients,” he said. Sodhi also claimed that safety precautions such use of PPE kits were not followed at the hospital. His friend said it was a struggle to obtain the negative test report from the hospital. Doctors said Sodhi had IgM antibodies, a sign of active infection. An HR-CT scan of his lungs also showed the damage caused by the virus. According to Dr Shams, false negative RT-PCR results in the case of symptomatic patients is a problem, and people often fail to understand this and argue with doctors. “Whoever thinks that hospitals are running some scam in the name of Covid-19 must volunteer to wear PPEs and work in Covid-19 wards to see what we do. SARS-CoV2 [the formal name of the virus causing the disease] is highly contagious. Infected cases with false negative tests can spread the virus,” he said. Dr Shams added that patients who should be under strict isolation were out possibly spreading the infection. Sodhi’s nephew agreed with the doctor’s view: “My uncle is positive for the infection, but refuses to believe it.” False negative RT-PCR result possible: ExpertDr CN Manjunath, the nodal officer for testing in the Covid-19 task force, said trusting doctors and adhering to protocols were a must for patients. “RT-PCR is the gold-standard test, but it is not 100 per cent accurate. If the CT scan shows the presence of the infection, the person must be treated as Covid positive. Patients must understand the limitations of the tests and trust doctors. There are standard procedures for the same,” he said. He gave the examples of two nurses of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiac Sciences and Research. “We treated two such cases. Their two RT-PCR tests were negative, but the third test came positive. The result can be negative if the infection is in the early stages and if there are issues in the way the swab specimen is taken. Such cases are rare, may be 5 to 10 per cent,” said Dr Manjunath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-patient-ignores-doctors-advice-leaves-hospital-after-test-row/articleshow/78597936.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||SR Mahesh ill-informed about Tirumala project, says Poojari||Mysuru: Former minister S R Mahesh is ill-informed about the endowment department projects at Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh, said muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary here on Saturday. Mahesh, JD(S) MLA from KR Nagar, had recently questioned the decision of allotting the project works to contractors outside Karnataka by Rohini Sindhuri, previous commissioner of the department and the current Mysuru DC, and suspected a scam behind it. Poojari told reporters that he is ready for an open discussion with Mahesh to clear all his doubts in this regard. “Due to unavoidable circumstances, we are executing the works through local contractors. Renovation of Karnataka Bhavan at Tirupati has been one of the major demands of devotees from the state. It was discussed widely at the state legislature session. So we have taken up works at an estimated cost of Rs 200 crore,” he explained. Covid protocol in all templesPoojari also said that during Dasara, existing Covid-19 SOPs will be enforced at all temples. “At the time of Dasara festival, there is a possibility of massive footfall of devotees at temples. A decision on having more restrictions will be taken after another round of discussion,” he said. Earlier, he met Suttur Mutt seer Sri Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami and held a discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sr-mahesh-ill-informed-about-tirumala-project-says-poojari/articleshow/78595982.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Theatres shut, but plays go online in varied ways||PUNE: Like many in the theatre industry in Pune and across the country, it was initially difficult for Mohit Takalkar to reconcile with plays being streamed online. Now, however, he is among an increasing number of stage directors, producers, and festival organizers embracing digital platforms to showcase their plays in a variety of forms, including some innovations. As the new Unlock regulations keep the physical theatre spaces partially or completely shut, digital theatre is accelerating at an unprecedented pace, as peak theatre season approaches in autumn and winter. “I was very sceptical initially as well. This is what theatre is not supposed to be, with no audience watching the performances. I didn’t think I would ever engage with it. Theatre in the digital sphere has elements of theatre as well as those of cinema, being broadcast via a small screen,” Takalkar said. Takalkar and his theatre production house has partnered with a ticket aggregator to stream his play A Colour of Loss to ticketed audiences online. It was recorded at an upcoming venue in Kothrud. A total of eight shows have been scheduled till October 11. Flagship theatre festivals in the country are also going full steam ahead online. Aadyam, the festival organized by Aditya Birla Group, will not accept any new plays for this year’s festival, but will re-stage some plays from its previous editions, and stream them online to ticketed shows. “These plays will be re-staged and recorded with multi-camera set-ups, and we have partnered with Insider.in to broadcast them in November. Of course, this feels different to what theatre is, but we have adjusted to our own reality,” said Shernaz Patel, the artistic director of Aadyam. The youth theatre festival Thespo, which takes place in Mumbai every December, has decided to push the envelope this year in terms of online theatre. Organized by Mumbai-based Q Theatre Productions, it is no stranger to telling stories online. Over the next couple of weeks, they are broadcasting a ticketed show titled Thespo Tapri, where professionals in theatre and literature tell stories to audiences, all of them being written and told by people under 25, or when they were of that age. As for their flagship theatre festival and workshops, which generally takes place at Prithvi Theatre, the organizers have not insisted on a stage and light set-up for entries. “The entries, which are still being judged this year for the flagship shows, are not just looking at the stories and their lengths, but also how they have integrated digital platforms. All the shows have to be performed live, but we haven’t insisted on entries absolutely using a stage. They can use any video platform they want to, be it Twitch or Zoom, and they need not be in the same physical space either. If they want to perform on a voice or video call, or if half the play is just a back and forth chat on WhatsApp or Tinder, we will consider that too in our selection process,” explained Anoushka Zaveri, one of the festival organizers this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/theatres-shut-but-plays-go-online-in-varied-ways/articleshow/78596832.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Damaged sewer pipe scares Marudha Nagar residents||Coimbatore: The residents of Marudha Nagar and surrounding areas at Kavundampalayam said they were worried that the leakage in drainage pipeline, which runs just above the corporation drinking water pipeline, would contaminate the potable water and requested the water supply and drainage department to fix the leakage at the earliest. Suresh Gandhi, secretary, Marudha Nagar Residents’ Association, said a private apartment in neighbouring Srinivasa Nagar, which don’t have any drainage connections, had approached the city corporation for a drainage connection two years ago. “The civic body then laid a separate drainage line connecting their apartment to the drainage line running through Marudha Nagar.” The drainage line was, however, broken when the city corporation dug up the newly-laid road in the area recently for water pipeline work. Govindaraj, president of the residents’ welfare association, said, “The waste water is now falling on the drinking water pipeline and it could cause water contamination. This will affect almost 1,000 residents, including those living in neighbouring areas such as Poompuhar Nagar, Kurinji Nagar, Nataraj Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar and Kanya Nagar.” The residents said they had asked the city corporation, Public Works Department and the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board to take a look at the leak and change the drainage pipeline once and for all, but in vain. “Officials are passing the buck and none have turned up yet,” Gandhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/damaged-sewer-pipe-scares-marudha-nagar-residents/articleshow/78595464.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai likely to get rain as low pressure over Bay of Bengal intensifies||CHENNAI: A day after many localities in the city and outskirts received surprise evening spells, weathermen have forecast light to moderate rain and thunderstorms in the city and suburbs for the next 48 hours. This, according to meteorologists, is due to the system over Bay of Bengal leaving a conducive atmosphere for convective rain over many parts of the state. With a fresh low pressure likely to form over north Andaman Sea on October 14, experts said the city and its neighbours may continue to get good pre-monsoon spells. The regional meteorological centre, Chennai, has forecast, “The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Thunderstorms with light to moderate rain are likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 34C and 27C,” in the city for the next 48 hours. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD, said many parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will receive light to moderate rain with thunderstorm in the next 24 hours due to a well-marked low pressure area over the Bay and an atmospheric circulation at an altitude of 1.5km over south Andhra Pradesh coast. The city recorded 13.9mm in Meenambakkam and traces in Nungambakkam on Friday after nearly a week of dry spell. According to IMD’s regional weather inference, a low pressure formed on October 9 over east-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Andaman sea has developed into a well-marked low pressure area on October 10. “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and intensify into a depression over central Bay of Bengal in the next 24 hours. There is also a possibility that the system may further intensify into a deep depression during the subsequent 24 hours. Further moving west-northwestwards, it is very likely to cross the north Andhra Pradesh coast during October 12, forenoon or noon.” IMD officials said many parts of north Tamil Nadu including Chennai will receive rainfall while the system is over the sea. Land temperatures in the city will rise and a dry spell may follow once the system enters the land. Meteorologists said the onset of northeast monsoon may be delayed due to the late withdrawal of southwest monsoon. In his update on Friday, weather blogger, Pradeep John said, “As the low develops and moves towards north Andhra Pradesh, convergence shifts to north Tamil Nadu and we can see good thunderstorms in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-likely-to-get-rain-as-low-pressure-over-bay-intensifies/articleshow/78596130.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Two booked for illegally barricading a section of public road in Wakad||Pune: The Wakad police on Saturday filed a case against two men for putting up barricades at Chhatrapati chowk and obstructing movement, leading to traffic jams in the area. Santosh Masale, a constable with the Hinjewadi traffic division, filed a case against the duo at the Wakad police station. According to police, Chhatrapati chowk is an important junction joining Kaspate Vasti and Kalewadi Phata in Wakad. Many motorists use the junction for their daily commute and traffic along the road is always moving. The duo placed barricades on the road, blocking vehicular movement towards Kalewadi Phata from Chhatrapati chowk. According to police, the duo barricaded a lane of the road and vehicles were diverted from only one lane, leading to traffic jams. Police said that duo wanted to carry out some digging work at the site and had therefore placed barricades at the chowk illegally. Police stated that the investigations indicated that the duo might have blocked the road with the help of barricades last week also. The duo, who work for a contractor, were found using the same type of barricades used by the police authorities to block the road in emergency situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-booked-for-illegally-barricading-a-section-of-public-road-in-wakad/articleshow/78596838.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: ED to seek court nod to quiz four men with PFI links||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate is all set to move a Mathura court next week for permission to question the four youths, linked to the Popular Front of India, arrested by Mathura police for conspiracy to trigger violent agitation on Hathras incident. Those arrested include Atiq-ur-Rahman from Muzaffarnagar, Siddiqui from Malappuram in Kerala, Masood Ahmad from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. They were arrested in Mathura while on way to Hathras on October 5. The four were booked under the charges of sedition, raising funds for committing a terrorist act under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and spreading enmity between religions. The ED sources said that they had received all the documents from the Mathura police of the accused, including the arrest memo and the objects that were found to be in possession of them at the time of arrest. On the basis of the documents received by the police and preliminary investigations done, the agency will approach the court for permission to question the four who are at present in judicial custody. An ED official privy to the probe said that the FIR registered by Mathura police against the four is also under Section 153 A which happens to be a scheduled offence under Prevention of Money Laundering Act and all money collected by committing such a crime is liable to be confiscated by the agency. “We will question the four and then take a call on registering a case,” said a senior ED official, who also said all technical resources and assistance was being utilised to trace details of the website- ‘Justice for Hathras’. Sources also claimed data traffic analysis from Indian Computer Emergency Response Team for tracing first IP resolution and Internet Protocol Detail Record analysis of suspects to check if they tried to access the site to check collaborations and coordination is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-to-seek-court-nod-to-quiz-four-men-with-pfi-links/articleshow/78597610.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Nesapakkam footpath project waste of funds, says PIL in HC||Chennai: A resident of Nesapakkam has moved the Madras high court to restrain Greater Chennai Corporation from constructing footpaths on interior, narrow lanes of Jai Balaji Nagar in the area as it reduces the width of the already-narrow roads. Hearing the plea, however, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha wondered whether the roads were meant only for cars and bikes. “What about the right of pedestrians to use roads?” The bench then directed the corporation to dispose of the representation made by the petitioner within a reasonable time. R Venkataraman, the petitioner, claimed that the corporation was wasting public funds by constructing pedestrian walks that won’t be used in interior roads. He added that construction of footpaths would make narrow lanes unmotorable by cars and vans. He said interior roads in Jai Balaji Nagar, Nesapakkam, were very narrow and that most lanes were less than 4m wide. Trees, lampposts, TNEB junction boxes and water tanks reduce the carriageway further, he said. While so, the corporation has come up with a proposal to construct footpaths on either sides of the lanes. Not only will this further reduce the road space but trees and electricity boxes will obstruct the pavements too rendering them unusable by pedestrians, he stated in the petition. Therefore, instead of wasting public funds on such a project that would be of no use to residents of the area or road users, the corporation could divert the money for a better developmental activity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nesapakkam-footpath-project-waste-of-funds-says-pil-in-hc/articleshow/78596142.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||Fresh batch to begin training at LBSNAA amid Covid-19 precautions||MUSSOORIE: The 95th foundation course for the fresh batch of civil servants, also referred to as officer trainees (OTs), will commence from Tuesday amidst strict physical distancing and precautionary measures at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA). As many as 428 OTs, including those who have joined the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS), Indian Forest Service (IFS) and other central services, have already reported at the academy for the 15-week foundation course. Sanjeev Chopra, director of LBSNAA, said, “A Covid-care centre with all the required facilities has been set up on the campus to deal with novel coronavirus cases, if any. Joining of the participants is being done in different slots over three days and authentication is being done using the facial recognition technology while physical documentation is being avoided.” All the OTs would also undergo compulsory one-week isolation upon arrival at the academy campus. “For the first week, the classes would be done through online mode. Subsequently, most of the classes would be held in small groups with a spaced seating arrangement and wherever possible, online classes would be held,” Chopra said. The director also said a number of other measures would be taken over the course’s duration that will include allocating different locations to the trainees for morning walk/yoga/running; keeping medical kits, masks and sanitisers in each room, staggering the time and venue for dining with appropriate seating arrangement to ensure physical distancing, and separate time slot allotment for use of library facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-batch-to-begin-training-at-lbsnaa-amid-covid-19-precautions/articleshow/78595470.cms||Anmol Jain
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Valiant fireman nominated for Prez’s medal||Coimbatore: Officials of the Palladam fire station in Tirupur district have recommended R Palavesamuthu, leading fireman attached to the Palldam fire station, for the President’s fire service medal for gallantry, to director general of police (DGP-Fire and rescue services) C Sylendra Babu. Palavesamuthu risked his life to rescue a guest worker from a 130-foot-deep deep well, sources said. “On September 30, at 8.20am, we were alerted about a man struggling for life in an abandoned well at Ayakkan Thottam at Samygoundenpalayam. A team led by fire station officer P Sureshkumar rushed to the spot and found 21-year-old M Motto from Odisha in the well. Motto, a construction labourer, had fallen into the well while trying to cut a neem tree branch,” an official said. The well had 30-foot-deep water. “Motto had suffered injuries on his head and legs. With a rope tied around his body, Palavesamuthu descended into the well and rescued the man. It was a dangerous operation as a Russell’s viper was spotted in the well,” said Sureshkumar. AIADMK MLA Karaipudur A Natarajan has also sent a recommendation letter to the DGP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/valiant-fireman-nominated-for-prezs-medal/articleshow/78595474.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: The teen who loved to dream for all||NEW DELHI: Rahul Rajput not only wanted to be able to stand on his own feet at an early age, but he also wished to take care of his family. Even as he himself pursued a BA degree in English from Delhi University’s School of Open Learning (he was in the second year), he had started a tuition centre, calling it Free Fly Coaching Centre, a reflection of both his own aim to fly high in life as well as his wish to help others climb high too. The 18-year-old would probably have achieved his ambition had he not met a girl a year and a half ago. As things turned out, Rajput’s friendship with the girl cost him his life. Renuka, Rajput’s mother, sadly recalled, “My son was teaching English at an NGO when the two met. The girl had once called on my phone because Rahul did not have a personal phone, and I admonished her and told her I did not appreciate what was happening because both of them were too young for a relationship.” The pair often met near his house or at the place where Rajput taught English. Renuka remembered the girl once coming to their house when she was injured in an accident. “My mother-in law told me that the girl had come. I scolded her and said she shouldn’t visit again and I never saw her after that,” said Renuka. “It was after the Covid lockdown that Rahul and she again got into contact and renewed their friendship two months ago.” On Saturday, when TOI visited the murdered teen's house, several people were there, some his students, others just curious about what had happened to the affable neighbourhood boy. As poignant symbols of Rajput's effort to teach children English, outside his room were a newly prepared thermocol board and a chart. “I did not study here, but others who did said Rahul bhaiya taught all subjects and gave free classes in English to students who aspired to be like him,” said a girl. “I know his students loved coming here for tuitions.” The grieving family disclosed that the teenager did not charge any specific fees and was happy with whatever he was given. “Apart from teaching, he loved painting too,” said Rajput’s father, Sanjay. “He aspired to be a civil services officer. He studied till the wee hours but still conducted tuition classes from 10am to 4pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tutor-death-the-teen-who-loved-to-dream-for-all/articleshow/78597833.cms||Sakshi Chand
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||High court notice to Telangana govt on uploading property details on Dharani||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court issued notices to the state government and chief commissioner of land revenue (CCLA) asking them to explain their stand on a petition against the new Dharani land portal and the method in which the government is seeking to upload particulars of non-agricultural properties on to the website. While refusing to grant any interim relief to the petitioners, Justice Shameem Akther, however, asked the government to file its counter within one week. The petition was filed by GR Karunakar of Rangareddy district and CV Narayana Rao of Hyderabad, questioning the government’s decision asking property owners to upload their details on their own. The petitioners said revenue and municipal officials have details of the properties as they collect all types of taxes. “They know who the owners are and their records too speak about it. But, asking people to upload details onto Dharani website may lead to several discrepancies and needless litigations, they contended. They said this exercise was not supported by any law and sought an interim stay on the entire exercise. They also sought a declaration from the court to the effect that the ongoing exercise was illegal. At this point, advocate general BS Prasad said the government has a purpose and it wants to streamline things to make life easy for common people and to save them from being duped by unscrupulous elements. The AG opposed any interim relief at this stage and said that he would file a counter explaining the purpose and objective behind the state’s decision and sought time for doing this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-t-on-uploading-property-details-on-dharani/articleshow/78596840.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bareilly||Organisers to audio-cast 102nd Urs on website||Bareilly: The organisers of the 102nd Aala Hazrat Urs, a large Sunni Barelvi gathering in Bareilly, have decided to audio-cast the proceeding of the Urs on their website. This decision was taken after receiving several suggestions and demands from the followers across the globe. Earlier, it was decided that the Urs, scheduled to take place from October 12 to 14, would be observed online due to Covid restrictions. However, after a recent meeting with district administration, organisers decided to give passes to Sajjada Nashin. Last year, over one lakh devotees from across the world had gathered during the Urs in 2019. Media co-ordinator of Dargah Aala-Hazrat said, “We made an announcement in the mosques during Friday prayers and through social media that devotees should observe Urs from their home and that they would be able listen to the audio-cast through our official website. We will also share the pictures, videos of the Urs through various social media platforms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/organisers-to-audio-cast-102nd-urs-on-website/articleshow/78594811.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 patient gives birth through C-section||Coimbatore: The ESI Hospital has successfully performed a complicated Caesarean section on a 36-year-old woman with a massive uterine fibroid measuring 25x27cm, after she was tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to the facility. Gynaecologists with the hospital said the fibroid was so large that it was pressing on the baby and obstructing its passage through the birth canal. “We had to be extra careful about not touching or puncturing the fibroid as that might lead to excessive bleeding, endangering the woman’s life.” The woman from Tirupur was referred to the ESI Hospital from a private hospital she was consulting after she tested positive for Covid-19. At the ESI Hospital, ultrasound scan of the womb detected the uterine fibroid, which surprisingly had not hindered the baby’s growth. The gynaecologists realized that the fibroid would obstruct the labour and natural delivery. Pointing out that the woman was pregnant for the third time, they said she had a normal delivery on the earlier two occasions. The question, they said, was how to handle such a massive fibroid. On September 19, the gynaecologists, performed the C-section and carefully removed the baby, a healthy girl weighing 2.75kg, which was almost pushed to a corner by the cyst. They, however, decided to leave the fibroid inside the fibroid. Hospital dean Dr Nirmala said, “Removing the fibroid would have caused massive bleeding. They often form in women because of increased blood flow. We also felt that the fibroid will reduce in size on its own post-pregnancy and as the woman ages when blood flow to it will reduce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-patient-gives-birth-through-c-section/articleshow/78595482.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure that your elders are safe from coronavirus: UP Govt||LUCKNOW: Even as Covid-19 cases in UP continue to fall, the government says that those above the age of 50 years remain highly vulnerable. In data released on Saturday, people above the age of 50 years account for 22% cases but 70% of all deaths. Additional chief secretary (health), Amit Mohan Prasad said that 6,353 people have died in the state till now due to Covid-19. A study of more than 6,000 victims showed that those above the age of 60 years accounted for 9.4% of total cases of nearly 4.34 lakh but 45% of total deaths. Those in the age group of 51 to 60 years formed 13% of the total cases but contributed to 25% of total deaths. “This figure indicates that even as the cases are falling, we have to be extremely careful in ensuring the elders are kept safe from the virus. This is the age group which has the highest level of comorbid conditions and we have to keep them safe,” Prasad said. Prasad added that among the deaths studied, 71% were men and 29% were women and 74% of the total persons who lost their lives had comorbidities. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the medical education department to identify vulnerable and comorbid groups and ensure that such patients are discharged only when they test negative. “The CM said that high-risk groups should get better medical facilities and people should be made aware about the need to strengthen their immune system,” an official said. During the review meeting with Team 11 on Saturday, the CM has directed that all facilities in Covid-19 hospitals are kept up to date and that senior doctors should make regular rounds. Special checks should be maintained in Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Azamgarh, Prayagraj and Meerut districts and medical facilities should be further strengthened there. He also directed officials to formulate an effective strategy to increase the recovery rate in Lucknow district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-that-your-elders-are-safe-from-virus-govt/articleshow/78597615.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Pune||Small bowel transplant brings Sangvi resident back to life||Pune: After remaining off oral food for over a year, his dishes now primarily comprise vegetable soups and some special feed.“I have stopped taking the food on my plate for granted. I savour what I eat, ” said Sangvi resident Vikas (name changed on request), who had developed intestinal gangrene in October 2019.The 34-year-old man was left with no option but to undergo complete small intestine resection (removal), as living with it could have cost him his life. On September 2 this year, Kiran successfully underwent a small bowel transplant surgery at the Jupiter hospital in Pune. The surgery was possible after relatives of a 15-year-old brain-dead Bengaluru boy donated his small intestine. The surgery was claimed to be western India's second successful small bowel transplant. The first transplant had also taken place at the same hospital in March this year. “The patient has made a good recovery. He will be able to eat solid food in another month,” hospital's chief multiorgan transplant surgeon, Gaurav Chaubal, told TOI.“This is the country’s 12th small bowel transplant and only second in Western India,” Chaubal said.In October last year the Sangvi resident had complained of acute abdominal pain and was diagnosed with intestinal gangrene. He had developed a clot in the main artery supplying blood to the intestine resulting in gangrene. “Doctors had to cut off his entire small bowel to save his life,” Chaubal said.The transplant surgeons from Jupiter hospital flew to Bengaluru to procure the small intestine from the 15-year-old brain-dead donor on September 2. After retrieval, the small intestine has to be transplanted within seven hours. “The transport of organs from outside states usually requires the use of chartered flights to cut short the travel time. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this was not possible. The organ was flown into Pune from Bangalore in a commercial flight,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee, the apex body that oversees coordination and allocation of donated organs as per the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/small-bowel-transplant-brings-sangvi-resident-back-to-life/articleshow/78596849.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 11, 2020||Agra||Lawyer who defended Nirbhaya rapists will fight for Hathras accused, up against Nirbhaya's counsel||AGRA: Legal counsel for the Nirbhaya rapists, AP Singh, has taken on the case to defend the four men accused in the Hathras gang-rape and murder case. Up against him will be Nirbhaya’s lawyer, Seema Kushwaha. “It was a formal visit. I had signed a vakalatnama earlier with them. I visited the crime spot as well,” he told TOI. Kushwaha had got the vakalatnama signed by the victim’s family last Sunday, TOI had reported. “The girl’s family has been misled and provoked by people engaging in caste politics … There is no caste-related divide in the village. It has only been projected by politicians,” he said, former Union minister and national president of the Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha, Manvendra Singh, beside him on the visit. Singh has often been in the news for his controversial remarks. He had blamed Nirbhaya’s lifestyle for the gang-rape, said he would have “burnt his daughter” if she was out with a man at night and been pulled up by Delhi high court for producing a forged affidavit about the age of Pawan Gupta, one of the accused in the Nirbhaya case. Kushwaha, whose case had led to the conviction of the Nirbhaya rapists, said, “This is not about one community’s girl. There are many who are raped and killed every day. Standing in support of rapists is a serious issue. It is a blot in our country.” The day she had taken on the case, she had told TOI, "The atmosphere in the village is not conducive to the mental well-being of the family ... The upper caste community, to which the four accused belong, are exerting pressure and organising panchayats to defend the suspects arrested in the case." Singh was unhappy about the visitors the victim’s family has had: “No one was even aware of this village, but politicians have made it a picnic spot … It is a conspiracy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lawyer-who-defended-nirbhaya-rapists-will-fight-for-hathras-accused-up-against-nirbhayas-counsel/articleshow/78595480.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 11, 2020||Bareilly||Elusive leopard injures another minor near Dudhwa||Bareilly: An elusive leopard that had presumably killed two children near Dhaurahra range of Dudhwa tiger reserve, has now attacked and injured another minor boy at a village on the Kheri-Bahraich border, late on Friday. The boy was rescued by a few alert villagers. Now, experts from WTI have installed 15 camera traps in the area. And the forest department has intensified its operation to trap the big cat. Two cages have been placed at separate locations and goats tied as baits. The latest incident was reported from Pathakpurva village near Bahraich range where a 13-year-old boy, Sikandar Lal, was injured. The forest department is also trying to verify whether it was the same leopard by matching the pug marks. On Saturday, DFO Anil Patel told TOI, “We can neither confirm nor deny whether it was the same leopard that injured a boy in Bahraich. The locals of Banshibeli village had assembled in large numbers with torches and tried to chase the animal a day ago. There is a possibility that the leopard may have changed its location after that incident.” “We will continue to monitor the area and wait for camera trap images to track the leopard. Goats will be tied outside as baits," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/elusive-leopard-injures-another-minor-near-dudhwa/articleshow/78593235.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Task force busts betting racket||Hyderabad: Task Force, West Zone team on Saturday busted a cricket betting racket and nabbed three people. Police seized Rs 13,800 along with other material from their possession and booked them under TS Gaming Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-busts-betting-racket/articleshow/78596855.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Septuagenarian gets land back from son, thanks to officials||Coimbatore: The north revenue divisional officer revoked the settlement deed of a property transferred by a 75-year-old woman to her 42-year-old son after he ill-treated her and refused to provide even the basic amenities. Thudiyalur resident Lakshmi had filed a petition to revenue department officials under the special act to get back her four-cent land worth Rs 60 lakh from her son Sasikumar, who allegedly abandoned her and failed to take care of her after receiving the property. Lakshmi had transferred the property to her son a few months ago. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani instructed RDO P Suresh to take necessary action. Suresh held inquiry with Lakshmi, Sasikumar, and her daughters Parimala, 55 and Sivakami, 45 at his office at Thudiyalur on Friday. Following the inquiry, the RDO revoked the settlement deed under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/septuagenarian-gets-land-back-from-son-thanks-to-officials/articleshow/78595495.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||Authorities to explore possibilities of night parking facility of aircraft at Jolly Grant Airport||Dehradun: The secretary of Union civil aviation, Pradeep Kharola, met state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat at his residence on Saturday. During the meeting, they discussed the ongoing aviation projects in Uttarakhand. Besides discussing projects like expansion of Dehradun and Pantnagar airports, Kharola and CM Rawat also agreed upon exploring the possibilities of night parking of flights at Jolly Grant Airport. The two also discussed the issue of developing heli ports in Uttarakhand. A communique from the CM’s office said that Kharola assured the CM of required support from the Centre for the extension of air services in Uttarakhand.He said that around 80% work has been completed under the first phase of expansion at Jolly Grant Airport. Later, CM Rawat said that both Dehradun and Pant Nagar airports are being developed as per international standards and their expansion is underway. He added that Pantnagar airport is being developed as a green field airport. “The state government has given an in-principle approval to provide the required land for extension of Jolly Grant Airport. We are developing the airport on international level and we are also aiming for night parking of flights,” CM Rawat said. The CM added that the expansion of the airports would boost the tourism sector of the state. “Besides, Uttarakhand is strategically located and therefore, it is important to develop airports on international standards,” he added. “For Pantnagar airport, the state has provided the required land. In view of our strategic geographical location, we need to improve the air services to our state and we are heading in the right direction,” said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/authorities-to-explore-possibilities-of-night-parking-facility-of-aircraft-at-jolly-grant-airport/articleshow/78595488.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||‘Encroachments bigger risk for tigers than ecotourism’||Nagpur: G Guruprasad (36) is an IFS officer of the 2012 batch and posted as deputy conservator of forest (buffer area) in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) since the last two years. He was in the news recently for taking over encroachments under Forests Rights Act (FRA, 2006) in the buffer zone. The action created a political storm and ministers intervened to stop the removal. Guruprasad is also instrumental in promoting ecotourism in buffer areas. He was recently given the Arun Bongirwar Public Service Excellence Award (ABPSEA)-2020 by the state government for wildlife conservation by creating livelihoods for local people through ecotourism. The award is presented to encourage officers for excellent, innovative and impactful work. Excerpts from an interview... Q. Other parks in the country also encourage ecotourism but what is different about Tadoba? A. The Tadoba buffer ecotourism model is completely run with the active involvement of local village eco-development committees (VEDCs) and all benefits shared with the villages too. Such large-scale participation of local people in buffer tourism is not seen in other parks. Hence, the Tadoba model is different. Q. How has ecotourism impacted the lives of people? A. Ecotourism in buffer villages has given alternative livelihood to villagers. Over 150 Gypsies and 250 guides are involved in running the tourism activity. Apart from guides and Gypsies by locals, other activities like camping sites, boating, kayaking, machan stays, diorama, butterfly garden, adventure sports have generated additional livelihood for 100-150 local youths. Out of the total charges collected, 70% directly goes to the villagers’ account. The remaining is used for village development through Tadoba Tiger Foundation (TCF). The standard of living has improved because of ecotourism activity. Q. But do the locals realize their responsibility to pay back to the forest & wildlife? A. There are 15 villages which are directly benefited or dependent on ecotourism in the buffer. The protection level has improved in the forests adjoining these villages. No forest fire incidents and poaching cases have been reported for the last 5 years from here. Q. Some locals have encroached upon forest land. A. All were there before the start of ecotourism activity. New encroachments have not been reported. About 20 guides and Gypsy owners have volunteered to remove their encroachments and others may soon follow suit. Villages not into tourism activity are the ones which are still involved in clearing forests for encroachments. We are taking strict action in such cases. Q. How has tourism impacted wildlife conservation? A. The patches of forest where tourism exists are protected by fires and poaching by the villagers themselves. Due to safaris, patrolling routes get improved and, hence, habitat is managed well. Proper monitoring of wildlife is done by tourists, guides and drivers. TATR administration gets an advantage by way of regular feedback. Q. You were instrumental in opening new entry gates. How has it benefited? A. Tadoba buffer tourism initially started in 2014. From 2014-2019, seven tourism gates were operational, mostly concentrated in Mohurli and Kolara. When I joined in 2019, we decided to boost ecotourism in other areas to give maximum benefits to the villagers. Currently, there are 13 safari gates. We have also started other activities like kayaking, adventure sports, nature trails, cycling, camping life, log hut stays, night safari, etc. Q. By opening more areas are you not exposing tiger habitats? A. Ecotourism is the most eco-friendly and intangible livelihood option without damaging the environment. Though more tiger areas have been exposed, it has indirectly helped in proper monitoring and protection. Due to the improvement of routes, we could patrol these areas and intervene positively in habitat improvement. Q. Should the Tadoba model be practised elsewhere to ease pressure on core areas? A. There is a lot of scope in the buffer zones of other protected areas (PAs). I think there is even more scope in Tadoba buffer to take up other tourism activities to give maximum benefit to the locals. Q. You initiated strict action against encroachments in buffer. A. Tadoba buffer zone is a major corridor for the dispersal of tigers. Encroachments are a bigger threat to tigers than ecotourism. They eat into these corridors leading to severe man-animal conflicts. Nearly 2,000-hectare forest area has been encroached upon in Tadoba’s buffer. This year we were able to clear 200 hectares in major corridor patches. Ecotourism activity has also helped us positively in the eviction process. Q. Other than tiger safaris, what can be done to improve the lives of people? A. Nearly 400 villages have benefited from Tadoba ecotourism. Apart from safari, 100-150 villagers have been trained to guide and run other activities. Over 30 villagers are benefiting from homestays. Those not involved in ecotourism have been given skill development training and 304 locals have benefited. This apart, 200 locals are involved in forest protection activities and 160 members of primary response teams get a monthly honorarium. I strongly feel there is still a huge scope to improve ecotourism activities in other villages in the Tadoba landscape. Q. When the buffer is doing well, should tourism move out of core? A. There is an increasing demand for ecotourism in PAs. In the core area, only 20% area is open for tourism and carrying capacity is also fixed as per NTCA guidelines. Beyond a certain limit, there is no further scope to improve ecotourism in core. If ecotourism activities are managed well in the buffer, it will help in reducing pressure on the core as well as meet the increasing demand of tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/encroachments-bigger-risk-for-tigers-than-ecotourism/articleshow/78596186.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 11, 2020||Pune||A jersey cow gift to ex-inmate to build life anew as dairy farmer||Pune: A former inmate of Yerwada jail will receive an unlikely gift – a jersey cow --- from two city-based organisations engaged in rehabilitation of released prisoners to help him build his life anew as a dairy farmer. After spending 21 years behind bars, he stepped out as a free man last month, but could not find ways to make ends meet. “We counselled him about the economic activity that would work best for him. Rahuri in Ahmednagar district, from where he hails, has a good dairy industry and cooperative network. That is why we decided to start him off in this business,” said Milind Bhoi, president of the Pune-based Bhoi Foundation. Along with Adarsh Mitra Mandal, they pooled in money to buy him a jersey cow. It will be formally handed over to him on Sunday. Jersey cows are popular among dairy farmers as they produce the highest quantity of milk yield per day. The cost of a jersey cow, depending on its weight and age, varies between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1lakh, sometimes even more. The foundation often sets up businesses for former prisoners as part of their re-integration into the society. They have helped set up businesses ranging from cobbling to an entire orchestra. “But this is the first time that we will be donating a cow as part of the rehabilitation effort,” said Bhoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-jersey-cow-gift-to-ex-inmate-to-build-life-anew-as-dairy-farmer/articleshow/78596856.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: 18 deaths in a day, maximum 15 in Dehradun district||DEHRADUN: On Saturday, Uttarakhand recorded 462 new infections of Covid-19 which took the total case tally to 54,525. Also, 18 more fatalities were registered which pushed the death toll of the virus to 734 in the Himalayan state. Among the 462 fresh infections found on Saturday, the maximum of 167 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 63 from Udham Singh Nagar, 62 from Haridwar, and 56 from Nainital. “The nine hill districts collectively reported 119 cases on Saturday,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. He added that among the 18 deaths, 15 were reported from Dehradun district and the other three from Udham Singh Nagar. In a bid to strengthen efforts to contain the Covid-19 spread in Uttarakhand, the state government issued an advisory to all the chief medical officers asking to conduct at least 100 RT-PCR tests per lakh population on a daily basis. The antigen tests may vary between 300-to-500 per day in each district, the advisory said. The health department also decided to put special emphasis on testing in border districts like Haridwar, Haldwani and Udham Singh Nagar. Dr SK Jha, chief medical officer of Haridwar, told TOI that the target for the health department is to collect samples of over 2,000 people daily. To this end, 30 teams have been formed in the district apart from those in government hospitals. “Each team consists of three health workers who will be visiting designated spots to collect samples of symptomatic people. Portable TrueNAT machine and private labs will also support us in collecting and testing more people everyday,” added Dr Jha.Dr Bhagirathi Joshi, CMO of Nainital, also said that their focus is to increase Covid-19 testing ahead of the upcoming festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-18-deaths-in-a-day-maximum-15-in-dehradun-dist/articleshow/78595497.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 11, 2020||Pune||PMC fines 15 restaurants, eateries flouting norms||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has imposed fines on 15 restaurants and eateries located on the Pune Satara road over the last two days for violation of the standard operating procedures (SOP) and guidelines for offering dine-in services. The civic body has intensified checks of restaurants and eateries in the city. A fine of Rs2,500 was imposed on each restaurant and eatery for the first violation. The officials said that surprise checks are being held across all civic wards to ensure strict enforcement of guidelines at eateries. Times ViewThe government has allowed reopening of restaurants and eateries for dine-in service after six months and extended the business timing. However it is now imperative that owners of the businesses and customers strictly follow rules and guidelines. Any laxity can prove costly. These establishments cannot afford to face another closure, which will affect jobs and revenue. It will also damage the effort to revive the economy and to restore as much normalcy as possible considering the constraints of the pandemic. Thorough compliance of the guidelines will ensure safety and continuation of business.From this week, restaurants and eateries have been allowed to offer dine-in services at 50% capacity. They are expected to follow various norms as precautionary measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. Pune municipal commissioner, in an order issued on October 7, allowed health inspectors, deputy engineers and anti-encroachment inspectors to check and initiate action against establishments not following rules. An official from PMC’s Sahakarnagar-Dhankawadi ward office said the inspections have been underway since the last two days. “Our teams visited restaurants located on Satara road and noticed that the set norms pertaining to social distancing, use of masks and hand gloves were not being followed at these establishments, which compelled imposition of fines. The restaurant owners were issued warnings to strictly follow the SOP,” the official added. Civic officials said that the owners are expected to maintain a register of visitors and keep adequate distance between tables. Hand sanitizers and thermal checks at the entrance are mandatory. While many restaurants have made adequate arrangements, some establishments were yet to do so, officials said. As per the order issued by the state government, fines worth Rs5,000 and Rs7,500 are to be charged if an establishment violates rules for the second and third instance. Another official from the administration said that for effective execution of SOPs the restaurant owners are told to circulate the list of norms over their social media groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-fines-15-restaurants-eateries-flouting-norms/articleshow/78596851.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Man posing as bank manager swindles Rs 2L of octogenarian||Chennai: A man posed as a bank manager and withdrew nearly Rs 2 lakh from an octogenarian’s accounts at West Mambalam. According to complainant Narayanan, 80, he received a call from landline number ‘044-24898839’. A man claiming to be Vijayakumar, manager at a nationalised bank, gave Narayanan the numbers of the two bank accounts he held with the bank. “He then went on to say that he needed to review the accounts due to the pandemic and asked Narayanan to share the one time passwords (OTPs) he receives to complete the process,” said a police officer. The senior citizen shared the credentials. Subsequently, he received alerts of Rs 1,79,999 and Rs 10,999 having been debited from both his bank accounts. Realising he had been conned, Narayanan lodged a complaint at the West Mambalam police station. A police team has collected the bank details from the senior citizen and has informed the bank about the fraudulent transactions. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-posing-as-bank-manager-swindles-rs-2l-of-octogenarian/articleshow/78596162.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Dehradun||Lack of budget & med staff remain concerns as govt announces 1,000-bed Covid centre in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, earlier this week, had announced that a Covid-19 care centre of 1,000-bed capacity will be constructed by the health department for Kumbh Mela 2021 before January next year. While the decision was hailed by locals, apprehensions are that lack of budget and unavailability of medical and other staff will be big challenges in front of the state government in ensuring the smooth functioning of this proposed facility as well as Covid care during Kumbh. “The district administration had announced plans to make a 500-bed fabricated Covid-19 hospital in the initial stage of lockdown but due to the lack of budget, things were not taken forward. Later, a 200-bed Covid care centre was built but only with the help of SIDCUL industries,” said RM Dobhal, a local.It was also announced on Wednesday (October 7) that private hospitals will be involved to provide healthcare facilities for pilgrims as the Mela Hospital is to be used only as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The announcement to limit Mela Hospital just for Covid-19 patients/suspects has also raised concerns as some locals feel that pilgrims, seers, and Kumbh Mela officials, who might need immediate medical facilities in wards like burn unit or cardiac unit, will now have to be rushed to a private hospital and this may lead to loss of precious time. Meanwhile, CMO Haridwar Dr Sambhu Nath Jha told TOI, “We have already made a Covid-19 care centre in Haridwar with a capacity of 200 beds. Also, several hotels are to be used for infected patients. Besides building another 1000-bed Covid-19 care centre, we will also hire some private hospitals for the Kumbh Mela. However, the serious patients will be referred to AIIMS Rishikesh or other higher centres, according to guidelines.” Notably, the government has also announced plans to build a medical college in Kankhal, Haridwar. The Kumbh Mela will start in Haridwar from January, 2021. The fair is expected to be attended by millions of people from across the country. Seers from all 13 akharas across the country will also reach the holy town for the Kumbh Mela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lack-of-budget-med-staff-remain-concerns-as-govt-announces-1000-bed-covid-centre-in-haridwar/articleshow/78595502.cms||MS Nawaz
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Lack of safety for drivers puts go-karting in dangerous lane||Hyderabad: A freak accident on a Meerpet track that led to the death of a 21-year-old engineering student recently, has put the spotlight on Hyderabad’s go-kart tracks – most of which have sprung up over the last few years. While there’s no official count, TOI’s investigations pegged the number between 10 and 12 spread across Medchal, Shamshabad, Nanakramguda, Gandipet and Meerpet primarily. It also threw up other concerning facts: lack of periodic inspections and protection of drivers against hot and rotating parts of the vehicle such as the engine, chain sprocket and wheels. “It has been five years since we took this place on lease...there have been no inspections so far. But we do have to renew our licence from time to time,” said M Chandra, manager of OKOS Go-karting in Kokapet, one of the few places that was open on Saturday. As TOI scanned the city, it found that many had either not opened post lockdown or were hurriedly closed down after the 21-year-old B-Tech student Varshini’s accident. “The local cops asked us to shut temporarily. They said they’ll inspect the premises before allowing us to resume business,” said an executive in-charge of a track in Shamshabad. A senior police official agreed that the police get involved only when there’s an incident. “Else, we do not conduct any checks or interfere in their operations,” the official said. Even the process of securing permission to set up a go-kart track is rather simple. While officials investigating the recent case said that they need a nod from the tourism department, HMDA and Regional Transport Authority; tracks owners said a go-ahead from the local municipality is the only requirement. “The procedure is similar to setting up any commercial establishment,” said G Sriniva Reddy, commissioner of Narsingi municipality that has one track in Kokapet under its jurisdiction. While he claimed that the authorities check if the applicants have a clearance from the fire department and police, officials in these departments that TOI spoke to, said they had no role to play. “Since these are just open tracks we are not designated to conduct any fire safety checks,” said V Papaiah, Regional Fire Officer (Central Region). TOI’s visit to some tracks also found crucial safety measures missing. Many vehicles did not have adjustable seats, as prescribed by the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India (FMSCI), to help a driver reach the pedals without a hitch. Also, while the rulebook says that those under the influence of alcohol or drugs are prohibited from driving, several tracks had no mechanism in place to check these parameters. “I have been to at least six go-kart tracks in and around the city. The karts differ a lot in terms of speed and handling, so there’s no real fair game since it is pure luck if you get one that is decent,” said B Rohit, an engineering student. Another regular, Roshni Agarwal, an IT employee said, “I went go-karting twice so far. While my first experience was good, the second time, the steering was so disengaging that taking a smooth turn at some points was almost impossible. There were also times when I changed my kart in between laps.” Those manning these places, of course, insisted on adhering to all norms. “We give all our customers helmets and a jacket. The jackets protect the hair and also act as a shield when the driver accidentally touches the engine while getting down from the kart,” said Avinash Reddy, manager of Flipside in Nanakramguda. Owners blamed the recent fatal accident on a faulty vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-safety-for-drivers-puts-go-karting-in-dangerous-lane/articleshow/78596857.cms||Moulika.KV
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||MSMEs catering to railways seek subsidy to get certified||Coimbatore: Micro and small industrial units that cater to the railways have sought subsidy to cover the expenses to acquire the International Railway Industry Standard (Iris) certification given by the European Rail Industry Association (Unife).Industry representatives said the certification is mandatory to export rail components and also for indigenising cutting-edge rail rolling stock that are being imported.President of Railway Suppliers Association (Rasa) S Surulivel said only if they get Iris certification, they can aspire to export products. Despite its size, Indian Railways depends on imports for modernization and metro trains. “If Indian industries get Iris certified, we can manufacture the imported items here. This will reduce the expense for railways significantly,” said Rasa secretary M Raveendran, who is also president of the Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association (Cocia). The Iris registration fee is 395 or around Rs 35,000. The Centre should announce a scheme for micro and small railway suppliers to bear the cost, the representatives said. The association has sought a subsidy of 80%.Surulivel said the Centre gives 75% subsidy for MSMEs to get ISO certified and it could do the same for Iris certification. Raveendran added that the Centre provides 80% subsidy under the Lean Manufacturing Competitiveness Scheme (LMCS) for MSMEs, and Iris certification can be subsidised on the same lines.As per the Unife data, of the 2,085 Iris certified railway firms, only 52 are in India, while China has 1,156. “The government should target to produce at least 200 Iris certificate holders from small industry within two years,” a Rasa representative said.They have sent a representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/msmes-catering-to-railways-seek-subsidy-to-get-certified/articleshow/78595505.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||New Town kid drowns in pond||Kolkata: A five-year-old boy, who was playing in a field close to his home, drowned in a nearby pond on Friday afternoon. “The boy, Ayush Mondal, a resident of Jyoti Nagar in B Block, New Town, was playing on the ground. He somehow fell into the pond. Locals jumoed in the pond and managed to drag him out. They took an unconscious Ayush to a local hospital but doctors there declared him dead on arrival,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-kid-drowns-in-pond/articleshow/78596858.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||2nd phase of RTE admissions to start tomorrow||Coimbatore: The district administration has invited applications from underprivileged students for the second phase of admissions under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act (RTE), under which 25% seats is reserved for them in private schools. A communication from the district collector, K Rajamani, said the first phase of RTE admissions was done from August 28 to September 25. “Applications were received online and deserving candidates were admitted to the entry-level classes in private schools. Now, the second phase of admissions would be held for vacant seats from October 12 to November 11.” Applications have to be filled online at rte.tnschools.gov.in. The RTE admissions would be implemented in private self-financing schools, which are not minority schools, in entry-level classes - LKG or Class I. The schools should be located in a radius of 1km from the child’s residence. If the schools receive applications in person, they have to give an acknowledgement receipt to the parents and upload the application online. Parents could also apply online from the chief education office, district education offices, block educational offices or block resource centres. “If there are more applications than the RTE seats available, lot system would be followed to select candidates,” the communication said. According to the district school education department officials, there are 3,444 vacant RTE seats with 227 matric schools and 141 nursery and primary schools in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2nd-phase-of-rte-admissions-to-start-tomorrow/articleshow/78595512.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for cheating woman||Hyderabad: Malkajgiri police arrested a man for cheating a woman on the pretext of marriage and threatening her. The accused, Mohammed Sadiq Pasha, was booked and sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-cheating-woman/articleshow/78596863.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||Carved marble to be taken to temple site from Monday||Ayodhya: After the ‘bhoomipujan’ on August 5, Ramjanmabhoomi will keep its tryst another historic moment on Monday when the first consignment of carved marble stones will be transported to the temple site after three decades of round-the-clock sculpting at the mandir nirmaan karyashala, 3km away. A symbolic puja was performed on the first carved pillar to be lowered at the Ramjanmabhoomi by Larsen & Toubro (L&T) cranes on Friday. Around 4 lakh cubic feet of stones will be used in temple construction and around one lakh cubic feet of carved marble are stashed in the workshop. Construction firm L&T conducted a dry run of loading and transportation of marble stones on Friday by relocating a carved pillar to the temple site amid much fanfare and in presence of VHP leaders. After a special puja, the marble pillar was given a ceremonial farewell from the karyashala amid slogans of Jai Shri Ram. “Now, time has come for these stones to be part of Ram temple, upholding the faith of crores of Hindus around the world,” said temple priest Satyendra Das. Talking to TOI, Triloki Nath Pandey, senior VHP leader and decree holder of Ramjanmabhoomi and fast friend of Ram Lalla, said, “After the foundation test piling, the carved stones will now be shifted to the temple site through select streets with minimum traffic.” The Mandir Nirmaan Karyashala was established in 1991 in Ayodhya by Vishwa Hindu Parishad to sculpt marble for temple construction and during these three decades it received donations from across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/carved-marble-to-be-taken-to-temple-site-from-monday/articleshow/78597630.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Vidyagama was an eye wash, feel parents||Mandya: The Vidyagama scheme launched to engage students in academic activities during the pandemic was an eye wash, allege parents in Mandya. Parents think it’s not an effective teaching tool or alternative to traditional schooling. Compared to the tuition classes, Vidyagama is not an effective means to keep the children busy, said parents. Several complaints have also been made against some private (aided and unaided) institutions which initially implemented the scheme to trick parents into paying the fee and then stopped holding the classes. “We were pressurised to pay the school fee when the Vidyagama scheme was introduced citing state government had given permission to continue the learning process. After the paying of first instalment, the teachers came in the school bus and held classes once a week. Now, for last two months they are not holding any classes. When we ask them why classes are not being held, they say no classes will be held as online platforms are available to teach kids. Now I feel that I may have been tricked by the school and government to pay the school fee,” said Sowmya whose kids study in an aided private school. Absence of guidelines for school management and teachers on the Vidyagama scheme is also raising concerns among parents and experts. “Vidyagama is not mandatory in nature. Also it does not have any modalities about how it should be implemented. The teachers, parents and children appears to have lost their interest in the scheme as it failed to prove itself as an effective substitute to traditional learning process” said professor Hulkere Mahadevu, a retired principal. Deputy director of public instruction Raghunandan told TOI that he has not come across complaints by parents against private institutions for tricking them into paying fees and later abondoning the classes under Vidyagama scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vidyagama-was-an-eye-wash-feel-parents/articleshow/78596213.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bengaluru||High transport cost of liquid oxygen is hurting Bengaluru hospitals||BENGALURU: While the central government has capped medical oxygen rate at Rs 15.2 per cubic metre to ease supply, pricing remains a concern in Karnataka because of high transportation charges. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA), while fixing the price on September 26, had stated that the same was subject to transportation cost fixed at the state level. Hospitals treating Covid-19 patients say that liquid oxygen manufacturing companies and suppliers are not following the NPPA price and are charging high rates by applying transportation fees. Karnataka needs 500 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen per day and the government has given directions to curtail industrial use of the same and divert supply for medical purposes. Karnataka is largely buying from manufacturers in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Odisha. The selling cost of liquid oxygen per cubic meter varies from Rs 27 to Rs 65, depending on the quantity. Dr Jagadish Hiremath, medical director at Ace Suhas Hospital, said he is buying liquid oxygen at Rs 65 per cubic metre and the government cap of Rs 15.2 isn’t being adhered to by manufacturers and supply agencies. “In March, we paid Rs 30 per cubic metre. It reached Rs 37.1 in April. In July, it went up to Rs 50 and in August it scaled up to Rs 55. Currently, the buying cost is Rs 65. If we negotiate further, there could be delay or hindrance in supply and we can’t afford that,” he added. The situation in government hospitals and multi-speciality corporate hospitals is no different. However, Manipal hospitals refused to comment. Dr Govindaiah Yateesh, unit head, Apollo Hospitals, Jayanagar, said his hospital was sourcing liquid oxygen at Rs 27 per cubic metre. “Nearly 70-80% of the hospitalised Covid patients require oxygen support. To ensure supply, we have to pay the supplier as they demand,” he said. The problem needs to be addressed by the government at the earliest, said Dr Prasanna, who heads Pristine Hospitals and is serving as president-elect of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). “The transportation cost is at the discretion of the suppliers and hence they are charging huge amounts. Hospitals are also made to pay holding charges. We are unable to do anything and can’t even complain as hospitals fear a stoppage of supply,” said Dr Prasanna. PHANA had demanded that the government take action against suppliers for charging dubious rates. When TOI spoke with Cauvery Industrial Gases, one of the suppliers of medical oxygen, its proprietor Major Basheer Rawther, said: “We are getting supplies from Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and Odisha. It’s equally challenging to ensure seamless supply. Loading, unloading, holding charges, maintenance cost of cylinders have to be borne by the hospital. How can we supply at only Rs 15.2 per cubic meter?” he said. Transportation fees that have been unregulated is now under the government’s radar. “The matter has been brought to our notice. We are looking into it,” said Gaurav Gupta, commerce and industrial principal secretary, who heads the committee monitoring oxygen supply chain. Amaresh Tumbagi, additional drug controller, said the state government will soon be capping the transportation cost too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/high-transport-cost-of-liquid-oxygen-is-hurting-hospitals/articleshow/78597946.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 11, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam ranks fifth in no. of high-tech schools||KOCHI: With the state government set to declare Kerala as the first fully digital state in the educational sector in India, Ernakulam ranks fifth in terms of the number of high-tech schools in the state. The project is implemented in 1,339 schools in the district. Through the high-tech school project implemented by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), Ernakulam division, around 28,741 IT devices were installed in 1,339 government and government-aided schools in the district. The high-tech school programme is a major highlight of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission of the state government, aimed at upgrading all classrooms to international standards. KITE was identified as the implementing agency for the programme, being the pioneer of ICT-enabled education in the state for over a decade. In Ernakulam, 863 government-aided schools, which have classes till Class VII, and 476 schools, which have higher secondary classes, were turned high-tech. “As part of it, 8,811 laptops, 5,412 multimedia projectors, 7,363 USB speakers, 3,482 mounting accessories, 1,916 screens, 431 DSLR cameras, 407 multi-function printers, 476 HD webcams, and 443 43-inch televisions were distributed in 1,339 schools. Moreover, high-speed internet connection was given to 1,041 schools. There are 192 Little KITE clubs in Ernakulam with a total of 10,335 members. As many as 14,206 teachers in the district were given training by KITE to use high-tech classroom facilities,” said KITE Ernakulam coordinator P N Sajimon. In Ernakulam, KITE distributed maximum number of IT equipment in SNDP HSS Udayamperoor (268), followed by KPM VHSS Poothotta (239) and SN HSS Okkal (238). Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will announce Kerala as the first fully digital state in education sector on Monday through videoconference. The four districts that have more number of high-tech schools than Ernakulam are Malappuram (1,686), Kannur (1,514), Kozhikode (1,494) and Thrissur (1,347).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dist-ranks-fifth-in-no-of-high-tech-schools/articleshow/78596171.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Coimbatore||CPM ex-MLA dies at 74||Coimbatore: CPM ex-MLA KC Karunakaran died of age-related illness in the district on Friday night. He was 74. His wife had died of age-related illness a few months ago and since then he was in depression. He is survived by son Mahesh and daughter Semmalar. Karunakaran had represented the Singanallur assembly constituency from 2001 to 2006 and was the state executive member of the party for the past 23 years. He had also served as the CPM district secretary from 1997 to 2001. A former employee of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board, he was involved in a protest to support the Kadamparai electricity board staff. He led the protest that was staged at the district collectorate. Karunakaran was arrested by police and lodged in Pollachi sub-jail for a month. During the emergency, he was hiding to evade the arrest. He had attended a party’s youth meeting held in Moscow in Russia. The body was kept at the party office for the cadre and public to pay homage. Later, it was cremated at Papanaicken Palayam.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cpm-ex-mla-dies-at-74/articleshow/78595526.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Three more held for murder of youth at Kuzhuppilly||KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police on Saturday recorded the arrest of three more persons in connection with the murder of a 23-year-old man at Kuzhuppilly. The arrested persons have been identified as Manu Naveen (24) of Kuzhuppilly, Kevin Krishna (19) of Cherayi and Vivek (24) of Ayyambally. The victim, Pranav Prasad, was found dead along the pocket road leading to Pallathamkulangara beach on September 22 morning. One among the accused, Ambadi (19), was arrested soon after the crime. Police later on arrested three others as well. The victim was found dead with his face covered in blood. It was suspected that the accused had nursed a previous grudge with the victim. Some of them were history-sheeters. The victim also was accused in a few criminal cases, police said. Police said the accused suspected that the victim was disturbing the woman and seems to have summoned the victim to the location for discussing the issue on September 22. The accused then attacked the youth as a gang with sticks and blunt objects and fled the scene after the victim became unconscious. The body was later found by fishermen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/three-more-held-for-murder-of-youth/articleshow/78596192.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CM vows mental healthcare for all as Covid pushes people to brink||Bhubaneswar: Ramani Ranjan Mohapatra, a 35-year-old IT professional, has been a patient at the mental health clinic for the last couple of months. He has complains of sleeplessness while working from home, constant fear of losing his job and long screen time making him feel sick. “I feel tired but cannot sleep. I have lost interest in everything. Nothing excites me any more. Working from home without any break and the news of lay-offs also disturb me a great deal,” Mohapatra said. Psychiatrists said there has been a considerable rise in complaints of insomnia and anxiety during the lockdown. The outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic has not only made people highly wary of catching the disease, but has also taken a toll on their mental well-being. In view of the prevalent situation, chief minister Naveen Patnaik asked people to pledge to ensure quality mental healthcare is accessible to those who are vulnerable on the World Mental Health Day on Saturday. “As the world grapples with the biggest health emergency of our time due to #COVID19 pandemic, it has brought sharp focus on mental health and wellbeing. On #WorldMentalHealthDay, pledge to ensure that quality mental health care is accessible to those who are vulnerable,” Naveen tweeted. This year’s World Mental Health Day theme is ‘Mental Health for All: Greater Investment Greater Access’. It has been chosen by the World Federation for Mental Health in the wake of the challenges arising out of the pandemic. “People of different age-groups are dealing with different psychological issues. The younger lot are mostly coping with breakups, which are making them irritable, frustrated, depressed, making them turn to alcohol, smoke, weed, etc. For the middle aged, job or business loss leads to sexual issues, addiction and finally ends in severe depression. Work pressure among women has been the maximum as people have been locked down at home for prolonged periods. This has led to the exacerbation of previous diseases, which were under control earlier with medication,” Suvendu Narayan Mishra, professor in psychology at IMS and SUM Hospital here, said. Doctors said elderly persons are feeling insecure, panicky, restless, having sleep issues as they keep watching the rising Covid cases on television and feel more vulnerable to infection. “Overall, I see a huge rise in depression and addiction among all age-groups, along with sleep issues and anxiety,” Mishra added. Citing a survey, S K Padhy, additional professor of psychiatry at AIIMS-Bhubaneswar, said, “The Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown has led to poor sleep quality, shift in sleep cycles to delayed phases, sleep deprivation and depressive symptoms in a sizeable number of the population.” A shift to later bedtime, delayed sleep onset, reduction in night-time sleep duration and increased daytime napping has been observed. A significant number of participants reported worsening sleep quality. Apart from insomnia, anxiety and the depressive symptom were higher than population estimates, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cm-vows-mental-healthcare-for-all-as-covid-pushes-people-to-brink/articleshow/78596191.cms||Minati Singha
October 11, 2020||Kochi||KMRL completes survey of six major canals in Kochi||Kochi: Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has completed all major surveys for the integrated urban regeneration and water transport system (IURWTS) project aimed at regenerating the canals in Kochi. Through this project, the metro agency aims to restore the glory of these canals by making it navigable. They also plan to develop more “lung spaces along the banks of these canals”. KMRL is reviving six major canals in the city — Edapally canal, Chilavannoor canal, Thevara-Perandoor canal, Thevara canal, Market Canal and Konthuruthy canal. “KMRL has completed all major surveys within a short span of time. Detailed project report has been prepared and submitted to the state government for approval. We have lined up the course of action including cleaning of canals, rehabilitation of affected persons, shore protection and canal-oriented developments (COD), thus bringing life back to the canals in Kochi,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director, KMRL. Following orders of the state government, the metro agency undertook the project last year. The work was entrusted with Antea Nederland BV (the Netherlands) for the development of concept, master planning and detailed design. Sharma, who is also the additional chief secretary for special projects in the state, added that KMRL has big plans for the city. The metro agency has completed the advanced LIDAR survey for getting topographic details and to map sub-drains that flow into the canals. It has also completed the social impact assessment (SIA) study, water quality studies and bathymetric survey to measure the depth of a water body as well as map the underwater features of a water body. Geotechnical bore-hole investigations done at 56 identified locations for understanding the soil characteristics and lithology along the canals is nearing completion. The major portion of floodplain analysis and water-balancing studies is being done in the Netherlands and the same is expected to be completed by this month-end. As the project area falls under the CRZ zone, KMRL has submitted an application before the ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the ministry has sanctioned the terms of reference for various mandatory clearances to be obtained. Kerala state pollution control board has approved the consent to establish (CTE), and wildlife clearance from the forest department is expected shortly. The application for wetland clearance has been submitted by KMRL to Kochi Corporation. Land identification and acquisition proposals are also progressing fast. As part of the social upliftment aspects of the project, persons residing along the banks of the canals will be resettled in a full-fledged housing complex that is being built to accommodate them. Land has been identified at Kakkanad and the acquisition process is progressing fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kmrl-completes-survey-of-six-major-canals-in-city/articleshow/78596216.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||NMC razes 9 properties for Kelibagh road widening||Nagpur: With a view to accelerate widening of the congested Kelibagh road, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s anti-encroachment squad removed constructions along the route on Friday. There were nine properties, including two owned by Raje Sangramsinh Bhosale, a portion of Kalyaneshwar Shiv temple, Raja Ramsinh, Laxmansinh among others, which were razed. On October 6, the NMC had completed the process of land acquisition. On Friday, armed with three excavators and two poclains, the enforcement team razed portions of the nine properties coming in the way of the road widening project from Gandhi Putla Chowk on Central Avenue to CP & Berar College. The team also resumed razing of illegal constructions in a multi-storey building belonging to don Santosh Ambekar’s wife Neha near Darodkar Chowk. The team razed two parapet walls and a slab there. The action was initiated under the guidance of deputy municipal commissioner Mahesh Moroney, assistant municipal commissioner Ashok Patil, assistant estate superintendent Sanjay Kamble, tehsildar Sunil Salve and Kotwali PI Dhyaneshwar Bhosale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-razes-9-properties-for-kelibagh-road-widening/articleshow/78596939.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Flights to small towns picking up||CHENNAI: Airlines have resumed flights to small towns following government approval for more domestic flights from October 1. Initially the focus was on connecting traditionally high-patronage routes, but this has begun to change in the last two weeks. In addition to the daily flights to airports in the state, including ones at Salem and Tuticorin, there are now daily flights to around 10 small towns including Mysuru, Varanasi, Patna, Chandigarh, Kannur, Kozhikode and Andal (West Bengal). “This shows that demand is picking up for flights to small towns and there is scope for further promotion of regional connectivity in spite of the slowdown,” said an airport official. Flights to cities in the north like Varanasi, Patna, Ahmedabad and Jaipur are popular because trains are not available. “People are willing to travel for emergencies. It is this crowd that is now travelling by flights to these towns. Many guest workers too are returning as they are being brought back by their employers,” said an airline official. This traffic is reflecting on the passenger arrival numbers which are marginally higher than departures. Flights to Ahmedabad, Varanasi sector ferry close to 100 passengers most days. Airlines say there is demand for travel and more flights will be added based on the availability of planes and crew at each airport. The state government too has allowed 100 arrivals a day. Chennai airport now handles close to 130 flights daily. “The numbers are expected to increase after October 15. Airlines are working out schedules. The civil aviation ministry also wants airlines to connect small towns as they resume services,” the official added. An airline is to add around 20 flights after October 15. While the city airport has resumed flights to almost all destinations it used to connect in the pre-shutdown days, it would take longer to increase the frequency of flights because business travel has not resumed. Airlines are pinning their hopes on the Christmas and New Year holidays believing that they may trigger travel between major cities and small towns for leisure and family visits. However, quarantine rules and checks need to be either relaxed or made uniform across the country, said an airline official. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels also predicted an increase in domestic travel for holidays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flights-to-small-towns-picking-up/articleshow/78596217.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Madurai||Need for awareness on student counselling||Madurai: As students have been attending classes from home this academic year, schools should be looking to invest more on providing counselling/psychological support for their students, which is the theme of this year’s World Mental Health Day - investment in mental health. Schools and counsellors said that there is still a lack of awareness about mental health and counselling. “At most schools even now, priority is given to intelligence quotient (IQ) for success of students. However, for the success of individuals in life, emotional intelligence is equally important. Unfortunately, mental health remains stigmatised in school environments and often emotional needs of children are neglected,” said Arthi Sujai, counsellor and psychologist, Maansi Counselling Centre. She added that children currently are facing stress and need support to keep their emotions in check more than ever. “More than in school, I’m feeling the burden of studies with no playtime,” said Anisha K, a Class X student. “A positive during lockdown was that parents finally realised how they could spend quality time with their children. However, now with them returning to work, children are left alone at home,” said Bharath, Dean, Sri Aurobindo Mira Group of Educational Institutions. “In our school, counselling is provided to students and parents even by online means. However, only 60% are accepting counselling,” said Bharath. In government schools, teachers are often the only outlets and guides for children. During the pandemic, they have been actively engaging with students over phone, even just to talk about physical and mental well-being. R Nivethitha, a teacher at a private school said that emotional support for students is needed even after reopening schools. “It is going to be a completely different life for students. Teachers and counsellors need to ease them back into routine,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/need-for-awareness-on-student-counselling/articleshow/78597842.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: New laws leave farmers at mercy of big firms, says Congress||PANAJI: As part of the ongoing nationwide agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws, Congress organised a protest meeting at Rivona, Sanguem on Saturday where the party attacked BJP for leaving farmers at the mercy of large corporates. Congress said that by withdrawing the guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) and by removing onion, potatoes, cereals and pulses from the list of essential commodities, farmers are at a disadvantage. “If the government really had some sensitivity towards the farmers then why didn’t Union minister Prakash Javadekar meet sugarcane, cashew, areca nut, coconut and paddy farmers to understand their problems,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. “With no guarantee of MSP, farmers will be left at the mercy of business tycoons.” Congress also said that BJP’s bias towards the rich had made BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanawade “politically blind” and unable to see the pain of the farmers. “We will continue our fight till anti-farmer laws are withdrawn,” said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha said that BJP’s lack of concern was exposed when they admitted in Lok Sabha that they do not have any data on the migrants who died during the lockdown while walking for miles to get back home after the nationwide lockdown was announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-laws-leave-farmers-at-mercy-of-big-firms-cong/articleshow/78596977.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||Light Metro Rail in Gorakhpur by 2024||LUCKNOW: By 2024, Gorakhpur is expected to get a light Metro Rail system. To be built at a cost of Rs 4,672 crore, the project will consist of two elevated lines. The cabinet on Friday gave its approval to the detailed project report for a Light Rail Transit system in Gorakhpur. The project will cover a total distance of 27.8 km through two elevated corridors. As per the report, 14 stations are proposed between Shyam Nagar and Madan Mohan Malviya Technical University, a distance of 15.1 km. On the other line, 13 stations are proposed between BRD Medical College and Nausarh Chauraha, a distance of 12.7 km. A government spokesperson said that three cities in UP have Metro Rail services, including Lucknow, Ghaziabad and Noida. Besides, a Regional Rapid Transit System is being constructed to link Delhi and Meerut. The government has allocated Rs 900 crore for this project under the 2020-21 budget. Another Rs 286 crore has been allotted for the Agra Metro Rail project while Rs 358 crore has been approved for the Kanpur Metro project. The cabinet also approved a proposal under which government guarantee will be provided for credit that will be provided by UP and district cooperative banks to sugar mills for the 2020-21 crushing season. In 2019-20, a government guarantee was given for credit of Rs 3,221.63 crore and a fee of Rs 8.05 crore was waived off on it. For the upcoming season, it is proposed to provide guarantee for credit of Rs 3,650 crore to 24 cooperative sugar mills. Considering the poor financial condition of cooperative sugar mills, it was also decided to waive the guarantee fee of Rs 9,12,50. An amendment was also approved in the Excise Policy of 2020-21 to promote ease of doing business. As per this, matters which are disposed of at the level of excise commissioner or the government, changes and additions to be made to distilleries can now be dealt with additional commissioner of the related department. Meanwhile, a committee headed by the additional chief secretary or principal secretary of the excise department can grant clearance for increase of capacity to distilleries manufacturing industrial alcohol and liquor. The old Gorakhpur collectorate building will soon be demolished and replaced by a new building. The existing building of the Gorakhpur collectorate had been constructed in 1903 and 1910 and is now in a dilapidated condition. After demolition, the sale proceeds of the scraps will be adjusted while the expenditure of the demolition will be written off, as decided by the state cabinet. A decision was also taken to strengthen the Tarighat Bara Kumhar Chaisa crossing in Ghazipur and to provide paved shoulders of 1.5 m width on both sides of the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/light-metro-rail-in-gorakhpur-by-2024/articleshow/78597639.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Flights to small towns picking up||CHENNAI: Airlines have resumed flights to small towns following government approval for more domestic flights from October 1. Initially the focus was on connecting traditionally high-patronage routes, but this has begun to change in the last two weeks. In addition to the daily flights to airports in the state, including ones at Salem and Tuticorin, there are now daily flights to around 10 small towns including Mysuru, Varanasi, Patna, Chandigarh, Kannur, Kozhikode and Andal (West Bengal). “This shows that demand is picking up for flights to small towns and there is scope for further promotion of regional connectivity in spite of the slowdown,” said an airport official. Flights to cities in the north like Varanasi, Patna, Ahmedabad and Jaipur are popular because trains are not available. “People are willing to travel for emergencies. It is this crowd that is now travelling by flights to these towns. Many guest workers too are returning as they are being brought back by their employers,” said an airline official. This traffic is reflecting on the passenger arrival numbers which are marginally higher than departures. Flights to Ahmedabad, Varanasi sector ferry close to 100 passengers most days. Airlines say there is demand for travel and more flights will be added based on the availability of planes and crew at each airport. The state government too has allowed 100 arrivals a day. Chennai airport now handles close to 130 flights daily. “The numbers are expected to increase after October 15. Airlines are working out schedules. The civil aviation ministry also wants airlines to connect small towns as they resume services,” the official added. An airline is to add around 20 flights after October 15. While the city airport has resumed flights to almost all destinations it used to connect in the pre-shutdown days, it would take longer to increase the frequency of flights because business travel has not resumed. Airlines are pinning their hopes on the Christmas and New Year holidays believing that they may trigger travel between major cities and small towns for leisure and family visits. However, quarantine rules and checks need to be either relaxed or made uniform across the country, said an airline official. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels also predicted an increase in domestic travel for holidays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/flights-to-small-towns-picking-up/articleshow/78599903.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kochi||Keralite in Saudi jail to be released soon||THRISSUR: Salini Scaria Joy’s struggles for the release of her husband, Dominic Simon from jail in Saudi Arabia have almost reached a positive culmination. A court in Saudi Arabia ordered his release and he might be released by Sunday or Monday, she said over the phone from abroad. She had alleged that Saudi authorities had detained Simon on July 8, based on the complaint by Indian embassy officials or by somebody at their prompting. While the complainant alleged that Simon had spread false, defamatory reports about Indian officials, Salini alleged that the complaint was a retaliation for Simon’s RTI queries. Simon from Pala has been working in IT sector in the Gulf for 15 years and Salini, from Kattappana, was there with him for the past 13 years; she is doing diabetes research at Saudi university. In the complaint sent to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, Salini had alleged that Simon submitted RTI queries seeking details on welfare funds for Vande Bharat flights. Former Union minister Alphons J Kannanthanam, who supported efforts of the family for Simon’s release, said the embassy officials had initially denied that they had filed a complaint. Later, it was found that the complaint was filed by a Syrian citizen, who was an employee at the embassy and later moved to the embassy of another country in Saudi Arabia, Kannanthanam said. Salini said her counsel advocate Nasser Al Hussaini and his colleague advocate Abdul Aziz Arini worked relentlessly for securing Simon’s release order. Reports in the media, particularly national dailies like TOI helped us to present our case before MEA and Saudi Arabia, Salini said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralite-in-saudi-jail-to-be-released-soon/articleshow/78596228.cms||T Ramavarman
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Duo warn 74-yr-old of snatchers, flee with her chain, cash||Chennai: Two conmen posing as Good Samaritans offered to help a septuagenarian keep her three-sovereign gold chain safe from robbers and escaped with the jewellery at Madhaavaram on Saturday. Police are on the look out for the suspects. Puzhal resident Senthamarai, 74, was on her way back home from a bank when one of the conmen approached her and advised her to keep her gold jewellery inside, said a police officer. “He told her a couple of robberies were just reported in the locality when his accomplice, pretending to be a passerby, stopped and told her the same,” the office said. Then, one of them took some gold and cash from his accomplice, put in a secure bag and returned it for safekeeping. Buying their ploy, the elederly woman the man the three-sovereign chain and Rs 10,000 cash she had. While one distracted her, the other suspect put some stones in a bag, sealed it and gave it to the elderly woman. The woman reached home in an autorickshaw, found stones in the parcel and realised she had been conned. Based on her complaint, the Madhavaram police have registered a case. They are looking at the CCTV camera footage recorded in the area to help identify the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/duo-warn-74-yr-old-of-snatchers-flee-with-her-chain-cash/articleshow/78596220.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC open to public hearing on Vedanta plant expansion in Jharsuguda||Cuttack: The Orissa high court on Friday indicated that it was not averse to holding another public hearing in connection with the expansion of the production capacity of the aluminium smelter plant of Vedanta Limited in Jharsuguda. Subrat Bhoi and Tejraj Kumura, residents of one of the villages likely to be affected by the proposed expansion of the smelter plant, had filed a petition through their counsel Partha Sarathi Nayak, seeking the HC’s intervention to ensure that the public hearing scheduled for September 30 was kept in abeyance till the Covid situations improved. On September 29, the single-judge bench of justice K R Mohapatra issued an interim stay order on the public hearing. But on September 30, justice Mohapatra issued another order which said, “In partial modification of the order dated 29.09.2020 it is directed that the public hearing pursuant to advertisement dated 27.08.2020 issued by the State Pollution Control Board, Odisha, may continue, but no final decision shall be taken till the next date.” Subsequently, when the matter was heard virtually on Friday, advocate Prafulla Kumar Rath, arguing on behalf of the petitioners, said only 90 people had participated in the public hearing on September 30. “This cannot be said to be a substantial representation of the villagers of five revenue villages having populations of more than 10,000. Hence, there was no effective public hearing at all,” he contended. While disposing of the petition, justice Mohapatra said, “There is no material available before this court to test the veracity of the same. If that be so, then petitioners may make a representation to the collector, Jharsuguda, by 12.10.2020, who shall consider the same and pass necessary orders thereon in consultation with the stakeholders, if necessary, by taking steps to hold another public hearing.” Vedanta Limited is going to expand its annual production capacity from 16 lakh metric tonnes to 18 lakh metric tonnes and Captive Power Plant (CPP) capacity to 1215 megawatt. For this purpose, land will be acquired in Brundamal, Katikela, Purna and Kurebaga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-open-to-public-hearing-on-vedanta-plant-expansion-in-jharsuguda/articleshow/78596233.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Metro trains set to get new route maps with 9 north Chennai stations||CHENNAI: Metro trains will soon have new route maps, which will include the new nine stations in the upcoming 9km north Chennai line from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, which is likely to be opened for service by January 2021. At present, 42 metro trains have only route maps to direct passengers across the 32 stations in the 45km phase-1. CMRL recently floated tenders to procure static route maps, which will have both existing and the upcoming stations, that could be pasted in the interior of its fleet of 52 trains including 10 new trains. There also plans to install dynamic route maps which will have the new lines included, where lights will flicker next to each station the train stops. The automatic announcements inside trains will also be updated with the new route. “We have floated a tender for design, supply and pasting of procurement static route maps board stickers. The plan is to get these stickers installed before opening the phase-1 extension line,” an official said. “We will put out another tender to procure the dynamic route maps for the trains. We will also update the automatic announcements made in the trains to include the new stations,” the official said. Phase-1 extension line covers 9km from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar. It has nine stations including three underground stations. Trial run with a locomotive and metro trains is likely to be conducted on the route by October end. At present, every four-car train has six route maps installed above the automatic doors, of which three are dynamic and the rest, static. Dynamic route maps have red lights next to the name of the stations, which will flicker as the train approaches a station while static maps do not have them. These maps, right now, cover the 45km phase-1 routes from Washermenpet to Airport and from Central to St Thomas Mount. They are also installed only in the 42 trains procured for phase-1.  CMRL has also procured 10 new trains for the extension line, which do not have these route maps installed yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-trains-set-to-get-new-route-maps-with-9-north-chennai-stns/articleshow/78596223.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Taking Maskasath Road? Look out for cave-ins||Nagpur: Those travelling on the 750-metre-long road patch from Maskasath Chowk to Raut Chowk and beyond beware! The busy road has started to cave-in at four places due to damage to the British-era trunk line for carrying sewage and has thus become a potential death trap. As a temporary measure, Nagpur city police and local residents have barricaded and erected flags surrounding the caved-in parts to alert the passers-by. “The British-era trunk line under the busy road needs immediate attention of the concerned authorities before any tragedy happens,” said independent corporator Abha Pande. On being informed by residents, TOI visited the congested locality on Tuesday and found that the road was indeed damaged on at least four to five places. “Two days ago, Dyaneshwar Umredkar, one of the NMC’s sanitary workers attached to Satranjipura zone, had a miraculous escape while attending a sewer line blockage problem in the same area,” said Kartik Sukhdeve, a resident of Maskasath. Umredkar told TOI that the British-era trunk line passing beneath the Maskasath road from north Nagpur and connecting central Nagpur has been damaged at several places. This has led to increase in sewer blockage complaints, especially in central Nagpur areas like Naik Talao, Itwari etc. The ground beneath the road has turned hollow up to 30ft at several places, he claimed. Traffic cops deployed at the nearby bridge expressed concern over the deplorable condition of the road. Fortunately, heavy vehicles are barred from plying on this road otherwise situation could have worsened, they said. Residents and shopkeepers along the road told TOI that in 2016, a portion of the road caved in on Maskasath Chowk-railway overbridge patch. The then municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar got the portion repaired. Now, portion of the road on either side of the railway overbridge has once again started to cave-in, said Congress corporator Ramesh Punekar, who along with Abha Pande, met municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and urged him to take up the repairs without any delay. The cave-ins may also damage houses along the road, said Punekar. A senior official from NMC’s health engineering department assured to look into the matter, while standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke said the problem will be resolved. He said the trunk line will be repaired under Central sewerage zone project costing over Rs4.40 crore. According to him, the sewer blockage problem of the city will be solved by almost 70% with the NMC taking up the North, Central and South sewerage zones project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/taking-maskasath-road-look-out-for-cave-ins/articleshow/78596260.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Stalker torches bike at woman’s house after kin lodge complaint||Chennai: A 30-year-old employee of a butcher shop at Ayanavaram on Saturday went to the house of a techie he was stalking and torched a bike after she turned down his proposal and reported him to police. He was arrested later. Police said S Dasthagir Batcha, who works at a butcher shop, claimed to be a software professional and befriended the 24-year-old software professional. The woman learned about the lie recently and cut ties with him. “Batcha, however, continued to harass her, professed his love for her. The survivor’s family lodged a complaint with the Ayanavaram police who warned Batcha,” said a police officer. Irked by the developments, Batcha reached the woman’s house drunk on Saturday night and torched her brother’s bike parked outside. The family rushed out noticing the smoke, caught Batcha and handed him over to the Ayanavaram police. He was yet to be remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalker-torches-bike-at-womans-house-after-kin-lodge-complaint/articleshow/78596227.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Chennai civic body to return unused care centres||CHENNAI: In a few weeks time, Greater Chennai Corporation is likely to operate Covid care centres only at locations like the Chennai Trade Centre, the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements in KPP Park and the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) premises in Ambattur. The civic body has come up with a plan to return all the college and hostel buildings to its owners, sources said, adding that a plan was made a few days ago. Using these buildings, GCC had created around 16,000 beds in the city. These were mainly for the use of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients who did not need round-the-clock medical attention. But 90% of them are lying unused. GCC provided food, a welcome kit including a bucket, soap and toothpaste as well as stay for no charge. It cost them around ?500 per patient every day, sources said. In addition to this, contractors also needed to be paid for supplies like cots and mattresses. Sources said all the cots and mattresses at these places would be taken stock of and transported to the JJ Nagar indoor stadium in Kilpauk. All the mobile toilet units will also be removed. GCC sources said the college premises taken over by the civic body would be completely sanitised and disinfected before handing them over to the owners. Senior GCC officials explained that despite an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city. The cost of maintaining these facilities is high and the civic body is now stretched for finances, a senior official said. “Many contractors have not been paid. Food bills are being cleared regularly because if that supply stops, there will be a problem,” the official said. The corporation has enough beds to take care of any exigency, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-corporation-readies-plans-to-return-covid-care-centre-college-buildings-back-to-managements/articleshow/78596232.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Cops use the go-back-to-jail card to ensure city’s goons fall in line||Chennai: The city police have in the past 40 days managed to get the bail of about 30 anti-socials, involved in cases of attempted murder and assault, cancelled. At least 70 more petitions seeking cancellation of bail petitions of such criminal elements are pending before various courts. At a meeting convened at the police commissionerate on Saturday, headed by commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, field level enforcement officers discussed the various modalities and the problems involved in sending repeat offenders back to jail after getting their bail pleas cancelled. The police officers concerned were given a list of anti-social elements who had come out of prison during the lockdown triggered by the still raging Covid-19 pandemic. A police officer said, “Many criminals who came out on bail during the lockdown have been involved in several cases of crime including robbery and chain snatching in the city.” Addressing the meeting, in which about 150 inspectors, government pleaders, public prosecutors, assistant public prosecutors and other law officers participated, commissioner Aggarwal appreciated police officers for their dedication in handling the pandemic. “The bail petitions of at least 30 criminals have been cancelled in the past 40 days,” he said and advised those present to speed up the process of getting pending cases before the courts resolved. S Elambharathi, an advocate practising in the Madras high court, later told TOI that Section 439 (2) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) listed the rules to be followed, apart from the order issued by the judges concerned, by the suspects during the bail period. Elambharathi said the law enforcement officers concerned are mandated to inform counsel, that is the prosecutors, once they come to know a suspect has committed an offence after being released on bail, violating the terms. The advocate said the process of getting a bail cancelled is tedious. “The enforcement officers concerned have to apprehend the suspect. Then they have to go for getting the bail cancelled while keeping him/her in detention,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-use-the-go-back-to-jail-card-to-ensure-citys-goons-fall-in-line/articleshow/78596239.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong SC cell head to visit Dalit victim||Hyderabad: AICC chairman of SC cell Nitin Raut will visit Hyderabad and speak to the Dalit girl who was allegedly set ablaze by her employer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-sc-cell-head-to-visit-dalit-victim/articleshow/78596953.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Alarming spurt in demand for Covid bed keeps hospitals worried in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Hospitals have started witnessing an unprecedented rush of Covid patients after a lull for around 10 days in August-end and early-September. So far, some hospitals have managed to preempt the rush but many are struggling to cope with the inflow of patients. While some have already planned to increase the number of Covid beds further, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has called for a meeting with private hospitals to discuss on better preparedness. In between Friday 8pm and 6am on Saturday, 22 patients — some confirmed and few suspected Covid patients — were admitted to Peerless Hospital, making it two patients every hour. The hospital has never seen such a rush in all these months. Peerless is not alone, hospitals across the city have started getting a steady flow of patients. “We have never had 22 patients, all symptomatic, within a span of 10 hours. Some came with Covid positive reports while samples of the rest were tested in our laboratory. Fortunately, we had enhanced our bed capacity recently and could accommodate all of them,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has increased its bed strength to 150 from 100 recently. On an average, the hospital would earlier get about eight patients a day for admission to its Covid ward. Belle Vue Clinic is currently admitting around 20 to 25 Covid patients daily on an average. Earlier, the hospital would have around 12 admissions a day. It has scaled up its Covid beds from 130 to 160. “After a lull of about 10 days in between August-end and September-beginning, the rise in demand for Covid beds has been steep. In anticipation, we had augmented our bed numbers and enhanced our work force — mainly doctors and nurses. Also, our daily discharge count is around 20 per day. Hence, we have been able to manage it so far,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. At Fortis, 14 patients were admitted in its Covid ward in the past 24 hours. The 200-bedded hospital has converted 63 beds for Covid treatment. “Many patient families are enquiring about vacant beds. We are telling them to wait if they are in a stable condition or seek treatment in another hospital. The pressure is tremendous,” said a source at Fortis Hospital. From 7am on Friday to 7am on Saturday, the three units of AMRI Hospitals had 18 admissions out of the 32 patients, including suspected cases. Hospital sources said the rise is about 50% of what it had been during the slump in early September. “Though we are getting about 50 enquiries for Covid admission everyday, we are able to admit 15-20 patients a day. All our 170 beds are running full. We are planning to add a few more beds. But we have to do it keeping in mind the interest of non-Covid patients,” said Alok Roy, chairman ofthe Medica Group of Hospitals. Facilities like Ruby General Hospitals, too, is planning to hike up the number of beds as all its 60 beds are running full. “One good thing is that the turnaround time for patients in general ward has declined, enabling us to reduce the waiting period,” said Subhasish Datta, chief general manager (operations) at Ruby. Representatives of all private hospitals have been called by WBCERC chairperson Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee for a meeting on Monday. The chairman is expected to discuss on ways to enhance hospital capacities to tide over the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alarming-spurt-in-demand-for-covid-bed-keeps-hosps-worried/articleshow/78596247.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Army jawan names his daughter ‘Sainya’||MANGALURU: One of the biggest challenges for parents of a newborn is to give their bundle of joy a special name. When Havaldar Prashantha GS and his wife Asha decided to name their daughter as Sainya, little did they know that within four months of naming her, she would become famous and her name would go viral on social media. Prashantha, from Guddekeri in Agumbe, joined the Indian Army 19 years ago. He is currently posted at Jammu. Asha told TOI, “The Indian Army is everything for us. We had zeroed in on two names Sainika (boy) and Sainya (girl). This is just an attempt to instil the spirit of patriotism in our daughter and to inspire her to serve the nation when she grows up. The first three letters of her name are also dedicated to the lord who blessed us, ”she said. Sainya was born on May 10 at the Army hospital in Delhi. Due to the pandemic, the family could return to Asha’s house in Hebri in June and the baby was named Sainya at a simple naming ceremony held on June 26. On July 1, Prashantha had to report back on duty. The family speaks to him once in 3-4 days. He was surprised to note that the news of naming his daughter Sainya has gone viral. Explaining how it all happened, Asha said, my friend Sunita Shankar uploaded a post about our daughter on a Facebook page. “Abhishek Shetty, a journalist working for a local channel shared the news on their Facebook page and within no time this news was everywhere. We never wanted this news to go viral as we had not done it for any kind of publicity,” she said. Kannada Shetty from KundapurAnother baby girl to hog limelight on social media is Kannada Shetty. Kannada is the daughter of Prathap Shetty, CEO, Chisel Interiors Contracts, acoustic interior design and built Turkey solutions, Bengaluru and Prathima Shetty, a homemaker. Prathap who hails from Nempu in Kundapur said, “We decided to name her Kannada so that whenever we call her, we are reminded about the beauty of the language. A name is important because its vibrations exert influence on our very personality and individuality. Even before we realised her name has gone viral,” he said. Kannada was born on November 27, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/jawan-from-agumbe-names-his-daughter-sainya-for-the-army/articleshow/78596078.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Agra||3 dead, many hurt after Delhi-bound bus hits divider on Yamuna E-way in Aligarh||Agra: A 26-year-old Delhi resident and two others were killed while at least a dozen people were left injured when a speeding bus, in which they were travelling, hit a divider and turned turtle near milestone 56 on Yamuna Expressway on Saturday morning. The bus was heading to Delhi from Kanpur. According to police, the deceased were identified as Irfan, 26, and Parth Nigam, 24. The identity of the third deceased is not yet known. Three of the injured persons were referred to Delhi - two of them lost their arms and one his leg. Those whose arms were amputated in the road accident were identified as Ajmul Ansari, 28, a resident of Raebareli, and Anshu Singh, 28, from Kanpur. The identity of the person who lost his leg was not known, till the filing of this report. Talking to TOI, Aligarh SP (Rural) Subham Patel said that the bus was travelling at a high speed and the driver possibly fell asleep. The accident took place around 6 am under Tappal police station limits. He added that those who were sitting on the left side of the bus were critically injured as the bus turned on the left after hitting the divider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-dead-many-hurt-after-delhi-bound-bus-hits-divider-on-yamuna-e-way-in-aligarh/articleshow/78595568.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP reserves 5% Group C jobs for ex-servicemen||LUCKNOW: UP Government will now reserve 5% of jobs in Class C posts for ex-service personnel. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced that retired and former service personnel from all three services, army, navy and air force, will be eligible for 5% reservation in Group C posts. To be eligible for the job, one will have to be an original resident of Uttar Pradesh. The reservation will be provided at each level on a ‘horizontal basis’. “This move will encourage ex-officials and workers and help their families financially,” said a government spokesperson. He added that UP sends the most number of people in the defence services and at present, a large number of ex-service personnel reside in the state. The government has also recently increased the financial assistance given to the family of a martyr from Rs 25 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. “The government is also providing jobs to a member of a martyr’s family. It was decided that a member of the family of any defence services and paramilitary forces, who is martyred after April 1, 207, will be given a government job. An order to this effect was issued on March 19, 2018,” the spokesperson said, adding that there was no such provision under earlier governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-reserves-5-grp-c-jobs-for-ex-servicemen/articleshow/78597653.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Group set up to address RTE-related issues||Nagpur: As issues related to various provisions under Right to Education (RTE), especially reimbursement of fee against free admissions, drag on, a group of Nagpur-based schools decided to come together by forming an association, RTE Foundaiton, to raise these issues directly with authorities concerned. Sachin Kalbande, one of the co-founders, told TOI that there was an urgent need to have a local association. “There are one or two associations active in Maharashtra but they concentrate their activities largely in western Maharashtra. All their office-bearers are from that region itself. Hence, we strongly felt that Nagpur-focused association needed to come to the fore,” Kalbande said. A senior academic Surendra Kumar Gulhane was one of the mentors of the group. “Some of my students are now managing educational institutes. They met me a few months ago and discussed the issues and problems faced by educational institutes. I thought it was the time to have a local group to address their issues,” Gulhane said. While RTE deals with multiple issues related to education, the most contentious part is the free admissions and its reimbursement by government. Around 25% seats are reserved in all private unaided (non-minority) schools for eligible students. The RTE admissions in Maharashtra are handled directly by the state education department. The entire process is online, right from application to the admission lottery. The education department is supposed to reimburse the fee amount for every such free admission granted. The fee amount is a uniform one, fixed annually by the government and is not connected to what the school actually charges. But many schools have claimed that various RTE bill reimbursements have still been pending. Kalbande said, “We will raise these issues through our RTE Foundation. We will not only be fighting for rights of schools but for rights of parents, students and teachers under the RTE Act also.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/group-set-up-to-address-rte-related-issues/articleshow/78596266.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||NGT panel to check lake encroachments||Hyderabad: The National Green Tribunal Chennai bench has appointed a joint committee to look into encroachment of lakes in Nagarkurnool. The state government and private parties that had resorted to constructions on the lakes have been named as respondents in the case. A two-judge bench headed by Justice K Ramakrishnan heard the petition filed by former minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy and other petitioners. In its order on October 6, the NGT expressed dissatisfaction over the removal of the occupants even though a police case has been registered alleging encroachments. The allegation pertains to encroachment into Kesarisamudram minor irrigation tank in Tummalakunta lake at Nellikonda, Puntalakunta and Saddalasaab Kunta in Naganool of Nagarkurnool municipality. The NGT appointed a joint committee comprising the district collector, superintending engineer of irrigation department and senior officers from the Telangana Lake Protection Committee and Telangana State Pollution Control Board as deputed by its chairman to inspect the area and submit a factual as well as action taken report, if any violation is found. “The committee is directed to consider the question of existence of water bodies and the nature of encroachments and the steps taken to remove the same and if there is any damage caused to the environment to assess environmental compensation against the violators,” the order read, adding if there is any pollution caused to the water quality, the committee must also ascertain the source of pollution after conducting a water analysis test and submit remedial measures. The committee was asked to submit its report on or before the next hearing on December 8. Advocate Shravan Kumar appeared for petitioner Janardhan Reddy while Yasmin Ali appeared for the state. The state said that notices have already been issued to occupiers after conducting an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-panel-to-check-lake-encroachments/articleshow/78597041.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Beedi workers, weavers may decide Dubbak poll outcome||HYDERABAD: Beedi workers and weavers are likely to play a key role on the outcome of Dubbak elections with the political parties going all out to woo them. As per the official records, there are 19,500 beedi workers and another 20,000 voters are weavers and their family members in the assembly constituency. The constituency has nearly 90,000 BC voters, who include Mudiraj, Yadav and Goud communities. The ruling TRS is banking on votes of beedi workers, weavers, farmers and other beneficiaries of various government welfare schemes in the byelections. The weavers have been demanding a textile park in Dubbak. TRS sources said while the total voters are 1.90 lakh, 57,000 people get pensions such as beedi workers, old age, single women, physically challenged and some others suffering from various ailments. Along with them, farmers are getting benefit through Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima. “Every family in the assembly constituency gets some benefit or the other. The state government has been spending nearly Rs 40,000 crore on implementing welfare schemes,” finance minister T Harish Rao, who is leading the campaign, said. Before the poll notification, the minister visited various villages and inaugurated various developmental works in the constituency. He also distributed Kalyana Lakshmi and Shadi Mubarak cheques to the beneficiaries. Congress, on the other hand, is mainly focusing on the failures of the TRS government during its campaign. “Whatever development happened in Dubbak was done by the previous Congress government. They include Indiramma houses, sanctioning of polytechnic colleges, junior colleges, funds for women self help groups and roads,” CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said during his campaign at Chegunta. BJP is targeting both the TRS and Congress accusing them for backwardness of the constituency. TRS has fielded Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy’s wife Sujatha, Congress announced Cheruku Srinivas Reddy as its candidate. BJP has fielded Raghunandan Rao for the third time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beedi-workers-weavers-may-decide-dubbak-poll-outcome/articleshow/78597059.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Tech helps create CT scan database for Covid studies||CHENNAI: More than 100 CT scans in 80 government hospitals linked to a cloud that in-service radiologists accessed from laptops to ensure results of nearly 1 lakh scans done in September were made available in 24 hours even at secondary care centres in rural areas and hilly terrain across TN. Besides providing lifesaving information to physicians, the lakhs of chest images done on Covid-19 patients and those suspected of having the virus will help doctors learn more about the disease, develop newer protocols and improve AI-assisted tools for diagnosis. "The machines were installed over a period of time ahead of the pandemic. We did not have specialists all the time in all centres. So we used technology, or teleradiology. Last month, we recorded the most scans and average use of scan was up to double in rural centres," said Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation managing director P Umanath. With fewer road accidents, the monthly average of scans was down in some tertiary medical college hospitals. However, nearly 70% of the scans were chest CT for treatment of Covid-19, he said. The state installed scan machines and deployed radiologists in 26 medical colleges, 31 headquarters hospitals and 23 taluk hospitals, the number depending on the need and size of the institution. Chennai-based Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) had six machines and 14 radiologists but most headquarters and taluk hospitals had one machine and one radiologist. When scans are done post duty hours, duty doctors or technicians flag emergencies and radiologists from across the state can access scans on the cloud for interpretation. If doctors attached to scan centres are not available, from other centres interpreting reports will be paid a consultation fee of ₹50 per scan. Once all urgent scan reports are cleared, elective scans will be cleared by doctors within 24 hours. "The concept was developed two years ago to level out scarcity of radiologists. But during the pandemic, it helped offer services uniformly in urban and rural areas. We have authorised public labs in rural areas to do RT-PCR tests. Beds and scans in rural areas helped us in improving recovery rate and minimise deaths," said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. "We certainly have the largest pool of clinical material compared to any other state or centre. Our scans were not limited to just patients in government hospitals," said RGGGH dean Dr Therani Rajan. Radiologists at many institutions including Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital are already working with national and international experts on AI-assisted tools for Covid. "We have seen some of the most stunning images of how the virus affects patients during the infection and after recovery," said Dr C Amarnath, head of radiology at Stanley Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tech-helps-create-ct-scan-database-for-covid-studies/articleshow/78596271.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Teachers’ group urges CM to add seats in emerging techs||Hyderabad: The All India Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions on Saturday requested chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to direct Eamcet 2020 convener to add 18,500 seats in emerging technology courses Rs artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, cyber security in the counselling schedule by October 12, 2020. The federation said that it doesn’t make any sense to start the counselling process without adding seats in the emerging technologies to the list. According to them, these are the seats that are going to be in demand this year as they provide better employment opportunities to students. “If the state thinks that there will be a delay in granting permission for seats in emerging technologies, they should postpone the counselling until then. Adding these seats at a later stage in the counselling process will not be beneficial for students or colleges,” said KVK Rao, general secretary of the federation. He said that most of the colleges will be at loss if these seats are not added immediately as they applied for closure of traditional courses to accommodate these courses. He said that even if the seats are going to be added before the permission is granted by the government, they should not be highlighted in red as doing so will create confusion among students and parents. In a letter submitted to the CM, the members of the federation have also requested the state to direct the chairman of Telangana State Council of Higher Education to publish a notification with regards to the inclusion of new courses in emerging technologies in the list of the courses in TS Eamcet 2020, through scrolling in TS Eamcet 2020 website and notification in the print media. The admission process of Eamcet 2020 started on October 9. Students can exercise web options from October 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-group-urges-cm-to-add-seats-in-emerging-techs/articleshow/78597085.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Kochi||Kin punch holes in inquiry report, seek fresh probe||Kozhikode: Relatives of C P Jaleel, the Maoist who was gunned down at a resort in Wayanad, have sought an independent inquiry after a magisterial probe gave a clean chit to police. The inquiry report filed by former Wayanad collector A R Ajaya Kumar concluded that police fired at Maoists on March 6, 2019, in self defence. “There is nothing available on record to show any conspiracy or wilful negligence or wilful omission, which could lead to the death of the deceased,” it said, accepting the police version that Maoists had opened fired first and Jaleel was killed in the return fire. Kumar, however, admitted that crucial ballistic and forensic reports and CCTV footage were not examined for preparing the report. “The ballistic and forensic examination reports [were] not prepared … at the time of preparing this inquiry report and CCTV footage [was] not examined as [it was] under forensic examination,” the report said. C P Rasheed, Jaleel’s brother and secretary of janakeeya manushyavakasa prasthanam, said official versions are full of contradictions. “The inquiry did not examine forensic and ballistic evidence.” This, he said, confirmed the gun recovered from next to the body of Jaleel was not fired from. “And there were no traces of lead and gunpowder found in the forensic handwash of Jaleel’s right hand,” he said. After the forensic report went public, police said Jaleel had not fired at them. They claimed another Maoist at the scene fired at them. “But the first information statement states both had fired at them,” Rasheed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kin-punch-holes-in-inquiry-report-seek-fresh-probe/articleshow/78595608.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Covid safety-monitoring teams on IMA wish list||KOLKATA: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) West Bengal has requested the state health department to form monitoring teams for Puja committees to check whether Covid-safety protocols were being followed at pandals. The doctors’ body has suggested a partnership with the health department officials to from such teams. With an ever increasing spike in Covid cases and an impending escalation during and after the festival, many doctors’ bodies had been sending out cautions and appeals. On Saturday, IMA representatives met state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam with a host of proposals to ensure safety rules are followed during the festival. “We had been always into a lot of activities during previous Pujas. This time we want to turn our attention towards Covid prevention. Pandals need to have Covid-safety protocols in place. We will start working on forming Covid-safety monitoring teams once we get a green signal from the state health department. We want to do this jointly with the health department,” said Santanu Sen, secretary of IMA West Bengal. IMA has initiated talks regarding this with some Puja organizers and will go ahead once the health department gives a final nod, which the association is expecting in the next couple of days. “We apprehend that despite the best possible efforts by the administration, there is a strong probability of over-crowding during the forthcoming festival, We would suggest to the government, through you, to keep more restrictions on public transport utilization during this period to prevent such over-crowding,” the state IMA said in a written proposal to the health secretary. “The health secretary had taken note of our proposals and we are expecting a positive response,” said Sen. The IMA delegation to the state health secretary comprised doctors Syamasis Bandyopadhyay, Jyotirmoy Pal, Samerndra Basu, Bibartan Saha and Anirban Dolui, apart from Sen. In anticipation of a sharp surge post Puja, the association has also suggested that testing be ramped up. Of late, the number of daily tests hovers around the 42,000 mark. It had been as high as 47,000 in mid-September. The association has also suggested that the government keep five beds in each government Covid hospital for the treatment doctors and other healthcare workers infected in the line of duty. The government has earmarked KPC Hospital for treating Covid-infected doctors. The organization has also requested the health department to look into insurance coverage and other related issues pertaining to private doctors who get infected while treating Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-safety-monitoring-teams-on-ima-wish-list/articleshow/78596269.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 11, 2020||Kochi||Panel begins deliberations on changes in rules of biz||T’puram: The ministerial subcommittee that was formed to consider draft amendments in the rules of business started deliberations on the matter last Wednesday. At the first meeting, it is learnt that ministers suggested some amendments in the draft, especially the one which confers more powers to the chief minister. It is learnt that revenue minister E Chandrasekharan and water resources minister K Krishnankutty objected to some of the provisions in the draft amendment. The amendment confers more powers to department secretaries and CM that would automatically dilute some of the powers of the minister. This was the main contention of the ministers who opposed the amendments, it is learnt. The rules of business are a set of rules that lists out the procedures for undertaking government’s day-to-day business, framed on the basis of Article 166 (3) of the Constitution. The amendment was initiated after nearly 15 years after it was found that some rules need to be changed to improve the speed of governance and ensure more transparency, in the wake of administration switching over to electronic mode at multiple fronts. The government had initiated the process of amending the rules of business almost a year ago and the draft was prepared. Minister A K Balan, E Chandrasekharan, K Krishnankutty, A K Saseendran and K Ramachandran are part of the subcommittee. The subcommittee will meet again to further deliberate on the draft amendments, before the same is placed in cabinet for final decision. On Sept 14, TOI had reported about the formation of subcommittee for amending rules of business. CM said the change of rules will happen only after cabinet discussion. A final decision will be based on the subcommittee’s recommendation. He refuted allegations that government was planning to centralize power through the proposed changes. Since the Constitution talks only till the formation of a council of ministers to aid and advise the governor, the rules of business have been framed to explain in detail how the council of ministers and officials should discharge duties. Sources said, the rules of business were not strictly followed in many cases in recent times. Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said concentrating more powers to the CM will only weaken democracy and augment the tendency for autocracy. In four-and-a-half years, the powers are concentrating into the hands of CM, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panel-begins-deliberations-on-changes-in-rules-of-biz/articleshow/78595601.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Goa||Goencho Ekvott seeks to muster support against infra projects||Panaji: Goencho Ekvott organised an awareness campaign in Salcete to inform villagers about the impact of the infrastructure works and Sagarmala projects that are in the pipeline for Goa. Digital presentations explained the ill-effects of coal handling and transportation. The group also questioned why the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) is not enforcing the measures put in place to curb fugitive coal dust pollution. Viriato Fernandes, co-convener of Goencho Avaaz, said that capitalists have put their self-interest before the people of Goa and are vigorously pushing for coal transportation from MPT to the hinterland of Karnataka through Goa. “Why isn’t GSPCB strictly implementing their own corrective measures so as to ensure strict compliance to contain the fugitive coal dust pollution in the port town,” ENT specialist Dr Jorson Fernandes said. He added that the coal dust pollution is also responsible for the huge spike in Covid-19 deaths in Vasco. Villagers from Assolda, Chandor and Guirdolim also attended the awareness meeting. A delegation later submitted a memorandum to ex-chief minister Churchill Alemao, at his residence, regarding the Coastal Economic Zones (CEZ). While seeking Alemao’s support, Goencho Ekvott joint secretary Olencio Simoes said that the satellite port proposed at Betul as part of the Sagarmala project and the huge quantum of coal being transported through Goa would destroy the state’s ecology and also affect the fishing community. He urged Alemao to support the agitation which wants the CEZ and all 30 projects associated with Sagarmala to be scrapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goencho-ekvott-seeks-to-muster-support-against-infra-projects/articleshow/78597112.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Docs, hoping for a break after 8 months of virus battle, now stare at Puja@work||KOLKATA: When the number of Covid cases saw a dip towards August end and September beginning, many doctors who have been working continuously since the beginning of the pandemic had hoped to take a break soon and spend a few days with family during the Pujas. But with the numbers shooting up yet again, they have resigned to the fate. They now fear that they might have to spend the entire puja in hospitals. “I am exhausted and need a break badly. But given the present scenario and the impending situation post-Puja, it is going to be a long haul for us,” said a doctor in the core Covid team at the Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (IDBG) Hospital. IDBG was the first hospital in the state to set up a Covid unit. Three doctors — Shekhar Ranjan Paul, Yogiraj Ray and Koushik Chowdhury — have been tending to Covid patients right from the first day. Their colleagues, including Rammohan Roy and Biswanath Sharma, joined later. None of them has taken any break in the past eight months. “The only time I took off was in July when I got infected and had to be on home isolation for about 10 days and that’s about it,” said critical care specialist Susruta Bandyopadhyay, who has been leading his team at AMRI Hospital Salt Lake’s Annexe unit that the government took up as its Covid facility. It was a kind of work from home even during home isolation for Bandyopadhyay. Though he was not seeing patient physically, he would remotely monitor patients and coordinate with his team virtually. “My two children are upset at times because I do not get much time to spend with them. The pandemic has forced us to change our priorities. It is stressful at times. But we cant turn away from patients,” said critical care specialist Rimita Dey, whose team is taking care of 15 serious patients at Peerless Hospital at present. In the initial days, Dey had faced social ostracization from her neighbours, who had asked her to stay in the hospital as they feared she would bring coronavirus to the neighbourhood. “I was looking forward to spending a few days with my family during the Puja. But given the kind of case surge, it seems it is going to be impossible to take a break during the Puja. It is going to be even tougher after the festival,” said internal medicine specialist Rahul Jain of Belle Vue Clinic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docs-hoping-for-a-break-after-8-months-of-virus-battle-now-stare-at-pujawork/articleshow/78596275.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Curve starts to bend, dist’s active cases below 10%||Nagpur: Covid-19 active cases have dropped to below 10% in the district for the first time since the pandemic broke out in March. As stated by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and endorsed by expert Dr Nitin Shinde, it is a sign of the curve starting to bend. As per daily data released by the district civil surgeon, the active cases on Saturday were 8,606 — 9.99% of the total positive cases of 86,090. This is the first time since March 11, when the district registered its first case, it is ducking under 10. The active cases were 15,937 on September 24 — highest in a single day. It started to decline dramatically after that and reduced by 7,331 in the last 17 days. It is the result of two things: First, positive cases started to decline and was less than 1,000 on 12 of the last 14 days. Cases were below 650 for the last two consecutive days. Second, the recoveries are more than positive cases on 20 of the last 21 days. The active cases were 1,967 on August 1. After a surge in cases in the last two weeks of August, active cases increased to 9,314 on September 1. The cases were highest in September. As a result active cases on October 1 were 12,833. The active cases of 8,606 on Saturday were the lowest in a single day in the last 46 days with 8,343 on August 25 being the previous lowest. Dr Shinde, infectious diseases specialist, said, “Active cases dropping below 10% also mean negative growth of cases has started in the district. If the active cases go below 5%, we can consider that first wave of Covid-19 is over,” he said. With active cases having gone down, the number of vacant beds in Covid hospitals have increased too. On Saturday, 626 new cases were in the process of getting admitted. Of the remaining 7,979 active cases, 2,077 (26%) were in Covid hospitals. There are over 4,000 beds in Covid hospitals in the district. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said the Covid hospital started by the civic body at Sadar was yet to get its first patient since starting operations 10 days ago. 341 (4.27%) patients were in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and 5,561 (69.70%) in home isolation. Dr Anup Marar, the convener of Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association, said that most private hospitals with Covid facilities now have less than 50% occupancy. “The authorities should consider removing the capping of 80% beds for Covid patients. In days to come the PPE usage per patient per day is bound to increase,” he said. According to Dr Marar, private hospitals are increasingly finding it difficult to sustain as they are paying higher salaries, have carried out infrastructural modifications and adhering to government-capped charges. “If hospitals are not provided incentives, many might be forced to shut down or sold,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/curve-starts-to-bend-dists-active-cases-below-10/articleshow/78596288.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Chatra bizmen pool in money to repair road between 2 blocks||Chatra: After a stretch of road between two block headquarters of Chatra district remained unmotorable for a long time, businessmen of the area joined hands and decided to pool in money to repair the road themselves. This comes barely a week after representatives of the civil society in Ranchi decided to repair a stretch of the Bariatu Road after the authorities did not pay heed to their repeated requests. The stretch between Kunda and Paratappur blocks in Chatra has developed craters and potholes and both residents and businesses are being affected. President of Chatra Business Association, Manoj Sahu and secretary Pramod Gupta said, “Last time in 2006-2007, the state government had pumped in funds for the renovation of this road. However, after that, not a single penny has been spent for the maintenance of this road.” Gupta said, “Distance between Kunda and Pratappur is barely 11km, but the condition of the road pushes the travel time to at least two hours. Along with resident, we businessmen find it difficult to supply goods on time, leading to losses in business.” He added, “The condition is so bad that in some places grass have grown on the middle of the road.” “We will get all craters and potholes filled to make the drive on this road smooth. No matter how much the repair works cost, we will do what is needed,” said another businessman. Saroj Kumar, also a businessman, said, “Instead of waiting for the government to act, we decided to do it by ourselves. We have come to terms with the fact that if you want to get rid of the problem, we will have to bear the expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chatra-bizmen-pool-in-money-to-repair-road-between-2-blocks/articleshow/78596298.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Farm laws: Cong, BJP hold sammelans to woo farmers||Ranchi: Arch rivals Congress and BJP crossed swords over the new farm laws on Saturday when both the parties’ day-long kisan sammelans coincided with each other. Beginning around 11am at Deputy Para (near state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon’s residence), the grand old party’s rally — comprising around 300 people, including farmers and party workers — pointed out the ‘loopholes’ in the new legislation, BJP’s sammelan, organised around the same time in Ratu Road, highlighted how the farmers will witness a turnaround in their incomes in a matter of few years, all thanks to the new laws. Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the state Congress president, said, “Today’s rally was aimed at making the Union government sit up and take notice of the farmers’ woes. Farmers from several areas attended the sammelan and all of them demanded for the roll back of the law.” Congress members and ministers Alamgir Alam (rural development), Banna Gupta (health) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture), along with the MLAs, attended the programme as well. Badal said the party is going to fulfill its promises made to the farmers in its poll manifesto soon. “We had promised loan waivers here, like we did in other Congress-ruled states, and we will start disbursing relief funds to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore soon. The CM has already approved our plan,” he added. Meanwhile, Oraon pointed out that the sammelan was organised in accordance with all the safety norms. The saffron party took potshots at Congress — and its alliance partner in the government, JMM — for ‘misleading the poor farmers about the new laws’. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said, “More than the farmers, Congress and its friends are worried about the new laws because they empower the farmers and by doing away with the middlemen, they give farmers access to global markets for selling their produce. No wonder Congress and its allies are nervous since they have always worked for the middlemen.” He also questioned why Congress, which was in power at the Centre for several decades, failed to uplift the farmers’ lives. Angara-based farmer Basant Kiro, who attended the sammelan, remained sceptical of the new laws and shed light on some of the ground realities that need to be kept in mind before implementing the acts. “Selling our produce in international markets can only happen when we can cultivate throughout the year. Jharkhand’s agriculture is totally rain-fed and the lack of sufficient irrigation facilities makes it difficult for us to plant crops all through the year,” Kiro said. Mahadev Manjhi, a vegetable grower in Pithoria, claimed how the farmers are forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices every year because of the unavailability of proper market facilities. “In the last 20 years, several parties have come to power in Jharkhand but nothing has been done to improve the agricultural facilities. Besides irrigation, timely crops and technical help, farmers like me require cold storage facilities where we can stock our produce,” he said. As the government and the opposition gear up for the bypolls in Dumka and in Bermo next month, the fight between the two camps over the new legislation looks all set to be intensified ahead of the by-election. Congress has already held several rallies and programmes in the past few weeks denouncing the legislation, while the party’s ruling alliance partners — JMM and RJD — had already dubbed the new laws as ‘anti-poor’ and ‘anti-farmers’. JMM, the leading alliance partner in the government, has already announced non-implementation of the laws. Chief minister and JMM working president Hemant Soren had aired his views on the laws last month, calling them an attack on cooperative federalism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/farm-laws-cong-bjp-hold-sammelans-to-woo-farmers/articleshow/78596307.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Centre trying to silence dissenting voices: Hemant||Ranchi: A day after the National Investigation Agency arrested Ranchi-based social and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy and flew him to Mumbai for interrogation for his alleged links with Maoists allegedly involved in the violence at Bhima Koregaon in Pune in December 2017, chief minister Hemant Soren took to social media around midnight on Friday, defending the 83-year-old Jesuit priest and condemning the BJP-led government in the Centre for the central agency’s action. In a post in Hindi on his personal Twitter page around midnight on Friday, Hemant questioned, “Why is the Centre bent on silencing those speaking out for the poor, deprived and adivasis in the country? What exactly is the message the BJP-led government wants to send out by arresting Stan Swamy, who has been among the strongest voices of all those marginalised in the state and country? What kind of obstinacy is this to suppress voices of dissent?” The statement came hours after more than 2000 activists and civil society members issued a statement demanding the state government to intervene and ensure Swamy’s release. JMM and Congress leaders also expressed anger over the “vindictive” use of central agencies. State finance minister-cum-state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said the way a crusader of tribal and dalit rights was arrested was unfortunate. “He was branded as urban naxal and efforts are being made to falsely implicate him,” he said, reminding that under the BJP rule, Maharashtra Police had twice raided Swamy’s residence, but could not find any evidence linking him to the Bhima Koregaon incident. JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya also accused the BJP government at the Centre for misusing central agencies against people who raise voice against their wrongdoings. He said, “The erstwhile BJP government in Maharashtra targeted tribals and dalits in Bhima Koregaon in January 2018 and they have been going after intellectuals from across the country ever since, branding them as urban naxals.” “Investigation is going on for more than two years and still remains inconclusive,” he said, adding that the income tax department, the Enforcement Directorate and the NIA have become tools in the hand of Centre to harass people. “These agencies are using CRPF and not even taking the state police into confidence, ignoring the concept of cooperative federalism under which law and order is a state subject,” he said. Siraj, an activist and a member of Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, welcomed the stance taken by ruling parties in the state and appealed to all non-BJP MPs and MLAs to take up the matter and protest against the use of central agencies to stifle voices of dissent. “We want the people’s representatives from all other states to understand the underlying threat and protest against the arrest of the tribal activist,” he said. Swamy was born in Kerala, but has spent nearly half of his life in Jharkhand working for the rights of tribals and dalits. He is a member of Jharkhand Organisation Against Radiation (JOAR), which fights for the people living around the uranium mines in Jaduguda, and Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL)’s Jharkhand unit. Swamy was active during framing of Forest Rights Act and questioned the government for not implementing it. He has also been vocal against the state government’s land bank scheme and protested against the amendments made to Land Acquisition Act. Stan has also helped getting innocent tribals arrested under the controversial Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) released from jails soon after the state was carved out of Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/centre-trying-to-silence-dissenting-voices-hemant/articleshow/78596336.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Covid cure rate past 90%-mark in state, new cases at mid-Aug levels||Ranchi: Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate juped past the 90%-mark for the first time in almost seven months on Saturday even as the number of new cases fell to the numbers recorded in mid-August. Also, The 697 new infections detected on Saturday is the lowest since August 16. Along with 1,131 recoveries, the number of active cases stood at 8,362, the lowest since the Independence Day weekend. The state’s cumulative stood at 91,951 cases, of which 82,805 (90.5%) have recovered, while three new Covid – one each in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Dumka – took the toll 784. Of the 28,104 samples tested, 2.84% returned appositive result. Ranchi was the only district to report new cases in three digits with 270 infections. East Singhbhum reported a decline with 67.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-cure-rate-past-90-mark-in-state-new-cases-at-mid-aug-levels/articleshow/78596312.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Cordon for MS Dhoni's residence, farmhouse in Ranchi after threats||RANCHI: Police on Saturday intensified security around former Team India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s residence and farmhouse in Ranchi following a barrage of criticism and threats, including some against his family, on social media after his IPL team Chennai Super Kings lost to Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said security measures at Dhoni’s old house on Harmu Road and his farmhouse in Simalia under Ratu police station were reviewed soon after he was informed about the threats. “A unit of ten policemen was stationed near the farmhouse earlier and we have now deployed some more cops in plain clothes to keep a vigil on activities outside the house,” he said. The police team has been directed to thwart all unnecessary movement near the residence and remain cautious about any suspicious activity. “We have intensified patrolling in the area and PCR vans have been directed to remain on alert,” he said. Meanwhile, sports fraternity in Ranchi expressed and concern over the “disgraceful comments” flooding social media websites. Chanchal Bhattacharya, one of Dhoni’s coaches in his childhood, said while fans have every right to appreciate and criticise their sports icons, no one should cross the line of decency. “People using social media to target family members of cricketers must not be allowed to let go. This is not simple criticism or harmless trolling, but a crime. Law enforcement agencies should arrest the culprits,” he said. “Sportspersons, particularly cricketers, will participate in a protest march at Albert Ekka Chowk to demand arrest of the culprits,” Bhattacharya said. Ranji players from Jharkhand S P Gautam and Ajatshatru also condemned the posts and said they have decided to lodge a protest and demand the arrest of the perpetrators. Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) member Ajay Shahdeo also expressed shock. “This (the comments) is disgraceful and cannot be ignored like a comment from a crazy fan,” he said. The concern of police and Dhoni’s family members is justified, considering the past incidents when Dhoni has been targeted by antisocial elements. On March 18, 2007, some people vandalised his then under-construction house at Harmu Road after India lost to Bangladesh in the World Cup. His house was again targeted on October 23, 2013, when an ODI against Australia in Ranchi was washed out due to rain. The window panes of his house was damaged in stone-pelting, but no one was arrested. In another incident, CCTV cameras installed at the house were stolen by thieves in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cordon-for-dhoni-homes-after-threats/articleshow/78596318.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
October 11, 2020||India||Uttarakhand to put ‘enemy properties’ to public use||NAINITAL: Almost a century after Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founding father of Pakistan, spent his honeymoon at Nainital’s Metropole Hotel, a part of the hotel — which was designated as ‘enemy property’ in the 1960s — is being developed as a parking spot for tourists visiting the town. This would be one of the first instances of an ‘enemy property’ being put to public use anywhere in India. In March last year, the Centre had allowed state governments to put to public use some enemy properties that were left behind by people who migrated to Pakistan since the Partition and to China after the 1962 India-China war. In Uttarakhand, the state government has directed the DMs in all 13 districts to evaluate their value. Nainital DM Savin Bansal told TOI, “We have disbursed an amount of Rs 42 lakh to develop infrastructure at the site. The plan is to develop a hightech parking spot there”. Metropole Hotel was regarded as one of the finest hotels in Nainital at the turn of the century. “Jinnah came to Nainital with his wife Rattanbai and spent a week at the hotel in April 1919. The hotel was owned by the Raja of Mahmudabad, Mohammad Amir Ahmed Khan and had over 75 rooms,” said historian Ajay Singh Rawat. According to the information submitted by the home ministry in Lok Sabha in March, India has 12,426 enemy properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-to-put-enemy-properties-to-public-use/articleshow/78598062.cms||Prashant Jha
October 11, 2020||India||TN Dalit woman panchayat chief made to sit on floor by deputy||CUDDALORE: A woman Dalit panchayat president in the district was allegedly humiliated by the vice president, who did not allow her to sit on a chair at meetings or hoist the national flag, drawing widespread condemnation from political parties. Police are on the lookout for the vice president Mohan Raj, while suspended panchayat secretary Sinduja and a ward member R Sugumar have been arrested, a senior police official said, adding the latter has been held for offences including intimidation. The alleged disgraceful event that led to an outrage, came to light after a photograph of S Rajeswari, president of Therku Thittai village under Mel Buvanagiri Panchayat Union sitting on the floor at a meeting and others on chairs went viral, prompting authorities to swing into action. “We will take a statement from her, investigate and appropriate action will be taken,” said Police Superintendent M Sree Abhinav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tn-dalit-woman-panchayat-chief-made-to-sit-on-floor-by-deputy/articleshow/78598065.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||BJP MP’s kin held in bank fraud case||KOLKATA: Police have arrested BJP MP Arjun Singh’s nephew Sanjit Singh alias Pappu in a bank fraud case in Barrackpore in West Bengal. He was arrested late on Friday night after hours of grilling in connection with fraud in a co-operative bank in Barrackpore, a police officer said. The accused was produced before the Barasat court which remanded him to 10-day police custody. Meanwhile, Arjun Singh, who has been at loggerheads with the TMC government in the state, has termed the arrest “vendetta politics”. TMC, however, has dubbed the charge as “baseless”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-mps-kin-held-in-bank-fraud-case/articleshow/78598066.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man held in TRP scam got over Rs 1 crore in account since November||MUMBAI: Investigations into the television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam have shown that one of the four arrested accused, Bomapallirao Mistry, had in the last one year received a total of more than Rs 1 crore in his bank account from four-five people, the Mumbai police said. Mistry (45), who has had no steady source of income for the past 1.5 years, through his aides paid households to watch three TV channels, police said. They have seized Rs 8.5 lakh found in Mistry's bank locker and have also frozen his bank account, which, they say, had a balance of Rs 20 lakh. "We found that since November last year, more than Rs 1 crore came into his account. These transfers happened after a gap of every two months, and each time an amount ranging from Rs 20 lakh to Rs 25 lakh was deposited. We have noticed five to six such money transfers in his account," said a crime branch officer. The crime branch is probing rigging of TRPs and the alleged role of three channels: Republic TV, Fakht Marathi and Box Cinema. ‘Forensic audit of transactions by 3 channels’There are allegations that the arrested accused paid money to households, where people meters were installed, to watch these channels to increase their TRPs. Read AlsoRepublic CFO doesn’t show up, he &amp; 3 execs summoned todayMUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch probing the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket has summoned four senior executives of Republic TV on Sunday even as the channel said it had challenged the police action in the Supreme Court. Republic TV’s chief financial officer (CFO) Shivam Sundaram,Mistry, a Versova resident, was responsible for distributing money to his protégé and another arrested accused, Vishal Bhandari, a former Hansa Research Group employee, a police officer said. “Money came from four to five people. We are now probing them to ascertain why they transferred money to Mistry,” said the officer. Read AlsoWe’re a data science-driven body that deals in facts &amp; evidence, says BARCNEW DELHI: With Mumbai police launching an investigation into the alleged manipulation of TRPs by three private news channels, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), the key rating agency for TV broadcast networks, said on Saturday that BARC ratings remained true to purpose and that thePolice found that while Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) rules state people meters cannot be installed at an employee’s residence, there was one installed at Bhandari’s home. Bhandari, while working with Hansa Research as relationship manager, was responsible for 83 households where the people meters were installed. An officer said, “We have recorded statements of 38 of them. Some of them said they didn’t want to watch one particular English channel-—which is under probe—but agreed to do so on monthly payments of Rs 400 to Rs 500. Some people said Bhandari had transferred money through Google Pay.” Read AlsoTharoor-led panel asks Prasar Bharati, NBA to share views on media ethicsNEW DELHI: Representatives of public service broadcaster Prasar Bharati, the News Broadcasters Association and the Press Council of India have been asked to appear before the parliamentary committee on information and technology headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on October 15 to share theirA Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) team led by API Sachin Waze is questioning the accused and has written to a bank asking for financial transactions in Republic TV’s account, according to a police officer who is closely involved in the probe. Read AlsoWhy TRP is a big dealNEW DELHI: Mumbai police on Thursday said it has busted a racket where three channels— Republic TV, Fakht Marathi and Box Cinema-— manipulated Television Rating Points (TRP), a measure of viewership that drives advertising revenues, and arrested four people. We take a look at how TRP works forPolice have also formed a special team in the city’s economic offences wing (EOW) to probe the three TV channels’ financial transactions and carry out a forensic audit. Police have communicated to officials of income tax and GST and sought their assistance for a wider probe in this case, officials said. The forensic audit of all the accounts and financial transactions will be done minutely by the forensic auditor, an officer said, adding investigation into transactions is vital to establish the crime. A team led by deputy commissioner of police Parag Manera of EOW will invite applications from forensic auditors. “Forensic audit of these three channels will be carried out. We have to examine the funding, distribution of money and the source,” said an EOW officer. “Our teams will also focus on establishing if there was any diversion of funds,” he added. The EOW normally carries out forensic audits in big cheating cases and cases of financial fraud. Police will also summon advertisers and examine their books of accounts and their advertising pattern. Watch TRP scam: Cops summon CFO of Republic TV, four others||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-held-in-trp-scam-got-over-rs-1-crore-in-account-since-november/articleshow/78598070.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 11, 2020||---||Bihar polls: BJP set to focus more on Modi feats||NEW DELHI: BJP is likely to focus more on the achievements of Narendra Modi government at the Centre rather than the state’s issues during the campaign for the assembly polls in Bihar. With a 50:50 seatsharing deal worked out with ally JD(U) for the first time since the parties came together, BJP seems in no mood to project itself as a junior partner any more. In fact, it is hoping to score more than JD(U) to have room for reworking the prepoll equations though the party’s central leadership has declared JD(U) chief and CM Nitish Kumar as the NDA’s face for the electoral contest. BJP sources said campaign plans have been worked out to harp on PM Modi’s achievements, particularly the bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ayodhya to build the Ram Temple to consolidate Hindutva votes; India’s tough posture against China during the Ladakh stand-off since the Galwan clashes; the Centre’s schemes in view of the Covid-19 situation, including supply of foodgrains to states for distribution among the poor. The party hopes to do better riding on these issues. BJP insiders say any anti-incumbency is likely to hit Nitish and his JD(U) more than BJP as “the CM has been the face of the government in Bihar and BJP has mostly been in backdrop”. With Modi’s image remaining “unblemished” in state, the party will try to sell the idea of having a government in state. NDA equations changed in the state after Chirag Paswan-led LJP left the alliance and decided to go solo and now the demise of the party founder, Ram Vilas Paswan, is set to add an emotive quotient to its electoral fight. LJP has promised to form a government with BJP with CM from the saffron party. If LJP manages to get good numbers, it may change the postpoll scenario, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-polls-bjp-set-to-focus-more-on-modi-feats/articleshow/78598071.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
October 11, 2020||Hyderabad||AP Eamcet: 5 out of top 10 rankers are Hyd boys||Vijayawada: Five students from Hyderabad figured among the top 10 rankers of AP Eamcet engineering stream, results of which were declared on Saturday. While V Sainath from Vizag stood first, Telangana student Kumar Satyam secured second spot. The other top rankers from Hyderabad include M Likhith Reddy (4th), C Koushal Kumar Reddy (5th), Sai Teja Varanasi (7th) and Hardik Rajpal (8th). Incidentally, this same bunch of Hyderabad boys excelled in the other entrances too this year – JEE and TS (Eamcet). While Sai Teja bagged the top rank in the engineering stream of the TS (Eamcet), Koushal and Hardik walked away with the fourth and fifth rank respectively. P2||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-eamcet-5-out-of-top-10-rankers-are-hyd-boys/articleshow/78598074.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 11, 2020||---||Modi at key BJP meet to finalise candidates for Bihar election||NEW DELHI: The Central Election Committee of BJP met on Saturday in the presence of PM Narendra Modi and other senior party members to finalise candidates for the second and third phases of Bihar polls. The party has already announced 27 candidates for the first phase. This was the second meeting of the CEC attended by all of its members and PM Modi spent over two-and-half hours at the party headquarters to review candidates’ list for remaining seats. After the meeting, party sources said the list of candidates for all remaining seats will be released in one go. As per seat-sharing arrangements with ally JD (U), BJP got 121 seats of which it has spared 11 for another Mukesh Sahni-led VIP. After being denied nomination, some BJP aspirants have switched over to Chirag Paswan-led LJP. BJP chief JP Nadda will be on a day-long visit to Bihar and kickstart the party’s poll campaign with a rally in Gaya on Sunday. He will also address a meeting of party members and workers at the BJP office in Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/modi-at-key-bjp-meet-to-finalise-candidates-for-bihar-election/articleshow/78598081.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Delhi||DU on a new high: Lady Shri Ram College pegs cutoff at 100% for 3 courses||NEW DELHI: Perhaps it was inevitable. After the Covid-19 pandemic upended Class 12 exams and led to unprecedented measures to mark the students, 1.6% of those applying to Delhi University for admission this year, or 5,500 students, finished with a perfect 100 in the required aggregate of four subjects. Not surprisingly, the cutoff marks for admission into various courses, announced on Saturday, showed an upward revision from last year of at least one percentage point, particularly for popular courses like BCom (H), economics, political science, physics and mathematics. How tough admission in DU is going to be this year is exemplified by Lady Shri Ram College’s bar of 100% for honours courses in psychology, economics and political science, the last demand for a 100% cutoff having come in 2015 for computer science (H) at Indraprastha College and College of Vocational Studies. With 2,512 girls and 2,988 boys who scored 100% in their best four vying for DU seats, a 99% cutoff is the acceptable normal this year. DU’s 61 colleges offer 67,000 seats for various courses, while the university has received 3,54,003 applications for admission. MISSION ADMISSIONBCom(H) cutoff at all-time highCollege principals attributed the upward spiral to several factors, first the doubling from 17,693 last year to 38,686 in the number of CBSE students scoring 95% and above in the Class XII board exams. Also, as many as 1,57,934 students scored 90% and above against 94,299 in 2019, a 67.5% rise. Second, the colleges are exercising caution to avoid overadmission in the first list given the registration form this year did not give students the choice of course, making them eligible for admission to any courses. Under the circumstances, the colleges were hard put to lower the eligibility benchmarks. Lady Shri Ram, for instance, offers just 14 seats for psychology (H) in the general category and couldn’t have opened it up with a cutoff lower than 100%. Suman Sharma, principal of LSR, explained, "The cutoff for a particular course is decided after analysing the profile of the applicants. In addition, several local factors are also considered, including the number of seats being offered for that course in the college.” This year, the cutoff for BCom (H) is at an alltime high in most colleges. At LSR, it is 99.75%. For a coveted seat at Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), one needs a higher percentage for BCom (H) than for economics (H), with the former accessible only to those with a 99.5% aggregate against 99% for economics (H). Overall, of the 54 colleges offering BCom (H), 13 have pegged the cutoff at 98% and above. For English (H), five of the 44 colleges offering the subject have a qualifying mark of 98%. And those eyeing an economics (H) seat need 98% or above for admission to 14 of the 38 colleges where the course is taught. The marks for political science, too, have been steadily rising over the years. Last year, Hindu College had pegged the cutoff at 99%. This year, Hindu, Kirori Mal, Miranda House and Ramjas all have 99% as the benchmark in the first list. Last year, Hindu had more students applying than seats available even at a cutoff of 99%. The cutoffs have risen for science subjects too. Out of the 25 colleges that offer physics (H), five have marked 98% or more as the cut point. The highest cutoff for the course is at Hindu College with 99.33%, a jump of a percentage point from last year. In mathematics (H), the top cutoff is 99% at the same college, and of the 41offering the course, 10 require aggregates of over 97% for a shot at admission. Even off-campus colleges have raised the bar. At Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College, for instance, the qualifying marks for BCom (H), physics and mathematics (H) have gone up by a percentage point since 2019 to 97% this year. S P Agarwal, principal of Ramanujan College in south Delhi, said colleges needed to be careful this year. “We are worried about overadmission. We also have no specific data of the number of applications in individual courses this year so we had to take the precautionary measure of high cutoffs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-on-a-new-high-lady-shri-ram-college-pegs-cutoff-at-100-for-3-courses/articleshow/78598090.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Child porn FIRs rise 2,417% in year of special operation, lockdown||MUMBAI: As many as 151 FIRs for child pornography were registered and 48 persons arrested from January to September by 39 cyber police stations across the state as part of Operation Black Face launched this year to take action against paedophilia. The cases in the first nine months of the year, of which six were spent under the Covid-19 lockdown, accounted for a rise of 2,417% over the six child pornography FIRs lodged in the state in 2019, before Black Face was initiated. Times ViewThe numbers clearly indicate that government agencies have taken the menace of paedophilia seriously and established proper mechanisms for lodging complaints. These mechanisms need to get better and confidence must be instilled in complainants that cases of child pornography will be pursued with rigour and impartiality, with the state at the same time guaranteeing security to the victims of such crimes.The state cyber cell received 3,168 tiplines, cyber police parlance for tip-offs about child sexual content uploaded on social media. After verifying these, 151 were converted into FIRs. The report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that the number of child pornography cases rose 600% in 2019 over the zero cases in 2018 in the state. The report says that for the 2017-2019 period the state ranked fifth in terms of child pornography cases, with Kerala on top at 45 cases and Madhya Pradesh at 33 cases. At 1,315, the tiplines received by the cyber police in the city were the highest in the state. Of these, nine were converted to FIRs and two persons arrested. Pune was next with 1,244 tip-offs, eight FIRs and two arrests. In terms of FIRs, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nagpur were the two highest at 13 and 12, respectively. The most arrests were made in Ahmednagar and Pimpri-Chinchwad at seven and five, respectively. Of the total 48 arrested, one was a minor. Twenty-four of the arrested were sent to judicial custody, two to police custody and 20 given bail. The cyber cell monitored suspected child pornography addicts and uploaders, and child sexual abusers. A report titled 'Child Sexual Abuse Material in India', which maps trends from 100 cities and towns, including the city, New Delhi, Kolkata and Indore, said traffic on pornography hubs had rsien 95% compared to the pre-lockdown era. US-based NGO National Center for Missing and Exploited Children sends alerts to the NCRB by tracking the internet service provider (ISP) address of child pornography on social media. The NCRB contacts the nodal officer of the state for action. State cyber SP Balsing Rajput said the spike in child porn in the lockdown showed the high presence of paedophiles and addicts online at a time when the internet is used by children for everything from games to socialising and online classes. He said parents should sensitise the child about criminal activities in cyberspace and teach them how to prevent these. Rajput said any incident should be reported to the local police or on the portal www.cybercrime.gov.in. Cyber lawyer Vicky Shah said the cases came to light because of higher reporting and the portal could be used to report anonymously as well as through registration. "Children are innocent," he said. "They are made to trust the perpetrator and fall for the trap with chocolates, gifts and toys." Cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia said that in the lockdown there had been an increase in not only viewership of child porn videos but also creation as children were at home. "Most of these videos are recorded by family members and neighbours," he said. "Many are created by children themselves, who sometimes also sell these to make some quick money. Many of the children are also groomed online where they are convinced to perform cybersex. Awareness at school levels is most important." Cyber lawyer Prashant Mali said that a minor often becomes a victim of pornography because of known people or relatives who entice them into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-child-porn-firs-rise-2417-in-year-of-spl-op-lockdown/articleshow/78598101.cms||V Narayan
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid onslaught shows signs of slowing||MUMBAI: The virulent spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus across the state, apparent throughout September, seems to be slowing. For one, the number of cases in the past fortnight is 28% lower than the previous 14-day period (see box). For another, there has been an 18% drop in fatalities during the same period. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said, “There is a clear dip in cases across Maharashtra and, if the trend continues, we will soon see a flattening of the coronavirus curve.” In 14-day Covid trends, number of tests almost same in both periodsSenior state government officials said this “dropping” trend is encouraging as the average number of tests conducted during both the periods was nearly the same. While 86,185 tests were conducted on an average daily between September 26 and October 9, the corresponding figure was 86,304 between September 12 and 25. Roughly, 12 lakh tests were conducted during both the 14-day periods, said the officials. Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public department, said the drop in Covid cases has been apparent for a few weeks now. “We are testing more at almost 90,000 on an average every day, and cases are declining. Importantly, people are getting treatment earlier than patients did in the past, during the initial phase of the pandemic. This has led to a drop in the death rate as well,” he added. State officials added despite the drop in cases, the health machinery is gearing for a surge during the forthcoming festival season. “Cases surged across the state after the Ganpati festival in September. So, even if we are seeing less cases now, we plan to continue conducting the same number of tests,” said an official. A doctor in the public health department said the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, which was launched on September 15 with house-to-house surveys as its mainstay, had helped previous detection of cases well in time to start treatment. Vidarbha, which had emerged as a worry about two months ago, has stablized, he added Another doctor said concurrent campaigns to implement the masking order helped in some cities. “In most cities, especially Pune, people had started using a mask due to the deterrent of fines. This helped cut down transmission,” he said. Dr Joshi, though, added that one should only be “cautiously optimistic” about the downward trend. “People shouldn’t become complacent or reckless and stop using masks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-covid-onslaught-shows-signs-of-slowing/articleshow/78598091.cms||Malathy Iyer
October 11, 2020||India||13 days on, Karnal farmers await payment for paddy||KARNAL: Even though paddy procurement in Haryana started around 13 days ago, not a single penny has been paid till now to the farmers of Karnal district against the purchase of their produce, leaving the growers running from pillar to post to get their rightful money. The arhtiyas and farmers of the district said contrary to the government’s claim to release payment within 72 hours of the purchase of the produce, they have not received any payment despite the passage of 13 days. According to the official data, till September 9, a total of 315,870 metric tonne (MT) paddy had been procured from 25,668 farmers at 15 procurement centres in the district. Of the total procurement, 213,647 MT paddy has been procured by the food and supplies department, 60,474 MT by Hafed and 41,749 MT by the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HWC). The government agencies are procuring paddy at the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,888 per quintal. Kararmbir, a farmer of Assandh sub-division said, “I had sold my paddy on September 27 but have not received payment of Rs 3 lakh so far. We need to pay the labourers also, so the government should release payments at the earliest.” Rajneesh Choudhary, president of the Karnal Arhtiya Association, said they have made several reminders to the procuring agencies but the buyers have apparently failed to upload the relevant forms on the e-Kharid portal, which is delaying the payment. He alleged that non-payment for paddy to farmers has exposed the hollow promise of the government to disburse payment within 72 hours of the procurement. Explaining the delay, district food and supplies controller (DFSC) Nishant Rathi said, “As per the direction of the Haryana government, the payment will be made at the headquarters level, instead of local level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/13-days-on-karnal-farmers-await-payment-for-paddy/articleshow/78598100.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Noida||Noida reports 146 fresh Covid cases, 154 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 146 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday. The total patient count in the district increased to 14,855. Among them 1,594 are under treatment while the other 13,203 have recovered. So far, 58 individuals have lost their lives to the infection. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad on Saturday reported 154 new cases of novel coronavirus while 221 people were discharged in the last 24 hours. Till date 14,444 people have been discharged while total active cases on Saturday were reported at 1,586. Till date district has reported 80 Covid-related deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-reports-146-fresh-covid-cases-154-in-gzb/articleshow/78596558.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ghaziabad||Noida reports 146 fresh Covid cases, 154 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: As many as 146 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday. The total patient count in the district increased to 14,855. Among them 1,594 are under treatment while the other 13,203 have recovered. So far, 58 individuals have lost their lives to the infection. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad on Saturday reported 154 new cases of novel coronavirus while 221 people were discharged in the last 24 hours. Till date 14,444 people have been discharged while total active cases on Saturday were reported at 1,586. Till date district has reported 80 Covid-related deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/noida-reports-146-fresh-covid-cases-154-in-gzb/articleshow/78598201.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Regional metro rail office in Vizag may speed up project||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (APMRCL) is setting up a new regional office in Visakhapatnam. Scheduled to open this month, the coming up of this office is expected to speed up the Vizag metro rail project whose detailed project report (DPR) is currently being prepared. Following the state government’s approval, APMRCL has hired a 5,000 square feet office space in the LIC Building near RTC Complex. Meanwhile in Vijayawada, APMRCL recently shifted to smaller office space. APMRCL, while submitting the resolution of the board of directors to set up a regional office in Visakhapatnam to the state government, stated that the consultant will visit the areas where the proposed metro corridors are expected to come up and gather required data at every state of preparation of the DPR. Upon consideration of APMRCL’s request, the state government allowed the setting up of a regional office of APMRCL in Visakhapatnam and the deployment of required staff from the Vijayawada head office to the Visakhapatnam regional office. Of the 140.11km-long metro project in Visakhapatnam, corridors for 79.91km are proposed for the development of light metro rail system. A catenary-free modern tram or metrolite system will come up in the remaining 60.2km corridors. Urban Mass Transit Company Limited (UMTC) has been tasked with the preparation of DPR for both the 79.91km-long light metro as well as the 60.2km-long modern tram line corridors which fall under the jurisdiction of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA). Speaking to TOI, an APMRCL representative informed that the DPR for the light metro rail project will be completed by October, while that for the modern tram corridors is expected to be ready by end of November. However, it was learnt that the tendering process will begin only after the DPRs are approved by the state government. The project is estimated to cost around Rs 22,000 crore. The daunting task would be finding an agency which would fund on behalf of the state government for its proposed 52% share in the project, while the successful bidder would spend the remaining 48% on the project. Earlier, Export-Import Bank of Korea (KEXIM) was supposed to fund the state government’s share for the then Rs 8,300 crore project. But the bank backed off from the project in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/regional-metro-rail-office-in-vizag-may-speed-up-project/articleshow/78595964.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 11, 2020||India||Brahmakamal’s October bloom stumps experts||DEHRADUN: Changing weather patterns are likely causing Brahmakamal — a rare flower that grows at elevations between 3,500-4,800 meters — to bloom off-season in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district while low tourist activity and resultant lack of pollution may have led the plant to be seen in lower altitudes in another part of the state. Brahmakamal (Saussurea Obvallata) is Uttarakhand’s state flower which blooms during mid-monsoon (July-August). This year, however, a team of forest officials in Rudraprayag that had gone on highaltitude patrolling in the Himalayas found several of the flowers in bloom in October. As images of the white-hued blossom went viral on social media, it piqued the interest of netizens and scientists alike. Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary’s DFO Amit Kanwar, who shot the photos in Nandi Kund in Chamoli district, said this may have been the result of changing weather patterns. “There was sufficient snowfall this year as opposed to previous years and the snow melted late as well.” 1/5Brahmakamal’s October bloom stumps experts Previous NextShow CaptionsExperts said that in Pithoragarh district this year, the flower was spotted blooming even at lower altitudes of 3,000 meters. Brijesh Singh, a local conservationist, said absence of tourist activity during lockdown helped lessen pollution, which could have led the flowers to expand their territory. Watch: Brahma Kamal flowers start blooming in Uttarakhand’s ChamoliAnup Chandra, senior scientist at the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, told TOI, “It may be possible that the flower is blooming in October due to lack of pollution this year. Or these could just be sporadic cases of stress blooming. The flower could also have been a sub-species. Adequate research is needed to understand this better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/brahmakamals-october-bloom-stumps-experts/articleshow/78598126.cms||Shivani Azad
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP Covid-19 tally breaches 7.5 lakh mark, toll 6.2k with 35 more deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 5,653 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,50,517. The toll increased to 6,194 as 35 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. Altogether 6,659 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 46,624 active cases with 6,97,699 cumulative recoveries. This translates to a recovery rate of 93%. West Godavari reported 823 fresh infections on Saturday, followed by 706 new cases each in East Godavari and Chittoor. Kurnool recorded the lowest single-day infections of 119. Of the 35 deaths registered on Saturday, six are from Prakasam, five from Chittoor, four each from East Godavari and Krishna, three each from Nellore and Visakhapatnam, two each from Anantapur, Guntur, Kurnool and West Godavari, and one each from Kadapa and Srikakulam. Chittoor became the first district to cross 700 Covid-19 death mark on Saturday. Three other districts account for at least 500 Covid-19 casualties, while Vizianagaram witnessed the lowest number of fatalities of 224 as of date. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted 64.94 lakh tests, including 73,625 people tested for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. This translates into a Covid-19 case positivity rate of 7.6% on Saturday. While the case positivity rate peaked to an average 16.6% in August with an average daily 10,000 infections, it reduced to 12.8% in September after the daily caseload decreased to the range of 8,000. With ever declining case numbers, it remained under 10% for the last 10 days in October. As a consequence, the overall case positivity rate now came down to 11.5%. The mortality rate remained somewhat stable at 0.82%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-covid-19-tally-breaches-7-5-lakh-mark-toll-6-2k-with-35-more-deaths/articleshow/78595984.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In a first, no coronavirus death in 24-hour period at KEM, Sion hospitals||MUMBAI: For the first time since the pandemic struck in March, the BMC's premier teaching hospitals-KEM and Sion-did not register a single SARS-CoV-2-related death during a 24-hour period. "Between 8am on Friday and 8am on Saturday, there wasn't a single Covid death in our hospital," said Parel's KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh on Saturday evening. Sion Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi said since he took charge on August 11, the Friday-Saturday period is the first time that there has not been a single Covid death. The BMC's third superspecialty Nair Hospital near Mumbai Central railway station, though, said its dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal, has intermittently witnessed such deaths. The city has been witnessing between 45 and 50 deaths a day in the past two months. The Covid toll in Mumbai stands at 9,391 so far. At the start of the pandemic in Mumbai, in the March-April period, the BMC had decided to keep KEM and Sion as "non-Covid centres" and designated Nair as a Covid-only hospital. As the virus spread, though, the BMC had to open KEM and Sion partially for Covid-19 patients. "We would send the critical cases to these hospitals as they are our superspecialty hospitals," said a senior BMC official. In fact, in the first week of May, when the city's death toll was 489, a third of the fatalities at 163 had taken place at KEM. Of these, 24% died within 24 hours of reaching the hospital while another 25% died within 48 hours, indicating the patients had turned up too late to be helped. There has been a sea change in the past five months, though, with a drastic drop in critical cases: KEM Hospital, which used to have 500 Covid patients in the April-May period, now has 200 on any given day. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state government's task force on Covid, said the no-death day is good for the city's Covid curve. "It is a reflection of the fact that we have understood Covid better and are in a position to take preemptive action. Also, patients seem to have understood the need to seek medical help at the earliest,'' said Dr Pandit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-in-a-first-no-coronavirus-death-in-24-hour-period-at-kem-sion-hospitals/articleshow/78598132.cms||Malathy Iyer
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Steep rise in edible oil prices due to supply disruption, high demand||Visakhapatnam: Increased demand for quality edible oil in Andhra Pradesh coupled with reduced imports due to disruption in the supply chain network for oil export from Malaysia and Ukraine has led to a steep rise in the price of imported oils, according to edible oil distributors. Currently, edible oil in the open market is selling for Rs 130-145 a litre. Only last year, in the corresponding period, a litre of oil would cost between Rs 85-100. Edible oil prices had started rising since the lockdown with prices touching Rs 100-110 per litre then. Padmaja Abburu, a homemaker said, “I bought a litre of sunflower oil for Rs 130 this month from a grocery store where I am a regular. The shopkeeper said that oil prices had risen.” Speaking to STOI, Venkata Hemanth, proprietor of Vijayawada-based Sri Haranath Oil Traders, said that oil prices have increased due to a slowdown in import of palm and sunflower oils. However, there has been no impact on domestic oils such as groundnut and rice bran, he said. According to sources in the edible oil industry, imports of edible oil have come down by 5-10% due to the Covid-19 outbreak. India needs around 23-25 million tonnes of edible oil per annum to meet its domestic demand. The country imports nearly 65-70% of its edible oil from other countries. According to Andhra Pradesh state Covid control special officer Dr C Prabhakar Reddy, edible oils which have low polyunsaturated fatty acid are good for health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/steep-rise-in-edible-oil-prices-due-to-supply-disruption-high-demand/articleshow/78595995.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Heavy rainfall expected in coastal Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The low pressure system that formed over east-central and southeast Bay of Bengal on Saturday will intensify into a depression on Sunday and a deep depression before it touches north-coastal Andhra Pradesh, between Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts on Monday, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) sources. “As per our current track of the system, it is likely to cross East Godavari district on October 12. We will officially announce the exact location of the crossing of the system by Sunday evening. There is no chance of a cyclone since the wind shear is very high. But, there will be heavy rains across parts of coastal AP and Rayalaseema when the system is close to the state,” IMD AP state director S Stella told STOI. Apart from this, another fresh low pressure system is brewing over the sea and will form around October 14, she added. Light to moderate rainfall would occur over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Rayalaseema from Saturday with heavy rainfall at isolated places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/heavy-rainfall-expected-in-coastal-ap/articleshow/78596010.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Mixed reactions mark pause to Karnataka’s Vidyagama initiative||MYSURU: The state government’s decision to suspend the Vidyagama initiative of open-air community classes received mixed reactions from teachers, parents and experts on Saturday. Reports of coronavirus infections among students and teachers prompted the government to take the step. Basavaraju R Shreshta, executive director of the Grassroots Research and Advocacy Movement in Mysuru, was disappointed, saying Vidyagama was introduced only after comprehensive deliberations. “Declaring 2020-21 a ‘zero academic year’ for children in grades up to class V and continuing Vidyagama with all health-safety precautions, are the best ways to move forward for the state education department,” he said. Vidyagama classes were popular in rural pockets where many children don’t have access to technology and the internet. “Let teachers stay in specific areas for a certain period on a rotation basis. This will help minimise the risk of infection,” Shreshta suggested. Teachers are divided over the immediate future of the programme. “The intention behind Vidyagama is good, but we cannot risk our and children’s lives at a time when Karnataka is reporting around 10,000 Covid-19 cases per day,” said Ramakrishna, a teacher in Bengaluru Rural district. Chandrasekhar Nuggi, general secretary of the Teachers’ Association, said a number of educators and students had fallen ill. “We had demanded that Vidyagama should be halted as more teachers and students were getting infected. Now that the order has been issued, we urge the department of public instruction to immediately announce Dasara holidays for teachers. The holidays were cancelled earlier because of Vidyagama,” he said. Satish Jawaregowda, director of the Primary Teachers’ Association, taluk chapter, Mysuru, said there were other problems with the programme. “The areas where teachers went lacked proper toilets and this was particularly an issue for women teachers. Covid-wary residents didn’t allow teachers to use the bathroom in their house,” he said. “Considering all the issues, it is a good move to suspend the programme.” A section of educators disagrees. Harsha, a teacher from a school near Nanjangud, Mysuru district, said the decision would further widen the gap between students from rural and urban areas. “Covid-19 is a new reality. But there are no good alternatives to Vidyagama, which helped us meet our students and monitor their learning activities,” Harsha said. Shrinivasa P, whose daughter is a class VII student in Mellahalli village, Mysuru, supported the government’s step. “Under Vidyagama, classes were conducted in open spaces. This was a safety issue for girls. This apart, coronavirus cases are occurring everywhere. We can wait for a year instead of risking our children’s health,” he said. R Manjunath Srivatsa of Sri Sharada Public School in Mysuru said private institutes didn’t implement the Vidyagama scheme. “It’s very difficult to make kids follow all Covid safety measures. Maybe the scheme should be scrapped and online and television-based learning modules should be followed till we have a vaccine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mixed-reactions-mark-pause-to-karnatakas-vidyagama-initiative/articleshow/78597918.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Corona-hit family goes without ration in Andhra's East Godavari district||RAJAHMUNDRY: A four-member family affected by Covid-19 could not get the monthly ration from the state government last month as they could not move out to give their thumb impression to get the supplies from fair price shop. Essential commodities at a highly subsidised price are supplied to poor families twice a month since the Covid-19 epidemic started. But to procure the food grains the beneficiaries need to give their thumb impression in a bid to avoid misuse. As the family was in quarantine, the members could not leave their house to claim their monthly quota of essential commodities. The incident took place at Sompalli village of Razole mandal in East Godavari district. This family had to struggle for 28 days to access food. On many days the neighbours helped them. The family members told STOI that government volunteers did not visit them during the quarantine, leave alone providing them with food supplies. The family head, N Srinu, resident of Sompalli village in Razole mandal in East Godavari district works under a contractor. But the lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions had made him jobless. His family comprises his wife, mother and two children. In the meantime, his sister along with her husband and daughter visited him for delivery and gave birth to a baby, taking the total numbers in the household to nine. The family was suddenly hit by Covid-19, and Srinu, his wife, mother and brother-in-law tested positive. Srinu told TOI that he had struggled a lot in the last one month to cope with hunger. He said the family could not get even drinking water supplies as autorickshaw carrying water cans was stopped a little away from his residence as it was under containment zone. East Godavari district collector D Muralidhar Reddy made it clear that it is not possible to alter the present online process. He said that ineligible persons will take advantage if the present online process of disbursing ration by taking thumb impression is relaxed. However, he said that the district machinery would take steps to provide ration to corona-affected if such incidents were brought to his notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/corona-hit-family-goes-without-ration/articleshow/78596027.cms||Samson Raj
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra toll past 40,000, makes up 37% of nationwide death figure||MUMBAI: Continuing with high Covid-19 fatalities, the state on Saturday added 308 deaths, taking the toll to 40,040. Over 37% of the Covid-19 deaths reported nationally were from the state, which added the last 10,000 deaths in merely 25 days. The state had 30,409 deaths on September 15. The state case fatality rate was 2.6%, higher than the national rate of 1.5%. The state added 11,416 cases, taking the total caseload to 15,17,434. The rise in cases in the city on Saturday was 2,203, a dip from the the sharp increase to 2,800-plus on Wednesday and Thursday. The Covid-19 tally stood at 2.27 lakh. There were 48 deaths, taking the toll to 9,391. "The number of cases had risen for a couple of days, but it could be due to some special collection drives we organise from time to time," additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. He said the Covid-19 situation in the city seemed to be under control, with the number of cases averaging around 2,200 and deaths at 45 a day. "We are trying to bring this death rate further down as every life is precious," Kakani said. The BMC move of making smartphones available for video chats between families and patients was a step towards reducing the stress for patients. "By letting them interact with their families, we are trying to keep their morale high," Kakani said. A BMC update said 14,842 tests were carried out in 24 hours. Of the 48 deaths, 36 patients had co-morbidites and 30 were above 60 years of age. With the daily number of recoveries and discharges at 3,074 patients, the recovery rate in the city reached 84%. The doubling rate, too, slowed to 68 days. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city between October 3 and 9 stood at 1.03%. For over a week now, the state has reported more daily discharges than daily additions, and the trend continued on Saturday as 26,440 people were discharged, taking the total discharges to 12.5 lakh and the rate of recovery to 82.7%. Active cases in the state were on the decline. There were a total of 2.2 lakh active cases in the state, of which 25,352 were in the city. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who inaugurated a testing laboratory in Washim district, said the state had set up massive Covid care infrastructure in the past few months. "We started out with just two Covid testing labs and now we have over 400 of them. We have ample beds available to treat Covid patients, but if we all follow the health protocols, we won't need to put those beds to use. There is a need to bring in certain changes in our lifestyle," Thackeray said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 4,203 cases and 77 fatalities, taking the tally to 5.2 lakh and death toll to 16,837. Kalyan-Dombivli saw 334 new patients and six deaths, taking the case tally to 45,876 and the death toll to 896. New discharges numbered 472 and active patients, 3,521. In Navi Mumbai, the Covid count reached 40,073 with 296 new cases. Discharge rate was at 89%. Navi Mumbai reported seven deaths, taking the toll to 809. Panvel reported 165 Covid cases and a death, taking the total positive count to 21,312 and the death toll to 491.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-maharashtra-toll-past-40000-makes-up-37-of-nationwide-death-figure/articleshow/78598140.cms||Malathy Iyer
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Tutor murder in Delhi: Girl to testify against kin||NEW DELHI: The 21-year-old woman whose family members have been arrested for killing 18-year-old Rahul Rajput in north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar has agreed to testify against the killers in court, according to police sources. She has also refused to return home, fearing for her own safety. The police on Saturday moved her to a shelter home at an undisclosed location and provided her with security. When Rajput was being thrashed by a group of men near his house on Wednesday night, the woman, with whom he was in a relationship, was looking on helplessly. In a CCTV footage recovered by the police, the girl is seen standing near Rajput’s house soon after which he steps out and follows her. In another footage, she can be seen with Rajput as the accused escort him to another lane. The FIR lodged by the police in the case confirms that the Rajput was in a relationship with the girl and her family had objected to it. She belongs to a different community. According to the FIR, Rajput’s family had got to know about their relationship just two months back. “He was pursuing his BA second year from School of Open Learning. Around two months back, we got to know that he was in love with a girl who stayed at Jahangirpuri. The girl’s family was angry with Rajput and did not want her to meet him. We were worried for his safety,” Rajput’s uncle, Dharampal, has been quoted as saying in the FIR. It was Dharampal who was first informed by a friend of Rajput that some boys were beating him up. “I quickly reached the spot where I saw some boys from the girl’s family were thrashing him. He was lying on the road. I managed to catch hold of one of them and asked what the issue was. They said they wanted to teach him a lesson for speaking to their sister. I told them to let him go and took him to a clinic,” Dharampal said in the FIR. Rajput’s father, Sanjay, who drives private taxis for a living, was quite distraught at his house in Moolchand Colony. He said he was not at home when the incident happened and he had been informed about it by Rajput’s cousins. “When he was brought home from the clinic, he did not tell us that he had been beaten up badly or even what had exactly happened. We thought it was some fight and he had been slapped a bit. He was lying down. Later at night, his condition deteriorated and he was taken to the hospital where he passed away. I want all those involved in the incident to be behind bars and I hope they never come out as this could happen to any other child,” said Sanjay. According to the postmortem report, he died of a ruptured spleen. This was because of the kicks and blows that rained on him. Rajput’s family members have one regret. They said when he was being beaten up, a crowd had gathered, but instead of helping him, they were just recording videos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tutor-murder-in-delhi-girl-to-testify-against-kin/articleshow/78598137.cms||Sakshi Chand
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Western Railway plans 200 more services soon to ease rush in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Overcrowding in suburban local trains is expected to reduce by next week as Western Railway (WR) plans 200 more services, mostly between Churchgate-Virar. WR runs 506 suburban services for essential services staff, who are permitted by the state government to travel by train. Around 3.2 lakh passengers travel daily in these trains. If 200 more services run, WR will be operating almost 50% services, as it used to run almost 1,367, carrying 36 lakh passengers daily earlier. A senior WR official said, "We prepared a proposal to run 200 more services but a decision on when and actual number will be taken next week." Source said the additional trains may begin around October 15. Another WR official said, "There is poor road connectivity between Dahisar-Virar, so trains are necessary for passengers from this belt to travel quickly and comfortably. More people are rejoining the work force. More services mean there will be better implementation of social distancing in trains." As per norms designed for Covid-19, not more than 700 passengers are allowed per compartment but videos have gone viral of overcrowding. CR runs 453 services, including 351 on the main line, 96 on harbour and balance on trans-harbour corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/western-railway-plans-200-more-services-soon-to-ease-rush-in-mumbai/articleshow/78598145.cms||Manthan K Mehta
October 11, 2020||India||Folk artists depict Dhoni and others in a new form||DEHRADUN: Cricket fans in India often equate their favourite player with gods or as super humans with divine power. In this IPL season, the sentiment has been used by a group of folk artists to re-imagine cricket stars in traditional art forms, reports Abhijeet Singh. The project, called Folk Cricket, has come up with the folk versions of popular stars, including helicopter shot specialist MS Dhoni and Indian team captain Virat Kohli, among others. Dhoni, who plays for Chennai Super Kings (CSK), has been depicted in‘Bommalattam’ — a form of 18th century puppetry art popular in Tamil Nadu — that narrates the story of Ramayana with the help of puppets. A close contemporary of Bommalattam is Karnataka’s Togalu Gombeyata, which is the art form in which Virat Kohli (who is playing for Royal Challengers Bangalore) has been depicted. ‘Just like a puppeteer who stands behind the curtains and runs the show, ‘Thala’ (which means leader and is Dhoni’s nickname in Chennai) can be seen doing the same behind the stumps,” said Sriram Sabhapathy from the Last Bench Studio in Bangalore, that has conceptualised the series. Likewise, the artists have imagined batsman Rohit Sharma in Maharashtra’s Warli painting style while Jamaican all-rounder Andre Russel has been visualised in Bengal’s Kalighat style. Stating that their work was not sponsored by any of the IPL teams, Sabhapathy said, “However, a few of the teams saw the work we’ve done and appreciated it.” He added that the idea gave them a chance to raise the cause of the folk artists who have suffered immensely due to the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/folk-artists-depict-dhoni-and-others-in-a-new-form/articleshow/78598148.cms||Abhijeet Singh
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Tutor murder in Delhi: Rs 10 lakh govt aid to family, politicians pay condolences||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia visited the family of the 18-year-old Delhi University student who was thrashed to death on Wednesday night in Adarsh Nagar and announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs 10 lakh. Rahul Rajput, who was pursuing his studies at DU’s School of Open Learning while also tutoring children of the area in English, was allegedly killed over his relationship with a girl, which her family had objected to. “It is a very big crime. A young boy who wanted to become an IPS officer has been killed. Delhi government will work to ensure the strictest punishment for the killers,” Sisodia said, adding that the government will also reach out to the lieutenant governor and get a very senior lawyer to handle the case in the court to ensure fast punishment. “No amount of money can compensate for his death but chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asked me to provide financial support of Rs 10 lakh for the kin.” The teen and the girl were members of different communities, and he was allegedly attacked by five people, including the girl’s brother. Rajput was later admitted to a city hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Home minister Satyendar Jain claimed that the crime graph of the city was going up and pointed out that police, and law and order in the city fall under the central government. Several politicians reached the victim’s residence on Saturday to meet the family. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta assured the family of justice. Gupta questioned why the CM himself did not visit them. “All of Delhi is saddened by this incident, but Kejriwal is silent,” Gupta said, accusing the chief minister of appeasement politics and demanding a compensation of Rs 1 crore to the family. Gupta also hit out at Congress leaders for not paying their condolences to the victim’s family, claiming the residences of Congress functionaries are just 10 km away. “They go to 600km remote places when their propaganda suits them,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tutor-murder-in-delhi-rs-10-lakh-govt-aid-to-family-politicians-pay-condolences/articleshow/78598151.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Sero survey begins in Dharwad district||HUBBALLI: A sero survey to determine the exposure to coronavirus in a section of the population has begun in Dharwad district. The state health and family welfare department is conducting the study, which will check for antibodies, protective proteins that the body produces to fight disease, viruses and bacteria. An official said the first phase had already been completed. Healthcare workers and residents of areas with a higher number of Covid-19 cases were covered in this phase. The second round is expected to begin in a few days. Similar sero surveys are being carried out in several parts of the country. Health officials said all the findings of the exercise in Karnataka might be released together in Bengaluru. For the Dharwad survey, officials have received 1,500 rapid antibody kits so far. Seventy staff members, including doctors, at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital (KIMS) in Hubballi have taken the antibody tests. No antibodies to coronavirus were found in a section of doctors. A pathologist said this meant they had not been exposed to the virus and they should remain vigilant. Dharwad district deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said details like the exposure rate were not known yet. Dr Vaishali Choukimath, a pathologist, said people should not take comfort from the fact that they had antibodies to coronavirus as these don’t last for more than three months. “Whether one had the infection in the recent past or not, they should be careful and take all precautions. Reinfection can occur otherwise,” Dr Choukimath said. “Many asymptomatic people might have recovered from the disease. The antibody test can help ascertain their status and these people can consider donating plasma to help the critically ill recover from the infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sero-survey-begins-in-dharwad-district/articleshow/78597939.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Housing federation chief asks for door delivery of newspaper in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Praising the role of housing societies in the city in checking the spread of Covid-19, Prakash Darekar, president of the Mumbai District Cooperative Housing Federation, corporator and a senate member, has come up with an appeal to societies to allow door-to-door delivery of newspapers. He said the state government decision to allow doorstep delivery had been taken consciously after studying all health, social and legal aspects surrounding it. "Unlock 5.0 is breathing new life by opening several sectors under Mission Begin Again, thus creating a positive environment for the country and the economy. However, we have been getting multiple queries from residents regarding door-to-door delivery of newspapers. Understandably, there is a fear of infection of Covid-19, but it is wrongly being attributed to spread through newspapers," he said in a statement issued on behalf of the Housing Federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/housing-federation-chief-asks-for-door-delivery-of-newspaper-in-mumbai/articleshow/78598153.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Infections climb in rural pockets, but many residents avoid masks||BENGALURU: Hanumanthappa doesn’t wear a mask any more to protect himself from Covid-19. Nor does he try to keep a safe distance from others. For the 12 labourers he works with on his land near Srirangapatna in Mandya district, life is more or less as ‘normal’ as it was before the pandemic. “The virus has not attacked me or maybe I’ve already been infected but didn’t have symptoms. I have a strong immunity because I eat ragi balls every day,’’ said the 55-year-old diabetic. “I often hang out at the village corner and visit the market to buy vegetables and meat without a mask. Nothing happens to me.” In almost two dozen small towns and villages of Ramanagara, Mandya, Mysuru and Kodagu visited by this reporter in recent weeks, people have largely discontinued mask usage after months of sticking to the rules, believing that the virus is no longer a serious threat. The government’s recent decision to impose a penalty has had no impact on residents of these areas, barring those who are intercepted by traffic cops. The change in behaviour has come even as infections in the countryside have surged. In many towns and taluks across North Karnataka, most men and women are seen walking around without a mask, now considered an essential accessory and Covid preventive measure. It’s common for villagers to gather in the evening sans masks. “We’re not going out and not letting anyone in our village. That’s why we don't wear masks,” said Anjanappa, who was carrying a toddler in a crowded market in a village. “We can get infected even with mask usage,” he added. Young men on two-wheelers sometimes carry masks in their pockets, only to wear them when they see policemen on the road. “Many people take it too lightly, as if nothing will happen to them just because they’re breathing in fresh air and eating fresh vegetables,” said a senior health officer in Chikkamagaluru district. In urban areas, traffic police and civic-body appointed marshals are enforcing the mask-rule strictly. However, in panchayats and municipalities outside the city, such drives are absent. “We have been sensitising locals to wear facemasks. But, several of them don’t follow the advice. Penalising them is impossible considering the staff strength of our panchayat,’’ said a panchayat department official. Coronavirus cases in the districts increased threefold in September as compared to the previous month; more deaths were recorded than in the last five months. “Health infrastructure is poor in rural areas. That’s why people should strictly follow social-distancing norms, wear masks, avoid crowded areas and keep washing hands. Otherwise they’ll suffer,” said Dr Ravikanth Desai, a health expert. Medical education minister K Sudhakar said: “Throwing caution to the wind, people are displaying a casual approach towards Covid-19 rules. When we impose hefty fines, they oppose it. They simply don’t understand that wearing a mask is for their betterment.” The minister said the government will take up an aggressive campaign, including distribution of free masks, in villages and small towns to ensure people follow the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/infections-climb-in-rural-pockets-but-many-residents-avoid-masks/articleshow/78597950.cms||Manu Aiyappa
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat crosses 1.5 lakh Covid cases; records lowest daily tally in 43 days||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat became 14th Indian state to cross the figure of 1.5 lakh cumulative Covid-19 positive cases with addition of 1,221 new patients in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Saturday. It was the state’s lowest daily tally in 43 days. The dip was recorded a fortnight after the state recorded its highest daily tally of 1,442 on September 25. Analysis of the daily tally reveals that it took Gujarat 124 days to record the first 50,000 cases. The second 50,000 cases were recorded in 44 days as the third 50,000 cases were registered in 37 days – the state breached the 1.5 lakh cases mark in 205 days. District-wise analysis of the cases reveal that Ahmedabad in the first 50,000 cases accounted for 49% of the total cases. The number came down to 26% - recording the drop of 23% in share. No other district has recorded such a dip. Meanwhile, Rajkot’s share of cases rose by 5% while Jamnagar recorded a hike of 3.7%. Except Vadodara (1.5% rise), Amreli (1.1% rise) and Panchmahal (1% rise), all other districts recorded less than 1% change in their overall share in the cumulative tally. As on Saturday evening, 15,958 cases were active. This is the lowest active case tally in 37 days. The share of active, discharged and deceased patients in Gujarat was 10.6%, 87% and 2.4% respectively||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-crosses-1-5-lakh-covid-cases-records-lowest-daily-tally-in-43-days/articleshow/78598166.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia reviews Deshbhakti curriculum||NEW DELHI: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia reviewed the contents of the Deshbhakti curriculum along with the progress of the new board and curriculum committees on Saturday. He has asked all the three committees to submit their report by mid-November. The work on introducing the curriculum started last year and was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Explaining the key features of the curriculum, Sisodia said, “Understanding of the teacher of where her child stands and subsequently on issues like inclusiveness, gender, different forms of discrimination, integrity, care for public property and natural resources, will be the key to enable a child to become a true deshbhakt.” The government also reviewed the curriculum and board committees, which were constituted in July 2020 to recommend new curriculum for children up to 14 years. Sisodia appreciated the approach of the committee, which seeks to connect the curriculum with real life situations. He emphasised that the proposed learning goals should be simple and clear for the parents to understand and be an active participant in their child’s learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-reviews-deshbhakti-curriculum/articleshow/78598177.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||Republic CFO doesn’t show up, he & 3 execs summoned today||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch probing the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation racket has summoned four senior executives of Republic TV on Sunday even as the channel said it had challenged the police action in the Supreme Court. Republic TV’s chief financial officer (CFO) Shivam Sundaram, who had been summoned by the police on Saturday, did not present himself and cited the petition filed in SC as one of the reasons for not appearing. Heads of two leading mediabuying agencies were questioned on Saturday. Meanwhile, the police, “in an attempt to obtain clarity,” have sought a report from the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on its findings on TV channel India Today after one of the arrested accused alleged he had rigged its viewership. Four accused have been arrested in the case so far. Police said they wanted to clear the doubts raised on TRP manipulation by India Today. Police, citing statements of a witness, Tejal Solanki, and a few others had mentioned this aspect in both the FIR and the remand application filed in court seeking custody of two of the accused. Police said they have not found any substantial evidence against the channel. “We have asked the BARC to give their findings on India Today, which will clear all doubts,” said an official probing the case. The remand application had noted that Solanki and a few others said arrested accused Vishal Bhandari had asked them to keep India Today channel on for at least two hours. “However, Solanki’s package never included India Today,” an officer said. Bhandari was the relationship manager of Hansa Research, a firm contracted by BARC to place audience measurement tools or people meters to monitor TV channels that are watched in households. Police are also looking for Dinesh Wishvakarma and Vinay Tripathy, both former employees of Hansa. In the petition in SC filed on Saturday, Arnab Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV sought a stay on investigations. He also sought orders to restrain police from taking any coercive action against him and to transfer the probe outside Maharashtra. The petition alleges a “politically motivated’’ attempt to “falsely implicate” him. Police maintained there was no confirmation about a petition being filed in SC and no directions have been issued. Terming Republic TV’s plea an “unconfirmed petition,” police asked Sundaram to appear on Sunday along with three others -- Republic TV Group CEO Vikas Khanchandani and two chief operating officers, Priya Mukharjee (sic) and Hersh Bhandari. Mumbai police chief Parambir Singh told TOI over phone on Saturday, “Our investigations have been professional with correspondence with independent agencies. We will give a proper reply in court.’’ The state, through advocate Sachin Patil, has filed a caveat to ensure it is heard before any orders are passed by court. Meanwhile, police teams have gone to six states to carry out the probe. “Some other suspects did operate from Maharashtra but their current location is showing in other states. Our teams have gone to trace them,” said an officer. On the questioning of heads of two media-buying agencies, an officer said, “We asked them to provide records of two years’ TV advertisements from various companies, the revenue generated, advertisements given to different channels and the criteria that decide distribution of advertisements. They said the ads were released based on the channels’ TRP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-cfo-doesnt-show-up-he-3-execs-summoned-today/articleshow/78598178.cms||S Ahmed Ali
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Environment ministry allows thermal power plants to use high ash coal||Nagpur: The ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) has taken a decision which will prove disastrous for people living near power plants, according to environmentalists. It has done away with the condition for power plants to use coal with less than 34% ash content. This will lead to increase in air pollution and increase respiratory illnesses among the people living near thermal power stations, according to them. This decision is completely contradictory to the ones taken by MoEFCC some years ago. The MoEFCC notification states, “The ministry of power has represented that with advancement in pollution control technologies, thermal power plants are better equipped to capture fly-ash and unwashed coal can be used. Fly-ash generated in thermal power plants is being used in several beneficial uses like cement manufacturing, brick making, road laying etc. Requirement of maintaining average ash content to 34% prompts industries to undertake import of coal, resulting in outflow of foreign exchange.” Environmentalists said that power ministry’s claim is fallacious in several respects. Pollution control equipments in power plants are unable to capture fly-ash even now and higher ash content will mean higher emissions. Secondly, 100% fly-ash utilization is a distant dream and ash disposal remains a major problem, they said. In October 2015, the National Green Tribunal had made it mandatory for power and coal utilities to adopt clean coal technology and beneficiation process to reduce pollution level and fly-ash generated by inferior quality of coal as per MoEFCC notifications dated January 2014 and August 2015. The NGT has directed pollution control board to include in its consent to operate a condition laid down by MoEFCC which banned coal companies and power companies from using coal having more than 34% ash content as it poses danger to environment and public health within one month. Sudhir Paliwal, of Vidarbha Environmental Action Group (VEAG), said, “This decision has been taken to encourage private companies to bid for coal blocks. The quality of Indian coal is very bad and has high ash content. If the 34% norm was not removed, private players would not have shown interest in coal mining.” Adding that the decision is disastrous as it “will increase the suspended particulate matter (SPM) percentage in atmosphere”, Paliwali said, “Cities like Nagpur and Chandrapur are especially at risk. If ash content is high, the flue gas desulphurizers (FGDs) will not work properly and thousands of crores will go waste. Moreover, higher fly-ash means more problems for thermal power plants in its disposal.” Activist Anil Wadpalliwar, who has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to force Mahagenco to use good coal, said, “MoEFCC has signed the death warrant for people living near power plants. For Nagpurians and Chandrapurians this is more dangerous than Covid. Now power plants will emit poisonous gases and we won’t be able to do anything. The decision has been taken to benefit private players in coal mining and power generation. This is evident from the fact that the order was issued when Covid was wreaking havoc in the country and people’s attention was focused elsewhere.” Sunil Dahiya, analyst at the Centre for Research and Clean Air (CREA), said that with the doing away of ash content condition, it has now become imperative for power plants to follow the prescribed norms. “The latest emission standards should be followed. The electrostatic precipitator should operate at full efficiency. Also, to avoid disasters, 100% utilization of fly ash is a must,” he said. Kaustav Chatterjee of Green Vigil Foundation said that now coal mining companies would no longer bother to go for beneficiation of coal. “Fly-ash contains arsenic, barium, cadmium, nickel, lead (heavy metals). These will pollute the land where the ash is dumped. Water pollution will occur through leaching. Farm produce in nearby areas will be contaminated,” he added. WHAT IS FLY-ASH? The inert content of coal burns and becomes fly-ash. About 20% of this waste material is heavy and gets deposited at the bottom and is known as bottom ash. Remaining 80% moves towards the chimney where electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) are installed. If ash content in coal is high, ESPs are unable to precipitate the ash and it escapes from the chimney as SPM, which causes host of respiratory illnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/environment-ministry-allows-thermal-power-plants-to-use-high-ash-coal/articleshow/78596268.cms||Ashish Roy
October 11, 2020||Nagpur||Cops can’t use mobiles at ‘visible points’: CP||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar on Friday issued a circular prohibiting on-duty cops from using cell phones at any ‘visible points’, whether they are managing traffic or deployed at nakabandis or fixed points or on guard duty. Though the motive is to make policing more effective and focused, the decision has triggered a debate too. In order to facilitate communication, additional 50 walkie-talkies and wireless communication sets would be distributed to the cops. Kumar has also asked his administration to ensure the landline telephones at police chowkis and posts are in working condition so that any emergency messages can be received and conveyed to cops on the roads through patrolling riders and mobile vans. Confirming the development, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Vikram Sali said traffic cops have been asked not to keep cell phones with them while on duty. “If found flouting the order, disciplinary action would be initiated,” he said. The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had recently come down heavily on senior cops holding them responsible for deteriorating traffic scene in the city, but there was no express mention warranting the ban on use of cell phones. The high court’s observations came while hearing a suo motu PIL over rampant traffic violations. Amicus curiae in the PIL, Shreerang Bhandarkar, said the CP’s decision was uncalled for. Kumar said apart from the court’s observation, there have been numerous occasions when cops on crucial duties were asked to refrain from reckless use of mobile phones. “It is perturbing to see a violation taking place in front of a cop who is talking on the cell phone. We had discussed the issue at length with the officers before finally coming out with the decision,” he said. The CP said a personnel who may have some personal or family emergency for a day or some period would be given office duties. “We would review practical implementation of the decision,” he said. Former CP PKB Chakravorthy said overuse of cell phone by cops seems to be more due to social media. Objective of the ban is appreciable but implementing it could be challenging. “A better alternative is to ensure that cops keep the cell phones in flight mode or switched off. Action should be taken in case of violation. They can use phones in emergency,” he said. To a query, the DCP said there is no locker room at zone level where traffic cops can keep the cell phones. “They have been instructed not to bring or carry phones during duty hours,” he said. A senior inspector (traffic) requesting anonymity said nowadays all official communications are done either through mobile phone or WhatsApp groups. “If we miss any message from seniors, we face action,” he said. A senior officer said now there is greater risk of missing official communication. Citizens have welcomed the CP’s decision. “Motorists are being penalized for using mobile phones while driving or riding. It is good that cops have been restricted from using cell phones,” said Atul Bansod, a professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-cant-use-mobiles-at-visible-points-cp/articleshow/78596279.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata priests take online classes for Durga Puja organisers abroad||KOLKATA: Online classes are not just for students. A host of Bengali gentlemen living in foreign shores and engaged in diverse professions are banking on such tutorials to see them through this festive season. And, a select band of priests, who travel abroad every year to conduct Durga Puja but are unable to do so this time due to the pandemic, are conducting virtual workshops so that these non-resident Bengalis can perform the rituals themselves. The two groups are connecting over different apps and across different time zones for regular two- to three-hour classes in the run-up to the Pujas. The Bengali community across the seven seas have opted for a very low-key celebration this year, with most shunning public gathering and collective feasting. Unable to fly in priests from Kolkata, the Puja committees have identified a couple of members to attend these online workshops and later perform the rituals on their own. “We received several requests from Puja organisers in the US, Europe, Canada and other countries to help them out with how to perform the rituals,” said Jayanta Kushary, principal of Sarba Bharatiya Prachya Academy, a school of oriental studies.  The school has been organising 10-day camps with priests for the last three decades. Kushary has already conducted two sessions in the last week of September and first week of October. A third session will be held just before the Pujas later this month. “Several organisers in these countries have scaled down celebrations due to social-distancing guidelines. So, I have been training them on how to perform all the rituals while adhering to the religious text and safety guidelines,” he said. Kaushik Mukherjee, a member of the Bangiyo Purohit Sabha, said this year he couldn’t fly to New Jersey where he has been associated with a Durga Puja for the last 11 years. “But I have explained the ritual to the organisers virtually. I will also be connected to them during the festival to help them out if they face any difficulty,” Mukherjee said. Sourabh Banerjee, who has been nominated by a Puja committee in Toronto to attend online sessions, said: “The Puja this year is going to be very symbolic here since very strict social-distancing rules are in place. I am learning to perform some basic rules performing the Puja.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-priests-take-online-classes-for-durga-puja-organisers-abroad/articleshow/78597656.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Guv, TMC in war of words over law & order||Kolkata: Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday morning again sought an update on the law and order situation from the chief minister. This time, Dhankhar gave a time frame for the chief secretary to get in touch with the CM and revert to him by 2 pm, sparking strong reactions from Trinamool Congress.  Dhankhar said: “Faced with a grim and explosive law and order scenario, it is imperative that the honourable CM briefs me urgently. The chief secretary may be so communicated with a request to connect honourable CM. The chief secretary’s response is expected by 2 pm.” Urban development minister Firhad Hakim said: “He is trying to prove himself the boss when no one in the state thinks so. The governor is the constitutional head. He has ways to operate. But he is behaving like a political party representative.” Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya complained that Dhankhar was resorting to “double standards”. “The governor has no reaction on the Hathras gang rape in UP. Our position is like a duorani (queen fallen from grace) to him. We do everything but the governor is all in praise for Centre, a suorani (favoured queen) to him,” she said, adding that the chief secretary will respond to him. Dhankhar raised the law and order issue hours after BJP raised uproar over the “unprovoked attack” on BJP workers by state police on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-tmc-in-war-of-words-over-law-order/articleshow/78597668.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Two developers may get land to lay road in exchange deal||GURUGRAM: A land exchange proposal for two private developers to lay revenue roads will be discussed in the MCG House meeting scheduled for October 12. While Vatika Limited has sought exchange of 3.28 acres of land in Sihi village, Era Resorts has submitted a proposal seeking exchange of 551.5 square yards of land in Ghata village. The civic body will give alternate land in exchange of revenue roads, which fall within the jurisdiction of these two private developers. The agenda stated that the land offered by these companies will be utilised by MCG for any institutional project in public interest. “We will give Vatika Limited 3.287 acres of land in Sihi Village and it will give MCG 3.287 acres of land in Harsaru in return. We are going to use this land in public interest. Moreover, we are going to give 551.5 square yards of land in Ghata village to Era Resorts in lieu of 968 square yards of land in Sector 89B. We are getting more land in lieu of Ghata village revenue road land because the circle rate of Ghata village is more than that of Sector 89B,” said a senior MCG official. Moreover, the House will also discuss delegation of power from the MCG House to Country and Town planning department to regularise illegal sub-division of plots (less than 1,000 sq m) situated within the MCG limits. The councillor of ward number 30, Mahesh Dayma, has submitted a proposal for developing dedicated cycling tracks at Golf Course Road, Golf Course Road Extension, Aravalis and Ridge areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-developers-may-get-land-to-lay-road-in-exchange-deal/articleshow/78597488.cms||Vishakha Chaman
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Congress-Left to emerge as first force in Bengal: Adhir Chowdhury||KOLKATA: Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury hit the streets against BJP and Trinamool in Kolkata on Saturday to charge up party ranks otherwise cornered in the much-touted Trinamool-BJP binary in Bengal. Chowdhury held that Congress and Left would jointly emerge as the “first force” in the coming Bengal assembly polls. Chowdhury walked the streets from Bidhan Bhavan to Esplanade in a road show, a month after assuming charge as West Bengal Pradesh Congress president. “People in Bengal are in poor plight. Trinamool is singing praises for Didi (Mamata Banerjee) while BJP is heaping praises on Modi (Narendra Modi), leaving people in the lurch. I will ask those who have written off Congress in Bengal to take a look at the gathering. I tell you Congress and Left together will emerge as the first force in a couple of months and come to power in Bengal,” he said. The Congress leader condemned the Hathras gang rape in Uttar Pradesh to lash out at Hindu nationalists. “A 19-year-old Hindu girl was gang-raped and cremated in absence of her family member. Can any Hindu support this?” Chowdhury asked. The Pradesh Congress president took on the Trinamool government in the same breath, citing the rise in crime against women in Bengal. “What is happening in Bengal? In Kamduni, Raiganj, Jalpaiguri and Midnapore? This government has turned into a government for cut money and extortion,” he said. Chowdhury has already formed a three-member team led by Congress leader Abdul Mannan to start negotiations with the Left over seat adjustments for the coming assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/congress-left-to-emerge-as-first-force-in-bengal-adhir/articleshow/78597671.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Puja organisers meet Thakur, want ‘impractical’ guidelines tweaked||Ranchi: As many as 100 puja committees affiliated to Ranchi Zila Durga Puja Samiti (RZDPS) here want the government-issued guidelines on bhog distribution, use of loudspeakers, installation of lights in and around the pandals and cap on the number of devotees inside the mandap and during immersion tweaked. Citing religious sentiments and their impracticality, the RZDPS members on Saturday submitted a memorandum to state water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur, seeking a few modifications to the guidelines. Issued on October 2, the state government in its guidelines on Durga Puja banned the distribution of bhog, use of loudspeakers and installation of lights and allowed only seven people’s presence inside the pandal at a time and three during immersion. Talking to TOI, RZDPS president Ashok Purohit said, “While we are ready to work hand-in-hand with the government when it comes to organising the puja in such a way that the virus spread is checked, we cannot compromise on things of sentimental value. For instance, bhog is an integral part of the puja ritual and after offering to the deity, it has to be distributed among the devotees. We have appealed to the government to allow bhog distribution in a restricted way. If required, we can also deliver it to the devotees’ homes by adhering to all the safety norms.” He further said, “If allowed, we have assured the government of using the loudspeakers on low volume and as far as lighting is concerned, the government should allow it to be installed inside the pandal. And allowing only three people during immersion is impractical and needs to be changed.” Thakur has reportedly assured them of all possible cooperation from the government’s end. “We are hopeful of getting a positive response from the government as the minister has assured us of all possible cooperation from their end. He even promised to take up the matter with the chief minister and others concerned to come up with a solution at the earliest,” RZDPS convenor Munchun Roy said. Meanwhile, several police stations in the district on Saturday conducted peace committee meetings in their respective areas of jurisdiction with the local volunteers and members of the ward-level peace committees to chalk out modalities ahead of the puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/puja-organisers-meet-thakur-want-impractical-guidelines-tweaked/articleshow/78596069.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Online registration must for visiting Itkhori temple||Chatra: Devotees coming to the Ma Bhadrakali temple in Itkhori will now have to register online a day before coming for the darshan. The temple has reopened from October 8 after the government issued an order in this regard. Officials of the temple management said the devotees will have to upload their Aadhaar cards compulsorily on the website jharkhanddarshan.nic.in from Monday onwards though registration will begin from Sunday. Temple committee secretary Baijnath Kamti, who is also the circle officer of Itkhori, said, “After registering on the website, the devotee will have to mention their choice of darshan time and the number of people accompanying him/her. The registration has to be done a day before the visit. The list of registered devotees will be displayed near the main entrance gate every day. No entry will be allowed in the sanctum sanctorum without registration.” On the third day of reopening of the temple on Saturday, North Chottanagpur commissioner Kamal Johan Lakra paid a visit and took stock of the administrative arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/online-registration-must-for-visiting-itkhori-temple/articleshow/78596075.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||Jagarnath improves, CM visits hosp to inquire about his health||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday inquired about the health of state education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in a critical condition at the Bhagwan Mahaveer Medica Superspecialty Hospital (Medica) here. Doctors treating the minister said his condition has improved significantly over the last five days. Earlier on Friday, health minister Banna Gupta had constituted a medical board comprising senior doctors of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) to assist and treat the ailing minister. Soren, who was accompanied by Gupta, spent around half-an-hour at the private hospital and met the team of doctors from the medical board and inquired about the ongoing treatment and the well-being of his cabinet colleague. Talking to media persons after the visit, Soren said, “I inquired about the well-being of Jagarnath ji and have directed the team of doctors to provide him with the best treatment. He was admitted to the hospital 10 days ago after getting infected in a critical condition. He has improved and is responding well to treatment. We all are praying for his speedy recovery.” Soren said that they had tried to shift Mahto to a better medical centre at the national capital but the doctors have advised against it. The medical board constituted by Gupta has four doctors from Rims, including the head of critical care unit, Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, senior physician and professor of medicine, Dr Umesh Prasad, senior cardiologist Dr Hemant Narayan and professor of the chest and pulmonary medicine Dr Brajesh Mishra. All of them have been asked to co-ordinate with the consultants of Medica and to assist in ailing minister’s treatment. Talking to TOI, Dr Bhattacharya said, “We have reviewed the health of the minister at Medica hospital and have suggested a few changes in his medication as his condition has improved significantly in the last five days.” Senior consultant and medical director of Medica Dr Vijay Mishra is supervising minister’s overall treatment. He said, “We have noticed a slight improvement in his saturation level on Friday night so we have reduced his oxygen supply from 100 to 90% and his saturation levels are maintained. His overall health has also improved and he is eating well, communicating properly and is also reading newspapers. The X-ray as well as pathological reports have also improved. He is responding well to treatment and we are hopeful that he will recover soon.” Dr Mishra added, “His lung infection has also reduced to 20% and if this continues, I am very optimistic that he will recover soon. Having said that, he will need time as he is still on non-invasive ventilation and severe Covid patients take time to recover completely.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jagarnath-improves-cm-visits-hosp-to-inquire-about-his-health/articleshow/78596046.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||E S’bhum IDSP not sharing data of our patients admitted at their hosps: Seraikela-Kharsawan||Jamshedpur: The Seraikela-Kharswan health department on Saturday accused the East Singhbhum unit of the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) cell of not sharing data on infected patients of Seraikela-Kharsawan who voluntarily got admitted to dedicated covid hospitals in the adjoining district. Officials said as IDSP cell is not communicating regularly, it is leading to chaos and confusion in maintaining a data and devising plans to curb the spread of the virus in the district. Serikela-Kharsawan district surveillance officer (DSO) Jhujar Majhi said, “Record of 50 positive cases, including 15 mortalities, hasn’t been shared by the IDSP so far.” He said that during the initial days, the IDSP used to communicate records of every patient, but hasn’t been doing so of late. “Perhaps, owing to workload the IDSP officials have no time to email us the details,” Majhi said, adding, that they have their own record of people who were referred to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital and Tata Memorial Hospital. “But several patients got admitted to the two hospitals on their own in the past three months, of which a few died and several recovered, but we don’t have their records,” the DSO said. Majhi also said that it is through the media that they get information about the status of the positive cases undergoing treatment at the hospitals in the industrial town. Majhi said they have taken up the matter of “lack in communication” with the health officials of the adjoining district, but each time they have received only assurances. “Now, we have decided to take up the matter in writing with the top officials in the district administration and seek cooperation in communicating the data,” Manjhi said. Meanwhile, IDSP cell in-charge of East Singhbhum Sahir Pal said, “Hospitals share with us the number of vacant beds on a daily basis and not the name and address of the patients and therefore we don’t have details of patient to communicate to the districts.” “TMH is a dedicated Covid hospital for East Sighbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan and according to the protocol, all the three districts are informed whenever a new admission takes place,” said a source in the corporate communication department of Tata Steel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-sbhum-idsp-not-sharing-data-of-our-patients-admitted-at-their-hosps-seraikela-kharsawan/articleshow/78595709.cms||B Sridhar
October 11, 2020||Ranchi||State, Bihar cops on toes along border ahead of polls||Ranchi/Daltonganj: Jharkhand and Bihar Police are on high alert at the districts falling along the border between the two states to prevent movement of extremists, smuggling of cash, illicit liquor and other banned substances ahead of the assembly elections in the neighbouring state and bypolls in the Dumka and Bermo seats in Jharkhand. Sources said checkposts have been set up on the interstate roads on both sides of the border to search vehicles. Meetings have also been convened between police of the two states and a list of wanted criminals, absconders, liquor smugglers and other anti-social elements have been exchanged for proper action. Hazaribagh DIG A V Homkar said, “From police station to inspector general levels, the meetings were organised to chalk out strategies to ensure free and fair elections. The operations to curb extremist activities along the borders are also underway, but details cannot be divulged.” The Hazaribagh DIG range has four districts — Hazaribag, Giridih, Chatra and Koderma — on the border of Bihar. Homkar said drives are also being conducted in the remote areas to destroy illicit liquor factories which could send their products to Bihar during the polls. Palamu DIG Raj Kumar Lakra said police are following the norms prescribed by the Election Commission of India and the preventive measures that have been implemented at the poll-bound areas will also be replicated at the bordering areas. In Palamu, a special investigating team has also been set up at Harihurganj, one of police stations that falls along the border. Sources said the step was taken to keep a tight vigil along the long and porous border with Bihar which is often used by Maoists to crossover to the neighbouring state and by smugglers who carry liquor to the neighbouring state. Palamu SP Sanjeev Kumar said, “We have seized thousands of illicit liquor bottles at Harihurganj on September 24 which was all set then to be smuggled to Bihar. The SIT will further investigate the case to unearth the network involved in the trade.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-bihar-cops-on-toes-along-border-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/78596087.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||BJP rakes up turban issue, cops respond||Burdwan: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh has condemned the way the turban of a Sikh participant was “taken off” by police during BJP’s Nabnna Aviyan, showing “utter disrespect” to the community. West Bengal Police had denied the charge in an official tweet on Friday. Police said the turban had “fallen off automatically” in the scuffle after police caught him carrying arms during the demonstration. The police response came hours after video clippings of the incident on social media sparked strong reactions from Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal and cricketer Harbhajan Singh, among others. “Balwinder Singh is a private security guard working for Priyangshu Pandey, a BJP organizer. Police snatched his turban, beat and tortured him before taking him in custody. I condemn the police action,” Ghosh said in Burdwan on Saturday. The Bengal BJP president then switched to the “appeasement politics” clamour against Trinamool Congress. “The police showed disrespect to the religion. The police could do this to us because we are law-abiding citizens,” he said. West Bengal Police tweeted: “The person was carrying firearms in the protest. The ‘pagri’ had fallen off automatically in the scuffle that ensued, without any attempt to do so by our officer. It is never our intention to hurt the sentiments of any community. West Bengal police respects all religions. The officer specifically asked him to put his ‘pagri’ back before the arrest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-rakes-up-turban-issue-cops-respond/articleshow/78597666.cms||Mohammad Asif
October 11, 2020||Kolkata||Arjun Singh’s nephew held over Rs 12.5 crore coop bank scam||BARRACKPORE: BJP MP Arjun Singh’s nephew was arrested by Barrackpore Police on Saturday for his involvement in a Rs 12.5 crore cooperative bank scam. A Barasat court remanded him in police custody for 10 days. Sanjit Singh alias Pappu’s arrest is the fourth in the Bhatpara-Naihati cooperative bank case. Former bank CEO Chandranath Bhattacharya, civic contractor Abhijit Chakraborty and Pappu’s manager Krishnaji Shaw were held earlier. Cops said Pappu had skipped police summons at least four times before going to the Barrackpore Police Commissionerate on his own on Friday evening. “He was arrested after hours of questioning when police found several inconsistencies in his statements,” a police official said. BJP’s Barrackpore MP Singh said: “This is all part of the conspiracy by the ruling Trinamool against me since my joining BJP. Police are only carrying out the Trinamool plan to frame me.” The detective wing of the Barrackpore Police Commissionerate has also summoned Singh because he was chairman of the cooperative bank and Bhatpara Municipality civic head when the fraud was reported. Special public prosecutor Sattyabrata Das, while welcoming the Barasat court order, said: “Police found during investigation that the Rs 12.5-crore bank loan was disbursed to 26 contractors on two dates in March 2018, and the entire amount was finally transferred to the account of N S Construction company owned by Pappu, though the municipality didn’t issue any work order to him. Neither did Pappu seek a bank loan.” The public prosecutor said the entire amount was sanctioned by Singh, who didn’t turn up for questioning despite several summons. Police started the investigation based on a complaint from Bhatpara Trinamool leader Somenath Shyam, accusing Singh and some of his relatives of siphoning money by way of sanctioning loans to several firms using “fake work orders.” As many as 12 directors of the 15-member bank board moved a no-confidence motion against Singh on September 19. Singh and two other directors were absent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/arjuns-nephew-held-over-rs-12-5-crore-coop-bank-scam/articleshow/78597669.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ladies special heralds working women's tales of grit||MUMBAI: Sangita More pulls a plastic shield over her masked face as she runs into Malad station just in time for boarding the ladies special train. Slumping into a seat, she is glad to get off her feet after a gruelling shift at a hospital where she works as a nurse. About 40 minutes later, she will alight at Virar station and walk for a kilometre before she can finally reach home. The ladies special, having recently resumed service on Western and Central Railways, is replete with stories of working women who have been soldiering on during the pandemic for providing essential services. Some like More havent had an off for weeks. “The day I was given a pass for railway travel, my eyes welled up,” said More. “With a steady stream of patients flowing into the hospital, we end up working overtime frequently. When trains were non operational, I used to spend up to four hours on the road to get to work and back. It was a nightmare,” she added. A mother of two girls, More has been paying the rent and footing bills after her husband, a lawyer, was forced to stay home as courts functioned partially in the lockdown. Unlike other trains, the ladies special has enough room that allows passengers to maintain social distancing. But its not just the seating arrangement that has changed. Gone are the games of antakshari, swapping of seats and gossip among groups of “train friends.” As its only essential workers commuting now, there is silence in the coaches. “Sharing of snacks no longer happens. Women do not keep their bags on overhead racks either. All are scared of contracting Covid,” said ASHA worker Anuradha Mahale who travels to all parts of Palghar district under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ initiative. Central Railway chief PRO Shivaji Sutar said that one of the reasons they decided to resume ladies specials was because passenger associations had specifically demanded for it. "Besides that, as more and more categories of passengers are getting an approval from the government to travel by trains, it makes sense to add special locals for their convenience. WR had resumed ladies specials before us and we found that their move was met with a good response," Sutar said. While there are two ladies specials operating in a span of 24 hours on both CR and WR, it is the low frequency of other services that has irked passengers. On days that she is unable to take the ladies special, banker Rakhi Chakraborty has to make do with the crowded women’s compartment of a subsequent local. “Trains ply with a gap of 15 minutes or more. Crowds start building up and social distancing goes for a toss,” said Chakraborty. A Borivali resident, Chakraborty has had a tough time in the lockdown juggling her job along with caring for her differently abled son. With his caretaker unable to come to work and classes moving online, Chakraborty has had to take help from friends and neighbours to look after him, as her husband, a government employee, too has to go to work. Banker Snehlata D’Costa, said one of her friends-- a railway employee-- tested positive for Covid after travelling in crowded trains for a few months. “Some of us have requested our employers for permission to adjust our work timings so that we can take the ladies special at least once a day,” said Chetna Bhat, a pharmacy employee from CST. But Bhat has a grouse. "Unlike WR, CR's ladies specials don' t halt at all stations. I have to get off at Mulund and take an auto to travel to Nahur where I live. It's an uncessary expense."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ladies-special-heralds-working-womens-tales-of-grit/articleshow/78598202.cms||Nitasha Natu
October 11, 2020||Mumbai||BEST budget: 2,500 more buses, no fare hike||MUMBAI: In an attempt to cater to increasing demand from commuters, BEST on Friday announced 2,462 more buses for Mumbai to augment its fleet to 6,337 by March 2022. This was stated by general manager Surendrakumar Bagde as he presented the Rs 1,888-crore deficit budget for 2021-22 at the committee meeting on Saturday. This deficit is "Rs 362 crore less" than the current financial year's estimated deficit of Rs 2,250 crore. Also, there will be no hike in fares till March 2022. Bagde, at the online panel meeting held after six months, also announced electronic display indicators at 800 stops which will mention the 'Expected Time of Arrival' of the next bus.  Another important announcement was the National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), which is "One Nation One Card" for all transport systems such as the railways, buses, monorail and the Metro. The pilot project will begin at Wadala and Colaba depots this month. "BEST will also install smart electricity meters for 20,000 high-value consumers and replace one lakh conventional meters with electronic devices in 2021-22," the budget mentioned. "The present fleet has 3,875 buses, including 1,099 on wet lease. In addition, 300 electric buses have been ordered and bids for 600 single-decker CNG buses have been invited. We plan to increase the fleet to 6,337 on March 31, 2022," it stated. The budget laid an emphasis on "strengthening the electricity distribution network for 10.5 lakh consumers in the island city by laying 25km of 11KV high-voltage cable and 96km of 1.1 KV low-voltge cable and set up 40 distribution substations." It will also set up new receiving sub-stations and replace old transformers and circuit-breakers. An outlay of Rs 446 crore is for capital expenditure, including for replacing buses being phased out, such as 72 double-deckers, by early next year. BEST will also develop an online portal for grid-connected rooftop solar projects and integration with the ministry of new and renewable energy portal. It will encourage people to go for solar rooftops. The income expected in 2021-22 is Rs 4,939 crore while the expenditure projected is Rs 6,827 crore, thereby resulting an overall deficit of Rs 1,888 crore. This includes a deficit of Rs 264 crore in the power supply wing and Rs 1,624 crore in the transport division, said committee chairman Pravin Shinde. The 20,000 new smart power meters will allow consumers to keep track and ensure the reading is accurate daily. Such meters will avoid average billing like in the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-budget-2500-more-buses-no-fare-hike/articleshow/78598211.cms||Somit Sen
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP, Congress gear up as assembly bypolls draw near||AHMEDABAD: Even before the BJP could announce its candidates for the eight assembly seats where byelections will be held next month, three former Congress MLAs who defected to the BJP earlier this year, said they have received the mandate to contest and announced the dates when they will file their nomination papers. Jitu Chaudhary on Saturday said that he will file his nomination papers on Oct 12 for the Kaprada seat, Pradyumansinh Jadeja said he will file his papers on Oct 13 from Abdasa and J V Kakadiya said he will file his papers from Dhari on Oct 15. All three were elected from these seats on Congress tickets in 2017. Voting for byelections to eight assembly seats will be held on November 3 and counting will take place on November 10. Gujarat BJP chief C R Paatil is expected to visit Delhi and finalize the party’s candidates with the central leadership. Congress leaders also met over the past couple of days to decide on their candidates. Two ticket hopefuls of the Congress for the Dhari seat in Amreli district — Suresh Kotadiya and Jeni Thummar — have begun campaigning, expecting to be given the Congress ticket. Both Thummar and Kotadiya on Saturday said that they will abide by the party’s decision and work towards its victory in the bypoll. Eight Congress MLAs had quit the party ahead of the Rajya Sabha election earlier this year, because of which these byelections are being held. Of the eight, five formally joined the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-congress-gear-up-as-assembly-bypolls-draw-near/articleshow/78598199.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||3 killed as bus hits divider, turns turtle||AGRA: A 26-year-old Delhi resident and two others were killed while at least a dozen people were left injured when a speeding bus in which they were travelling hit a divider and turned turtle near milestone 56 on Yamuna Expressway on Saturday. The bus was heading to Delhi from Kanpur. As per police, the deceased were identified as Irfan, 26, and Parth Nigam, 24. The identity of the third deceased is not yet known. Three of the injured persons were referred to Delhi — two of them lost their arms and one his leg. Talking to TOI, Aligarh SP (rural) Subham Patel said those who were sitting on left side of the bus were critically injured as it turned on the left after hitting divider.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-killed-as-bus-hits-divider-turns-turtle/articleshow/78598219.cms||---
October 11, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Woman who quit Delhi job gets RJD ticket||PATNA: It’s not often that an educated woman, wife of an IAS officer, quits her job in the national capital to live in a village and gets elected its sarpanch. It’s even rare that the husband quits his coveted job to assist her in her social work, reports Ramashankar. Meet Ritu Jaiswal, mukhiya of Raj Singhwahini panchayat in Bihar’s Sitamarhi, and Arun Kumar, who took voluntary retirement as commissioner in CVC in 2018. After she quit her job as a teacher at a public school in Delhi, Jaiswal, 43, served as the mukhia of seven villages in Sonbarsa block in 2016 and is now the RJD candidate for Parihar assembly seat in Sitamarhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-polls-woman-who-quit-delhi-job-gets-rjd-ticket/articleshow/78598225.cms||Ramashankar
October 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Three kids drown in Bangarpet pond||KOLAR: Three children drowned in a pond while playing near a railway underpass in Bangarpet on Saturday afternoon. According to Bangarpet police sub-inspector Naveen Kumar, Sadiq (12), his sister Mehak (8) and their cousin Fayaz (7) were watching goats graze near the Kumbarapet underpass. Sadiq, who wanted to have some fun, jumped into the canal dug to drain water from the underpass to a pond. As he moved along the canal, his sister and cousin followed him. When they neared the pond, they slipped and fell into it. Police said the pond had around 6ft of water and the kids couldn't come out. Their parents, who assumed the kids were playing nearby, got worried when they couldn't find them. They began a desperate search and found the bodies. While Sadiq's father is an autorickshaw driver, Fayaz's father runs a scrap business. Bangarpet police are investigating the incident. Similar incidentIn a similar incident on September 10 last year, six kids drowned at Maradagatta village in Bangarpet taluk. Six kids who were watching a Ganesha procession drowned in a pond on the outskirts of the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-three-kids-drown-in-bangarpet-pond/articleshow/78598237.cms||---
October 11, 2020||India||Newborn tiger cubs found dead in MP||BHOPAL: Two newborn tiger cubs were found dead in Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve in MP’s Umaria district on Saturday. Field director Vincent Rahim said these newborn cubs were first spotted by an elephant patrol squad outside a cave in Tala Range on Thursday. “Their eyes were still closed, which indicates that they were born two-three days earlier,” he said. “It seems they were born weak and must have been abandoned by their mother, which is normal among this species,” said Alok Kumar, chief wildlife warden of MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/newborn-tiger-cubs-found-dead-in-mp/articleshow/78598246.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pirana fumes cover 12km area, asphyxiate city’s posh skylines||AHMEDABAD: A toxic cloud hangs over the tony precincts of the city with a dispersion model for Pirana’s noxious fumes suggesting coverage of 12km around the dump. This encompasses areas such as Ambawadi, Paldi, Navrangpura, Satellite, Vastrapur and Bodakdev. The Pirana landfill, apart from pushing out methane, is also spewing a cocktail of volatile organic compounds (VOC), toxic gases released from burning. These gases have potential to cause cancers, heart and respiratory ailments. This new study has measured these toxic gases in the vicinity and beyond Pirana. Scientists from Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad; IIT-Gandhinagar; Sardar Patel University, Vallabh Vidyanagar; Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune; and Amity University, Delhi, conducted the study. Experts want monitoring of VOCs in urban airFor the first time since 2017, they mapped the spread of 20 non-methane VOCs from Pirana. Areas affected include Ranip,Motera, Sabarmati, andsurrounding localities in the west of the city; and those as far as Hathijan, Vatva, Vastral, Maninagar, Isanpur, and Bapunagar in the east. On three days in May 2017, the dispersion model showed the choking vapours grasping Kathlal and other areas near faraway Kheda. The gases include isoprene, benzene, cis-2-butene, propylene, meta-xylene, ethylene, and trans-2-butene.They accountfor 72-75% of the 20 non-methane VOC gas concentrations emanating from Pirana. The scientists used the gas chromatography-flame ionization detector (GC-FID) for measurements. The scientists have urged indepth monitoring of VOCsin urban air which may help frame regulations and policies to limit the respiratory damage to the city. “Aromatic VOCs are potentially toxic and exposure to elevated concentrations can be harmful to human health,” says the study, published in the prestigious Elsevier’s Heliyon-Cell Press Journal. The scientists had collected gas samples at the site, within 500 metres and 800 metres, and then 2.5km away from Pirana. The smoke was measured both in upwind (origin) and downwind directions. An interesting insight was that the ratio of toluene-butane gasesfrom thePirana dump was threetimeshigher than thatof12 traffic junctions in the vicinity. “The International Agency for Research on Cancer and the US Department of Health and Human Services have determined that benzene is carcinogenic to humans,” says the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pirana-fumes-cover-12km-area-asphyxiate-citys-posh-skylines/articleshow/78598159.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka suspends learning scheme 'Vidyagama' amid fear of Covid spread||BENGALURU: Vidyagama, the Karnataka government’s continuous learning programme for students of government schools, was temporarily discontinued on Saturday amid fears that it was spreading Covid-19 among students and teachers. The programme, introduced two months ago to ensure that over 45 lakh students from under-privileged background in rural and urban centres without access to online infrastructure are not deprived of education, was much talked about with many accusing the government of putting children’s live at risk. The issue took a political turn with some elected representatives taking objection to the programme despite the government clarifying there was no spread of Covid. ‘Programme stopped till relevant analysis’On Saturday, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh announced: “I have noticed the opinions expressed in some sections regarding the Vidyagama programme... The principal secretary (education department) has been directed to temporarily stop the Vidyagama programme until the department completes the relevant analysis.” Though some were against the programme since the beginning, reports of flouting of social distancing norms at classes and probable infections and public outrage led to the decision. On Friday, 23 students tested positive for Covid in Ramdurg, Belagavi district, and parents reportedly did not allow teachers to even enter the village as they blamed the latter for exposing children to Covid. According to reports, 15 teachers contracted Covid in the district in the past two months. In Kalaburagi district, four children tested positive two weeks ago. Launch of VidyagamaWhen Vidyagama was kickstarted in 43,000 government schools in August first week, it was hailed as a boon for most students with no internet connectivity. The programme took shape on the recommendations of an expert committee. Under Vidyagama, every school formed a virtual class with 20-25 students with a mentor (teacher). Children were to be grouped from classes 1-5, 6-8 and 8-10 based on geographical area and in different categories like those without any type of technology-based gadgets, those with mobiles but no internet access and those with gadgets with internet access. Mentors visited homes of children in their neighbourhood as many times as possible in a week to monitor their progress. The meetings were held in community centres, religious places, under the shade of a big tree with social distancing norms in place. The government also introduced Samveda, a TV-based learning programme as part of the Vidyagama, which had lessons relayed on DD Chandana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-suspends-learning-scheme-amid-fear-of-covid-spread/articleshow/78598256.cms||Farheen Hussain
October 11, 2020||Chennai||40 years upper age limit for teacher jobs in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The school education department has reduced the upper age limit for direct recruitment of teachers from 57 years to 40 years for open category and from 57 years to 45 years for reserved categories. As per the January notification by then school education secretary Pradeep Yadav, this is applicable to recruitment of secondary grade, graduate and postgraduate teachers. Officials said the change was effected as teachers are being recruited only based on Teachers Recruitment Boardconducted tests. Some officials said the new age limit would bring to schools more young teachers who will stay motivated. But, teachers are not happy. Tamil Nadu Teachers Association president P K Ilamaran said lakhs of teachers including TET (Teacher Eligibility Test) qualified candidates would be affected. “Every year 40,000 students come out of BEd colleges, while the government recruits only 1,000-2000, that too not frequently. The government should reconsider its move,” he said. Asserting that there should be no age limit, Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation general secretary P Patric Raymond said, “The government should cancel the order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/40-years-upper-age-limit-for-teacher-jobs-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78598254.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chennai||Anna University, Madras University to declare final semester results next week||CHENNAI: Anna University and University of Madras are likely to declare final semester exam results next week. Many autonomous colleges are also planning to announce the results for final year students before October 14. Anna University conducted a fully-automated test for final year students from September 24 to 29. Of the registered students, 93% successfully completed the test. Around 10,000 students faced technical glitches and 17,000 were absent. “The university sought permission from the government to conduct supplementary test for students who faced tech glitches and absentees. Supplementary test is being planned for next week. The results would be announced immediately after the test,” a university official said. The university will give 50% weightage to the previous semester exam results and 20% to internal tests. The latest online test carries only 30% weightage in the final year marks. Meanwhile, an official from Madras university said, “The evaluation is at the final stage. We will release the results next week.” Around 60,000 students from took the exam conducted from September 21 to 30. Students downloaded question papers from the site and wrote the exam in pen-and-paper mode. On completing the paper, they uploaded answer scripts while some sent them across by post. City institutes like Loyola College, Madras Christian College and Guru Nanak College have also completed evaluation and would declare results next week. “The results are likely to be released by October 14,” said Thomas Amirtham, principal of Loyola College. Colleges also on the verge of completing their postgraduate admissions. “We are giving provisional admissions to students in postgraduate programmes. Despite the delay in admissions, we h”ave received good response,” said Paul Wilson, principal of Madras Christian College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-university-madras-university-to-declare-final-semester-results-next-week/articleshow/78598308.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Dr CN Manjunath to inaugurate Dasara on Chamundi Hills||MYSURU: Dr CN Manjunath, director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bengaluru, will inaugurate the Dasara festival on October 17. Only 200 persons will be allowed for the function atop Chamundi Hills. All Dasara programmes will be telecast live. The expert committee also recommended restricting the number of participants to 300 persons at Mysuru Palace for the Vijayadashami procession and 50 persons for all cultural events, said district minister ST Somashekar. “I discussed the committee’s report with chief minister BS Yediyurappa. As per their recommendations, security and other arrangements will be made in consultation with officers concerned. Meanwhile, only 50 mediapersons will be permitted at events and only 25 elected representatives will be allowed to take part in the inauguration event,” he told reporters after visiting Suttur seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swamiji. Dr Manjunath will be the first person from the medical field to inaugurate the 10-day festival. Earlier, litterateurs, farmers and people in the social field would do the honours. Manjunath, 63, is a senior cardiologist who introduced the concept of ‘treatment first, payment next’ at the hospital where thousands of poor patients benefited. Considering his contribution to medicine and his service during the pandemic, Yediyurappa chose him for the inauguration. Incidentally, he’s the son-in-law of former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, Live telecastSomashekar said all Dasara programmes will be telecast live on social media platforms and television to prevent public gathering. “Lighting will be done like in previous years by CESC, but will be for just two hours. We have requested funds for the event from the finance department and are yet to finalise the budget,” he said, adding, “Precautionary measures will be taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dr-cn-manjunath-to-inaugurate-dasara-on-chamundi-hills/articleshow/78598316.cms||---
October 11, 2020||World||Trump is no longer a Covid-19 'transmission risk': White House doctor||WASHINGTON: White House physician Sean Conley said President Donald Trump took a Covid-19 test on Saturday which showed that he is no longer a "transmission risk to others." Conley said in a statement that tests show there is no longer evidence "of actively replicating virus." The White House had no immediate comment on whether Conley's statement indicated that the president had tested negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-is-no-longer-a-covid-19-transmission-risk-white-house-doctor/articleshow/78598343.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Why window for nursery admissions is likely to be the longest this season||GURUGRAM: The pandemic has thrown unprecedented challenges both at parents and schools, which has made the ongoing nursery admission season a peculiar one. It’s not just about coming to terms with online classes for the tiny tots. Admissions have been generally slower, and the budget pool of nursery seats appears to have shrunk because many second-tier schools that don’t have the infrastructure and funds big private schools do are either shut or struggling with the framework for online classes. This has thinned options for parents who cannot afford the bigger schools. According to school associations and admission consultancy groups, nursery seats demand has been particularly tepid in budget schools that have started the admission process as well. “There’s a stark difference between leading private schools and us,” said Bhisham Bhardwaj, director, Drona Public School. “There, admissions (this year) are all about getting a seat. Budget schools, however, are preferred by those who are not as affluent. Because of the pandemic, people have lost jobs and businesses have taken a hit. Some have even left the city. All of this has reduced admission requests to a trickle,” he added. In contrast, the big schools have used technology to customise the admission process by giving parents virtual campus tours, conducting interviews and guiding them on online training for kids. Suncity School, for example, says the number of applications for nursery and kindergarten this year has been on a par with previous years. Campus tours were given to parents starting by school staff, starting from the entry gate and playground to classrooms, libraries and assembly areas, over Zoom calls attended by groups of 100. Through video calls, some students of classes four and five were also asked to talk about safety measures adopted by the school during the pandemic. Many other leading schools have done the same. “The overall process was missing a human touch this time. Other than that, the admissions were smooth and similar to last time,” said Rupa Chakravarty, director of the school. The enrolment procedure started around July, like previous years, but in a deviation from the usual, the nature of queries that schools received were mostly about their Covid-preparedness, digital infrastructure and impact of the new education policy on the curriculum. School officials said amid the uncertainty regarding reopening of educational institutions and parents not wanting to send their kids to school because of the pandemic, admissions have been slower this year, even in the more well-known schools. As a result, the current nursery admission season could be the longest with the process staying open well into next year. The usual admission window opens in July-August and closes by the end of November. Ryan International School, for instance, has decided to keep the application window open till January. “The admission requests have certainly slowed down. That’s primarily because many people have left the city due to the work-from-home provision. There also appears to be a tendency among some to wait it out,” said Peeya Sharma, the principal. The situation is unlikely to change any time soon, feels Tripti Singh, a parent and administrator of a Facebook forum called ‘Gurugram Parents for Better Education’. “There have been very few queries from parents about schools this time. Many parents that I know are not interested in enrolling their children in any school this year and want to wait it out for a few more months,” she said. A parent who admitted his daughter to The Shri Ram School, however, said he faced no problems during the admission process, during which he interacted with multiple schools. “The overall process was unexpectedly smooth and well-organised. I had applied to various leading private schools and didn’t face any issue as such. They had virtual meetings and school tours. Few schools also had a draw system. They had called parents online, sending Zoom links to us. And it was very transparent, striking confidence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/why-window-for-nursery-admissions-is-likely-to-be-the-longest-this-season/articleshow/78597164.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
October 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Part of SPR linking Ghata, Vatika Chowk to be repaired||GURUGRAM: In a relief for commuters, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has rolled out the tenders for the annual maintenance and repair of the stretch between Ghata Chowk and Vatika Chowk of the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). The stretch is in bad shape with several potholes and craters, which is causing inconvenience to commuters. The entire stretch is slated for a complete overhaul under the SPR redevelopment project. With approval for the project being delayed, however, the metropolitan authority has rolled out tenders for the maintenance of the stretch. Talking about the project, a senior GMDA official said the maintenance contracts are rolled out once a year so that the repairs can be done on the basis of the requirements without having to issue tenders every now and then. “We have been doing patchwork of potholes on a continuous basis as per requirement. Until the redevelopment project starts, we will need to carry out such work,” said the official. SPR is damaged every now and then because of the heavy traffic that passes through the stretch. Due to the same reason, despite regular maintenance work, portions of the road are always damaged, which is why GMDA had pitched for a project for the strengthening of the road. The project eventually turned into a redevelopment project with two underpasses and three flyovers at the five junctions between Ghata Chowk and Vatika Chowk. While the underpass at Vatika Chowk is being developed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the rest of the project will be taken up by GMDA. TOI had earlier reported that amidst lack of clarity over funds, the project is hanging in uncertainty. Though the project, estimated to cost Rs 230 crore, has been approved by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, a decision on the source of funds has not yet been taken. It had been decided that part of the project would be funded by GMDA and the money was to come from the pending external development charges that it wopuld receive from the department of town and country planning. The remaining funds were expected to be sourced from developers with projects along SPR. However, the proposal is awaiting approval from the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/part-of-spr-linking-ghata-vatika-chowk-to-be-repaired/articleshow/78597166.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Bhopal||Went to support Hathras family, says MP doctor accused of being a Naxal||JABALPUR: A 40-year-old forensic specialist from Jabalpur, MP, who has been accused by some media outlets of being a Naxalite and living with the Hathras victim’s family “posing as a relative”, has said she never hid her identity before police and had only gone to extend financial and moral support to the family. Dr Rajkumari Bansal, assistant professor at Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College in Jabalpur, told TOI that she was driven by her conscience to reach out to the Hathras family, and even left behind her 10-year-old son and husband for this. She has complained to the cyber cell that her phone has been put under surveillance, and said she would take legal action against those spreading rumours about “Naxal” connections. “I was upset and disturbed following the incident and did not want a repeat of the Unnao case, where the entire family was targeted. Seeing women reporters putting up a strong fight and voicing the family’s concern, I got the courage to go there,” Dr Bansal told TOI on Saturday. She took a train from Jabalpur to Agra on October 3, and reached Hathras the next afternoon. “The family was helpless. When I spoke to their advocate, I realised they did not have any documents. Being an expert in forensics, I wanted to examine the autopsy report and help the aggrieved family. I started asking relevant questions and tried to get those reports. After a point, my presence began making the authorities very uncomfortable,” said Bansal, adding: “I wanted to extend financial support to the family and gave them a cheque.” Bansal said she had booked a return ticket to Jabalpur on October 5 but the family insisted that she stay back for two more days. She has been accused by some media channels of prompting the family to give certain statements to the media, and posing as a relative of the victim. “I always gave my correct identity, my Aadhar card details and even registered my mobile number with the policemen who took my details,” she said. Dr Bansal said things started getting worse on October 6, and she left the house to return home. “I had to walk from the victim’s village to the main road to catch a bus. Policemen followed me and started inquiring about my activity. They took pictures of me and my documents. The SDM was also present with police,” she said.“Every time I was questioned by police and local administration, I gave my identity,” she said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/went-to-support-hathras-family-says-mp-doctor/articleshow/78598402.cms||Siddharth Shankar Pandey
October 11, 2020||Gurgaon||E-yoga, YouTube cardio: Confined to home, seniors going online to stay fit||For Usha Rani and Rajesh Mal, a septuagenarian couple living in south Delhi, an hour-long stroll at Lodhi Gardens — the sprawling green oasis in the heart of the capital — was a daily ritual that closed with a helping of coconut water from one of the vendors. When the lockdown came into effect in late March for Covid-19, this routine suddenly came to a halt. For six months, the Mals were confined to their apartment. To make matters worse, Usha fractured her shoulder during a fall in April while her husband’s blood sugar levels spiked around the same time. It was then that their 26-year-old granddaughter Isha came up with the idea of online workout sessions that they could consult to stay physically fit and mentally agile.“Isha had been working out virtually and suggested we join her Cult Fit classes too. We loved the idea. She bought us a subscription, resistance bands and yoga mats. Since then, both of us have been exercising virtually. The exercises are demonstrated by trainers first and we follow them step by step,” says Usha, whose joint pain has now eased, thanks to consistent exercise. Like the Mals, over six months of near-complete home confinement has sent many senior citizens online for the first time in pursuit of staying fit with video tutorials and instructors now available across fitness regimes ranging from yoga and Tai Chi to resistance training and aerobics. “There is so much content to sweat out to on YouTube — aerobics, yoga, weight training and cardio. I share the links with my friends and neighbours on WhatsApp groups. I do miss the cold breeze and early morning adrenaline rush on the road though,” says Kamal Sikka (59), a Faridabad resident who has worked in the F&B industry for 20 years. Swati Mohan, a Gurugram-based dance artist and yoga practitioner, has been hosting virtual dance, yoga and theatre classes since March. She is confident that while online sessions for seniors is still a niche segment, it will grow. “Being able to practise yoga safely at home is definitely a plus. It is crucial to keep the body moving irrespective of age. Bones and muscles stay strong only with movement, and so do organs. Apart from stress, a sedentary lifestyle is the single biggest reason for ill health in most people. There is nothing better than yoga for holistic well-being and, if taken together with an art practice, it’s perfect,” explains Mohan. One of her senior pupils, 56-year-old Vibha Lata who works as a consultant in the field of international education, has been taking classes for mindful breathing meditation. “Yoga for seniors focuses on deepening inner connections through the body. It has been a beautiful and empowering discovery,” she says. ‘Move more, sit less’ In April 2020, a central government advisory had directed that senior citizens should stay home, avoid visitors and maintain one-metre distance. At the same time, it laid stress on remaining active inside their homes, doing light exercises and yoga, especially as they are more vulnerable to the respiratory infection. As muscle strength starts to decline rapidly after 40s, healthcare providers, nutritionists and fitness professionals recommend regular exercise. Elderly people tend to slow down, either due to lack of physical activity, reduced mobility and flexibility or age-related diseases. A recent Swedish study found that physical activity is one of the most reliable contributors to longevity. ‘Move more, sit less’ should be the mantra for seniors, advises Neeraj Mehta, founder of GFFI Fitness Academy in west Delhi. “It helps reduce the impact of illness, pains, stiffness and diseases and also increases the body’s strength and balance. About 150 minutes of physical activity, including yoga, strength training and cardio, is recommended for seniors. If they are not able to meet this target, they can try to match their workouts to their capabilities, and also consider chronic conditions and medications,” he adds. Neeraj says in-person sessions earlier attended by senior citizens have been replaced by online classes. “As studios, gyms and community centres were closed due to the lockdown, it impacted the entire fitness industry as well as everyone’s daily routines. But now there has been a rise in participation in online fitness sessions on Zoom and other apps,” he says. Ira Trivedi, author and yoga teacher, explains that exercise is not only crucial for seniors’ physical fitness, but also their mental well-being. “One of the biggest worries during the pandemic has been the mental health of senior citizens, as they have been confined to their homes. Even walks have been seen as dangerous. Yoga is the safest practice for them,” says Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/e-yoga-youtube-cardio-confined-to-home-seniors-going-online-to-stay-fit/articleshow/78597181.cms||Sakshi Virmani​
October 11, 2020||World||White House virus aid offer is panned by Pelosi, Senate GOP||WASHINGTON: A new White House coronavirus aid offer got bad reviews from both ends of the political spectrum on Saturday. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., rejected the most generous Trump administration plan to date as "one step forward, two steps back". The Republicans who control the Senate dismissed it as too expensive and a political loser for conservatives. Pelosi said she is still hopeful that progress can be made toward a deal but it's as clear as ever that GOP conservatives don't want a deal on her terms. The White House had boosted its offer before Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Pelosi spoke on Friday afternoon. President Donald Trump is eager for an agreement before Election Day, even as his most powerful GOP ally in the Senate said Congress is unlikely to deliver relief by then. "Covid Relief Negotiations are moving along. Go Big!" Trump said Friday on Twitter. The new offer totals about $1.8 trillion, aides familiar with it said, with a key state and local fiscal relief component moving from $250 billion to at least $300 billion. The White House says its most recent offer before that was about $1.6 trillion. The aides were not authorized to publicly discuss private negotiations and spoke on condition of anonymity. Pelosi's most recent public offer was about $2.2 trillion, though that included a business tax increase that Republicans won't go for. In a letter Saturday to colleagues, Pelosi said, "This proposal amounted to one step forward, two steps back. When the president talks about wanting a bigger relief package, his proposal appears to mean that he wants more money at his discretion to grant or withhold." She said that while his administration attempted to address some of the Democratic concerns, disagreement remained on many priorities and Democrats are "awaiting language" on several provisions. "Despite these unaddressed concerns, I remain hopeful that yesterday's developments will move us closer to an agreement on a relief package that addresses the health and economic crisis facing America's families," Pelosi's letter said. Mnuchin's latest offer also got a roasting from GOP senators, who weighed in on a conference call Saturday morning, according to a Republican familiar with the call who was not authorized to discuss the call publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity. Many conservatives are skeptical of so much deficit-financed aid in the first place, and Pelosi-sought provisions such as expanding eligibility for the Affordable Care Act landed with a thud. Pragmatists such as Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, and politically endangered Republicans including Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina appear willing to "go big" as Trump wants. But rank-and-file Republicans — Sens. Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee, Rick Scott of Florida, and John Barrasso of Wyoming, for example — are adamantly opposed to another relief bill that's so generous. GOP Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell remains skeptical of the chances for an agreement, having told an audience in Kentucky on Friday that he didn't see a deal coming together before Election Day. "I think it's unlikely in the next three weeks," McConnell said Friday. He said later that "the first item of priority of the Senate is the Supreme Court," suggesting there isn't time to process both a relief bill and the high court nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett before the November 3 election. President Donald Trump has been all over the map, first as one of the forces in favor of a deal, then killing the talks on Tuesday, only to revive them by weeks' end. On Tuesday, he ordered an end to the weekslong talks after being told that few Republicans in Congress would end up voting for a possible Pelosi-Mnuchin deal. Now, after a political beating, Trump is pressing hard for a deal, motivated by the prospect of sending $1,200 direct payments to voters before November. It's clear from Saturday's Senate GOP conference call that the skepticism or outright opposition hasn't changed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/white-house-virus-aid-offer-is-panned-by-pelosi-senate-gop/articleshow/78598413.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Navjot Singh Sidhu wanted to attend Rahul’s entire programme’||Congress general secretary incharge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat on Saturday clarified that Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu was not upset with the party anymore. He tells Vibhor Mohan that there was no plan to replace Sunil Jakhar as the Punjab Congress president for now. Your attempts to go all-out to placate Navjot Singh Sidhu has made many in the Punjab Congress unit uncomfortable, making them cite his absence from the last two days of Rahul Gandhi’s programme last week. Your comments. The entire programme to oppose the farm laws had to be strategically planned. It was only the CLP leader (chief minister Amarinder Singh), PCC president (Jakhar) and myself who were to be there on all the three days. Sidhu was to be there at the launch of the ‘Tractor Rally’ on October 4. That is what was finalized, but later I wanted to involve Sidhu on the third day too. However, Rahulji and the chief ministter decided to address a press conference in Patiala and so Sidhu’s participation was deferred. Otherwise, he was willing to be part of the rally all through but I asked him to come only on the first day. There is also a feeling that making Sidhu come around is one task given to you as the Punjab incharge. Any thoughts? It is not true that I have been especially sent for this purpose. I have to ensure a strong organisational structure of the party. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has said that he felt hurt at the way Sidhu reacted to him on the stage in Moga and said the AICC should take note. Are you looking into the matter? I don’t see anything wrong with what Sidhu said. Sidhu only said that he wanted to continue speaking while Randhawa wanted to hand over a slip that I had given him. My Punjabi isn’t that good so I got what Sidhu said analysed to ensure and there was nothing offensive in his language. That is his trademark style. Sidhu greeted the chief minister and even mentioned him (in his speech). Your statement about unsatisfactory party organisational structure in Punjab has fueled speculation about Jakhar’s possible replacement? Will you like to clarify? I only said that the existing organisational structure in the state needed to be strengthened. District and state-level Congress committees are yet to be constituted. Also, that we cannot keep relying on the disadvantages of the rival parties so that we win elections on our own strength. I never said that a change is in the offing. However, these two things have been taken pretty much out of context. There has been talk of Sidhu being rehabilitated as the PPCC chief. Is the post up for grabs? It is for the Congress president to pick the PCC chief. We can only give advice. But no such advice has been sought or given. Jakhar has done a good job with the way he organised (Rahul’s) the three-day event against the farm laws in the state. He is a hard-working Congress leader and has worked in various capacities in the organisational structure, doing quite well for himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-wanted-to-attend-rahuls-entire-programme/articleshow/78597183.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chandigarh||2,157 new cases in region, 37 lose battle||Chandigarh/Shimla: The region comprising Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh on Saturday threw up a total of 2,157 Covid-19 cases, while 37 patients succumbed to the virus. Maximum 25 deaths were reported from Punjab and the highest 1,158 cases surfaced in Haryana. During the day, Punjab detected 890 new positive cases, taking the case count so far to 123,317, out of which 9,752 are active cases. The death toll in the state has reached 3,798 and its death rate stands at 3.07%, highest in the country. With a total of 1,234 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the cured count has gone up to 109,767 and the recovery rate has further improved to 89.01%, while the active rate has dipped to 7.90% against the national average of 12.80%. Of the latest deaths, maximum four were reported in Jalandhar, and the two districts reporting over 100 cases were Mohali (125) and Gurdaspur (109). In Haryana, apart from 1,158 fresh Covid cases, 10 deaths were also reported due to the virus on Saturday. Now, the number of positive cases in the state stands at 141,090—out of which 10,677 are active—and the death count at 1,572. So far, a total of 128,841 patients have been discharged after treatment in the state and the recovery rate is 91.32%, while the doubling has increased to 36 days. The hill state of Himachal during the day reported 109 positive cases and two deaths, while 146 patients were declared cured. The state’s total of cases has gone up to 17,047, of which 2,778 are active, 242 patients have died and 14,007 patients have recovered, while 15 have moved out of the state. The latest cases reported included 39 in Shimla, 32 in Mandi, 17 in Kangra, 10 in Hamirpur, eight in Sirmaur and three in Kullu district. The districts that reported recoveries included Shimla (55), Solan (34), Una (17), Chamba (15), Bilaspur (13), Sirmaur (8) and Kinnaur (4). A total of 321,303 persons had been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Saturday and results of 675 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2157-new-cases-in-region-37-lose-battle/articleshow/78597193.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu missing in Cong star campaigners’ list for Bihar||Chandigarh: Cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu has not been included in the list of 30 star campaigners of Congress released on Saturday. From Punjab, chief minister Amarinder Singh is the only one who made it to the list. Sidhu, who had campaigned extensively for the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, including in Bihar, had shared the stage with Rahul Gandhi in Moga last week as part of the party’s tractor rally against the farm laws. Sidhu’s exclusion from the list fuelled speculations that all is still not well between him and the party leadership. There is still no certainty over the way the party plans to rehabilitate Sidhu even though there has been talk of him being accommodated as the state president and at a key position in the state government. However, Amarinder had recently clarified that if he wants, Sidhu can return to the state cabinet as the power minister. Earlier, after a public spat with Amarinder, Sidhu, who was included in the list of star campaigners for Delhi assembly elections in January, went missing from action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-missing-in-cong-star-campaigners-list-for-bihar/articleshow/78597188.cms||---
October 11, 2020||Noida||Noida: Executive finds her photos used for sex trade||NOIDA: A senior executive with an IT company has alleged that a few of her pictures that she had posted on Instagram recently were used by a gang engaged in sex trade. The gang that was circulating her pictures on Facebook and WhatsApp were demanding anything between Rs 4,000-15,000 in exchange of sexual favours, she told police. The accused, the 40-year-old woman alleged, created accounts on various social media platforms and uploaded her pictures along with a WhatsApp number. Though the photos were of the woman, the name mentioned along with then was different. The IT executive said she got to know about the racket sometime last month when a few of her friends shared with her the pictures that were doing the rounds. “That was in September. Some of my friends were shocked to see my pictures on accounts offering sexual favours. There was also a WhatsApp number for clients to reach out to them. The accounts were recent — they had been created last month itself. Though the pictures were mine, the name on them was different,” the mother of two alleged. The woman asked her friends to dial the WhatsApp number and pose as prospective clients. A man who took the call agreed he could arrange for the women whose photos had been uploaded on the accounts. Asked about the cost, the man said a client had to pay Rs 3,000 as advance, Rs 2,000 for a meeting and Rs 5,000 for “one hour”. For a “full night”, that gang charged Rs 15,000, with Rs 7,000 as advance. The man then sent multiple pictures of the IT executive to her friend and claimed she was separated from her husband. All these pictures were from her Instagram account. The accused claimed to be from Chandigarh, and provided a Kotak Mahindra bank account number — 8011235503 — to make the payment. The IFSC code revealed that the bank account had been opened in Noida. The gang never took normal calls, but always insisted on talking via WhatsApp. Calls on WhatsApp cannot be recorded or tracked. The techie then visited the Sector 49 police station and lodged a complaint, which was subsequently forwarded to the cyber cell. “The officers there told me they would forward my complaint to the cyber cell and from there, it would take around 15 days for the complaint to be processed and the accounts blocked. So far, no FIR has been registered,” she said. The woman has deactivated her own Instagram account. Additional DCP (central Noida) Ankur Aggarwal, who heads the centre for cybercrime investigation, said an FIR would soon be lodged under relevant provisions of the IT Act. Watch Noida exec finds her photos used for sex trade||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/executive-finds-her-photos-used-for-sex-trade/articleshow/78597192.cms||Shikha Salaria
