October 12, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Dasara to go virtual this year||The 2020 Dasara festivities are all set to begin from October 17, but this time around it will be celebrated without any frills amid Coronavirus pandemic. In fact, based on the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee recommendation it will be a safe Virtual Dasara celebration. Though, live streaming of Dasara events was done for earlier editions of Dasara, the district administration is chalking out plans to reach out to maximum number of viewers this time around. The Jamboo Savari procession has been restricted to the Palace premises, with only 300 people allowed in attendance, and that too only after undergoing Coronavirus test and following all norms like thermal screening, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing of about two metres, while remaining seated. The committee has advised to limit the inaugural event, which will take place atop the Chamundi Hills on October 17 to 200 people. The festivities will be opened up by well-known cardiologist, Director of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research and nodal officer for COVID-19 testing in Karnataka, Dr C N Manjunath by offering puja to goddess Chamundeshwari. About inaugurating the festival, he says, “I consider this as the greatest respect for the medical fraternity, frontline Covid warriors, which includes police, Asha workers, pourkarmikas and paramedical staff who are all involved in fighting COVID-19 relentenlessly from the last six months. More importantly, I request people to follow all the guidelines issued by the government as well as by the Dasara committee to contain the Coronavirus pandemic during the cultural congregation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dasara-to-go-virtual-this-year/articleshow/78605944.cms||Vinay Lokesh
October 12, 2020||Pune||BMCC's Heritage Collective Astitva enthralls everyone online||This year, even amidst the pandemic, the BMCC's Heritage Collective recently o organised its 11th edition of inter-college cultural fest titled Astitva on a digital platform, giving students a platform to showcase their creativity and entertain the collegians. The fest is organised with a mission to celebrate the Indian Heritage and propound the grandeur of the country.The event had a potpurri of traditional events such as dance, singing, instrumental, poetry, painting, sketching, and fruit carving, to challenging and a complete new avatar of event ideas like quiz, business plan, stand-up comedy, fashion show, face painting, 30 seconds film, photography, and doodling-comics-caricature, this event has something that will appeal everybody. Astitva logo made by Prasad Kolambekar, who won a special prizeThe official screening of Astitva was held on October 5 with an aim of creating positivity through productivity and to pay respect to the Covid-19 warriors. Watch: A BMCC student performs for AstitvaBMCC student Sayee Bhide performs Taal Rupak at college fest AstitvaThe college informed, “With a little twist and a wide range of scope we're beyond thrilled to announce the vast range of enthusiasm by the participants above the age of 25 who showcased their talents in fashion show and business plan. This year, eminent artistes such as Pt Ramdas Palsule, Tejas Modak, Sateesh Paknikar, Mruga Kirloskar and several others have joined in by encouraging young talents and imparting their guidance as an ideal judge to the participants. Students showcase their creativity at the festAstitva provides a distinct platform for students with different cultural, educational backgrounds and interests and this year we had a virtual participation of more than 1000 participants. The Heritage Collective as a team welcomes voices from many spheres. The team is firm and even more enthusiastic and determined about not letting any pandemic stop us from engaging in a fest.” Also watch:Glimpses from last year's performancesHere's a look at the 10th edition of BMCC's festival Astitva||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bmccs-heritage-collective-astitva-enthralls-everyone-online/articleshow/78609393.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Delhi||As air quality worsens, make sure your mask fights COVID and pollution||With farmers in Haryana and Punjab having already started stubble burning, NCR is bracing for months of poor air. While wearing masks has become a part of the new normal ever since the coronavirus struck earlier this year, NCR residents have been wearing masks in the October-January period for quite some years now. The annual crop burning in neighbouring states, coupled with Diwali’s crackers, turn Delhi’s air into a nightmare this time of the year. At a time when the world is already plagued by coronavirus, poor air quality can just aggravate the situation in NCR, warn experts. So it’s important to wear masks that can protect us from both the virus and bad air. So what kind of masks should we turn to at a time like this? Experts weigh in. Masks to fight both air pollution and COVID-19 As Dr Ashvind Bawa, surgeon and Associate Professor, Dayanand Medical College & Hospital, Ludhiana, says, “People should know that it is more important now to find the right mask that helps them fight COVID-19 and pollution both. If you live in a polluted area like Delhi it is important to wear N95 masks, which give dual protection. Besides, IS 9473 certified masks are also quite efficient in providing dual protection. When you are buying a mask, you should look for original certification.” Dr Nitish Dogra, public health physician and Johns Hopkins and Fulbright alumni, says, “Air pollution affects airways and lungs in various ways. Most significantly, it affects the cilia in airways such that they are less efficient in pushing out viruses, and hence there’s a greater risk. As pollution and the pandemic collide this year, these individual concerns are increasingly worrisome because PM2.5 is emerging as an independent risk factor for COVID-19. Masks like N95 and nanotechnology options are wise investments.” Jai Dhar Gupta, founder of a protective solutions company and of the citizen movement My Right to Breathe, says, “In addition to Viral Filtration Efficiency (VFE), one now needs masks with Particulate Filtration Efficiency (PFE), as well. Certainly, masks with nanotechnology filters that are lab tested and backed by lab reports are a safe bet. Nanotech filter masks are also more breathable and will ensure higher comfort over extended periods of time. Lastly, make sure the mask is fitted and seals your face completely, so all the inhaled air is forced through the filter.” ‘NCR residents not very particular about the masks they are buying yet’While experts talk about the importance of masks that can fight both air pollution and COVID-19, it seems as if the residents of NCR are yet to wake up to this requirement. A staff member of a pharmacy at the Delhi airport tells us, “Whoever asks us, we tell them that N95 masks (without valves) definitely help in combating pollution and coronavirus. But what we have realised now is that people are not very cautious about the type of mask they are buying. They don’t deliberate on the pros and cons and what kind of masks will actually help them, while making a choice. They just buy any mask, it’s for the sake of buying and to avoid being called out or penalised for not wearing a mask.” However, pharmacists say that like every year, once the air quality worsens, such enquiries will go up. ‘Regular masks and coverings not effective for pollution; N95 masks without valve is the best option’Ravi Meher, Professor of Department of ENT, Maulana Azad Medical College, says, “For coronavirus, you can have a three-layered mask or face coverings, but these are not effective for pollution. To deal with pollution, you need to have an N95 mask. Till last year, we used to recommend N95 masks with valves as breathability is easier in N95 with valves. But this year, we have COVID-19 pandemic and pollution both, and hence I would say people should buy a N95 mask which is without valve, it is most effective to combat both. These valve masks are not advisable for COVID-19. If a person is infected with COVID, they are more vulnerable to complications because of pollution.” Surgical masks and normal cloth face coverings are not effective against air pollutionPeople exposed to poor air might fare worse if infected with COVID-19: ExpertsMedical experts say that poor air quality can cause lung inflammation and it can also increase respiratory infections. Hence, bad air can worsen the symptoms of COVID-19. So apart from wearing a mask to protect oneself from the virus, one also needs a mask to safeguard themselves from poor air. Aaron Bernstein, interim director of the Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, told Washington Post, “Given what we know now, it is very likely that people who are exposed to more air pollution and who are smoking tobacco products are going to fare worse if infected with COVID-19 than those who are breathing cleaner air, and who don’t smoke.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-air-quality-worsens-make-sure-your-mask-fights-covid-and-pollution/articleshow/78605381.cms||Niharika Lal
October 12, 2020||India||No religion, God call for big celebrations, says Harsh Vardhan||NEW DELHI: With concerns rising over an accelerated spread of Covid during the festival season, health minister Harsh Vardhan has called for extra vigil and said that no religion or God lays down that religious events must be celebrated in an ostentatious manner. The minister on Sunday urged people to avoid large gatherings and warned that the country may head for “big trouble” if precautionary guidelines to prevent spread of Covid-19 are not followed diligently. “Extraordinary circumstances must draw extraordinary responses. No religion or God says that you have to celebrate in an ostentatious way, that you have to visit pandals and temples and mosques to pray,” Vardhan said during an interaction with social media followers. On emergency use authorisation of Covid vaccines in India, the minister said this would depend on data produced by ongoing trials. “Adequate safety and efficacy data is required for emergency use authorisation vaccine approval for ensuring patient safety. Further course of action will depend on the data generated,” he added. Vardhan also said Feluda test — named after Satyajit Ray’s famous detective — would soon be rolled out to test Covid-19. The test, priced at Rs 500, can deliver a result in 45 minutes. Read AlsoFeluda test kit for detecting Covid-19: All you need to knowNEW DELHI: The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given its approval to the Tata Group for the launch of India's first Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic (CRISPR) Covid-19 test for commercial launch. The test is powered by Council of Scientific and Industrial Research'sThough active cases have been on the downslide and are less than 9 lakh for the last three days, government experts are worried about an escalation in cases during the festival season along with the onset of winters. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Highlighting the possibility of increased transmission of coronavirus during winters, Vardhan said, “These viruses are known to thrive better in cold weather and low humidity conditions. In view of these, it would not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see increased rates of transmission of the novel coronavirus in the Indian context too.” Read AlsoHospital cost capped, but Covid can cripple 80% of familiesResponding to growing anger over the high cost of Covid treatment, most states have capped Covid treatment charges. Yet, more than 80% of families would be financially crippled by a single member undergoing Covid treatment. That’s because even at the capped charges, bills for even ten days ofHe emphasised on the need to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour of wearing masks, especially when in public places, regularly washing hands and maintaining respiratory etiquette to contain the spread of the diseases. The Centre has also launched a campaign on these lines with Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking a lead on Saturday. On the issue of how government plans to roll out Covid-19 vaccines by prioritising target groups in the entire population, he clarified that it is anticipated that supplies would be available in limited quantities in the beginning. “In a huge country like India, it is critical to prioritise vaccine delivery based on various factors such as per risk of exposure, comorbidity among various population groups, the mortality rate among Covid cases, and several others,” he said. India is looking at the availability of several different types of vaccines, of which some may be suitable for a particular age group while others may not be, he added. Categorically denying rumours of government prioritising young and working-class for the Covid-19 vaccine for economic reasons, Vardhan said, “The prioritisation of groups for Covid-19 vaccine shall be based on two key considerations: Occupational hazard and risk of exposure to infection, and the risk of developing severe disease and increased mortality.” Watch Covid-19 spread: No religion, God call for big celebrations, says Harsh Vardhan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-religion-god-call-for-big-celebrations-says-harsh-vardhan/articleshow/78610278.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||I hope people celebrate Puja responsibly: New German Consul General Manfred Auster||Last month, Manfred Auster assumed the German consulate office amid the pandemic after Dr Michael Feiner completed his tenure as the Consul General. As the new CG looks forward to “discovering the cultural and intellectual diversity of Kolkata”, CT caught up with him for a chat. Excerpts: In the light of this extraordinary pandemic situation, tell us about your journey to India. When did you assume office? I arrived in Delhi on September 10, a Thursday. Due to the lockdown in Kolkata, I had to stay there until the following Sunday. The President of India granted the exequatur on September 18, and I assumed office right after. The flight to Delhi was pleasant enough and since only essential travel is allowed, there was ample room to space out on the plane. The service was awesome and I did arrive relaxed to be greeted by my colleagues from our embassy. Following my arrival I had to quarantine for two weeks, despite testing negative. These two weeks started afresh upon my arrival in Kolkata. Is this your first time in Kolkata or have you visited the city before?I did visit Kolkata in 1979. After I graduated from high school, my late father, who was deeply into Oriental studies and in love with the subcontinent, took me on a voyage to India. Though we could spend just a few days here, I have some fond yet blurred memories of this place. So I hope to retrace some of those memories and look forward to discovering the cultural and intellectual diversity of the city that everyone around me keeps praising. What else are you looking forward to? Many of the things I’d like to do will require the pandemic to come to an end. The consular district of the German Consul in Kolkata includes not only the city and West Bengal, but also Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and the seven sisters. There are plenty of places to explore and people to meet. Outside Kolkata, Darjeeling and Bodh Gaya are among the places I want to visit first. During my last posting in Haiti, I became really fond of scuba diving and hiking. While diving will probably require some further travel in India, there will be ample opportunity for hiking in the hills and mountains of “my” states. Germany has explored several ways to work with Kolkata’s multidisciplinary artists. Do you have any plans for collaborations?The lead for cultural collaboration between Germany and India lies with Max Muller Bhawan, our cultural institute in India, which in other parts of the world is also known as Goethe Institut. I already met with the director of the Kolkata branch, Mr Friso Maecker, who is probably well known to the readers for all the magnificent work he has done here over the last seven years. I am sad to hear that his posting will come to an end soon, but I look forward to continuing the close cooperation he helped to establish between MMB and the Consulate General in the years to come. Part of the wider cultural relations is also the academic exchange. Needless to remind you of the close collaboration between India and Germany in this field over the last century and a half. It will be an immense pleasure to work with the wide network of alumni, including those of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation to name only this very prestigious organisation. A number of students, who went to Germany from India, came back home due to the pandemic. Did you reach out to them? Is there any programme you might want to conduct for them? I have not had the opportunity to reach out to these students. I do hope that the pandemic comes to an end in 2021, so that universities can return to their normal form of teaching. My children are also attending university -- my son in Washington DC and my daughter in Madrid. I am well aware of the fact that online teaching is only so much of a substitute for the social experience that comes with life on campus. But let me assure the Indian students who stayed in Germany and also their parents that they are well covered in the German health system. As the pandemic continues to rage, Durga Puja – the biggest festival of the state – is round the corner... In normal times, I’d be thrilled to have arrived just in time for Durga Puja. Alas, these times are anything but normal. I do hope that all the people out to celebrate behave responsibly and avoid turning this great festival into a spreader event. How is Germany coping with the COVID-19 crisis?At the beginning of the crisis, Germany had a head start of around three weeks over Italy in particular. The dramatic scenes there raised awareness and allowed us to put measures into place that aimed at preserving the integrity of the health system, the hospitals in particular, by slowing down the virus for a few weeks. Infection cases remained within a manageable margin, but even more importantly, the fatality rate remained low. So till date, we have had over three lakh positive cases, but “only” over 9,500 fatalities. Like in a number of EU countries, if we witness a second wave of infections, some of the measures that had been relaxed a bit over the summer, will have to be tightened again. Social distancing, masking and handwashing remain the new normal. How did you celebrate the 30th anniversary of German reunification?It had been clear for a while now that almost none of the diplomatic and consular missions of Germany would be in a position to celebrate this important anniversary in the traditional style with our friends, as we have done over all these years in Kolkata and elsewhere. So, Team India -- under the leadership of our Ambassador to New Delhi, Walter Lindner -- came up with the project of an Indian interpretation of the famous song  Wind of Change by the German band, The Scorpions. I think it is really worth watching and listening ( youtu.be/1b4kX9DoUKI). I should also mention that our friends at the Indian-German Chamber of Commerce have put together a very impressive series of online conferences under the title German Days Digitales 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-hope-people-celebrate-puja-responsibly-new-german-consul-general-manfred-auster/articleshow/78610310.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
October 12, 2020||India||Hospital cost capped, but Covid can cripple 80% of families||NEW DELHI: Responding to growing anger over the high cost of Covid treatment, most states have capped Covid treatment charges. Yet, more than 80% of families would be financially crippled by a single member undergoing Covid treatment. That’s because even at the capped charges, bills for even ten days of treatment work out to several times their monthly expenditure, an analysis of the charges and official data on monthly expenditures shows. For instance, according to the latest household expenditure report of 2017-18 put out by the National Statistical Office, in Delhi, which has among the highest monthly per capita expenditures in the country, for 80% of the population monthly spend per person is below Rs 5,000 or Rs 25,000 for a family of five. The lowest priced isolation bed in a non-accredited hospital in the Capital would cost Rs 80,000 for ten days of treatment, more than three times the monthly spending of 80% of the population. For a patient with severe Covid in ICU care with ventilator support, the bill could be several lakh as the treatment could stretch for two to three weeks or more. Coronavirus outbreak: Follow live updatesTOI put together the capped prices for isolation beds, ICU beds without ventilator and those with ventilator in 20 states and compared the cost of ten days’ treatment with the latest report on monthly per capita expenditure in each state. It shows that even with price caps, the treatment is unaffordable for 80% of the population. In all states, the treatment is free of cost in government hospitals. However, even in non-Covid times, the government share of inpatients in the country is at best about 42%. With reports of poor conditions in governments hospitals running to full capacity and wide publicity regarding bureaucrats and politicians choosing private hospitals for Covid treatment, there was a greater clamour for beds in private hospitals. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news In many states like Gujarat, West Bengal and Kerala, the fixed rates are for patients referred by the government or for those covered by government health schemes, where the government picks up the tab. Typically, only people with connections get referred through the government to private hospitals, while others do not have a choice. In states like Karnataka, Odisha and Telangana, the price caps are applicable to all patients going to private hospitals. Despite the price caps, there are exclusions which differ from state to state, such as PPE cost, high-end investigations like CT and MRI, drugs, or specialist charges. Private hospitals have also come up with ways to evade price cap such as charging rack rates for the days before a person is confirmed as Covid positive and doing the same for the days after the person tests negative but remains admitted for post-Covid complications. In many states like Delhi, there is no mechanism to ensure implementation of the caps despite a large number of complaints of overcharging. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage One of the UN’s sustainable development goals is to prevent “catastrophic spending” on health, which can impoverish families. If the share of health expenditure in the total annual household expenditure is more than 10% to 25%, it is considered catastrophic. In all states, just treatment for moderate Covid in isolation beds for 10 days with the capped rates is well above the 25% threshold for 80% of households. While in states like Delhi, Kerala and Punjab with high household monthly expenditure, ICU treatment for severe Covid could be 50%-80% of annual household spend, in most other states it could be equivalent to an entire year’s household expenditure, or even double what a family would spend in two years. Watch Covid treatment can cripple 80% families even at capped costs: Report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hospital-cost-capped-but-covid-can-cripple-80-of-families/articleshow/78610372.cms||Rema Nagarajan
October 12, 2020||Business||Razorpay sixth Indian unicorn in pandemic year||BENGALURU: In the midst of a pandemic, India now has half-a-dozen unicorns as payment startup Razorpay’s valuation more than doubles to $1 billion with its latest $100 million fund-raise -- co-led by Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund GIC and marquee venture capital firm Sequoia Capital. For Razorpay, the pandemic has accelerated its journey to the coveted unicorn club as the Bengaluru-based company saw five times growth in transaction value to $25 billion as compared to last year and business quickly recovering past pre-COVID-19 levels. TOI first reported in August about Sequoia, an existing backer, being in talks to co-lead the round. While initially, the Silicon Valley’s Y Combinator alumnus was looking at a valuation of around $700-800 million, the pandemic induced push for digital payments and SMEs to come online catapulted Razorpay reaching the milestone valuation of $1 billion, people aware of the matter said. With this, in 2020, three unicorns have emerged in fin-tech (Pine Labs, Zerodha and Razorpay), one in software (Postman), one in ed-tech (Unacademy) and one in the beauty space (Nykaa). “This is being driven by the adoption of technology by all kinds of business. A retailer or a spa might be finding it tough to do business unless they have an online presence. That is why there is a paradox of retailers and hospitality industry are suffering but technology companies supporting them are not. That is why money is flowing into tech and valuations are going up,” said Mohan Kumar, managing partner at software-focused venture firm Avataar. Razorpay now has five million merchants compared to 1 million in 2019. While its payment gateway remains a core business, it has been expanding in lending and neo-banking services. Razorpay co-founder Harshil Mathur told TOI that GIC’s backing, beyond the capital, would be critical in the company’s journey for an initial public offering (IPO) at a later stage of around 3-5 years from now. In total, the company has raised over $206 million since starting in 2014. In terms of the effect of the pandemic, the virus outbreak delayed its annual targets by around 2 months while big segments like travel, entertainment and lending are yet to recover fully. Overall, it’s business volumes have recovered with the surge in payments for e-commerce, grocery, education, gaming, and bill payments among others. Its lending volumes are now higher than pre-COVID-19 numbers, with Rs 250 crore of monthly disbursals. “On the payment side, we have acquired almost a leadership position. Our neo-banking platform-Razorpay X and lending platform Razorpay Capital, are less than one year old and focus of this fund-raise is to scale up these businesses and finally look at strategic investments and acquisitions,” said Mathur. Currently, non-payment gateway business contributes about 20% of its revenue, which could go up to around 35% in the next 12-18 months. According to him, overall revenue has grown 3.5 times while its neo-banking platform powers 8,000-10,000 businesses. Razorpay’s lending is largely focused on meeting the advance payment requirements of small businesses. Going forward, it plans to offer additional services to its mix of online and offline-focused business with products like payroll management and corporate credit cards. Watch Payment startup Razorpay sixth Indian unicorn in pandemic year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/razorpay-sixth-indian-unicorn-in-pandemic-year/articleshow/78610419.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 12, 2020||World||In a first, China ministry official to attend military talks today||NEW DELHI: There are no expectations of a concrete breakthrough in actual troop de-escalation in eastern Ladakh during the seventh round of top-level military talks with China on Monday, which is also likely to see diplomatic representation from Beijing for the first time. The possible presence of a senior foreign ministry official in the Chinese delegation, in addition to the usual political commissar, will come after India included a senior diplomat,joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava, during the sixth round of talks on September 21. India had made the move after it perceived a “disconnect” between the five-point diplomatic consensus reached during the September 10 talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi and the “actual actions and behaviour” of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the ground. India will be represented by Lt-Generals Harinder Singh and P G K Menon (who will take over from the former as the 14 Corps commander on October 14) as well as Srivastava, among others, in the seventh round of talks to be held on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo border personnel meeting point. “There is unlikely to be a breakthrough unless the PLA agrees to start withdrawing first from the `Finger’ area on the north bank of Pangong Tso, and follows it up with complete de-escalation along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh. India will then reciprocate,” said an official on Sunday. There is, in fact, a dominant view in the security establishment that Indian troops must not vacate the multiple heights they pre-emptively occupied on the ridge line stretching from Thakung on the south bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) on August 29-30. “These heights in the Chushul region are militarily much more significant than the north bank of Pangong Tso. They provide our troops with a clear view of the PLA’s Moldo military garrison, posts and roads in the region,” said the official. The PLA, on its part, is insisting that Indian troops must first vacate the Chushul heights. India will, however, demand `complete de-escalation’ at the troop face-off sites as well as along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh during the talks, as was reported by TOI earlier. Watch LAC row: China ministry official to attend military talks today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/in-a-first-china-ministry-official-to-attend-military-talks-today/articleshow/78610469.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||In a first, China ministry official to attend military talks today||NEW DELHI: There are no expectations of a concrete breakthrough in actual troop de-escalation in eastern Ladakh during the seventh round of top-level military talks with China on Monday, which is also likely to see diplomatic representation from Beijing for the first time. The possible presence of a senior foreign ministry official in the Chinese delegation, in addition to the usual political commissar, will come after India included a senior diplomat,joint secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava, during the sixth round of talks on September 21. India had made the move after it perceived a “disconnect” between the five-point diplomatic consensus reached during the September 10 talks between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart Wang Yi and the “actual actions and behaviour” of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the ground. India will be represented by Lt-Generals Harinder Singh and P G K Menon (who will take over from the former as the 14 Corps commander on October 14) as well as Srivastava, among others, in the seventh round of talks to be held on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo border personnel meeting point. “There is unlikely to be a breakthrough unless the PLA agrees to start withdrawing first from the `Finger’ area on the north bank of Pangong Tso, and follows it up with complete de-escalation along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh. India will then reciprocate,” said an official on Sunday. There is, in fact, a dominant view in the security establishment that Indian troops must not vacate the multiple heights they pre-emptively occupied on the ridge line stretching from Thakung on the south bank of Pangong Tso to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) on August 29-30. “These heights in the Chushul region are militarily much more significant than the north bank of Pangong Tso. They provide our troops with a clear view of the PLA’s Moldo military garrison, posts and roads in the region,” said the official. The PLA, on its part, is insisting that Indian troops must first vacate the Chushul heights. India will, however, demand `complete de-escalation’ at the troop face-off sites as well as along the entire frontier in eastern Ladakh during the talks, as was reported by TOI earlier. Watch LAC row: China ministry official to attend military talks today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-china-ministry-official-to-attend-military-talks-today/articleshow/78610450.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||TRPs: Built on houses of cards?||The entire TRP system that underpins over Rs 25,000 crore worth of TV advertising is riddled with serious vulnerabilities and challenges: A tiny and skewed sample of 44,000 homes for a viewership of 84 crore, outdated survey data, regulatory changes – and, as the unfolding scandal has highlighted, scope for manipulation through bribery. TOI takes a close lookTelevision rating points are once again in the news after the Mumbai police claimed it had busted a racket involving manipulation of TRPs by unscrupulous channels to fraudulently boost viewership data and mislead advertisers. The ongoing investigation has unearthed that five panel TV homes –households where meters are installed to capture viewership – were compromised to rig viewership of certain channels. Read AlsoTRP decides who wins the war for 84cr sets of eyeballsA guide to how the TRP system works following Mumbai Police's investigation that revealed three news channels had manipulated TRPsThat’s correct, just five homes. What difference can five homes make in a country with a TV viewing universe of 836 million? The answer: A big one among smaller genres like English news, niche categories like infotainment, and even some regional channels. Read AlsoTRP scam: Republic TV CEO, COO appear before Mumbai PoliceTop Republic TV officials appeared before the Mumbai Police on Sunday for questioning in the ratings manipulation scam. The crime branch of Mumbai Police had on Saturday issued summons to Republic TV's Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani and two Chief Operating Officers (COO) forTake the example of Mumbai, the financial capital of the country. The city has over 2,000 bar-o-meters installed by Broadcast Audience Research Council India, which is around 5% of the 44,000 meters that BARC claims to have installed across the country. As per last week’s viewership of the English news genre, the average reach of all the English news channels put together was 0.4% in Mumbai, and the average time spent per channel was around 15 minutes for the entire week. Effectively, just eight panel homes watched these channels in Mumbai last week, giving them a disproportionate weightage in ratings. Here’s how. Hypothetically, if one channel identifies even two homes with these bar-o-meters and pays them to watch one particular news channel for 2 hours, instead of 15 minutes, in a week, the average time spent on that channel will go up by a whopping 175% to over 41 minutes. As reach has remained the same, TRPs of the channel in Mumbai alone will also go up by 175%. Read AlsoMumbai: Man held in TRP scam got over Rs 1 crore in account since NovemberInvestigations into the television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam have shown that one of the four arrested accused, Bomapallirao Mistry, had in the last one year received a total of more than Rs 1 crore in his bank account from four-five people, the Mumbai police said.The other fundamental issue with TRPs is the mechanism. While every effort is said to be made to keep the list of panel homes confidential, the vulnerability lies in the human chain: A TV channel bribes a relationship manager in the research set-up, who then ‘incentivizes’ a few households to keep the channel switched on. “Rigging of 10-20 homes or even up to 50 homes will not have any impact on mass entertainment channels, but for smaller genres, ratings will widely swing in their favour,” said a top TV executive of a channel. TOI spoke with multiple executives across TV channels and media agencies and most of them asked for anonymity to speak freely as the matter is too sensitive and their clients are directly involved. Read AlsoWhy TRP is a big dealNEW DELHI: Mumbai police on Thursday said it has busted a racket where three channels— Republic TV, Fakht Marathi and Box Cinema-— manipulated Television Rating Points (TRP), a measure of viewership that drives advertising revenues, and arrested four people. We take a look at how TRP works forRig The Gig Since the advent of the ratings system in India, channels have tried to use unscrupulous methods to manipulate ratings. While BARC’s role as a ratings agency is now under intense scrutiny, its predecessor, TAM, which was a joint venture between Nielsen and Kantar, was also criticised on similar grounds. Earlier in July, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) had accused BARC of “conniving” with TV9’s Bharatvarsh, a Hindi news channel, to manipulate viewership. Rajat Sharma, president of the NBA, told this correspondent that the events that have unfolded in the last few months and particularly the last three days, have clearly demonstrated that there are “weaknesses” in the rating system. Read AlsoWe’re a data science-driven body that deals in facts &amp; evidence, says BARCNEW DELHI: With Mumbai police launching an investigation into the alleged manipulation of TRPs by three private news channels, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), the key rating agency for TV broadcast networks, said on Saturday that BARC ratings remained true to purpose and that the“BARC itself has acknowledged in its police complaints that metered homes are being manipulated. The investigation has exposed that panel homes were being compromised by certain channels. It has been done with the help of ex-employees who are familiar with the system and aware of which homes have meters,” said Sharma, who is also chairman of India TV. Corrupted data, Sharma added, is creating a false narrative on ‘what India watches’ and is putting pressure on newsrooms to make editorial decisions that are distorted and based on inaccurate information. Industry mavens say broadcasters themselves will have to stop the practice. “There is no vaccination against this man-made problem,” said the CEO of an ad agency. “All stakeholders have to understand that TV measurement is an industry service and the people who created the service should abide by a set of ethics.” An email query sent to BARC India remained unanswered till the time of going to press. A senior TV executive said that if people are intent on beating the system by unethical practices, there is no foolproof solution against such frauds. “There are numerous statistical forensic methods used continuously by the system. But one has to understand that between 44,000 meters, the system is generating data points for every individual every 8 seconds. The quality control algorithms check data points randomly, and will not keep checking the same household,” he explained. Big Returns On ‘Investment’TV channels, especially those that are free-to-air (FTA), are dependent on advertising revenues. For them, spending a few lakhs on tampering with viewership data could yield big gains. “The upside is too big to not take such risks, which is why many channels keep doing this, instead of spending money on quality content,” said the distribution head of a TV channel. BARC India uses third-party vendors for installation, maintenance, and operation of bar-o-meters at panel homes. For this, it pays Rs between 150-Rs 750 per month to these panel homes. Which makes it challenging to get higher socio-economic classes to allow these meters to be installed in their homes. In effect, it leaves the top 2.5% of Indian viewers out of the viewership measurement system. “There is no motivation for most of the higher economic classes to allow bar-o-meters in their homes. Thus the entire ratings are coming from ‘economically weaker’ households, who are easy to target. It’s like elections, where people cast their votes in favour of one candidate for money,” said a business head of a channel. BARC has been working on mitigating these risks. In April 2017, it set up a six-member independent disciplinary committee headed by Justice (retired) Mukul Mudgal to investigate and address complaints of viewership malpractices and tampering of its measurement system. In the next 28 months, the council referred 18 cases to the committee with evidence of malpractices. “The issue is that BARC complains but police doesn’t lodge FIRs in many smaller cities,” said a person closely associated with BARC. “They think it is a frivolous thing to charge people for accepting money to watch more TV. Any attempts at rigging data need to be punishable under the law.” Vicious Cycle The entire consumer classification system, or NCCS, based on the chief wage earner’s education and number of “consumer durables” (from a pre-defined list) owned by the family is outdated, say media industry insiders. What’s more, it is based on a 2017 survey, after which a lot has changed in the TV universe thanks to sector regulator Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI)’s new tariff order (NTO). Post implementation of NTO, consumers can select only the channels they want to watch at the MRP of each. “Does it actually represent India’s TV viewing universe? The answer is no. The sample is extrapolated on the basis of an old establishment survey, which was done two and half years ago. It doesn’t reflect the dynamic situation on the ground,” said a TV research executive. “It pre-dates NTO, which represented a tectonic shift in the distribution space. By gut feel we know that the TV universe has shrunk and many people have moved from cable TV to DTH. A lot of these shifts aren’t captured.” Then there's the issue of sample size. Even at 44,000 meters, many in the industry feel that the sample is inadequate and there’s need for more boxes to diminish relative error in viewership. Ultimately, TV executives say it is a vicious circle that is going to affect the entire industry in the long term, which might see advertisers moving to digital platforms if not corrected immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trps-built-on-houses-of-cards/articleshow/78610546.cms||Gaurav Laghate
October 12, 2020||Goa||FC Goa coach Juan, Spanish players arrive in Goa||Panaji:FC Goa head coach Juan Ferrando arrived in the state on Sunday along with five Spanish players, ahead of the seventh edition of the Indian Super League (ISL). New signings Jorge Ortiz, Ivan Gonzalez, Igor Angulo, Alberto Noguera and Edu Bedia, who is now into his fourth season at the club, were welcomed by members of the FC Goa Fan Club. Strength and conditioning coach Javier Gonzalez was also seen. The group obliged for a photograph with the fans before leaving the airport in Vasco. All of them will now undergo a 14-day quarantine period as per ISL Health and Safety Guidelines 2020-21 before joining the team. Once in Goa, Ferrando got down to work immediately. On his social media account, he shared a picture of his laptop which showed a slide ‘Project FC Goa’. “Thanks for the great welcome and for all your messages, we are happy to be in Goa and join the rest of the FC Goa team and staff. There is no time to lose, so let’s get our strength back and get to work,” Ferrando said in his message. FC Goa have been monitoring their players throughout and have already started pre-season training last week at the Ela ground in Old Goa with assistant coach Clifford Miranda in charge. FC Goa’s sixth foreigner, Australian centre-back James Donachie, is the only player to arrive. He is expected in Goa later this week. ISL will commence on November 21 and will be held entirely in Goa till March next year, behind closed doors due to the coronavirus pandemic. FC Goa will also compete in the AFC Champions League this season after finishing league toppers. They will be the first team from India to achieve this feat. Coach Ferrando had earlier stressed on the importance of a good pre-season since most domestic players have not been competing since March due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-coach-juan-spanish-players-arrive-in-goa/articleshow/78610843.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
October 12, 2020||India||Only AC coaches on trains running at over 130 kmph||NEW DELHI: Railways will phase out sleeper coaches on mail and express trains that will run at 130 kmph or above on its tracks. Such trains will have only AC coaches as it plans to upgrade the network. While railway ministry officials said trains running at less speed will continue to have the sleeper coaches, the railways has set the December 2023 deadline to complete the upgradation of Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Howrah to enable trains to run at 160 kmph. This means most of the future long distance trains on these corridors won’t have sleeper coaches. Sources said though the railways have had this plan for quite some time, this has gained pace recently and more particularly when the Indian Railways is finalising the zero-based time table for future trains. A railway ministry spokesperson said the ticket prices of such trains will be affordable and it should not be “misconstrued” that all non-AC coaches will be made into AC coaches. He added AC coaches have become a technical necessity wherever the speed of the train is going to be above 130 kmph. “Non-AC coaches will continue to run in trains running at 110 kmph…It will be ensured that while the price of tickets of modified AC coaches remains very affordable for the passengers, the comfort and conveniences increase manifold and there is substantial reduction in travel time,” he said. The spokesperson said currently an 83-berth coach is being designed. There is a plan to have 100 such coaches this year and 200 in the next year. Officials said that the new AC coaches will be economical as their tickets will be priced between AC 3 and sleeper coaches. Compared to 72 berths in a sleeper coach, this new AC coach will have 83 berths, but the number of berths in a coupe will remain the same. However, there will be no extra middle berth between side-upper and side-lower berths. Watch Railways to phase out sleeper coaches on trains running at over 130 kmph||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/only-ac-coaches-on-trains-running-at-over-130-kmph/articleshow/78610891.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Fruit, veggie sellers avail of 46% of vendors’ loan||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The finance ministry asked banks in a meeting with the lenders on Friday to speed up disbursement of loans under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme. As part of this, any street vendor registered with an urban body is eligible for a collateral-free loan of Rs 10,000. The government has put in place an online platform where it can get a view on the status of all loans disbursed under the scheme. Although the PM SVANidhi — aimed at benefiting 50 lakh street vendors — was announced by the finance minister, it is being operationalised through a tie-up between the housing & urban affairs ministry and Sidbi. As against the targeted 50 lakh, only 21 lakh applications have been collected, 9 lakh loans sanctioned and 2.7 lakh disbursed. Street vendors selling fruits and vegetables have the maximum share of 46% of total 21.64 lakh loan applications that the banks and financing agencies have received under the scheme. Women vendors comprise 40% of all the applications received till Sunday. The official data show that Varanasi Municipal Corporation leads the list of municipal areas where 10,000 vendors have got the loan followed by Indore (7,838) and Bhopal (7,483). A total of only 271 street vendors have got the loan in Delhi, which has four municipal bodies and one cantonment area. The total disbursed amount is Rs 266 crore. SBI tops the list with 5.2 lakh applications and 75,000 sanctioned loans, followed by Union Bank which has received 2.2 lakh applications and has sanctioned 45,000. Others in the top five are Bank of India, Canara Bank and Central Bank. Among all states and UTs, a maximum of 1.19 lakh applicants have got the loan where bypolls are scheduled for 28 seats. Telangana has the second highest such applications (44,000) followed by Uttar Pradesh (43,200). The scheme provides for incentives in the form of interest subsidy at 7% per annum on regular repayment of loan and cash-back upto Rs 1,200 per annum on undertaking prescribed digital transactions. Moreover, on timely or early repayment, the vendors will be eligible for the next cycle of working capital loan with an enhanced limit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fruit-veggie-sellers-avail-of-46-of-vendors-loan/articleshow/78610909.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 12, 2020||India||Jawan kills JCO at ordnance factory, hides on campus||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: A Defence Security Corps jawan shot dead a junior commissioned officer (JCO) inside the ordnance factory in Katni town of Madhya Pradesh following a heated argument during evening parade on Saturday. Before the other soldiers could recover from their shock and disarm him, the jawan fled the spot and is now hiding somewhere on the campus, armed with an Insas assault rifle and 15 rounds. Army teams are on the lookout for him and hoping to persuade him to give himself up. Shakar Singh fired five rounds at JCO Ashok Shikara around 7.30pm, killing him on the spot, police said. A few shots hit Shikara in the head. The body has been sent for post-mortem. What triggered the fragging is not clear yet. A police officer said some “internal issues” may have led to the killing, and a change in Singh’s posting could also be a reason. Singh “is contained” within the walls of OFK, but hasn’t been located yet. Drones are being used in the search operation. “We are trying to get him to surrender. He is hiding somewhere on the OFK campus and is communicating on phone with his seniors,” Katni SP Lalit Shakyawar told TOI. “He is not a habitual criminal or a terrorist. So, our efforts are to get him out of his hideout without any further problems or engagement,” said a police officer. “He regrets what he did. But he also says that there is no point in living anymore. He is talking to his wife and children. His daughter’s wedding is scheduled next month. They too are trying to get him to surrender,” said another police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jawan-kills-jco-at-ordnance-factory-hides-on-campus/articleshow/78610916.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Give evidence of laundering charge against P Chidambaram: Court to ED||NEW DELHI: Fast tracking the money laundering case against former finance minister P Chidambaram, a special Delhi court has asked the Enforcement Directorate to produce all documents in support of charges made against him and his son Karti in a prosecution complaint (chargesheet) filed recently in the INX Media case. The special judge, who is hearing cases of corruption against MPs and MLAs, has fixed the next date of hearing on October 22. The ED, which has argued for taking cognisance of the complaint and start of trial, is set to produce the voluminous records before the designated court. The prosecution complaint against Chidambaram was filed on June 1 using the court’s e-filing system. However, the court had then directed the agency to file a physical copy of the complaint once the court opened for normal proceedings once the lockdown was over. On September 28, the special judge took up the matter for hearing and asked the ED to produce all documents and evidence in support of its claims made in the chargesheet against Chidambaram. The special judge indicated that if physical hearing of the case was not possible on October 22 for any reason, the matter would be taken up through virtual court but it would not be delayed further. This is the first prosecution complaint in the INX Media money laundering case against Chidambaram and his son where the enforcement agency has made specific charges of shell companies operated by the accused in overseas tax jurisdictions for the sole purpose of laundering tainted money. While opposing Chidambaram’s bail application before the Supreme Court when he was arrested in the INX Media case last year, the ED had claimed that it had collected documentary evidence related to shell companies controlled by Karti. The evidence included emails “exchanged between the co-conspirators on behalf of the appellant (Chidambaram) to indicate investment of laundered money in benami properties”. Chidambaram had got bail after spending 106 days in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/give-evidence-of-laundering-charge-against-p-chidambaram-court-to-ed/articleshow/78610935.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 12, 2020||India||Government again calls Punjab farm unions for talks||BHATINDA/AMRITSAR: Three days after 30 farm organisations in Punjab rejected the Centre’s offer of talks on the three contentious agriculture laws, the Union agriculture ministry has once again invited them on October 14, barring Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Lakhowal. In another initiative to cool down matters, as many as nine Union ministers will hold virtual press conferences from October 13 onwards to address queries of farm organisations. The lineup includes Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Hardeep Singh Puri, Som Parkash, Anurag Thakur, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Dr Jitendra Singh, Kailash Choudhary, Smriti Irani and Sanjeev Kumar Balyan. The invite sent to the farm organisations reads, “The farmers are on protest for the last few days in Punjab pertaining to agri-related issues. The government of India has always been serious about agriculture, so it is willing to hold talks with the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-again-calls-punjab-farm-unions-for-talks/articleshow/78610951.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||FIR against SC judge kin on eve of ruling on netas’ trial||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court is facing yet another controversy, with Andhra Pradesh CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy levelling serious allegations against Justice N V Ramana who is scheduled to take over as Chief Justice of India from the incumbent, Justice S A Bobde, in April next year. The young CM has, in essence, alleged a nexus between his principal rival, his predecessor N Chandrababu Naidu, and Justice Ramana who also belongs to Andhra Pradesh. In his letter to CJI Bobde, Reddy has alleged that Naidu helped Justice Ramana’s family make fast money and the latter has sought to return the favour by influencing the high court to impede the functioning of his government. At the centre of his litany is the insinuation that Justice Ramana’s family made a killing by purchasing land in Amaravati, which Naidu had planned to develop as the state capital in the wake of the loss of Hyderabad to Telangana. A perusal of documents by TOI showed that daughters of the SC judge, in fact, bought land from a local property dealer just like thousands of others who purchased land in Amaravati after the formation of the separate state of Telangana had looked inevitable and because of the realisation that Andhra Pradesh would not be able to hold on to Hyderabad. Also, the prospect of Amaravati being developed as the new capital predated the formation of the Naidu government. In February 2014, then Union minister Panabaka Lakshmi had announced the choice of Amaravati, in the Guntur-Vijayawada region, as the new capital of Andhra Pradesh after its bifurcation and Justice Ramana and his daughters did not need any exclusive tipoff from the TDP government about the certain prospect of appreciation of investments in land there. They bought land in June 2015. The sequence of events leading to Reddy’s sensational letter to the CJI has also been linked to the timing of the registration of FIRs against Justice Ramana’s daughters and other alleged beneficiaries of the Amaravati land scam. The AP government moved just a day before a bench headed by him pushed for fast-tracking trials in criminal cases against MPs and MLAs, serving as well as former. Many see the “coincidence” as significant, their estimate echoing the suggestion that Justice Ramana weaponised the PIL seeking fast trial of cases against lawmakers facing serious criminal charges, which could have implications for the AP chief minister who faces several cases. In this hurry to forge a linkage, what has been glossed over is the chain of events which shows that the case landed before a bench headed by Justice Ramana because of sheer circumstance. For, the decision to expedite trial of cases against influential and resourceful politicians which was progressing, if at all, at a snail’s pace, was taken on December 4, 2018, by the then CJI Ranjan Gogoi. After his superannuation, it got assigned to the CJI Bobde. However, as his daughters had appeared for parties involved in the case, he on March 2 entrusted monitoring of the PIL by Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for expeditious trial of cases against politicians to a bench headed by Justice Ramana. The bench, comprising Justices Ramana, Surya Kant and Hrishikesh Roy, on September 10 asked the Centre to respond to a new prayer seeking lifetime ban on convicted politicians on the same lines as convicted bureaucrats getting barred from government employment. The SC was informed by amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria that as many as 4,442 criminal cases were pending against former and sitting MPs and MLAs across states. The bench fixed September 16 for further hearing on the matter. “A total of 4,442 cases are pending against MPs/ MLAs (sitting and former) in different courts. In 2,556 cases, sitting legislators are accused persons. There are 413 cases in respect of offences, which are punishable with imprisonment for life, out of which in 174 cases, sitting MPs/ MLAs are accused,” the amicus had informed the SC. The September 16 order of the bench led by Justice Ramana set off alarm bells for politicians in power as it asked chief justices of all HCs to formulate action plans on requirement of special courts exclusively for trial of criminal cases against present and former legislators while keeping in view the following parameters: total number of pending cases in each district, number of special courts required for speedy trial, existing number of special courts, number of judges and subject categories of the pending cases, tenure of the judges to be designated, number of cases to be assigned to each judge, expected time for disposal of the cases, distance between the designated courts, and requirement of infrastructure. But the trouble facing politicians cannot be put down to an initiative by Justice Ramana. Reddy has also accused Justice Ramana of influencing a series of orders of AP high court which have gone against his government. While it is difficult to comment on the merit or lack of it on each order, the insinuation that a single SC judge can have a vice-like grip over a whole set of judges, besides being an indictment of the entire higher judiciary, betrays ignorance of the complex dynamics of the administration of justice, including appointment of judges who made it to the bench at different points in time and who may not be having the same predilection, personal or political. On October 6, the bench had asked for additional information from HCs in a tabulated form to enable passing substantive orders to fast-track long pending criminal trials that had been put on the back burner because of the influence as well as money and muscle power of politicians. This triggered further reaction in the form of Reddy writing a letter to the CJI. Watch Jagan vs Justice NV Ramana: All you need to know||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fir-against-sc-judge-kin-on-eve-of-ruling-on-netas-trial/articleshow/78610954.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 12, 2020||India||Eye on China, Taiwan thanks ‘friends in India’||NEW DELHI: In another red rag to China, Taiwan President Tsai Ing-Wen on Sunday thanked “dear friends in India’’ for their good wishes on Taiwan National Day. While no Indian government body officially wished Taiwan, social media was flooded in the past few days with messages expressing solidarity with Taiwan, which is seen by China as a breakaway province, at a time India remains locked in a military standoff with the PLA. “Thank you to all of our dear friends in India for your well wishes on Taiwan National Day. Together, we can take pride in safeguarding our shared values like freedom and human rights, and defending our democratic way of life. Namaste,’’ tweeted the president. The reference by the leader, seen to be tough on China, implied the lack of these attributes in the mainland. Thank you to all of our dear friends in India 🇮🇳 for your well wishes on 🇹🇼 #TaiwanNationalDay. Together, we can ta… https://t.co/HwkHuPKUsh— 蔡英文 Tsai Ing-wen (@iingwen) 1602388947000Read AlsoTaiwan's leader hopes for reduced tensions with ChinaTAIPEI: Taiwanese President Tsai Ing-wen said on Saturday that she has hopes for less tensions with China and in the region if Beijing will listen to Taipei's concerns, alter its approach and restart dialogue with the self-ruled island democracy. Speaking at Taiwan's National Day celebrations onThe president’s remarks are the latest in a series of statements from Taiwanese leaders that has infuriated the Chinese embassy here as it believes the island is trying to exploit the anti-China sentiment in India. The embassy has sent out reminders repeatedly that no individual should work to dilute what it said was India’s acceptance of the ‘One-China’ policy and also warned Taiwan that it should not engage in any “political manipulation’’. Read AlsoChina has 60,000 troops on LAC, talks won’t work, warns USIndicating that it might be necessary to confront China over its aggressive actions, US national security adviser Robert O’Brien said the time has come to accept that dialogue and agreements will not persuade or compel the communist giant to change its ways and it will no longer do to look the otherThe embassy here warned Taiwan’s ruling Democratic Progressive Party on Saturday that it can’t change the fact Taiwan is an inalienable part of China, adding that any attempt to engage in political manipulation and separatist activities to create “Taiwan independence” will lead to a dead end and that China remains determined to safeguard sovereignty and integrity. Watch Eye on China, Taiwan thanks ‘friends in India’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eye-on-china-taiwan-thanks-friends-in-india/articleshow/78610960.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||First in six days, India's daily Covid toll dips below 900||NEW DELHI: With the spread of Covid-19 infections slowing down, India on Sunday recorded less than 70,000 cases and below 900 fatalities for the first time in the last six days as active cases continued to slide for the tenth consecutive day. India recorded 69,167 cases on Sunday and barring Mondays — when cases dip because of lower testing on Sundays — this is the first time since August 25 (a Tuesday) when infections have been less than 70,000. The country recorded 827 fatalities, which was less than 900 for the first time in the last six days and the lowest in the last 13 days. Read AlsoHospital cost capped, but Covid can cripple 80% of familiesResponding to growing anger over the high cost of Covid treatment, most states have capped Covid treatment charges. Yet, more than 80% of families would be financially crippled by a single member undergoing Covid treatment. That’s because even at the capped charges, bills for even ten days ofWhile infection has slowed down in almost all states, the situation continues to be serious in Kerala, Karnataka and Bengal. Kerala crossed 1000 fatalities with 25 fresh deaths, becoming the 17th state in the country to cross that grim milestone. Though Kerala’s case fatality rate is much lower than most states, as many as 709 of the total 1003 Covid deaths in the state were recorded in September and October alone. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Bengal continued to scale fresh peak for the sixth straight day with 3612 fresh cases. While even in the worst affected states of Karnataka and Kerala cases have dipped marginally on some days in the last six days, that’s not the case with Bengal. Read AlsoNo religion, God call for big celebrations, says Harsh VardhanWith concerns rising over an accelerated spread of Covid during the festival season, health minister Harsh Vardhan has called for extra vigil and said that no religion or God lays down that religious events must be celebrated in an ostentatious manner. The minister on Sunday urged people to avoidKarnataka recorded 75 fresh deaths, taking the state toll to 9,966, just 34 short of the 10,000-mark. So far, only Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have recorded over 10,000 Covid deaths. Both Kerala and Karnataka recorded more than 9,000 fresh cases on Sunday. A day ago, Kerala had recorded 11,755 infections, becoming the only state after Maharashtra to record over 11,000 fresh cases in a day. Maharashtra continued to record below 15,000-cases for the ninth consecutive day. The state reported 10,792 infections taking the total caseload to 15,28,226. However, the state continued to report over 300 deaths on Sunday (309) as well. While India’s caseload reached 71,18,941 on Sunday, the number of total patients who have recovered was 61,43,983. With 827 fatalities, India’s toll reached 109132. The active cases remain at 8,65,826.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-in-six-days-indias-daily-covid-toll-dips-below-900/articleshow/78610962.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Bihar polls: Nadda’s rally in Gaya is first in Covid time||GAYA/PATNA: BJP chief JP Nadda, while addressing the first physical poll rally amid the Covid-19 pandemic, on Sunday said Bihar needs the combined leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar to maintain its momentum of development. This came even as BJP on Sunday retained 17 of its 19 sitting MLAs and announced 46 candidates for the second phase of Bihar assembly polls scheduled on November 3. It has also fielded its candidates in Gobindganj and Lalganj, the two seats won by LJP in 2015. The second phase of the elections is to be held in 94 constituencies. Addressing the maiden poll rally of the NDA ahead of the Bihar assembly polls from October 28 to November 7, Nadda said, “Modi hain toh mumkin hai, Nitish hain toh Bihar aage badhega (Everything is possible if Modi is there and Bihar will progress because Nitish is here).” Candidates of all 10 assembly constituencies in Gaya were present during the rally. Nadda said those (RJD) who came to power due to Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan’s fight against Congress, have ended up joining hands with that party. He said Bihar was in the safe hands of Nitish as development has found new dimensions in the state under his regime. Similarly, “BJP, under Modi, seeks vote on the basis of its report card of development,” he said in Gaya. Targeting the opposition RJD, he reminded the people of the “lawlessness” in Bihar during the 15-year-dispensation of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi. Nadda, who had spent his childhood in Patna, said its Fraser Road had shops like D Lall and Sons and restaurants like May Fair. “When I enquired recently, people told me that the shops closed down due to lawlessness in Lalu era,” he said. “The busiest of crossroads used to get deserted by 6pm and doctors were requested by their families not to leave home for attending patients out of fear of the kidnap-for-ransom incidents,” he said, and asked people if they would like such an era to return to Bihar. In the list released on Sunday, BJP replaced sitting Chanpatia MLA Prakash Rai with Uma Kant Singh and Amnour MLA Shatrughan Tiwari of Saran with Krishna Kumar Mantu. It retained Satish Kumar Yadav, from Raghopur in Vaishali district, against the grand alliance’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav from RJD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-polls-naddas-rally-in-gaya-is-first-in-covid-time/articleshow/78610994.cms||Alok Kumar
October 12, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Nadda’s rally in Gaya is first in Covid time||GAYA/PATNA: BJP chief JP Nadda, while addressing the first physical poll rally amid the Covid-19 pandemic, on Sunday said Bihar needs the combined leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar to maintain its momentum of development. This came even as BJP on Sunday retained 17 of its 19 sitting MLAs and announced 46 candidates for the second phase of Bihar assembly polls scheduled on November 3. It has also fielded its candidates in Gobindganj and Lalganj, the two seats won by LJP in 2015. The second phase of the elections is to be held in 94 constituencies. Addressing the maiden poll rally of the NDA ahead of the Bihar assembly polls from October 28 to November 7, Nadda said, “Modi hain toh mumkin hai, Nitish hain toh Bihar aage badhega (Everything is possible if Modi is there and Bihar will progress because Nitish is here).” Candidates of all 10 assembly constituencies in Gaya were present during the rally. Nadda said those (RJD) who came to power due to Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan’s fight against Congress, have ended up joining hands with that party. He said Bihar was in the safe hands of Nitish as development has found new dimensions in the state under his regime. Similarly, “BJP, under Modi, seeks vote on the basis of its report card of development,” he said in Gaya. Targeting the opposition RJD, he reminded the people of the “lawlessness” in Bihar during the 15-year-dispensation of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi. Nadda, who had spent his childhood in Patna, said its Fraser Road had shops like D Lall and Sons and restaurants like May Fair. “When I enquired recently, people told me that the shops closed down due to lawlessness in Lalu era,” he said. “The busiest of crossroads used to get deserted by 6pm and doctors were requested by their families not to leave home for attending patients out of fear of the kidnap-for-ransom incidents,” he said, and asked people if they would like such an era to return to Bihar. In the list released on Sunday, BJP replaced sitting Chanpatia MLA Prakash Rai with Uma Kant Singh and Amnour MLA Shatrughan Tiwari of Saran with Krishna Kumar Mantu. It retained Satish Kumar Yadav, from Raghopur in Vaishali district, against the grand alliance’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav from RJD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-polls-naddas-rally-in-gaya-is-first-in-covid-time/articleshow/78610992.cms||Alok Kumar
October 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Thieves abandon stolen SUV with a note||PUNE: Two men in the early hours of Wednesday stole a sports utility vehicle (SUV) from Koregaon Bhima, about 28km from here on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway, by breaking its rear quarter glass. On Thursday, the stolen Mahindra Scorpio SUV was found abandoned in Ahmednagar with a note written in Marathi on a cardboard piece, stating, “This vehicle belongs to Vijayraj Tours and Travels and was stolen from Koregaon Bhima. Kindly return it to the owner.” The Ahmednagar police immediately contacted the Shikrapur police and found that, Ganesh Jadhav (33) from Koregaon Bhima, had lodged an FIR about the theft of the SUV. Jadhav said that for the past four months he has been working as the driver with Vijayraj Tours and Travels owned by Vijay Gavane. On Tuesday night around 9pm, he had parked the SUV — purchased just nine months ago — near his house in Koregaon Bhima. “Around 4am on Wednesday, my neighbour Kishore Gavane called me and asked whether I was sitting in the SUV as its doors were open,” Jadhav said. Before Jadhav could come out of his house, the SUV and one more car had zoomed off from there. “I chased the cars in another vehicle towards Ahmednagar, but was not able to trace it,” Jadhav said. Jadhav said that on Thursday night, he received a call from Shikrapur police and was informed about the SUV traced in Ahmednagar. “I did not find my driving license, Aadhar card and two debit cards that was kept in the vehicle. A major electric component and music system were also missing. Interestingly, the thieves had replaced the quarter glass,” Jadhav said. “We have the CCTV footage of the incident. It took at least half-an-hour for the suspects to steal the vehicle,” an officer from the Shikrapur police told TOI. Watch On cam: Robbers steal SUV, later return vehicle with a note||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-abandon-stolen-suv-with-a-note/articleshow/78609215.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Raw deal for owners whose plots were acquired for development projects in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: After the coffers ran dry due to prolonged real estate slump and Covid-19, the urban development and housing (UDH) department has directed civic bodies not to pay cash compensation against land acquisition made in public interest. The department has proposed to give only 25% of developed land in the project for the land acquired after the state government’s approval. This has left many farmers and plot owners in the lurch as the land provided as compensation has not been developed. Moreover, it's difficult to provide developed land in main city if it's acquired for a project. TimesViewWith the coffers drying up fast, the state government does not have money to compensate land owners, putting the future of many projects in limbo. Two serious scenarios could emerge from this situation: Either the projects will be delayed for years or the civic bodies will face massive protests if they acquire land without proper compensation. The government has to urgently formulate a land acquisition policy that does not waste public money, while, at the same time, exploring new avenues to raise revenue to compensate owners whose lands are being acquired.A member of Dravyavati Nadi Kisan Sangharsh Samiti said, "In the Land Acquisition and Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, there is a provision to pay cash compensation. If the government do not have money, it should not acquire land of farmers for projects, which remains defunct for years. Over 300 farmers in 34 villages are waiting for compensation. Since the government cannot provide developed land in Jaipur, our plea has fallen on deaf ears." A senior official at the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) said, providing cash compensation is a burden on the civic agencies. This hampers the development projects across the state. Also, many believe the move might lead to more protests in the state as owners whose lands are acquired might not settle for compensation without cash. Vasudev Talwairya, who is demanding compensation in the Ninder housing scheme, said, "The state government cannot decide on options for land owners. Both the choices should be given. Many owners require cash for constructing houses and other arrangements." The officials are also apprehensive that this may hamper projects in the city as affected owners might approach the court after the civic body acquires their land. An official source at JDA said, "Land for Jhotwara elevated road has been acquired from house owners along the road. A few are demanding cash compensation. In such cases, it is necessary to provide compensation as people might approach the court." He further said, the northern corridor will also be developed on the lines of the 47km southern corridor (Agra Road to Ajmer Road) where road will be constructed on 90-metre wide land and a development corridor with 135 metres width on both sides for commercial purpose. "As 25% land compensation provided to farmers in development corridor did not satisfy farmers whose land was acquired, without cash compensation, it would be nearly impossible to acquire land in future," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raw-deal-for-owners-whose-lands-were-acquired-for-development-projects/articleshow/78609211.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Panel to fix fee cuts in arts, science and commerce colleges in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government has formed a committee to decide the reduction in fees of arts, commerce, and science colleges. The committee has told the colleges to submit their books of accounts. The state government has formed a fee regulatory committee for professional, medical, and engineering colleges. But there was no such panel for arts, commerce, and science colleges. The committee is likely to declare the reduction in fees by the end of the first session. The committee has asked the colleges to send details of salaries being paid and the expenditure incurred under various heads. Officials said that the committee is likely to cut the fees of self-financed arts, commerce, and science colleges by 15%. The government has already announced a 25% cut in the fees of schools. The officials said that fee cuts will also be announced for engineering, medical, and other professional courses. The cuts are likely to be up to 20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/panel-to-fix-fee-cuts-in-arts-science-and-commerce-colleges/articleshow/78609220.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lord of thrillers continues to pen page turners in digital age||LUCKNOW: Crime web series on popular platforms like Netflix and Amazon draw an avid viewership in India. But much before their advent Indian readers got addicted to the crime plots woven by the master storyteller Surendra Mohan Pathak. In the 80s and 90s, his modestly priced novels were in high demand. Passengers nestled in their berths lost in the gripping pages of the novel bought from the railway station kiosk was a common sight in that era. And the books are still as popular in the digital age. This is what makes Surendra Mohan Pathak or SMP special. He has retained both: flourish of the pen and a devoted fan following. India’s Mario Puzo has 300 books to his credit, earning him the sobriquet ‘King of crime fiction’. In a candid online session with his fans in Lucknow on Saturday, Pathak said, “I’m not a writer. I’m a businessman and my trade is writing.” Asked about his undiminished popularity among the readers for the past six decades, the Lahore-born, Delhi-bred writer added that readership has to be cultivated. “My books are a consumer product and they keep coming back if it’s good,” said the 80-year-old author. The session was moderated by Ramalakshmi Vedula and Kanak Rekha Chauhan. Pathak, who along with fellow writers Ved Prakash Sharma and Om Prakash Sharma, formed the famous trinity of Hindi crime fiction, also dwelt on the ghost writing phase in Indian pulp fiction in the 1980s. “Ghost writing was a ploy floated by publishers. It helped them in getting novels by anonymous writers who charged much less. But it was a short-lived phase and failed to eclipse genuine writers like me,” said SMP. The spinner of the yarn created heroes like Sunil, Vimal, Sudhir and Jeet; his favourite being Sunil Chakravarty. When a fan asked why a Bengali character like Chakravarti speaks chaste Punjabi, Pathak disclosed the secret. “ I was just 23 when I wrote the character of Chakravarty. I found the surname very impressive and stuck to it. Being a Punjabi, I crafted words from my mother tongue for him. It was much later that I learnt that Chakravarty was in fact a Bengali surname, but it was too late to make the amends,” he said with mirth. The King of fiction made a name in writing while working with the Indian Telephone Industries in Delhi. When the session moderator Ramalakshmi Vedula asked about the difference between Indian and foreign writers, Pathak said: “Foreign writers are more professional, more well-versed with the nuances of the crime world and the weaponry, and are fortunate to get liberal deadlines from their publishers.” Goaded by his publisher, a reluctant Pathak said yes to writing his autobiography. He was certain it wouldn’t go beyond a handful of pages. But when the wordsmith put pen to paper, he ended up with two volumes. In the twilight of his life, an indefatigable Pathak wants to write as much possible. “Whatever I read will go with me. But what I write will stay with the readers,” said the man as he signed off the session with a gentle smile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lord-of-thrillers-continues-to-pen-page-turners-in-digital-age/articleshow/78610716.cms||Vijay Chopra
October 12, 2020||Business||Razorpay 6th to reach unicorn status in 2020||Digbijay Mishra & Madhav Chanchani | TNN Bengaluru: Payments startup Razorpay’s valuation has more than doubled to $1 billion with its latest $100-million fund-raise, co-led by Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund GIC and marquee venture capital firm Sequoia Capital. With this, India has seen the addition of half-a-dozen unicorns (those valued at over $1 billion each) this year, in the midst of a pandemic. For Razorpay, the pandemic accelerated its journey to the coveted unicorn club. The Bengaluru-based company saw five times growth in transaction value to $25 billion as compared to last year and business quickly recovered past pre-Covid levels. TOI had first reported in August about Sequoia, an existing backer, being in talks to co-lead the latest round. Initially, the Silicon Valley’s Y Combinator alumnus was looking at a valuation of $700-800 million. But the pandemic-induced push for digital payments and SMEs to come online catapulted Razorpay to the $1-billion valuation milestone, people aware of the matter said. With this, in 2020, three unicorns have emerged in the fintech space (Pine Labs, Zerodha & Razorpay), and one each in software (Postman), edtech (Unacademy) and beauty space (Nykaa). “This is being driven by the adoption of technology by all kinds of businesses. A retailer or a spa might be finding it tough to do business unless they have an online presence. That is why there is a paradox of retailers and hospitality industry suffering, but not technology companies supporting them. That is why money is flowing into tech and valuations are going up,” said Mohan Kumar, managing partner at software-focused venture firm Avataar. Razorpay now has five million merchants compared to 1 million in 2019. While its payments gateway remains a core business, it has been expanding in lending and neo-banking services too. Razorpay co-founder Harshil Mathur told TOI that GIC’s backing, beyond the capital, would be critical in the company’s journey for an initial public offering (IPO) at a later stage of 3-5 years from now. In total, the company has raised over $206 million since starting in 2014. In terms of the effect of the pandemic, the virus outbreak delayed its annual targets by around 2 months, while big segments like travel, entertainment and lending are yet to recover fully. Overall, its business volumes have recovered with the surge in payments for e-commerce, grocery, education, gaming and bill payments, among others. Its lending volumes are now higher than the pre-Covid numbers, with Rs 250 crore of monthly disbursals. “On the payment side, we have acquired almost a leadership position. Our neo-banking platform Razorpay X and lending platform Razorpay Capital are less than one year old and the focus of this fund-raise is to scale up these businesses and finally look at strategic investments and acquisitions,” said Mathur. Currently, non-payment gateway business contributes about 20% of its revenue, which could go up to around 35% in 12-18 months. According to him, overall revenue has grown 3.5 times while its neo-banking platform powers 8,000-10,000 businesses. Razorpay’s lending is largely focused on meeting the advance payment requirements of small businesses. In future, it plans to offer additional services to its mix of online- and offline-focused business with products like payroll management and corporate credit cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/razorpay-6th-to-reach-unicorn-status-in-2020/articleshow/78608998.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 12, 2020||Business||‘Cut red tape & woo cos looking to leave China’||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com RPG Enterprises chairman Harsh Goenka says this is a great opportunity for India to attract large companies which want to quit China. However, for that to happen, the complex web of laws and procedures here should be removed, he adds… How far has your business returned to normal? The initial impact of the lockdown in March and April was severe and somewhat scary. Survival instincts and the fitness of balance sheets were put to the ultimate test. By August, we were almost 100% back to where we were last year, overall for the group. What challenges has the new normal posed? The first crisis to hit was workers migrating from our production and project sites. Supply chain disruptions affected our factories, and imports from China faced potential cut-offs. We had to remodel our shop floor to cope with reduced workmen, automate tasks and identify alternate supply channels. Has Covid-19 impacted remuneration, resulted in downsizing? We have closed all our offices. The new normal is remote working. This will outlive the pandemic and will pave the way for a completely new way of life. We have not made any cut in remuneration. Will you look at more digitalisation & automation? We began our digitisation drive about three years back and innovations like the intelligent tyre, fleet predictive algorithms and geospatial analytics have been in use. An interesting product we developed during Covid is an ‘intelligent sensor-driven’ safety helmet that doubles up as a social distancing tool and warns you as you get too close. Should the government go for a much bigger public investment to revive demand? At this point, we must get money into the hands of people to generate consumer demand. This is a great opportunity for India to attract large companies which want to quit China. For that, we must remove the complex web of laws and procedures. Small businesses need support too, and so do poor households. We must also have a large-scale public investment programme and specialised NBFCs to finance infrastructure. All this may mean that the fiscal deficit could take a hit, but I don’t see much of an alternative in this crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cut-red-tape-woo-cos-looking-to-leave-china/articleshow/78608265.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||BJP functionary, 3 others held for betting on IPL matches||Rudrapur: Four persons, including a local BJP functionary, were held by city police on Sunday for allegedly betting on Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket matches. Police have also recovered seven mobile phones, a laptop, several diaries, and a cash amount of around Rs 40,000 from their possession. The accused were arrested from a hotel located in the industrial area of Pantnagar at Nainital highway. They have been identified as Tipson Narula, Kamal Kalra, Amandeep, and Sagar Arora — all residents of Gadarpur. Narula is a BJP functionary and is currently the senior president of Gadarpur block, the police said. Acting on a tip-off, a team of cops from Pantnagar police was constituted and a raid was conducted at the hotel, where the four accused were betting on an IPL match. During interrogation, it was revealed that they were running a gambling racket. They used to contact people by different mobile phones for betting on IPL matches. “Further investigation is being carried out,: said SHO Pantnagar, Madan Mohan Joshi. The accused have been arrested on charges of cheating and forgery under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Gambling Act, the Indian Telegraph Act, and the IT Act, Joshi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-functionary-3-others-held-for-betting-on-ipl-matches/articleshow/78608286.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 12, 2020||Business||Mazagon Dock to debut with strong gains today||Mumbai: Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders is expected to list with a strong gain on Monday, making it another blockbuster one following Chemcon and Happiest Minds in September. On October 1, when the IPO closed, it was subscribed 157 times — making it the most successful such offer by any PSU. On Sunday evening, the grey market premium for Mazagon Dock shares was Rs 100-105, indicating a listing price of around Rs 250. This signals a listing gain of 72%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mazagon-dock-to-debut-with-strong-gains-today/articleshow/78608757.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Business||UTI MF listing to end Sebi, sponsors’ decade-old tussle||Mumbai: The listing of UTI Mutual Fund (UTI MF) on Monday is set to end the more than a decade-old cold war between markets regulator Sebi on the one side and three government-run financial powerhouses — Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), State Bank of India (SBI) and Bank of Baroda (BoB) — on the other. For years, Sebi was not comfortable that these institutions had their own mutual fund arms and, at the same time, also held substantial minority stakes in UTI MF, the country’s oldest fund house. The stakes were entrusted to these three entities, and also to Punjab National Bank (PNB), in the early 2000s after the erstwhile Unit Trust of India was bifurcated. Each of these entities was holding 25% then. In 2010, US fund management major T Rowe Price acquired 6.5% from each of the shareholders to become the largest stakeholder with a 26% share. In August this year, Sebi had even fined these three entities Rs 10 lakh each for holding more than 10% stakes in UTI MF and limited some of their shareholder rights. The law did not allow an entity to hold more than 10% in more than one fund house. This rule was brought in 2018. Prior to that too, on several occasions, Sebi had sent feelers to the four entities to reduce their stake in UTI MF. Only PNB had sold off its fund management business to its foreign JV partner, Principal Financial Group, in 2018. The remaining three continued to have fund management businesses in which each held more than 10% stake. With UTI MF’s listing, the stakes of LIC, SBI and BoB will come down to below 10% — the regulatory threshold. LIC, SBI and BoB will not have the right to nominate any directors to the UTI MF’s board, which will have 14 members. The current board members, however, will continue to serve their full term and not resign due to the post-IPO shareholding rejig. After the IPO, T Rowe Price will have the right to nominate two members to the board, while PNB will nominate one. In the wake of the IPO, UTI MF will be a completely professionally managed fund house, said a top company executive. On October 1, the Rs 2,160-crore UTI MF IPO closed with a subscription of 2.3 times. The shares were allotted at Rs 554 per share. Going by the grey market premium, the listing for India’s oldest fund house is expected to be a lacklustre one with the chance of its share price even dipping below its offer price on its stock market debut, traders said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uti-mf-listing-to-end-sebi-sponsors-decade-old-tussle/articleshow/78608740.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||BJP drops two of its MLAs in second phase of Bihar assembly elections||PATNA: BJP on Sunday retained 17 of its 19 sitting MLAs and announced 46 candidates for the second phase of Bihar assembly elections scheduled on November 3. BJP has also fielded its candidates in Gobindganj and Lalganj, the two seats won by LJP in 2015. The second phase of the elections is to be held in 94 constituencies. The saffron party retained its old warhorse Satish Kumar Yadav against the grand alliance’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav from RJD from Raghopur in Vaishali district. BJP has fielded its district president Rohit Pandey in Bhagalpur. Union health minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey was lobbying for his son Arijit Shashwat Choubey, who had last time lost to Ajit Sharma of Congress. Former party rebel Kundan Kumar Singh will contest against state Congress Mahila president Amita Bhushan in Begusarai, which the people of Bhumihar caste have long considered their own seat. Both the candidates belong to this caste. Road construct department minister Nand Kishore Yadav and cooperative department minister Rana Randhir Singh have retained from Patna Saheb and Madhuban, respectively. The sitting MLAs of Bankipore, Kumhrar and Digha in Patna have also been retained. The party has fielded two women candidates — its former national vice-president Renu Devi from Bettiah and sitting MLA Asha Devi in Danapur. Overall, BJP has chosen to give electoral fight to the RJD, Congress, CPI(ML) and CPI in the second phase. Barring the nine south Bihar constituencies of Biharsharif, Patna Saheb, Bankipore, Kumhrar, Digha, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Danapur and Maner, the remaining 37 constituencies lie in the flood-prone north Bihar. BJP has made two changes. Uma Kant Singh has replaced sitting Chanpatia MLA Prakash Rai and Krishna Kumar Mantu will fight the Amnour seat in Saran district in place of sitting MLA Shatrughan Tiwari. State BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand has been fielded against RJD’s Bhai Virendra in Maner. While former minister Nitish Mishra will contest from Jhanjharpur, former MP Om Prakash Yadav has been fielded for Siwan seat. Overall, the candidates from major upper caste groups (Rajput, Brahmin and Bhumihar), backward castes and Dalits have been fielded in equal proportion, BJP sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-drops-two-mlas-in-second-phase-polls/articleshow/78608566.cms||Abhay Singh
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra Chatterjee gets second shot of plasma therapy||KOLKATA: Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee received a second shot plasma therapy at Belle Vue Clinic, where he is under treatment for Covid encephalopathy. The 85-year-old remains breathless and is on intermittent oxygen support, and may have to be put on invasive airway protection. According to hospital sources, he remained “restless, confused and barely arousable” throughout Sunday. He is also suffering from an EColi infection and intermittent fever. Even though his cardiac function is normal, Chatterjee could soon be put through an “aggressive neuro assessment” to find out the cause of encephalopathy. He will also be treated for EColi infection and will undergo an MRI scan. Chatterjee had tested positive for Covid last week and was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday. He was shifted to the ITU on Friday after developing breathing distress. On Saturday, a unit of plasma was administered to him, which had led to marginal improvement in his condition. On Sunday, however, tests detected a secondary infection (EColi) and his breathing distress worsened. According to doctors, he barely remained awake throughout the day. Chatterjee received plasma therapy on the advice of state doctors who were asked by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to assist the Belle Vue medical board formed for Chatterjee’s treatment. Meanwhile, though the plasma therapy was useful at a time when a spike in transmission has started, the response from plasma donors has been disappointing. “Nearly three lakh Covid patients have been discharged from hospitals in Bengal. Even if 1% of them donate plasma, we will have enough to save a lot of lives,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, head of the department of blood transfusion medicine and immuno haematology, MCH. But the gap is wide. Bengal was the third state to start trials on plasma therapy. Starting in May, so far, only 130 Covid survivors have come forward to donate plasma. Of them, only 68 were eligible after 10-12 screenings. The health department has also sanctioned funds for equipment and additional rooms for plasma storage facilities. However, an Indian Council of Medical Research study claimed that convalescent plasma therapy (CP) was not beneficial in reducing mortality among Covid patients. On June 27, the Union health ministry allowed the use of convalescent plasma (off label) for treating Covid patients who were in the moderate stage of the illness under ‘investigational therapies’. The clinical trial conducted by over two dozen doctors in Bengal recorded a reasonable success, said Bhattacharya. “The plasma of the survivors is extracted through an apheresis process within 28-40 days of recovery. The donor must be below 55, weighing above 50kg and without co-morbidities. One person’s plasma can help two patients. Plasma recovery in the body happens fast by drinking a few glasses of water. The person can donate plasma again after 15 days,” said Durba Biswas, one of the doctors looking after the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-gets-second-shot-of-plasma-therapy/articleshow/78609146.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Senior citizens account for 45% of Covid deaths in UP||LUCKNOW: The percentage of infection amongst senior citizen may be just above 9%. but they account for 45% of total patients who have succumbed to coronavirus, according to a data of UP state health department. Sharing the data, additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said that death rate amongst senior citizens was highest even though the infection rate was minimum. “Therefore, we need to protect senior citizens,” he said. As per the data, the persons in the age group between 21 to 40 account for the maximum of 47.69% of the total cases contracting the virus. They are followed by those in the age group of 41-60 which accounted for 29.04% of the cases. The age group between 0 to 20 years accounted for 13.77% of the total infection. The data further showed that men accounted for a majority of 68% of the total infection, as against 32% women. According to the health department, the recovery percentage climbed further to 89.3%, suggesting a further decline in the number of active cases. In fact, the number of active cases dropped to just over 40,000 in comparison to 68,235 which were recorded on September 17. Prasad said that a sharp decline in the number of Covid cases was indicative of a significant improvement in the situation over a period of time. “However, there is still no room for becoming callous. We still need to take all preventive steps to arrest further spread of infection,” he said. Officials said that the decline in the number of Corona patients was despite the ever increasing number of tests being conducted. In the last 24 hours, 41 people lost their lives following Corona infection. The maximum of five deaths were reported from Varanasi. Also, the last 24 hours saw the state conducting 1.72 lakh tests, of which more than 63,000 were of RTPCR tests. With this, the total number of test being conducted in the state has touched a figure of more than 1.18 crore. Districts with high case load includes Lucknow (330 cases), Prayagraj (234 cases), Gorakhpur (124), Ghaziabad (138), Varanasi (161) and GB Nagar (117). In all, 3,348 cases were reported in the state in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, CM Yogi Adityanath on Sunday pitched for special sanitisation and cleanliness drive to arrest the spread of the infection. Presiding over a review meeting, he said the drive be conducted in urban and rural areas till October 16. Yogi said that the principle of ‘Jab tak davai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahi (No laxity till the medicine of Covid comes) be followed in toto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/senior-citizens-account-for-45-of-covid-deaths/articleshow/78610729.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||Old-timers recall Ram Vilas Paswan’s role in development of railways in Bihar||PATNA: Railway officials, both serving and retired, fondly recall the valuable contributions of Ram Vilas Paswan as railway minister to Bihar in a coalition government headed by H D Deve Gowda in 1996. As railway minister, Paswan took several strategic decisions, which included creation of six new zonal railways with headquarters at Hajipur, Allahabad, Jaipur, Bengaluru, Jabalpur and Bhubaneshwar. While Bengaluru zonal railway was later shifted to Hubli in Karnataka, Paswan created another zone at Bilaspur, now in Chhattisgarh, on the popular demand of the people. Though Bihar had given maximum number of railway minsters — Jagjiwan Ram (1962), Ram Subagh Singh (1969), L N Mishra (1973), Kedar Pandey (1982), Ram Vilas Paswan (1996), Nitish Kumar (1998, 2001), Digvijay Singh (1999) as junior minster and Lalu Prasad (2004), the state remained marginalized from development point of view. Railways development plans, in fact, were given an impetus when Paswan focused more on decentralizing it and created East Central Railway (ECR) with headquarters at Hajipur, said former railway chief engineer and technical expert G N Sahay. Incidentally, several political adversaries called this decision as ‘Hajipurisation of railways’ as he represented Hajipur in the Lok Sabha, Paswan never looked back and presented the 1996-97 railway budget in the Lok Sabha as Bihar growth oriented budget which a few political parties dubbed as ‘Bihar Budget’. Paswan had announced a new rail bridge over the Ganga and ordered for survey of a new rail line-cum-bridge over Kosi river at Nirmali, which was commissioned last month only. Lauding the efforts of Paswan, ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said he was instrumental in giving a shape to the groundwork to set up the IRTCT with an aim to serve passengers in a better way.  Besides, the railway enquiry number (136) was reorganized to provide passengers facilities like train information and berth availability and reservation status in trains during his period, he said, adding Paswan decided to run a biweekly Rajdhani Express between Patna and New Delhi in 1996. Paswan deserved kudos for taking decisions to lay new lines and convert all meter gauge and narrow gauge rail lines into broad gauge in north Bihar to achieve overall development of railway network in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/old-timers-recall-paswans-role-in-development-of-rlys-in-state/articleshow/78608502.cms||Kumod Verma
October 12, 2020||Vadodara||Statue of Unity to open by Dussehra with all Covid guidelines||VADODARA: Seven months it remained closed for public owing to the global pandemic, but the Statue of Unity (SoU) at Kevadia is all set to reopen for tourists now. The world’s tallest statue of India’s first home minister, Sardar Patel, will open before Dussehra, said SoU authorities adding that all Covid-19 guidelines will be followed strictly on the premises. “We will be reopening SoU and all other attractions in the premises on trial run before Dussehra. We are working out the standard operating procedure and all Covid-19 guidelines will be followed to ensure safety of the tourists,” said Rajiv Gupta, managing director, Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd.The authorities said that only a limited number of tourists will be allowed in the SoU per hour to avoid overcrowding and to maintain social distance. The authorities have already opened Jungle Safari as well as the Children’s Nutrition Park in the SoU premises and the tourist inflow has begun. But as of now, only 50 tourists are allowed inside every hour. PM Narendra Modi is also expected to visit SoU on October 31 that is celebrated as Ekta Divas to commemorate the birthday of Sardar Patel. SoU was closed in the third week of March when the Covid-19 pandemic began spreading in the country. The statue has been drawing lakhs of tourists since it was inaugurated in 2018. In November last year, SoU surpassed the USA’s Statue of Liberty in terms of daily footfall. While Statue of Liberty gets around 10,000 visitors daily, SoU witnessed an average of 15,036 visitors daily in November, 2019. Additional tourist attractions like jungle safari, butterfly park, cactus garden, river rafting and boating led to a sharp increase in the number of tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sou-to-open-by-dussehra-with-all-covid-guidelines/articleshow/78607993.cms||Tushar Tere
October 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: Dengue cases found on IGIMS campus||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, dengue cases have been reported from some of the city areas. At least 10 doctors and employees of IGIMS at Patna were tested positive with dengue when after they were screened for Covid-19. IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal on Sunday said the ten dengue cases were confirmed in the last week of September. They included two heads of the department, 2-3 employees and doctors. “They all live in the flats on the IGIMS campus where there is some stagnant water. All of them are getting treatment at home as none of them had any respiratory problem,” he said. “This is the peak season for dengue, but the cases are low when compared to previous years. Some Covid patients are also coming with dengue fever,” he added. Dr Naresh Kumar, head of general medicine department at IGIMS, said one dengue patient was undergoing treatment in the general ward while several patients came for OPD services. “On an average, we are receiving one or two dengue cases per day. We do not have separate ward for the dengue patients as most of them are taking care at home. We would create a separate ward if dengue cases rise,” he said. At PMCH, no dengue patient was admitted. Principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary said around 60 people were tested for dengue at the hospital and less than 5% had found positive. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dengue-cases-found-on-igims-campus/articleshow/78608446.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||GA to bring change in Bihar: CPI(ML)||PATNA: CPI(ML) politburo member Kavita Krishnan said here on Sunday that the five-party Grand Alliance (GA) would bring about quality change in the state. Speaking on the occasion of the 118th birth anniversary celebration of Jayaprakash Narayan (JP), Krishnan said, “The GA comprises constituents which stand for change. They will definitely bring about quality transformation in the state.” She said the dispensation at the Centre has been running the country autocratically under “undeclared emergency”, which is “far more dangerous than the previous Emergency regime” that was imposed on the country in 1975 by former PM Indira Gandhi. She said that JP had organised students against the raging issues of the time, like price rise, corruption, need for educational and democratic reforms. “Later, in course, he led the agitation against the emergency,” Krishnan said, adding it has become necessary to recall JP to fight against the present dispensation at the Centre. Krishnan and others had earlier garlanded the statue of JP near Gandhi Maidan. She was accompanied by the party’s candidates for Paliganj and Digha assembly seats Sandeep Saurabh and Shashi Yadav, respectively. All India Students’ Association (AISA) chief and former JNUSU president N Sai Bala was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ga-to-bring-change-in-state-cpiml/articleshow/78608692.cms||Abhay Singh
October 12, 2020||Hubballi||Covid effect: Separate markers for voters in council elections||HAVERI: Considering that the elections to the graduates’ constituencies and the teachers’ seats of the legislative council are among the first to be held in the times of the pandemic, the Election Commission of India (ECI) is being extra cautious. One of the measures being adopted to ensure that polling booths do not turn into epicentres of transmission of the novel coronavirus, ECI as decided against use of a common pen for casting of votes on the ballot paper. Instead, each voter will be handed a separate pen to make their choice on the ballot. Although this exercise is bound to add to the poll expenses, ECI is willing to take on the overheads for the cause of safety. The polls to the two graduates’ constituencies – South East and Karnataka West – and two teachers’ segments – North East and Bengaluru – are scheduled on October 28. Belagavi regional commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas, the returning officer for the West Graduates’ constituency, said that, while a single marker used to change hands between voters at the polling booths, the ECI had decided to give a separate marker to each voter in the council elections. “This is in accordance with the standard operating procedure issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare,” Biswas said. The officer said only those many markers would be purchased as the number of voters enrolled for the council elections. Biswas added that the officials and personnel deployed on poll duty would also put in place all the other precautionary measures to check transmission of novel coronavirus. “Wearing of masks, applying sanitiser, thermal scanner, gloves and face shield will be made mandatory in addition to strict enforcement of social distancing norms,” added Biswas. President of the Indian Medical Association Dr Mrutyunjay Turkani said that drastic measures were necessary to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Karnataka. He pointed out that people were bound to be in proximity with one another, and advised the authorities concerned to strengthen existing SOP. “Separate markers for voters is a small thing but it will be very effective in checking the spread of the pandemic,” Dr Turkani said. Puttaraju Navali, a voter registered in the council elections, while appreciative of the ECI’s decision to give separate markers, felt that there was a need for stringent enforcement of precautionary measures during polling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-effect-separate-markers-for-voters-in-council-elections/articleshow/78610328.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra Chatterjee stable after plasma therapy||KOLKATA: Veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee remained stable at a private hospital on Saturday after undergoing plasma therapy. According to sources at Belle Vue Clinic, where he was admitted on Wednesday after testing positive for Covid, the actor received one unit of plasma following consultation with two state doctors assigned by CM Mamata Banerjee to assist with his treatment. Infectious diseases specialist at ID Hospital Yogiraj Ray and STM’s head of tropical medicine Bibhuti Saha met Belle Vue critical care head Arindam Kar on Saturday and decided that he would be given plasma. A unit was brought from the bank at Medical College. Chatterjee’s condition improved marginally after the therapy, said doctors. The actor was shifted from a cabin to the ITU on Friday after developing breathing distress. On Saturday, Chatterjee’s breathing trouble eased and he was taken off oxygen support. He is suffering from a lung infection and will remain under observation, said doctors. Chatterjee’s daughter Poulami Bose said, “According to the 12 doctors attending to him, my father is maintaining his vital parameters and is stable on this count. His BP is normal and he has no need of oxygen administration. However, he is suffering from Covid encephalopathy and is disoriented and restless. However, there has been no deterioration on account of his co-morbidities, including a high PSA count, pneumonia tendencies and compromised lungs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-stable-after-plasma-therapy/articleshow/78596281.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Business||Govt to banks: Step up street vendor loans||Mumbai: The finance ministry asked banks in a meeting on Friday to speed up disbursement of loans under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme. As part of this, any street vendor registered with an urban body is eligible for a collateral-free loan of Rs 10,000. The government has put in place an online platform where it can get a view on the status of all loans disbursed under the scheme. Although the PM SVANidhi — aimed at benefiting 50 lakh street vendors — was announced by the finance minister, it is being operationalised through a tie-up between the housing & urban affairs ministry and Sidbi. As against the targeted 50 lakh, only 21 lakh applications have been collected, 9 lakh loans sanctioned and 2.7 lakh disbursed. According to bankers, there is a push from the government to disburse loans ahead of the festival season as many of the street vendors have seen their capital being wiped out during the lockdown. There is a fear that some of the hawkers might fall into a debt trap given the high rates charged by informal financiers. Banks have also been asked to enable them for digital payments using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform. The total disbursed amount is Rs 266 crore. SBI tops the list with 5.2 lakh applications and 75,000 sanctioned loans, followed by Union Bank, which has received 2.2 lakh applications and has sanctioned 45,000. Others in the top five are Bank of India, Canara Bank and Central Bank. Although banks have been allowed to charge market rates, the government extends a 7% interest subsidy under the PM SVANidhi. Borrowers can get a large part of their interest payment covered through cashback incentives for accepting digital payments. Even if the hawker does not have a municipal licence, they can still avail a loan by obtaining a provisional certificate of vending from their urban body. Among the non-banks, StreeNidhi Credit Cooperative is one of the top lenders under PM SVANidhi. Suryoday Small Finance Bank (previously known as Suryoday Micro Finance) has also started disbursing loans under the scheme to its microfinance customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-banks-step-up-street-vendor-loans/articleshow/78606208.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 12, 2020||Surat||CAG raps AAI for delay in airport terminal extension||Surat: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has pulled up the Airports Authority of India (AAI) for the poor execution of work for the extension of the terminal building at Surat airport. It has also criticised the AAI for the delay in work due to lack of Environment Clearance (EC) from the central government.In the audit report obtained under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the CAG stated that the progress of the terminal extension work was very slow. Against the physical target of 37.1%, only 6.18% work was done from the date of the commencement of the project work June 6, 2019. However, against the financial target of Rs 42.6 crore, only work amounting to Rs 3.92 crore was achieved in last one-and-a-half-year. According to CAG report, due to the pending EC of the terminal extension project, no major work could start except for the design, drawing and diversion of underground utility services. It has been observed that the AAI could not get the EC even after one year of the appointment of environmental consultant on January 18, 2019.However, due to the failure of the environmental consultant in obtaining EC from the concerned authorities in New Delhi, the project was delayed by eight months. CAG stated that the work for the extension of the terminal building at Surat airport was awarded on May 27 2019 to Siddhi Constructions for the total value of Rs 138.48 crore. The scheduled date of the start of the work was June 6, 2019 and that the scheduled date of completion was February 5, 2021. During the lockdown in April, Siddhi Constructions requested the AAI for the Extension of Time (EoT) of about 253 for the project completion target from April 14, 2020.The contractor stated that the construction work was affected due to coronavirus induced lockdowns. It also stated that they did not get permission to execute the critical activities of the project due to the non-availability of EC from Environment, Forest and Climate Change ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cag-raps-aai-for-delay-in-airport-terminal-extension/articleshow/78608179.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar set to kick-start election campaign today||PATNA: JD(U) president and CM Nitish Kumar will launch his election campaign on Monday by addressing voters of 11 assembly constituencies spread across six districts which will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. “The CM will address the first election meeting at 5pm on Monday,” JD(U) national general secretary and state’s water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said. Jha added the CM would address people of 35 assembly constituencies in 15 districts in three shifts on Monday and Tuesday (October 12 and 13). “On October 13, the CM will address the electors of 11 constituencies from 11am. On the same day, he will address voters of 13 more constituencies from 4pm. The CM’s election rallies on the first two days will be through virtual mode. His speech will be directly telecast and broadcast from the party’s dedicated online digital platform jdulive.com,” Jha, who finalised the CM’s programme, said. The WRD minister said from October 14, the CM would fly to different parts of the state to address physical election rallies while maintaining Covid-19 protocols. “Nitish will address the electors of Sultanganj, Amarpur, Dhoraiya, Belhar, Tarapur, Jamalpur, Suryagarha, Sheikhpura, Barbigha, Nawada and Govindpur constituency from 5pm on Monday. Similarly, he will address the people of Masaurhi, Paliganj, Kurtha, Jehanabad, Ghosi, Sandesh, Agion, Jagdishpur, Dumraon, Rajpur and one more constituency from 11am on October 13,” Jha said. In the evening shift on the same day, the CM will address the electors of Chenari, Karahgar, Sasaram, Dinara, Nokha, Obra, Rafiganj, Nabinagar, Sherghsti, Belaganj, Atari, Jhajha and Chakai constituencies, Jha added. He said the BJP was also finalising the election campaign programme of PM Narendra Modi. “We do not have the details about the PM’s likely programmes. However, we are sure that the PM and the Bihar CM will be sharing the stage on a number of occasions during electioneering.” BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal too said the PM and Nitish might share dais in the days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-set-to-kick-start-election-campaign-today/articleshow/78608638.cms||Madan Kumar
October 12, 2020||Patna||Gaya: Crowd raises slogan in support of PM, CM||GAYA: The first physical election rally of Covid era, addressed by BJP president J P Nadda in Gaya on Sunday, did not seem to be much different from normal poll rallies. At one time, before arrival of Nadda, enthusiastic BJP supporters were seen jostling with each other to get a chair in the gallery made in front of the dais. Local leaders somehow brought the situation under control by making people understand that it was first rally amid Covid-19 pandemic, which will send a message to the entire nation. From the dais, leaders kept requesting people to maintain physical distance. People were heard raising slogans in support of PM Narendra Modi, Nadda and CM Nitish Kumar. “As per the Covid protocol, we arranged 7,000 chairs and most were occupied. Some people also listened to Nadda from a distance,” BJP’s Gaya district president Dhanraj Sharma said. One of the attendees, Amitabh Gupta of G B Murarpur locality, said, “I saw people jostling with each other. It was not good for their safety. There were loudspeakers from where everyone could listen clearly what the leaders were saying.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crowd-raises-slogan-in-support-of-pm/articleshow/78608715.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata malls rake in revenue as citizens go on shopping spree||KOLKATA: The craze in Kolkata over Durga Puja has catapulted city malls miles ahead of their counterparts in the rest of the country, recording higher footfall and revenue in the run-up to Durga Puja. Mall operators in Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Chennai are hoping the confidence of customers in Kolkata will rub off on the local customers in their cities ahead of Diwali in mid-November and bring some joy in a year of gloom. From Monday to Sunday, the 11 malls in the city clocked around 12 lakh customers and registered revenue of Rs 80 crore. And there is another weekend left before the Pujas. “We expect footfall and sales to be even higher next weekend as maximum people usually shop at the eleventh hour. This year that may be the case as well since many people are still undecided on whether to step out or stay in. Yet, the numbers that city malls have clocked amidst the pandemic is eons ahead of what shopping centres in other metros have managed this season,” said Quest mall vice-president Sanjeev Mehra. He felt that the first mover’s advantage also played a part. “Malls in Kolkata opened on June 8, much before those in the rest of the country. Additionally, there are the sentiments that Durga Puja evokes,” Mehra said. Not just retail, even food and beverage have done phenomenally well during the week. “The food court and restaurants have earned nearly 25% more revenue in the week than they did two weeks ahead of Puja last year. While Kolkatans are known for their love for food, even we are surprised by the numbers,” admitted South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagri. Though retail is yet to reach last year’s figures, it has recovered 70% in several malls. Ramesh Pandey, whole time director at Ambuja Neotia that owns and operates City Centre I and City Centre II, said though retail revenues were lower than last year, the conversion rate or percentage of people that walk in and also make a purchase is higher than the previous year’s. “We are very pleased with the conversion rate, which has been better than last year’s. The purchase value of customers, though, is lower. But we still have another weekend to go before Durga Puja, when we expect even higher footfall and sales. Going forward, we expect the momentum to continue till Diwali, with a slight lull during the third week when the festival is underway,” said Pandey. Acropolis and Diamond Plaza have also registered a significant surge in footfall. The former recorded an 11% jump from the previous week, both in terms of footfall and revenue. “It is very encouraging to notice that people have overcome the fear of Covid and embraced the festivities. Unlike the street scenes in the shopping hubs, customers in malls have behaved responsibly and followed all Covid protocols, including wearing masks,” said Acropolis mall general manager K Vijayan. Forum, the city’s first mall that is nearly two decades old, has seen a surge in footfall despite a non-operational food court. “Sales is close to 70% of last year, which is pretty decent considering what we have been through till now,” said Mall operations head Ujjal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-malls-rake-in-revenue-as-citizens-go-on-shopping-spree/articleshow/78609153.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||Anand Mohan’s son is RJD’s Sheohar nominee||PATNA: Former MP couple Lovely Anand and Anand Mohan’s 29-year-old son, Chetan Anand, has entered the poll fray with the RJD fielding him from Sheohar assembly constituency. Chetan had joined the RJD along with his mother Lovely recently. Anand Mohan is currently serving life sentence in Saharsa district jail in connection with murder of the then Gopalganj DM G Krishnaiah. Chetan was accorded a warm welcome by RJD workers in Sheohar as soon as he reached there with the party symbol allotted by leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Lovely accompanied Chetan during his journey to Sheohar. Sheohar has a sizable population of Rajputs, the caste Chetan belongs to. Anand Mohan had earlier represented Sheohar Lok Sabha seat twice – in 1996 and 1998. In 1996, he contested on the ticket of the Samata Party. Lovely had unsuccessfully contested assembly polls from Sheohar in 2015 on the ticket of HAM(S) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi. Lovely had entered politics after her husband’s arrest in connection with Krishnaiah murder case in 1994. She contested the Lok Sabha byelection from Vaishali and defeated veteran Congress parliamentarian Kishori Sinha in 1994. Chetan said, “Sheohar is plagued by various problems. Hit by recurring floods, several villages remain cut off from district headquarters during monsoon. Bridges and culverts are required to tame the damages caused by floods. Issues of roads, electricity, health and education also need to be addressed.” Migration from the district is another big problem faced by the local residents due to lack of job opportunities. “Small scale industries and investments are required to deal with the problem of migration,” the RJD candidate said. Former Sheohar district unit president of the RJD Thakur Dharmendra Singh had resigned from the party after he was denied ticket from Belsand constituency. He switched over to JAP (Loktantrik) led by former Madhepura MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav. The RJD has fielded Sanjay Kumar Gupta from Belsand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anand-mohans-son-is-rjds-sheohar-nominee/articleshow/78608671.cms||Ramashankar
October 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: PMC takes measures to control mosquito menace||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has launched an intensive anti-mosquito fogging and bio-larvicide spraying operation in the city as part of the preventive measures to check the spread of dengue. Besides these, sanitization drive is also going on for containment of Covid-19 pandemic. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said civic body staff are working round-the-clock to maintain civic amenities in the city. Sharma on Sunday said that the PMC has 75 hand fogging machines for all 75 wards in six circles— Azimabad, Bankipore, Kankerbagh, New Capital, Patliputra and Patna City and 40 mounted machines. “We are working closely with the state health department and carrying out the drive in all wards. We have asked the urban DPM to share the areas from where the dengue cases are coming on daily basis, so that we can take measures to control the meancehe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-takes-measures-to-control-mosquito-menace/articleshow/78608483.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 12, 2020||Patna||Motihari man kills daughter, attempts suicide||PATNA: In a shocking incident, one Sheikh Sarvar (50) allegedly attempted to commit suicide by touching a live wire after shooting his 18-year old daughter, Nusarat Fatima, dead at Khairwa under Chhoradano police station area of Motihari in East Champaran on Sunday. Police suspect it to be a case of the girl’s love affair or family dispute. Chhoradano police station SHO Manoj Kumar Singh said the Town police station received the information at around 5am. Singh said the accused and his wife lived with their daughter. “The couple could not be found as their house was locked,” he said. The SHO said villagers told the police that the accused attempted to commit suicide by touching a live wire of 11000 kVA behind his residence after killing his daughter. “Police also came to know that the accused was rushed to Patna for treatment of his severe burn injuries. Villagers also could not say why the incident took place,” he said. Singh said the girl’s grandfather, Nurool Aein (80), has lodged an FIR against his son for killing the girl.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/motihari-man-kills-daughter-attempts-suicide/articleshow/78608515.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 12, 2020||Business||Federal-Mogul OFS 25% lower than stock price||Mumbai: Tenneco, which is 36% owned by US billionaire Carl Icahn, is selling a 22% stake in the BSE-listed Federal-Mogul Goetze (FMG) to mop up at least Rs 415 crore, to meet the regulatory requirement of 25% minimum public shareholding in a public company. Tenneco is selling a little over 1.2 crore shares of auto component maker FMG through an offer for sale (OFS) at a floor price of Rs 342, which is at a 25% discount to its Friday close of Rs 434 on the BSE. According to stock exchange disclosures, Tenneco, which holds its stake in FMG through IEH FMGI Holdings, will sell the shares on Monday to non-retail investors and on Tuesday to retail and select non-retail investors. Tenneco’s shareholding in FMG increased after the company’s global parents were acquired by the US major in 2018 and subsequently made an open offer in India. After the open offer, Tenneco’s stake in FMG, which manufactures pistons, rings, valve seats, etc, went up to 97%. Prior to the open offer, LIC, Nippon Life India MF and some of the known high net worth individual investors were among the top public shareholders of FMG, data on the BSE and the NSE showed. Pravin Ratilal Share & Stock Brokers is handling the OFS, the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/federal-mogul-ofs-25-lower-than-stock-price/articleshow/78608801.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Man killed by Reds had cited impact of Covid on business||Hyderabad: Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) activist Maduri Bheemeshwara Rao, who was murdered by Maoists on Saturday night in Mulugu district, had a few days ago received a warning letter seeking money. Rao, due to the impact of Covid-19 on his business, did not pay money and was evading Maoists even as they called him several times. Police said Rao has been facing threats from Maoists for past five years. Though he was one of the several persons locally from whom Maoists have been extorting money, he used to still occasionally get threats. “In the past, whenever there was information that he might be targeted by Maoists, he used to leave Alubaka village, where he lived with his wife,’’ sources in district police told TOI. While police have been trying to ensure that no one is targeted by Maoists, some people have been paying the rebels due to fear of getting killed. “Bheemeshwara Rao told Maoists that due to Covid-19, his earnings had gone down and he was not in a position to pay. We feel that he was expected to pay Rs 50,000,’’ officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-killed-by-reds-had-cited-impact-of-covid-on-business/articleshow/78610039.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Implementation of heritage bylaws hit by covid||Jaipur: At a time when alterations in many buildings in the Walled City area are rampant, the implementation of draft titled Jaipur (Walled City) Heritage Conservation and Protection Regulations-2020 is moving at snail’s pace. After the monsoon, many owners faced damage in their houses. In absence of guidance and knowledge, construction material is being used for repairs which compromises with the heritage value.Amit Panti, resident of Haldiyo ka Rasta, says, “In olden times, construction was done using lime and stone. However, nowadays it is difficult to find labourers and also it is time consuming”.As the city has now bagged the prestigious UNECSO award, the local self-department has formed regulation for the users/owners of the buildings in the precinct to help them maintain the historic character of Walled City.A senior official source said, “The deadline to implement the bylaws is December 2020. The work was affected by Covid- 19. The bylaws will be soon in place”.Many house owners demanded that government should set up a wing where heritage house owners can find specialized labourers.The official added that the department is planning a framework to check construction after implementing bylaws, which will be applicable within the Walled City of Jaipur. Other than assisting house owners in renovation, strict action will also be taken against violators.Once the regulations are implemented, the residents who have illegally constructed their houses against the parameters will be issued notices. As per the draft, while G+2 houses upto 12 metres will be allowed in internal lanes, while G+3 upto 15 metres can be constructed on outer roads.“The regulations are an extension of the municipal council, Jaipur (building) bylaws, 1970. However, the previous bylaws only covered the front elevation of buildings on outer roads and not the entire Walled City. Once the municipal polls are over, the bylaws will be implemented,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/implementation-of-heritage-bylaws-hit-by-covid/articleshow/78609216.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Lightning kills 3 women farm labourers||Nagpur: Lightning strike killed three women farm labourers while another two had a miraculous escape at Shiva village, around 35km from city, in Kondhali on Sunday. The labourers were working on the cotton field of Shravan Ingale. The villagers rushed the five women to Lata Mangeshkar Hospital at Hingna but three of them were declared dead before admission. The deceased were identified as Archana Tatode, Sharda Uikey and Sangeeta Mungbhate. The bodies were shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. Police said Ingale’s wife Satyabhama, who too was among the ones working on the field, sustained serious injuries and is fighting for life. Another woman, identified as Panchpfula Asole, is critical. Kondhali police have registered accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lightning-kills-3-women-farm-labourers/articleshow/78610015.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Private hospitals-government meet to focus on festival bed demand surge||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in the city are all set for Monday’s meeting with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on their preparedness in the face of increasing Covid-positive cases. While hospitals will be giving a report on their preparedness, some will be requesting the commission to help facilitate easy movement of hospital-supply vehicles carrying oxygen cylinders, medicine and other essentials during the festival. In anticipation, some hospitals have already scaled up their Covid infrastructure, while others are still working on plans of expansion to meet the rising demand for Covid beds. “Such meetings are always welcome as they help in ironing out our problems and also help us get clearer instructions on how much further we can improve our preparedness. We have already taken up measures, like procuring more ventilators, to address some of the issues,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has already procured 10 ventilators and has requisitioned more as the number of Covid patients who will need critical care is expected to rise sharply after the festival. It has also scaled up its Covid bed strength to 150. “We can propose a resumption of our satellite units. We have converted 160 Covid beds out of 287,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. Hospitals that have a bed strength between 200 and 300 said they have earmarked between 50% and 70% of their capacity as Covid beds and have reached a saturation point. “It would be great if the health commission directs bigger hospitals with more than 500 beds to increase their Covid beds proportionately. Some of us have already reserved 75% of our beds for Covid patients while some big hospitals have just about 20% to 30% beds for Covid care. It will be fair if the load is distributed equally as all of us have to cater to non-Covid patients as well,” said the head of a private hospital. Hospitals said that while they can tend to patients with only mild infections in units like satellite facilities even if their general beds are full, their concern is about patients with severe infections. While some of these patients will need only oxygen therapy, some will require intensive care. “Even if we procure more ventilators and increase beds, we will require manpower to cater to these patients and operate the machines. Doctors and nurses are being quarantined frequently after getting infected. We hope this issue is addressed by the commission,” said an administrator of another hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-govt-meet-to-focus-on-festival-bed-demand-surge/articleshow/78609145.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 11 nomination papers for 5 seats rejected||PATNA: The nomination papers of 83 candidates in Barh, Bikram, Masaurhi, Mokama and Paliganj constituencies of Patna district were found valid for the first phase of state assembly election on October 28. The district electoral office rejected 11 nomination papers in scrutiny on Saturday. The candidates can withdraw their candidature till October 12. Of the candidates in fray, 20 are not even matriculate while 22 have studied up to Class X and six till Intermediate. According to affidavits submitted by the 83 candidates to the Election Commission, 24 are graduates, five postgraduates, two diploma and three PhD holders. In Mokama, three of the nine nominees are non-matric, including RJD’s Anant Singh. LJP’s Suresh Singh Narayan contesting for the seat is a graduate. JD(U) has fielded Rajeev Lochan Narayan Singh, a graduate, against Anant. In Barh, three of the 18 candidates are non-matric, five have studied till matric and one each up to Intermediate and diploma level. Only Satyendra Bahadur (Congress) and Rana Sudhir Kumar Singh (independent) have MA degrees. BJP’s Gyanendra Kumar Singh is a graduate. Paliganj has 28 nominees. JD(U)’s Jai Vardhan Yadav (BA), CPI(M)’s Sandeep Saurav (PhD) and LJPs’ Usha Vidyarthi (PhD) are in fight against Shiv Sena’s Manish Kumar, JAP’s Fujlur Rahman and BSP’s Ravish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/11-nomination-papers-for-5-seats-rejected/articleshow/78608601.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 12, 2020||Patna||Universities in Bihar happen to be breeding grounds of politicians||PATNA: Educational institutions, the so-called temples of learning, were once considered to be secluded monasteries. Teachers as well as students used to keep themselves away from the din and bustle of politics. But, with the change of time, politics today has penetrated deep into the world of education. In fact, the universities have become breeding grounds for politicians. Old-timers recall that quite a large number of teacher activists have made their way into active politics after dominating university politics for years. Former chief minister late Jagannath Mishra, former education minister late Nagendra Jha, former legislative council chairman P N Sharma, former union minister K K Tiwary, former education minister Thakur Prasad Singh, former minister Diwakar Prasad Singh and former chairman of legislative council Arun Kumar and many others have entered the political arena only after gaining political experience on the campus. All of them were actively associated with the senate and syndicates of their respective universities and, in some cases, also headed the teachers’ associations, says Magadh University Teachers’ Association’s former general secretary Satyadeo Narain Sharma. Rise of political interest among the university teachers is not a new phenomenon, especially when there is some unrest on the campus. Several teachers of Patna and other universities actively participated in the 1974 JP movement and later joined active politics. If one traces the history of growth of political ambition among teachers, Acharya J B Kripalani of L S College, Muzaffarpur, was perhaps the first teacher to join politics in the early fifties. Patna College economics teacher Gyan Chand, who was brother of legendary hockey player Dhyan Chand, fought the first Parliamentary elections in 1952, but lost. Patna College political science teacher Yashwant Sinha first joined the IAS and then active politics, recalls Patna University Hindi department’s former head Dinesh Prasad Singh. Gradually, more and more teachers started taking interest in active politics and fought assembly and parliamentary elections from different political parties. Munger-based RD and DJ College’s English teacher Jabir Hussain was elected an MLA on Janata Party ticket in 1977 and became a minister. Later he was elected chairman of the state legislative council. Patna College English teacher K K Tiwary was a dynamic secretary of the Patna University Teachers’ Association before being elected to the Lok Sabha. Popularly called “hero of the zero hour”, Tiwary also served as a junior union minister. B N College Hindi teacher and Patna University Teachers’ Association president Shailendra Nath Srivastava was elected to the Lok Sabha from Patna on a BJP ticket. Former state minister and former Bihar Congress chief Ram Jatan Sinha served as head of PU chemistry department and principal of Patna Science College. He is presently associated with JD(U). He also happens to the president of the Federation of University (Service) Teachers’ Associations of Bihar. Vanijya Mahavidyalaya former principal late P N Sharma represented Patna teachers’ constituency in the state legislative council for more than five terms and also acted as its chairman. He also served as a minister for a brief period. Later, Chandrama Singh of the same college was also elected MLC on a Congress ticket. Presently, he is contesting elections from the teachers’ constituency in Saran on BJP ticket. Magadh Mahila College former principal Sukhda Pandey, an active BJP leader, was also elected to the state assembly from Buxar. Another teacher from the same college, Girija Singh, was won the Lok Sabha election on RJD ticket in the 90s. Former MP Rita Verma, the widow of Dhanbad SP Randhir Verma, had served as a teacher of this college. Patna University personnel management and industrial relations department teacher Sanjay Paswan was MP from Nawada and served as a junior minister at the Centre. At present he is a BJP MLC. It is but natural then that with the announcement of election, academics start hobnobbing with the political parties for getting a ticket. A number of teachers from different universities are trying hard to get tickets from different political parties to contest the forthcoming assembly elections, says Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/varsities-in-state-happen-to-be-breeding-grounds-of-politicians/articleshow/78608771.cms||B K Mishra
October 12, 2020||Patna||Traders, idol makers in Bihar stare at huge losses this festive season||PATNA: The idol makers, decorators and traders are staring at huge losses as the government has denied permission to put up pandals or open celebrations this Durga Puja in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Already hit by the lockdown for the last many months, pandal decorators and idol makers face another shocker as they will not be able to do any business during the festive season, which could otherwise have made some financial recovery for them. No pandal is allowed this Durga Puja and only the prayer ceremonies in temples are advised by the Centre. Also, special guidelines have been issued by the state government to strictly follow physical distancing norms, wear face masks and use hand sanitisers in the temples. Shambhu Shekhar, an idol maker from Karbigahiya, said: “Our income has been badly affected this year due to the pandemic. We have received very few orders for making idols as pandals won’t be set up this year. Also, the orders are for small idols that can be placed in temples or at home. We are making such idols for the devotees and hope this pandemic ends soon and we celebrate our festivals with the same joy.” Virendra Kumar, a pandal decorator at Rajiv Nagar said: “We used to earn around Rs2 lakh profit during Durga Puja every year, but minimal revenue is expected this festive season. We have to follow the guidelines issued by the government and sustain the challenging situation this Durga Puja.” Local food stall vendors, who rake in the moolah during Durga Puja fair, will also be affected this year due to the Covid-induced restrictions. Sujit at Anandpuri said: “The pandemic has already affected our business badly over the last few months. We expected this Durga Puja might help us earn enough to recover from the financial burden. However, as there won’t be any fair, we have no such opportunity as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traders-idol-makers-stare-at-huge-losses-this-festive-season/articleshow/78608395.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||1,302 more test Covid positive in Bihar||PATNA: With 1,302 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours, the state’s Covid tally jumped to 1,96,268 on Sunday. At least two more people – one from Jehanabad and another from Vaishali – succumbed to the virus on Sunday. With this, the state’s Covid toll has risen to 946. At least 1,217 patients were discharged from different hospitals and isolation centres in the state in the last 24 hours. As 1,84,224 people have recuperated from the virus so far, active cases in the state stand at 11,098. The state’s recovery rate, on the other hand, has touched 93.86%, which is 7.7% higher than national average of 86.1%. Altogether 96,745 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 84,03,189 samples have been tested in the state. Meanwhile, Patna recorded 290 fresh cases on Sunday, Araria 114, Nawada 63, Purnia 59, Madhepura 57 and East Champaran 49. Patna district’s Covid count has touched 30,728. However, 28,052 people have so far recovered from the virus in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1302-more-test-covid-positive-in-state/articleshow/78608424.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Probe ordered into BJP netas’ social media posts||PATNA: The state election department has ordered an investigation into posts and speeches of senior BJP leaders, including PM Narendra Modi, on social media after the announcement of poll schedule. Joint secretary of state election department Kanhaiya Prasad has asked the returning officers to conduct an investigation and submit their reports at the earliest. CPI(M) star campaigners: The CPI(M) on Sunday released a list of its 30 star campaigners for the upcoming assembly polls. The campaigners, including national general secretary Sitaram Yechuri and politbureau members Hannan Molla, Brinda Karat and Md Salim will address public meetings to garner support of the people for party candidates. SuMo’s poll programmes: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi will take part in filing of nomination papers by former minister Nitish Mishra in Jhanjharpur on Monday. He will also address a public meeting at Mafigarh in Nawada to garner support for BJP candidate Aruna Devi. ML candidates: CPI (ML) candidate from Digha Shashi Yadav will file her nomination papers on October 15. Another party candidate, Gopal Ravidas, will file his papers for Phulwari constituency on October 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-ordered-into-bjpnetas-social-media-posts/articleshow/78608747.cms||Ramashankar
October 12, 2020||Patna||Woman poisons brother-in-law at Thalwara||PATNA: A woman allegedly poisoned her brother-in-law at Thalwara under Ashok Paper Mill police station area in Darbhanga on Saturday. However, the matter surfaced before police in Madhubani when the body reached Sadullapur under Bisfi police station area. Bisfi SHO Sanjay Kumar said the deceased, Santosh Sah (33), was from Sadullapur. “His wife Renu Devi was at her parental residence. She on Sunday lodged a complaint and accused Santosh’s elder brother Shiv Narayan Sah, his wife Chanda Devi and mother-in-law of killing her husband,” he said. Renu alleged that her husband had illicit relation with his sister-in-law Chanda Devi, he said. He said Renu’s complaint would be forwarded to Ashok Paper Mill police station for registering an FIR. “We can’t say how the body reached Sadullapur,” Kumar said. The SHO said police took her complaint and got postmortem conducted in Madhubani. Ashok Paper Mill police station SHO Manoj Kumar Sharma said Thalwara mukhiya and Chanda’s brother Bablu. “Bablu said two children of her sister’s family are in serious condition due to poisoning and were admitted at a hospital in Darbhanga,” Sharma said. Sharma, quoting Bablu, said they had come to know that Santosh and his two children had somehow consumed poison in Sadullapur after which he died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-poisons-brother-in-law/articleshow/78608993.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Varanasi||Over 600 beneficiaries get Svamitva property cards||VARANASI: Over 600 beneficiaries from Varanasi were handed over their property cards as Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the ‘Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas’ (SVAMITVA) scheme through video conferencing on Sunday. SVAMITVA, a scheme of the Union ministry of Panchayati Raj, announced by the Prime Minister on National Panchayati Raj Day, April 24, 2020, aims to provide the ‘record of rights’ to village household owners by issuing property cards. At the main function in Varanasi, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma gave property cards to 18 selected beneficiaries from nine villages of Sevapuri model block in the presence of public representatives while 591 were given their cards by public representatives in other functions. Addressing the beneficiaries through videoconferencing, PM wished them and said now they all will have legal documents of their houses. The PM said that one lakh beneficiaries from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand have been given legal papers of their houses, and promised that every household in each village of the country will get property cards in the next three-four years. The scheme is going to bring historic changes in rural India, the PM said terming it as another major step towards ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’, as the scheme will help make rural India self-reliant. Modi said citizens gain confidence with the property documents in their hands as it makes easy to avail loans from banks for livelihood and open new self-employment avenues. As of today only one-third of the population in the world possess property legally he said, adding that the property cards will help make it easy for the villagers to buy and sell property without any dispute. This scheme will strengthen the Panchayati Raj system, he said while expressing happiness over the launch of this scheme on the birth anniversary of two great leaders Jai Prakash Narayan and Nanaji Deshmukh. He also highlighted the developments in rural India in the last six years, including opening of bank accounts, power connections, access to toilets, LPG connections, pucca houses, piped drinking water connection among others. He said efforts are on to connect every village in the country with optical fibre network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-600-beneficiaries-get-svamitva-property-cards/articleshow/78608658.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Business||Pandemic slows home furnishing plans||MUMBAI: Consumer spending on home renovations is still continuing, albeit in a piecemeal manner. Experts from industries across paints, home furnishings and bathroom fittings said consumers have been staggering their spends and are taking up renovations only when needed. Earlier, people used to overhaul their houses on impulse, mainly for festive occasions. In a recent interview with TOI, Asian Paints MD & CEO Amit Syngle said if customers were earlier keen on refurbishing all the rooms of the house in one go, they are now restricting it to just one room at a time. “Discretionary spends have come down and people are postponing heavy expenses,” said Syngle. Jaquar, however, said there is no data to suggest people are only going in for part-refurbishing. “Either the customer is going in for complete renovations or postponing it for some more time,” said Jaquar Group director & promoter Rajesh Mehra. Roca bathroom products, on the other hand, found that although the pandemic had a major economic effect on customers’ spending power in many ways, home improvement is one category where customers have started paying more attention than ever, given the work-from-home culture. Roca Parryware MD K E Ranganathan said the challenge was that customers were now only willing to indulge in renovations that were need-based and had become a necessity for them. “Observing this rational approach of customer demand, we pushed relevant products of our portfolio that focused on maximising hygiene in the bathroom space,” said Ranganathan. A pent-up demand is also said to be fuelling the recovery process. Ranganathan said Roca’s sales rebounded to 100% in September this year, reaching the same level as September 2019. What’s critical, said Syngle, is the trust quotient that has gone up and consumers are willing to invest in another service of the same brand. “Asian Paints wanted to be a part of the consumer’s life, be it their kitchens, their living rooms or bathrooms,” said Syngle. It’s for this reason that Asian Paints is no longer just a paints company. It recently forayed into furniture, furnishings and lighting, after first entering the modular kitchen space. “We are not going in for blind diversifications. Our connect with homes is strong and our mindshare is higher than our marketshare. Rather than surfaces, we said let’s talk about between the walls of consumers’ homes, to get a share of their home space,” said Syngle. Jaquar, which has seen new demand from consumers for its affordable segment, noticed a radical shift in the way people interact with their homes — a trend that will also impact their future design choices. “The legacy of Covid-19 would definitely be teaching the consumer to look at their house with a new pair of eyes. Considering the significant role our homes have played during the entire crisis, it is interesting to see consumer behaviour towards their own home change drastically over the last few months. Home is no longer a space which we need only at the end of a long day. Now with the home donning multiple hats, people have started questioning the functionality of their decor and the spaces they created,” said Mehra. While retail and projects got affected due to Covid, Jaquar said almost 80-85% of pre-pandemic numbers are back. Some projects will still take time to return to normalcy. Jaquar said retail is showing growth and tier-2, -3 and -4 markets are on an upswing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-slows-home-furnishing-plans/articleshow/78608442.cms||Namrata Singh
October 12, 2020||---||Randeep Surjewala to head Congress' Bihar poll panel||NEW DELHI: Congress on Sunday announced several panels to oversee the Bihar assembly polls, naming general secretary Randeep Surjewala as chairman and Mohan Prakash the convenor of a 14-member election management and coordination committee. The panel, approved by party chief Sonia Gandhi, includes Meira Kumar, Tariq Anwar, Shatrughan Sinha, Kirti Azad, Shakeel Ahmed and Sanjay Nirupam, among others. While Subodh Kumar has been appointed convenor of the publicity committee, Jaeya Mishra was named co-convenor of the panel. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera was named chairman of the media coordination committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/randeep-surjewala-to-head-congress-bihar-poll-panel/articleshow/78610996.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Randeep Surjewala to head Congress' Bihar poll panel||NEW DELHI: Congress on Sunday announced several panels to oversee the Bihar assembly polls, naming general secretary Randeep Surjewala as chairman and Mohan Prakash the convenor of a 14-member election management and coordination committee. The panel, approved by party chief Sonia Gandhi, includes Meira Kumar, Tariq Anwar, Shatrughan Sinha, Kirti Azad, Shakeel Ahmed and Sanjay Nirupam, among others. While Subodh Kumar has been appointed convenor of the publicity committee, Jaeya Mishra was named co-convenor of the panel. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera was named chairman of the media coordination committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/randeep-surjewala-to-head-congress-bihar-poll-panel/articleshow/78611000.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Government announces sops to make panjrapols self-sufficient||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Sunday announced a slew of concessions to registered `panjrapols’ or cow shelters, in a bid to enable them to cultivate fodder for their cattle on land owned by them. Panjrapols who cultivate their own fodder will get assistance from the state government for installing tubewells and solar electrical panels. The state government will also provide assistance to panjrapols to purchase green fodder balers and chaff cutters along with installing irrigation systems, sprinklers and water pipelines. Panjrapols can apply for benefits under the scheme through the i-khedut portal, a government statement said. Beneficiary panjrapols will have to provide details of fodder cultivated every year to the Gau Seva Vikas Board. CM Vijay Rupani said that water to panjrapols will be provided from the Narmada canal network or other available sources of water. Recently, panjrapols from across the state had made a representation to the government, saying that cattle have been facing difficulties because of shortage of fodder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-announces-sops-to-make-panjrapols-self-sufficient/articleshow/78609236.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||9k final-year students of SPPU still unreachable||Pune: Over 9,000 of the 2.5 lakh students registered in the final year of various courses under Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), are still unreachable, officials said. The examination will begin from Monday. The students were told to choose from online or offline mode of examination but these students have not opted for any method despite many attempts to reach them. “When the final count was taken, around 14,000 students had not chosen any mode of examination. We sent bulk SMSs and also tried to reach them through their colleges and were able to contact some of them. Of these, 5,000 chose online mode. But we have been unsuccessful in contacting 9,000 students. We have kept the option open for them in case they choose the online mode. If they are unable to appear for the exam now, they will be allowed to appear for it at a later stage,” Mahesh Kakade, controller of the board of examinations and evaluation, said. Meanwhile, considering that the maximum number of final-year students are facing problems in the mock tests as they could not remember their email id or passwords, Savitribai Phule Pune University has told them to write to the IT support team requesting for regeneration of a new password or registering a new email id. Till now 1.90 lakh students have appeared for mock tests with many of them giving it multiple times, making the count go up to 2.80 lakh. Students have been airing their grievances on social media platforms regularly and there have been complaints that the university has not provided question banks for all subjects. Some of the question banks provided had very few questions, the students said. Kakade said the university has been able to upload the question banks for about 750 subjects. “We will be uploading the question banks for about 2,500 subjects. The process is going on and within a day, all subjects would be covered. We have received several queries related to technical issues cropping up during the mock test and we have answered them in an FAQ format for all students to see and uploaded them on the website as well. Students are requested to go through the university website. Most of their questions are answered there. They can also contact the helpline number at 9717796797,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9k-final-year-students-of-sppu-still-unreachable/articleshow/78610043.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||2-day lockdown appeal gets mixed response in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The appeal by members of society including several institution heads, presidents of communities, cabinet minister, municipal council chairman and politicians for a two-day voluntary lockdown in the wake of rising Covid cases had mixed response with many shops in markets remaining closed for two days. There was hardly any movement on the roads, but in a few areas some shops were open. In order to curb infections, the district administration has been conducting door-to-door awareness campaigns. The municipal council had launched a campaign to sanitise the entire city. The demand for two-day voluntary lockdown was raised by people in Jaisalmer city which was supported by municipal council chairman Harivallabh Kalla, cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad, former zila pramukh Anjana Meghwal and other people by posting video messages on social media calling for two-day voluntary junta curfew on Saturday and Sunday. District collector Ashish Modi said that under the initiative of CM, ‘no mask no entry’ campiagn was being organised daily. At a campaign at ward numbers 26, 27 and 28, CMHO Dr. BK Barupal, councillor Durgesh Acharya, police and municipal council officers were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-day-lockdown-appeal-gets-mixed-response-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78609239.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Mineral assn slams delay in auction||Yavatmal: The district’s Gaun Khanij Sanghatana has flayed the bureaucracy for delaying the green signal for auction of minor mineral like sand, causing heavy financial losses to the government exchequer. The government has put on hold the auction of sand from September 30, 2019 till date — over 12 months. “It is due to the rampant corruption and red-tapism prevailing from the district level to the mantralaya,” alleged Sanjay Chhiddarwar, president of the sanghatana while addressing a press conference on Sunday afternoon. Chhiddarwar further alleged there was a nexus between the bureaucracy and the sand mafias operating in the district and the booty was quietly shared between them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mineral-assn-slams-delay-in-auction/articleshow/78610049.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||KKSU’s online open book exam from home clicks||Nagpur: The Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU) has conducted 75% of its exams online without any glitch and has started declaring results too. KKSU’s board of examination and evaluation director Umesh Shivhare said total 1,400 students of the university were given open book test from the comfort of their home. “Ours being a language university, it was not possible to hold multiple choice questions (MCQs) pattern exam. But we had shortened the duration to ensure examinee do not indulge in malpractices,” Shivhare said. The answerbook were mailed and sent on WhatsApp to the students who had to write the answers by hand. Later, the answerbook had to be scanned and submitted to the university. Shivhare said the exam started on October 1 and would end on 13th. Only four courses are remaining now. “Having less student load, the evaluation also started the same day of exam. Therefore, we are able to process the results by now,” he said. The students were asked to attempt only half of the questions. Lots of mock test were taken to make the students accustomed to the exam pattern. “Only 20 minutes were given to scan and send the paper so that there was no misuse. This was as per UGC-approved methods in the wake of Covid,” he said. Gondwana shuns app-based examAfter keenly following the problems in mobile-based exam at other non-agriculture universities, Gondwana University has decided to hold browser based exam for its over 18,000 students and offline for 752 students from October 13 to 28. Board of examination and evaluation director Anil Chitade said a link will be forwarded to students on their registered email ID to start the exam. “We have conducted a lot of mock tests to ensure everyone gets used to the system. We are ready to start the exam from Tuesday,” he said. Chitade said nine centres will be provided OMR sheets for the MCQ pattern exam. The results are expected from November 5 onwards, he said. The examinees will need to enter their PRN numbers as user ID and registered mobile number as password. “The students’ mobile numbers are linked to their course details. A student can only his or her question paper,” he said. Like other universities, the MCQs will have short duration of 60 minutes and only half of the questions will have to be answered. Chitade added that the software would have posed several issues to the students who belong to core areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kksus-online-open-book-exam-from-home-clicks/articleshow/78610031.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP government reaches out to HC to expedite POCSO cases||LUCKNOW: The state government on Sunday announced having reached out to the Allahabad high court for getting disposal of cases registered under Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act in the district and session court expedited. Amid the uproar over Hathras incident and CBI registering an FIR in the case, the government said a special drive will be carried out from October 17-25 to provide a safe environment to women. The development comes a day after the Centre issued a detailed advisory to the state government on stepping up action in cases pertaining to crime against women and solve the case within two months. The Centre asked the state to ensure that an FIR be registered immediately in case of an offence against women. The centre has observed that the objective of providing justice gets defeated in case police fail to initiate quick action. A state government spokesperson said nearly 20,000 cases pertaining to rape are pending in courts in UP. He said despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government managed to dispose of 1,835 cases related to crime against women, of which conviction was established in 612 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-reaches-out-to-hc-to-expedite-pocso-cases/articleshow/78610737.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||Airport passenger traffic less than 30% of pre-Covid levels||Pune: Despite the partial resumption of domestic flights, the Pune airport has this year witnessed less than a third of the passenger traffic compared to pre-pandemic levels. With the runway recarpeting in progress and the consequent suspension of flight operations between 8pm and 8am from October 26, officials at the airport do not expect the traffic to pick up significantly. “If anything, 26 night-time flights being shifted to daytime slots could affect the numbers further,” one official said.Another official said close to 9,000 passengers were using the airport on a daily basis. “However, we are not even close to pre-Covid levels,” the official said. Earlier, close to 25,000 passengers per day boarded flights from the airport.“Earlier, the daily flight movements stood at 170. Now, keeping in mind the Centre’s social distancing guidelines, only 90 flights operate per day. The number of flights can only increase if the pandemic eases or a vaccine comes out,” the official added. “We must remember that there were no flight operations between March 25 and May 24 this year,” an official said. Another airport official said the lack of international figures too war hurting the facility. “Passenger traffic directly affects the revenue of the airport,” the official pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airport-passenger-traffic-less-than-30-of-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/78609228.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||BJP is municipal poll mode||Jaipur: State BJP has started gearing up for municipal polls in the six local bodies spread in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur. On Sunday, party president Satish Poonia held meetings with party leaders and ticket seekers at his residence. Sharing the issues which will dominate the polls, Poonia said law and order has been the biggest issue in the state. “The state has miserably failed in ensuring the safety and security of women and children along with the failure to contain Covid,” said Poonia, who also highlighted that local issues will dominate the polls. “In the 20 months of misrule of the Gehlot government, the local bodies have suffered a lot. Water, electricity, cleanliness and basic services have been hit due to poor performance of the government,” said Poonia.The state-level committee will hold a meeting on Monday to take a call on the candidates. The same committee will take a final call on the candidates in case they have more than one applicant for a particular seat.There are a total of 560 wards in six nagar nigams—Jaipur Heritage, Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur North, Jodhpur South, Kota South and Kota North.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-is-municipal-poll-mode/articleshow/78609230.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Gang targeting road side trees at Anjangaon arrested||Nagpur: The Amravati police have nabbed a four-member gang of thieves targeting road side trees belonging to the Public Works Department (PWD) and seized material worth Rs3.5 lakh. Acting on a tip-off from some morning walkers, the gang was caught red-handed by a team led by police inspector Manoj Chaudhary of Pathrot police station while transporting the felled trees between Paratwada and Anjangaon (Surji) road early on Sunday morning. Chaudhary said some morning walkers between Tavlar-Khajma Nagar on Anjangaon (Surji) main road suspected foul play in felling trees and called the police. “We reached the spot and seized a mini truck loaded with neem and subabul trees. Four persons were arrested and produced before Achalpur judicial magistrate first class (JMFC).” The police sought one day’s police custody remand (PCR) but the court sent them to 14 days’ magisterial custody (MCR). “We have slapped IPC sections 379 and 34 against the accused and will file a charge sheet soon,” Chaudhary said. PWD superintending engineer Arundhati Sharma, Amravati, said, “The department was unnecessarily depicted in bad light for illegal felling of these trees. While widening the road, we properly evaluate trees and fell them with prior permission and make provision for compensatory plantations.” “In the recent past, we found that many trees on roads proposed for widening were targeted. Our executive engineer Chandrakant Mehtre had apprised the police about an unidentified gang targeting trees. This gang was also involved in collecting wind-fallen trees,” Sharma added. Those arrested include Sayyed Shabir Sayyed Asad (32), Mohsinshah Harunshah (32), Sheikh Salman Sheikh Israel (28) and Mohsin Patel Yunus Patel (33), all residents of Anjangaon (Surji). PWD officials said there are huge trees on Anjangaon-Achalpur-Amravati Road and the role of this gang in stealing these trees cannot be ruled out. Police said the modus operandi of the gang was to chop trees during the night when traffic was zero and transport the timber in the wee hours before rush hours. Green activist Jai Deshmukh said these gangs are involved in supplying the felled timber to sawmills in Paratwada, Achalpur, and Amravati area. The forest department also needs to cross-check the stock with sawmills whether the timber being transported is legal or illegal. “The huge neem trees on Amravati-Achalpur road are also being targeted. The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has already taken suo motu cognisance of proposed felling of over 3,600 trees for road widening,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gang-targeting-road-side-trees-at-anjangaon-arrested/articleshow/78609232.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||State proposes to include Alwar, Bharatpur in Smart City project||Jaipur: The state government has proposed to the Union minister of housing and urban affairs to incorporate two more cities from the state under the Prime Minister Smart City Mission. Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal in the recent National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) meeting proposed to include Alwar and Bharatpur under the Smart City project, which are already part of the NCR.Sources at UDH said the project would give a major boost to improve infrastructure in these two cities and bring investment as both are situated in close proximity to the national capital. An official said, “In the Union Budget this year, the Centre proposed to develop five smart cities as investment hubs. New transport system, including Metro services will be developed to lure investors. As both the cities have potential for tourism and industrialisation, a proposal has been mooted.” Alwar and Bharatpur districts became part of the NCR in July 2013, however, they were unable to reap its benefits. The entitlement in the Smart City list would help in setting up of industries here with domestic and foreign investments offering better job opportunities to the locals who migrate either to neighbouring cities in Uttar Pradesh or Jaipur. “The state government with the help of the Union government can also develop Model Industrial Estates or Technology Parks or Special Economic Zones (SEZ) for attracting investments, if they are developed under Smart City,” said an official source. Under the projects, each selected city is proposed to receive a central assistance of Rs 100 crore per year for five years. In 2015, the urban development and housing (UDH) department had shortlisted 10 potential cities in the state. Out of which, four cities — Jaipur, Ajmer, Kota and Udaipur — got selected under the project as these met all the 14 points demanded by the Centre. Sources further said, last year the chief minister had also written to the Centre to include Jodhpur, Bharatpur and Bikaner under the Smart City project. However, a concrete reply from the Centre is awaited till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-proposes-to-include-alwar-bharatpur-in-smart-city-project/articleshow/78609223.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pirana fumes’ chokehold may last 3 years||AHMEDABAD: Those living within the 12km radius of the Pirana dump, including the residents of the upscale western areas, might gasp to learn that they will have to endure the mound’s noxious fumes till 2023. At least three years may be needed to eliminate the dump. Not long ago, a study had developed a dispersion model for volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which are toxic gases released by the burning of waste at Pirana. The 12km spread of fumes envelops areas such as Ambawadi, Paldi, Navrangpura, Vastrapur, and Bodakdev. Last Thursday, in a meeting of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) standing committee, the ruling BJP’s members had called for the quick issuance of the work order to restart biomining at Pirana. “In 2019, the biomining project was implemented by the AMC and 25 trommel machines were deployed at Pirana to segregate waste,” an officer said. “The AMC had announced in September last year that the garbage mound will vanish in two years. Eventually, the deadline was moved to August 2022.” However, a review of the project reveals that in about 13 months, the AMC has been able to process only about 18 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of garbage. Pirana has about 70-80 lakh MT of mixed waste. The officer said that on average only 4,500MT of garbage was being processed against the targeted 7,500MT. A trommel machine processes 300MT in eight hours of operation. The officer said the AMC had decided that the trommel machines would be put to work for two shifts. “However, one year down the line, the project has only the 18 lakh MT to show,” the officer said. The AMC had in December 2018 made waste segregation compulsory. But mixed waste continues to reach refuse stations and even Pirana. Officials said that on average the city produces 3,800MT of garbage daily of which about 2,800MT is mixed domestic waste. The officials said that the waste-segregation drive has drawn a poor response. The officials said that in September fresh tenders were invited and more than 30 agencies applied for the biomining project. However, the AMC is yet to issue the work order. The officials said the new conditions stipulate that 6,000MT of garbage must be processed per day. The officials said that going by the tender condition, it appears that it will take another three years to clear the mound from the day the work begins. However, this will hold true only if no fresh waste is added. But the rate at which waste is being piled at Pirana, some estimates suggest that it will take at least five years to eradicate the dump.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pirana-fumes-chokehold-may-last-3-years/articleshow/78609231.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 12, 2020||Varanasi||11 arrested in group clash, two cops injured||Varanasi: At least two policemen were injured while controlling a clash between people of two communities in Kudi village of Badagaon area on Sunday late night. SSP Amit Pathak on Monday said that Badagaon police arrested 11 persons of both groups in this connection after foiling their bid of fanning communal tension in the area. On Sunday evening, Khurru and Sitaram Prajapati had gone to a local market, where Alauddin and Salahuddin were present. They already had an old enmity and on coming face to face in the market they started an argument. Soon both the communities gathered and started fighting. Situation worsened when both groups indulged in brick batting. On getting information, SO BAdagaon Murlidhar reached the village. However, on seeing police both groups attacked the police with brickbats. In this attack constables Saurabh Yadav and Ajaybhan Giri suffered injuries. On being alerted by SO Badagaon, heavy police force was rushed to the village while CO Badagaon also reached there and controlled the situation. Later, SO Badagaon lodged a named FIR against 11 identified persons of both groups and 10 unidentified persons for rioting, manhandling, threatening, breaching peace and prohibitory orders and also obstructing government work under sections 147, 323, 353, 332, 504, 506, 188 of IPC and 7 CLA Act. Later, Kutubuddin, Kallu, Belal, Amiruddin and Sohrab of one group, Bablu, Bholu, Raju, Vishal, Ramesh Prasad and Mulayam of other group were arrested, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/11-arrested-in-group-clash-two-cops-injured/articleshow/78625702.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Civic polls: BJP leaders take feedback from local units in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: The BJP has swung into action with senior party leaders holding meetings in the run up to the municipal elections. BJP state president Satish Poonia, who was in the city for two days last weekend, took feedback of preparations by the local party unit and gave directions to the district coordination committee. Emphasizing on transparency in candidate selection procedure, Poonia directed local leaders to choose candidates who are devoted to the party and have a firm ground in the field and among the masses. MP Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, divisional incharge of the party Bhajanlal Sharma and former minister Vasudev Devnani held meetings with the party local unit and workers seeking suggestions. City president Devendra Joshi said emphasis was being laid on strengthening units of the party in the city and addressing local issues ailing the common man. “We have already begun mandal and morcha level meetings and have done our homework for the election,” he said. He said right from the selection of the candidates to campaigning strategy, the party has been giving a serious consideration to all the aspects of the election. While, the entire party unit of BJP has swung into action, Congress is yet to organise itself and begin its preparations for the election with no leader at the helm of affairs. With the working committee dissolved and many of its senior members sick or quarantined, there is absolute vacuum in the party in Jodhpur, which has caused tremendous disappointment among its workers. “There was no enthusiasm in the workers in absence of functional party unit. Even the office of the party is not opening. We have been having a person as party president for past 16 years just for name. He too was ill and did not want to continue,” said a party worker. Reacting to this, party spokesperson Ajay Trivedi said that directions were awaited in this regard and preparations would begin in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-bjp-gears-up-for-civic-polls/articleshow/78609243.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||Elderly man in Pune falls for dating website bait, loses Rs 3.75 lakh||PUNE: A 68-year-old retired government employee settled in Nana Peth ended up losing Rs 3.75 lakh to fraudsters after falling prey to a text message containing the link of a website that promised women’s companionship for lonely men. Police said the website ‘representatives’ made the victim pay varied amounts as fees and later started extorting money by issuing threats to expose his messages. While the incident happened between July and August, the victim lodged an FIR on Saturday as he was hesitant about sharing the problem with his family, police added. Pune cyber police inspector Jayram Paygude said, “In July, he clicked on the link and responded on the site. Within a few minutes, a woman called the man and guided him regarding how the friendship website works. She then asked for various fees from him.” Police said the man transferred the money to an account provided by the woman. “In another few days, four to five women contacted him and he went on to pay them as well on the promise that they would meet him but no one did. Earlier this month when the man demanded back his money, the suspects threatened him saying they would visit his house and expose him. They extorted Rs2 lakh from him to keep the matter a secret,” Paygude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-falls-for-dating-website-bait-loses-rs-3-75l/articleshow/78609242.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Only 3,000 got loans undet SC/ST scheme this year||Jaipur: Under the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe finance corporation loan scheme, against the target of 50,000 loans to be disbursed among the beneficiaries this year, only 3,000 got the benefit so far due to the Covid pandemic situation in the state, the officials informed during chief minister Ashok Gehlot's review meeting of social justice and empowerment department on Saturday.Gehlot said his government was committed towards ensuring social security for the needy and the poor. He also directed the officials to ensure social security for the people belonging to SC and ST categories through the loan scheme. He said, this will help them create job opportunities by investing in small businesses.The main function of the corporation is to help the SC/ST people, specially abled and members of the cleaning staff of Rajasthan in their economic development so that their livelihood and standard of living can be improved.For this, the corporation provides loans and financial assistance (grants) for cattle and agriculture development, supply and storage of agricultural commodities, establishment of small and cottage industries, establishment of industrial units and for other such activities, so that the members of these classes can be economically uplifted and regional zones can also be developed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-3000-got-loans-undet-sc/st-scheme-this-year/articleshow/78609248.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Delhi||How overloaded heavy vehicles pose threat to commuters in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In the past four days, three fatal accidents involving heavy vehicles have been reported in the city, which have raised concerns over safety standards possibly being overlooked by the owners and drivers of the vehicles. Till September 30 this year, 74 people were killed in 72 accidents involving trucks and heavy vehicles. When TOI spoke to traffic officers and experts to know the safety norms that must be followed by such vehicles, they said trucks and tractors carrying heavy containers and iron rods needed to mention the weight and also ensure that the material was tightly bound to reduce chances of it falling off. “No material should be jutting out. Containers should be strapped to the vehicle properly and the vehicle should not be overloaded. We usually issue heavy fines on such vehicles,” said a senior traffic officer. The first incident was reported on Thursday when two friends were crushed inside their car by a container after it fell off a truck in Lajpat Nagar. It took nearly one and a half hours to lift the container and remove the bodies. Hydraulic cranes and an earthmover had to be used as the small cranes of traffic police weren’t able to budge the 27-tonne container. A senior traffic police officer said that container trucks usually move around in the city only at night. Containers are bolted onto trucks so that they don’t slide off. In this case too, the container was bolted down, but it broke free as the truck took a sudden turn to avoid hitting the car. Rohit Baluja, director, Institute of Road Traffic Education and College of Traffic Management, said, “In our country, the problem is that accident cases are not scientifically investigated. We are trying to teach police officers how to do so, but I don’t think it’s happening on the ground. Over 40% of cases in Delhi are hit-and-run and police are unaware about what exactly occurred. They usually blame the driver of the heavy vehicle and do not investigate thoroughly.” Sources in Delhi Police said they did not have hydraulic cranes and rented them or asked civic agencies when needed. In the second accident, a truck carrying iron rods crashed into the wall of a furniture godown on Friday morning in southeast Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur. The driver and helper were killed on the spot. The initial probe indicated that the truck driver was speeding and lost control. It first hit a tempo that was being loaded and halted after ramming the boundary wall. On Sunday, three men were crushed to death inside a Swift Dzire, while one was left battling for life when their car rammed a tractor-trolley carrying iron bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heavy-duty-danger-on-city-roads/articleshow/78610128.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 12, 2020||Varanasi||Woman held for kidnapping daughter-in-law’s nephew in Jaunpur||VARANASI: Jaunpur police, on Sunday, arrested a woman for kidnapping her daughter-in-law’s nephew on Saturday. The woman was upset with her daughter-in-law’s family as they had refused to send her after marriage. The kid was rescued safely. SP Jaunpur Rajkaran Nayyar said cops of Maniyahu police station succeeded in arresting Ramavati Musahar of Jagdishpur Kothia ki Bari area in Sureri police station area with the kidnapped child. During interrogation, she divulged that her son’s in-laws were not sending her daughter-in-law after marriage and so she decided to kidnap the child to pressurize them, said police. On Saturday, Sonu Vanvasi of Dedarpur village under Maniyahu police station had lodged an FIR against unidentified miscreants for kidnapping his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/woman-held-for-kidnapping-daughter-in-laws-nephew/articleshow/78608677.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Centre for language processing at DAIICT||Ahmedabad: In the recent past, we have seen artificial intelligence (AI) not only handling queries for online banking software but even writing opinion pieces. But to a large extent, the AI capability is limited to English and a few other languages. What about a chatbot in Gujarati? “We have started Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Language Processing (CAILP) where we will be fusing the concept of AI with language processing. We learn language through a specific process and so do computers,” explained Prof Manish Khare, a faculty member at Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology (DAIICT) in Gandhinagar. Khare added: “Through the centre, we intend to focus on Indian regional languages. Its applications can be wide ranging from online information retrieval to intelligence.” The DAIICT officials said that a team of seven faculty members would be part of the initiative. The officials said that combining with machine learning, deep learning, computer vision and image processing, it could be an important tool towards next generation of AIs, especially in the light of huge volume of data generated in regional languages. “Language processing involves information retrieval, language translation and text-to-speech conversion. The vision of the CAILP is to collaborate with national and international organizations to create an ecosystem,” said a senior faculty member, adding that the activities have been initiated with online lecture and colloquia series.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/centre-for-language-processing-at-daiict/articleshow/78609245.cms||Parth Shastri
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases breach 55k mark in U’khand||Dehradun: With 526 fresh infections of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand on Sunday, the total cases in the state shot up to 55,051. Also, the toll of the virus reached 747 after 13 more fatalities were reported on Sunday. Among the 526 cases reported on Sunday, 181 new infections were reported from Dehradun, followed by 60 from Udham Singh Nagar, 58 from Nainital, 52 from Tehri, and 45 from Haridwar. “Among the hill districts, 35 cases were reported from Pauri, followed by 32 from Uttarkashi, 28 from Chamoli, 12 cases each from Pithoragarh and Champwat, six from Rudraprayag, four from Almora, and one from Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The infection rate dropped to 6.9% in the state while the recovery rate rose to 84.7% with a total of 46,642 patients recovering from the infection till Sunday. However, the number of deaths remain a concern as 86 fatalities were reported in the past week,with 18 deaths on Saturday alone. Of these, 15 deaths were in Dehradun district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-breach-55k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/78608307.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Melghat squad arrests two for smuggling red sand boa snake||Nagpur: Officials at the Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), Amravati, on Sunday nabbed two persons from Hiwarkhed for trafficking a sand boa snake. The non-venomous red sand boa, listed under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, is popularly known as a two-headed snake and has several superstitions associated with it. There are superstitions that the snake secretes an anti-ageing agent in its gland, which is used for making several medicines. The reptile is associated with myths of being lucky and having the power to bring prosperity. Melghat field director MS Reddy said, “The MTR wildlife crime cell got a tip-off that two persons were negotiating a deal to sell the snake in Hiwarkhed. Akot wildlife division officials zeroed in on a spot near a petrol pump where the deal was to be struck.” The raiding party trapped two accused, namely Amol Mahadeo Hiwrale (28) and Laxman Raju Khirolkar (22), both residents of Muktainagar in Jalgaon district. According to forest officials, at least nine persons were involved in the crime. The remaining suspects fled the spot in the darkness. Officials also seized three motorbikes used in the crime. Both the accused were produced before Telhara judicial magistrate first class (JMFC). The court granted forest custody remand (FCR) till October 13. Hiwarkhed range forest officer (RFO) Vishwanath Chavan is investigating the case. The raid was initiated by Akot deputy conservator Nandkishore Reddy, divisional forest officer (DFO) Manoj Kumar Khairnar, assistant conservator of forests Laxman Aware, RFO Pravin Patil, and forest guards with cyber cell Akash Sarda, RJ Ade, RR Thawkar, Baliram Sarkate, Atif Husain, and NB Ambhore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/melghat-squad-arrests-two-for-smuggling-red-sand-boa-snake/articleshow/78609262.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Threat mail was sent to school through dark web: Police||AHMEDABAD: A threat mail that landed in the inbox of a Satellite-based school on the night of September 9 is proving a challenge for the police. The problem is the mail was sent through the ‘dark web’, a sub-section of the ‘deep web’ not indexed by search engines. The mail threatened school authorities that if mid- term exams of the school were held they will make viral the morphed nude pictures of their girl students on social media. The school had to cancel the exams and lodge a complaint at the cyber cell of the city police. Cyber cell sources said the dark web is a decentralized network and makes the user anonymous by routing all their communications through multiple servers and encrypting it at every step. “At present, teams of cybercrime are working on it but senior officials say that it is proving to be difficult and will take time,” said a cyber cell source. Senior officials said the dark web is the world wide web content that exists on darknets, overlay networks that use the internet but require specific software, configurations, or authorizations to access. “Through the dark web, private straphanger networks can communicate and conduct business anonymously without divulging identifying information, like location. The dark web forms a small part of the deep web, the part of the web not indexed by web search engines, although sometimes the term deep web is mistakenly used to refer specifically to the dark web,” said a senior police official. Cyber cell sources said darknets which constitute the dark web include small, friend-to-friend, peer-to-peer networks, as well as large, popular networks. It is also operated by some public organizations and individuals. Cyber cell officials said they have started the analysis of the mail with the help of some experts in this field. “We have also written to service providers of the mail engines to which the mail was sent but the investigation is taking time. We have recorded the statements of three employees of the school. We will crack the case, but it will take time,” said a cyber cell official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/threat-mail-was-sent-to-school-through-dark-web-police/articleshow/78609247.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Waqt Tribunal quashes waqf board order||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat State Waqf Tribunal has rapped the Gujarat State Waqf Board for reviewing its own decisions and for acting beyond its powers by removing the manager of a trust belonging to the Dawoodi Bohra community. The tribunal quashed a decision taken by the waqf board by which it removed a manager of trust properties in Patan, which could not have been done because the manager was appointed by the sole trustee, the community leader Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin. The tribunal held that the board has got powers to remove mutavalli (caretaker) of a property, but not a manager of the trust. The board had also taken over the administration of the trust properties in the name of board’s chairman Sajjad Hira and a member. The tribunal has removed their names and restored the manager to his post and handed the administration of the property to him. The case involved properties of Maulana Yakubsahab Dargah Dawoodi Bohra Kabrastan in Patan and its manager Shaikh Onali Izji. He has a small shop in a shopping complex in Patan registered as a waqf property after the property was donated to the trust. In April 2019, one Muniruddin Faruqi raised objection to the activities of the trust and the property registered in waqf name could not serve the purpose mentioned in proposal. A few months later, the waqf board visited the place and cancelled registration of the trust and removed the manager Izji from the trust. This led the manager move the tribunal, which in a recent order observed that it was the board which had registered the property. Now, if it received an objection, it was not free to review its own decision, but it should have moved the tribunal if it felt that its decision was wrong. Besides, the tribunal also said that the manager was appointed by the Syedna in his capacity as a sole trustee. He is the community leader and he was not even consulted before removing the manager from the trust. The board’s chairman and member could not have become administrator in the trust. The tribunal removed their names by restoring the manager in the trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tribunal-quashes-waqf-board-order/articleshow/78609254.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Rane has offered to find a new site for IIT in Sattari: Cong||Panaji: Former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane has offered to find a new site for Goa IIT within Sattari, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar as he reiterated that the party is not against the project but the IIT campus coming up at Shel Melauli where farmers will be dispossessed of their land. Chodankar said that industries minister Vishwajit Rane and chief minister Pramod Sawant were adamant on getting the project built at Shel Melauli as the two stood to gain through land deals. “We want the IIT to come up where the flora and fauna is not damaged, where fields are not taken away. There is so much barren land in Goa where farmers are not affected,” Chodankar said while addressing the locals who held a protest meet on Sunday. He said that he had spoken to Pratapsingh Rane, the Poriem MLA, who is also against the project coming up at Shel Melauli. “Pratapsingh Rane has shown willingness to find another location for the project if the government reaches out to him. He said that even if the government wants the project in Sattari, he will find a place where the project can come up without affecting farmers,” Chodankar said. Chodankar slammed the state government for trying to intimidate the farmers and locals. “The government is using its power to transfer government officials but they cannot transfer an entire village,” he added. During the meeting,Congress also raised the issue about the three farm bills introduced by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-has-offered-to-find-a-new-site-for-iit-in-sattari-cong/articleshow/78610755.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s Covid-19 recovery rate at 85%, Jaipur sees below 400 cases for third day||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 recovery rate touched 85.5% on Sunday with 2,072 more persons overcoming the infection and taking the overall recoveries to 1,35,990. Jaipur reported the highest number of recoveries with 548 persons being declared cured. For the third consecutive day, Jaipur reported less than 400 cases. The city saw 389 new cases on Sunday taking the overall tally to 26,147. Jodhpur, which is the second worst affected district after Jaipur, also reported more recoveries than new infections. In all, 372 persons recovered while 303 new cases were reported. The situation has slightly improved with active cases slipping below the 9,000 mark on Sunday. Active cases in Jaipur had touched the peak of 9,241 cases on October 8 and since then there has been a decline. For the first time, active cases have dropped below 9,000 mark with 8,922 cases. "The active cases are decreasing. The situation is improving a bit. People should keep following social distancing norms and also wear face masks to prevent infection. We have been informing people about safety measures," said a senior health department official. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (389), Bikaner (346), Jodhpur (303), Alwar (152), Kota (100), Ajmer (96), Udaipur (92), Dungarpur (77), Sriganganagar (69), Jalore (66), Nagaur (54), Bharatpur (46), Bhilwara (42), Churu (37), Sikar (35), Tonk (33), Chittorgarh (26), Pali (24), Baran (23), Hanumangarh (18), Sirohi (15), Rajsamand (15), Jaisalmer (14), Dausa (13), Bundi (13), Jhalawar (12), Barmer (9), Banswara (9), Jhunjhunu (7), Dholpur (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Karauli (2) and Pratapgarh (1). With two more deaths on Sunday, Jaipur’s toll rose to 336, Ajmer reported two deaths taking its toll to 119, two persons died in Jodhpur where toll is now 156, Bikaner reported its 123rd death, Pali 71st, Sikar 42nd, Jalore 29th, Bhilwara 27th, Banswara 25th, Dungarpur 20th and Jhunjhunu reported its 18th death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-leads-as-state-logs-recovery-rate-of-85/articleshow/78609252.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gaushala to make 11 lakh Diwali lamps from cow dung in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The proprietor of a cattle shelter near Ahmedabad has begun making Diwali lamps out of cow dung and has set a target of making 11 lakh lamps from cow dung ahead of the festival. Paresh Patel, who runs the Jai Mahakaal Gir Gaushala at Nidhrad village near Sanand, says he has employed 40 women from the village already and aims to provide means of livelihood to as many as 200 women of the village by making Diwali lamps out of cow dung. His cow shelter houses 80 cows. “I started off this year by making Ganesha idols from cow dung. Besides, I am associated with the ‘Gau Maya Diya’ project of Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) and they will also assist me in marketing the lamps,” said Patel, who added that each lamp will cost between eight and 28 rupees depending on how much decorated it is. Patel, 41, said that the village is passing through difficult times because of the lockdown and subsequent slowdown. “There are no jobs nearby. At present, about 40 women of the village are getting between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 every day. As Diwali approaches and depending on the demand for the lamps, I intend to provide work for at least 200 women and girls from the village,” he said. Patel said that since this is the first year of experimenting with cow dung lamps, he will have a fair idea about how much revenue he can generate out of the project, after Diwali. “There is a need to educate people about the benefits of cow-based products. The biggest advantage that we have is that this year, Chinese made lamps have not been imported,” Patel said. Apart from Diwali lamps, Patel’s gaushala has been making a number of other products from cow dung like idols of Ganesha and those of other gods and goddesses, mobile holders, flower pots, wall murals, incense sticks, casts for religious ceremonies like `havan’ and the like. The RKA has set a target of making 11 crore ‘Gau Maya Diyas’ (Diwali lamps from cow dung) this year, and has been in touch with gaushalas, self-help groups and others to achieve this target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gaushala-to-make-11l-diwali-lamps-from-cow-dung/articleshow/78609289.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Aurangabad||69 illegal statues installed in Aurangabad rural||Aurangabad: As many as 69 illegal statues of great men, who over a period of time are being symbolized as representatives of particular castes or communities, have come up in the jurisdiction of Aurangabad rural since January. Authorities said that as a mark of supremacy and dominance in a particular area, there has been a kind of race amongst different communities to illegally install statues at crossroads and important junctions of towns or villages. Also, there have been multiple incidents of people putting up flags of different colours which symbolizes particular castes. Only five offences of such incidents have been registered this year while only three illegal statues have been removed. When contacted, district collector Sunil Chavan said, “We will not tolerate such things and definitely strictest action against those installing illegal statues and creating law and order problem will be initiated.” To bring a check to the menace which at any point of time could trigger law and order situation, Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil recently warned of suspending policemen apart from naming the gram sevaks and village sarpanchs as accused in the FIR if illegal statues are found installed in their jurisdictions. But, the phenomenon is far from over. Patil told TOI, “Despite Covid-19 crisis, police have been active in addressing this issue. We have had dialogue with several stakeholders. We have sent correspondence to ZP and collector office for taking the necessary steps. Police will lodge strict offences if any illegal statue creates a dent on law and order.” Another police officer has blamed the zilla parishad, district as well as local civic administrations for turning a blind eye to such incidents and failing to lodge complaints. “The properties where these statues have been illegally installed are governed either by the ZP or by the district collectorate and, therfore, they are duty bound for lodging a complaint. When contacted, ZP CEO Mangesh Gondawle said, “We will definitely look into the matter. We are ready to co-operate with the police in every possible manner in addressing the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/69-illegal-statues-installed-in-aurangabad-rural/articleshow/78610135.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 minors attacked by sex predator||Ahmedabad: A man attempted to rape a 6-year-old girl and molested another minor girl, who is a year older, in Danilimda late on Friday night. According to police sources, the girls’ cries drew some local residents, but the man managed to escape. Assistant commissioner of police Milap Patel said an offence has been registered under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 376 (sexual assault) and 354 (outraging a woman’s modesty). Sections of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act have also been invoked against the accused, who is as yet unidentified. The complaint was registered on Saturday. “We have CCTV footage of the man luring the girls. We are hunting for him,” ACP Patel said.According to police sources, the girls are friends and come from poor families. “On Friday night, while the girls were playing outdoors, a man approached them,” said a police source. “The man promised to give toys and chocolates and took the girls about half a kilometre away.” The man then led the girls into the external toilet of an empty house. Police sources said when the man attempted to sexually assault the girls, they started screaming for help. Patel said that the informers’ network has been activated. “We are hopeful of nabbing the accused soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-minors-attacked-by-sex-predator/articleshow/78609266.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||App launched for monitoring activities of sonography centres||Jaipur: For strict monitoring of activities of sonography centres, the state government has launched an Integrated System for Monitoring of PCPNDT Act (IMPACT) application on Sunday, which was celebrated as international day of the girl child. There are 3,600 registered sonography centres (both private and government) in the state out of which around 2,000 are functional. Apart from monitoring the activities, the app will make the work of registered centres easy for daily reporting. While launching the app, health minister Raghu Sharma said increasing difference in sex ratio is a serious issue. “The health department is constantly making efforts to reduce this difference and the app is an important step in this direction.”Sharma said the app will ease the action taken under PCPNDT Act and inspection activities. The officer concerned can immediately upload the inspection report from the spot through this app. This will make it easier to manage real time data. With the help of the app, the centres can upload their daily report along with the entry of Form F that is filled at the time of sonograpy of pregnant woman. A feedback system for the sonograpy centre operators has also been developed in this app. NIC has developed this application.National Health Mission (NHM) mission director (state) NK Thakral said hoardings and banners would be displayed at medical institutions and at prominent places across the state to spread the message to the general public about ‘Stop Foeticide and Daughters are Priceless’ under the PCPNDT Act.In a separate programme, district collector Jaipur Antar Singh Nehra felicitated 43 women for their contribution in Beti Bachao Beti Padhao campaign.Social activist Rajan Chaudhary said, “Beti Vatikas have been developed in Chaksu and Hasanpura areas of the city with the help of district administration. In these three vatikas, 200 samplings have been planted.”Women delivers tripletsJaisalmer: A woman gave birth to triplets, all girls, on the international day of girl child in a private hospital in Barmer on Sunday. He grandmother Ansi Devi said today boys and girls are equal. There are already four girls in her family. Diwali is near and three daughters have come as Lakshmi, she said. Gynaecologist and paediatrician Rahul Bamania said all children are healthy and their weight is more than 2kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/app-launched-for-monitoring-activities-of-sonography-centres/articleshow/78609258.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Over 1 lakh students appear in YCMOU online exams in 3 days||NAGPUR: The Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) has successfully conducted online examinations of over one lakh students in the first three days. The Nashik-based institution has allowed examinees to appear in exams through laptops, desktops or through mobiles. “We have to conduct over 10 lakh papers for our students from across the state and other parts of the country. A massive number of over 35,000 students appear for exams in one slot in an hour. With a view to avoid problems like bandwidth failure, we have kept a slot of 5 to 10 hours every day for students. We are also using cloud server technology to avoid any technical glitches,” said registrar Dinesh Bhonde. Vice-chancellor E Vayunandan lauded students for their overwhelming response to the exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have developed an online system they would be able to handle without any trouble to appear in exams,” he said. Exam controller Shashikant Thakre informed that the university had kept two time slots for examinees — 8am-1pm and 3pm-8pm. “They can opt for any one slot and can appear in any one out of the five hours. For a paper of 60 marks, 50 multiple choice questions (MCQ) are being given, of which, any 30 need to be solved in one hour. Students assistance centres have been set up at various division offices in the state and also helplines are provided for them to lodge complaints or for solving difficulties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1l-students-appear-in-ycmou-online-exams-in-3-days/articleshow/78610114.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanjaya Srivastava checks 3 police stations||AHMEDABAD: It was city police commissioner Sanjaya Srivastava’s ‘Day Out’ on Saturday. Just like the old kings used to check the state of things in disguise, Srivastava in a civil dress drove his own car to three police stations, Sabarmati, Chandkheda and Ranip to check whether police officials were taking complaints of the common people, or making them run errands. Srivastava took off his spectacles, wore a simple mask, and went in civil dress to these police stations. He told the police personnel there that his phone has been stolen and he wants to lodge a complaint. However. in one of the police stations a police constable asked him from where he hails, as Srivastava is not good in Gujarati. The police commissioner replied he is from Uttar Pradesh. Srivastava told TOI that in Chandkheda police station, he noticed that during the shift change policemen were changing their uniforms before time and in another police station, some policemen came a bit late on duty. “Then I had to reveal my identity, as I had to direct them not to change their uniform before time or come late for duty. This is not the only time I will be checking, next time it will be something else. I will check how police behave with the common man,” he added. He said he had received a good impression overall as in none of these police stations he had been to denied his right to lodge a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/srivastava-checks-3-police-stations/articleshow/78609256.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Poaching gang held in Wayanad||KOZHIKODE: Forest officials arrested a five-member poaching gang when they were allegedly on a hunting trip in the forests near Pulpally in Wayanad. A country-made gun and 25 bullets were seized from the gang, who were nabbed at the Nanjarmoola forest under the Chethalayam forest range. Acting on a tip-off received by Chethalayam forest range officer T Sasikumaran, the gang was nabbed by a team led by Pulpally deputy range officer B P Sunil Kumar and team. The arrested have been identified as Babu K of Anjukunnu, P C Shibi of Panamaram, D K Haris and K K Rajesh hailing from Kambalakkad and Sathyan hailing from Anjirermala near Panamaram A Maruthi omni van in which they had travelled has also been taken into custody. Apart from the gun, the gang also had machetes and knives. Range officer Sasikumaran said that the gang was nabbed from inside the forest at 1am on Sunday before they could kill any wildlife. There has been no let up in poaching cases in Malabar districts even after the Covid-19 lockdown and continuing restrictions. Forest officials said that they are also seeing a number of snares put up near forest fringes to trap wild animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/poaching-gang-held-in-wayanad/articleshow/78608352.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over razing of shops at Kargil Society||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday demanded that shops of essential items demolished by the BJP-run South Delhi Municipal Corporation at Kargil Society in Dwarka, where families of retired late army officers stay, should be restored within 48 hours. Senior AAP member and MLA Dilip Pandey alleged that the shops were demolished without any prior notice. Panday said that in 2003, former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had established the housing society at Dwarka, named as Kargil Society, where families of retired and martyred armymen stay, who he said are being harassed by the corporation. “To ensure the day-to-day necessities of these families, the government also built shops of essential items in this society. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its corporations, which takes money to build any shop or building in Delhi, have now demolished these shops,” he claimed, adding that the demolition was highly inhuman and illegal. “This demolition shows the hypocrisy of the BJP because this party asks for votes in the name of the armymen but the same party demolishes the shops from which their families get their necessities,” he said. “On behalf of AAP, I ask BJP MPS, the Delhi BJP chief, and the mayors of the corporations to come clean about how much money they have received from the builders’ lobby,” he alleged. Nitika Sharma, chairperson of SDMC’s garden committee said that the corporation’s horticulture department had received complaints from the RWA and some residents about the encroachment of green fields. The residents allegedly requested the civic body to take action against illegal shops constructed on the horticulture land in Vijayee Veer Awas Residential Complex, Sector 18A. “Following the complaint, the horticulture department of SDMC with the help of local police, removed the encroachment from the green belt. The move of the Department was aimed to restore the original shape of the land and to beautify the area by restoring the green field,” she said. “The issue has no connection with any political wing. The department proceeded as per the DMC Act and all the procedures were duly followed,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-spar-over-razing-of-shops-at-kargil-society/articleshow/78610189.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: SHGs, migrants to sell 5 lakh diyas||PRAYAGRAJ: As traders associated with Prayag Vyapaar Mandal continue to boycott Chinese lights and other decorative products in the run up to Diwali, around 1,500 women of several self-help groups, along with migrant families in rural pockets of the Sangam city, will prepare 5 lakh designer diyas and idols of Lord Ganesha and Goddess Laxmi from cow dung and soil. These diyas and idols will be sold in markets and makeshift stalls set up in several areas of the city. Around one lakh diyas made of cow dung and four lakh diyas made of soil will be prepared. As many as 100 women will be imparted training in shaping designer diyas and idols from cow dung in Karchana and Baharia blocks of Prayagraj district from Tuesday. National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) district mission manager Sharad Kumar Singh told TOI, “Over 1,000 women associated with SHGs and migrant families have been engaged. In the first phase, around 100 women will be trained, and we will extend the training programme to other blocks from Tuesday onwards.” District manager (skill & job) Amit Shukla said, “Under NRLM, we have chalked out an elaborate plan to prepare traditional and designer diyas and idols of Lord Ganesha and Goddess Laxmi. Diyas and idols using cow dung will be made in Bahaira and Karchana, while those of soil will be made in Phulpur, Baharia, Khukla, Jasra and Chaka blocks.” The state Gau Seva Ayog has also contacted them for supply of diyas and idols. “Initially, we had planned to prepare five lakh diyas (one lakh from cow dung and four lakh from soil). But now, we are ready to prepare more if we get more orders,” he added. Meanwhile, Vijay Arora, president of Prayag Vyapaar Mandal, told TOI, “We have decided to promote only indigenous products for the forthcoming festivals. Only country-made lights and indigenous decorative items will be sold in the markets of Prayagraj and neighbouring districts.” Traders part of Prayag Vyapaar Mandal have already announced to sell only indigenous decorative items and have placed orders to the SHGs, district authorities are also gearing up to set up their stalls across the city, including Vikas Bhawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/shgs-migrants-to-sell-5l-diyas/articleshow/78608739.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops looking for two people in chain-snatching case||Coimbatore: The district police are looking for two unknown people who had snatched a gold chain from a woman near Thudiyalur on Saturday. According to police, the woman, M Jahilabeevi, 40, a resident of Thudiyalur, was returning from a grocery shop with her friends when two bike-borne men snatched her gold chain weighing eight sovereign. As both of them were wearing helmets, the woman said she could not see their face.The Thudiyalur police have booked a case. In another incident, police arrested two people – S Senthilumar, 43 and E Lingaboopathi, 30, both from Pollachi – for stealing a gold chain from a house in Pollachi on Saturday. The two accused had approached T Eshwari, the complainant, when she was at home to get some water. When Eshwari went inside her kitchen to fetch water for them, the duo allegedly stole a gold chain kept under a pillow in her bedroom.Both were produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded to custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-looking-for-two-people-in-chain-snatching-case/articleshow/78609270.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Edu Dept sets up panel to implement NEP||Dehradun:In order to implement the New Education Policy (NEP), 2020, across the degree colleges of the state, the higher education department of Uttarakhand has set up a committee. The panel has been constituted to create a roadmap for the smooth transition of the colleges from the current academic structure to NEP, 2020. The committee has also submitted one of their initial reports to the state government. According to committee members, there are several changes which need to be made in the state colleges for the implementation of NEP. Thus, their primary concern is to change the academic structure from the annual system to semester-based cycle. This is likely to be one of the first areas on which the department will focus in their course to implement NEP across colleges in Uttarakhand. According to NEP guidelines, the degrees shall be awarded based on the credits earned by the candidate in their semesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-sets-up-panel-to-implement-nep/articleshow/78608348.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Some positive news: Dist deaths register fall||Ludhiana: In a positive development on Covid front, cases as well as fatalities have gone down in the district in the past seven days.As per the latest state media bulletin released by the health department on Saturday evening, Ludhiana recorded 34 deaths in seven days. The number, however, was the highest in the state. With 32 fatalities, Jalandhar was second and Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Patiala shared the third spot with 19 deaths each. Fazilka district had the lowest number (two) of deaths.The data on casualties till July 9 shows that the number of deaths in Ludhiana in seven days at the time was seven (highest in the state) and increased to 11 from July 12 to July 18. That was the only week when Ludhiana had recorded the second highest deaths in Punjab, with Amritsar taking the top slot with 13 fatalities. The next week, Ludhiana again witnessed the highest deaths (12) and Jalandhar, Patiala and Hoshiarpur took the second position with five deaths each.The figure jumped to 65 in the first week of August and then crossed the 100-mark in the week between August 30 and September 5 when 107 fatalities were reported in the district. The number fell in the next week to 86 and remained the same the week after and then slid to 50 between September 20 and 26 before reaching the present value, which is the lowest since August.“Covid deaths have decrease in Ludhiana and have been in single digit for some time now. We have been creating awareness among people, underlying the need for early testing after symptoms appear, so that they are cured in the initial stage. The casualties in Ludhiana have been more as compared with other districts as there are more people with co-morbidities here. To check the virus spread, citizens should take the precautionary measures of wearing mask, avoiding crowded places and maintaining social distance and hand hygiene,” says civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.Experts say the district should not lower its guard even as cases and fatalities are witnessing a fall.“We must be vigilant and cautious to avoid a second surge,” says Dr Sunil Katyal, Ludhiana president of Indian Medical Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/some-positive-news-dist-deaths-register-fall/articleshow/78608349.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 12, 2020||Pune||Share of patients at home holds steady at 42% in PMR||PUNE: The proportion of Covid-19 patients currently in home isolation in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) has remained at a steady 42%, latest data has shown. Areas within Pune Municipal Corporation limits have the highest number of people recovering from home — at 67% of all active cases. The cantonment areas have the lowest number — at just 6% of confirmed cases. The rural areas of the region, meanwhile, have reported 23% home isolation. The PMC’s deputy commissioner, Sanjay Gawade, said the increase in home isolation cases has eased pressure on the civic administration. Gawade said nearly12 Covid care centres have been shut over the past few weeks, from a total of 24. But he added that treatment of these patients has been a bit of a challenge. “Many of them respond well to our daily monitoring calls. However, there are a few patients who seem to consider these calls a nuisance. The calls are part of Covid-19 protocols and they need to cooperate,” he said. Gawade also said there have been reports of patients responding rudely to these phone calls. “But our staff have been instructed to stay calm,” he said. Additional commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, Santosh Patil, agreed that the home isolation policy taken off some pressure on hospitals and officials who are trying to contain Covid-19 in the region. “We now have a lot more beds available at our Covid care centres. Nearly 40% of all our patients are in home isolation. We are monitoring all of them thoroughly,” Patil told TOI. He urged those in home isolation, and their relatives, to exercise extreme caution. Civic officials said if Covid patients are found violating home isolation guidelines, they will be admitted at nearby Covid care centres. A patient who has opted for home isolation stands discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and if there has been no fever for three days. After that, the patient is advised to isolate at home and self-monitor his/her condition for an additional seven days. Patients who are otherwise healthy — who don’t have underlying conditions — and those below 50 are given the choice to recover from home. They are monitored daily via phone calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/active-home-isolation-cases-steady-at-42-in-pune-district/articleshow/78610161.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 12, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur admin holds awareness programme, honours Covid warriors||Gorakhpur: The Gorakhpur administration organized an awareness programme on the occasion of World Mental Health Day on Saturday, and honoured as many as 107 frontline Covid warriors from various fields—including health department, police department and education department—with certificates of merit at Circuit House. The chief guest of the function, MLA Vipin Singh, praised the commendable service of Covid warriors. Praising chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Singh said, “Our chief minister’s dedication towards his work inspires us. He is taking the state and the district on the path of development. We should follow him, pledge to behave properly and show kindness to all living beings, as the theme of the World Mental Health day this time is kindness.” Psychiatrist at Gorakhpur district hospital, Dr Amit Shahi informed that the hospital is providing medical treatment to people with mental illness and patients can reach out for the same through the helpline number ‘9336929266’ anytime between 10 am and 7 pm. “During these trying times of Covid-19, many residents are facing stress, anxiety and mental infirmity. Hence, we launched a helpline number so that anyone could contact us and seek help,” said Dr Shahi. He stressed on the dire need of treatment for patients with mental illnesses. “90% of the people suffering from a mental health problem do not take medical treatment, and this can prove to be alarming,” he said. Chief medical officer Srikant Tiwari shared similar views and elaborated on the symptoms of several mental illnesses. “In the present times, the mental health of many people have become fragile, and most of us are struggling with depression, stress, anxiety and other mental problems. While many think they can cope with it themselves, medical help is of extreme importance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-admin-holds-awareness-programme-honours-covid-warriors/articleshow/78596379.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 12, 2020||Pune||1,720 test positive in PMR, 53 succumb to contagion||Pune: As many as 1,720 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, while 2,790 patients recovered. This took the progressive case tally (overall positive cases) to 3,06,864. Fifty-three people succumbed to the contagion, pushing the region’s death toll to 7,160. Pune Municipal Corporation, with 630 cases, recorded the highest 24-hour tally, followed by Pimpri Chinchwad with 352 new cases. The rural areas, municipal council limits and cantonments together accounted for 738 cases. As of Sunday, there were 17,966 people being treated in hospitals, while 13,353 were under home quarantine. The daily report issued by PMC that 2,677 patients were being treated on beds with oxygen support and that 1,010 people were in a critical state. Of them, 453 were on ventilator support on Sunday. Out of 53 deaths in Pune Metropolitan Region, PMC limits accounted for 22 fatalities, while 15 people died in PCMC limits. Rural areas (10), municipal councils (5) and cantonments (1) made up the rest. The death reports issued by municipal, district and private hospitals stated that the deceased patients had other health issues, like diabetes, hypertension and heart problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1720-test-positive-in-pmr-53-succumb-to-contagion/articleshow/78610171.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||CS reports 2,000 fewer +ve cases than ICMR, 286 fewer deaths than NMC, ZP||Nagpur: The District Civil Surgeon (CS) is reporting 2,014 fewer positive cases than the data on the portal of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also, the difference of 286 deaths continues between the data of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and zilla parishad (ZP), and that of the CS. On Sunday, the district reporter fewer than 500 positive cases, after 68 days. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said in a statement to TOI the district has started to witness bend in Covid-19 curve after seven months, which is a positive sign. Their views were as per the data of positive cases, active cases, recoveries and deaths over last 20 days released by CS. The CS is nodal officer of the pandemic and his data is considered as the official figure for the district. The CS performed age-wise analysis of positive cases and deaths registered as on October 8. CS VD Paturkar sent the analysis to media persons a day ago. The analysis was based on 2,446 deaths. The fatalities of the district, including city and rural, were 2,724 as on October 8. CS did not consider the 278 deaths of other districts, which occurred in the city. Similarly, the analysis was done on 86,381 positive cases. As on October 8, there were 460 positive cases of other districts. This means district’s total positive cases were 86,841 on October 8. However, the CS itself in daily press release reported 84,827 positive cases as on October 8. Thus, there is a difference of 2,014 cases. The CS did not respond to TOI’s queries. He just stated, “Efforts are going on for reconciliation of figures collected and also updation of portal data.” As per CS’ daily press release, there were 86,572 positive cases in the district as on October 11. The district registered 1,745 positive cases in last three days, which means CS not carrying forward with 86,841 positive cases of October 8. Sources from the office of deputy director of health services and NMC confirmed 86,841 positive cases on ICMR portal on October 8. “There is a difference between positive cases reported by CS and data on ICMR portal in last three days,” they said. NMC had fined Dhruv Laboratory for not uploading all positive and negative cases on ICMR portal. Then, NMC the laboratory’s data to ICMR through state’s public health department for uploading on the portal. Though exact number of positive and negative cases could not be confirmed, NMC sources said 20,000 cases which were not uploaded by the laboratory were sent to ICMR. Apart from CS, NMC officials were tight-lipped when asked whether ICMR uploaded positive cases of the laboratory, which increased the district’s positive cases. TOI had many times reported about difference in number of Covid-19 deaths in data of CS and NMC, ZP. Though CS and NMC brought positive cases at par with each other from September 26, there is difference of 271 deaths between them. As per CS, total deaths in the city were 2,001 on October 11 whereas it was 2,272 according to NMC. Similarly, there is difference of 15 deaths between CS (491) and ZP (506). As per CS’ daily press release, the district’s positive cases were 482 on October 11, which was the lowest in a single day in last 68 days. Last time positive cases were below 500 was on August 4, when there were 340 cases. In 482 cases, 337 were city’s cases, which is the lowest in 69 days, since 151 cases on August 3. The cases are on decline since third week of September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cs-reports-2000-fewer-ve-cases-than-icmr-286-fewer-deaths-than-nmc-zp/articleshow/78609275.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Trichy Road flyover work on fast track||Coimbatore: The national highways wing of the state highways department has fast-tracked the 3.15km-long Trichy Road flyover work, which is already 60% complete. When the work commenced in March 2019, it was said the construction of the Rs 250-crore flyover would be completed in two years. The four-lane flyover would connect stock exchange building to Rainbow Colony on Trichy Road and there would be a down ramp along Sungam bypass road for the commuters who want to head towards Ukkadam from Singanallur. The flyover would have 121 pillars, each at a distance of 24 metres. A highways department official said almost all the pillars were ready and they had started laying decks and slabs three months ago. Now, mastic asphalt would be laid over the decks. He said the public works department, along with the city corporation and the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, has been working on to remove encroachments near Sungam Junction to facilitate the down ramp construction. “We would start constructing the ramp as soon as the encroachments are removed.” The official said the lockdown had delayed the construction work. “Most of the workers are from northern states and those who had gone to their native places in the beginning of the year could not return because of the lockdown. After the government started relaxing the lockdown norms, we have made special arrangements to bring them back”. Explaining that the work was going on in full swing for the past two months, the official said, “If everything goes well, we would be able to complete the project in another four to five months.” The highways department has employed some advanced construction technology such as use of void formers at the sharp turn of the flyover near Sungam junction and precast post tensioned girders. “If we follow conventional method, we will have to increase the thickness of concrete deck and slab, which would in turn increase the load on pillars and foundation. Void formers are used to avoid the same,” the official said. He said girders would be constructed at the contractor’s concrete yard at Singanallur to avoid occupying more space on road and causing inconvenience to motorists. Once ready, the flyover is expected to reduce both the travelling time and traffic congestion on the stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/trichy-road-flyover-work-on-fast-track/articleshow/78609282.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 12, 2020||Aurangabad||MIDC Waluj police nab 2, recover half a dozen bikes||Aurangabad: MIDC Waluj police has nabbed two suspects and claimed to have detected half a dozen cases of bike thefts allegedly committed by the duo in the limits of the police station’s jurisdiction. The suspects have been identified as Sakharam Jagtap of Omsainagar and Pratap Korde of Maulinagar of Ranjangaon Shenpunji, both criminals on police record. Police suspect their involvement in many other property offences. Inspector Madhukar Sawant said that a bike belonging to 20-year old Hrushikesh Tupe was stolen in the wee hours of Friday. The bike was parked in front of Tupe’s house in New Sriramnagar of the Ranjangaon Shenpunji area. While working on the theft case, police learnt about the involvement of the suspects, following which they were rounded up for questioning. The duo broke down and confessed their involvement in series of bike thefts. Sawant said, “They have confessed to stealing four bikes from the jurisdiction of MIDC Waluj police station, one from the limits of Badnapur police station of Jalna and third from another district.” Police have recovered all the six bikes and are in the process of identifying the stolen vehicles with the help of their chassis and engine number. An officer privy to the probe said that the suspects involvement with dealers of second hand bikes and spare parts is also being probed to unearth the entire racket involved in theft and disposal of stolen vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/midc-waluj-police-nab-2-recover-half-a-dozen-bikes/articleshow/78610162.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Two bikers run over by unidentified vehicle in US Nagar||Rudrapur: Two persons, including a minor, died on Saturday night in Udham Singh Nagar after the motorcycle they were riding on was hit by an unidentified vehicle in Bari village of Kichha, police said. The accident took place when the duo was on their way back home from their shop in Sisaiya village of Sitarganj town. The victims were residents of Hulaspura Barish Patti village in Baheri (Uttar Pradesh), the police said. The deceased have been identified as Mohammad Rashid (24) and his helper Mohammad Anas (15), police said. Their bodies were handed over to family members after postmortem examination on Sunday. A case was registered against an unidentified accused and further investigation is underway, the police officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-bikers-run-over-by-unidentified-vehicle-in-us-nagar/articleshow/78608336.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||MLSU to offer tech courses from next academic session||Udaipur: Mohanlal Sukhadia University (MLSU) will offer technical courses from the next academic session. In a meeting of committee of deans, the proposal was passed unanimously on starting new courses from the next academic session, including degree programmes in Bachelor in Technology (B.Tech) and Bachelor of Architecture (B.Arc). “A proposal has been drafted for inclusion of the new technical courses which would be put up for approval from the members of the board of management in its next meeting. Then it would sent to the Raj Bhavan and the state government,” vice-chancellor of MLSU Professor America Singh said. Another proposal that was approved in the meeting was launching of Adivasi Milap Yojna, a scheme where every teacher and employee of the university have to adopt a tribal family. Each guardian employee would have to work for the overall development of the family. “Another important decision taken looking at the current pandemic scenario is waiver of 15% fees for students of self-finance courses. Also it has been decided that a training centre would be set up for those students who manage to clear various competitive examinations for government or corporate institutions. They would be offered training on improving skills on administrative practices and management,” Singh said.Those students having failed in any examination last year or the academic session that ended in June, would be given a second chance to improve their grades. The V-C said annual award programme would be launched in order to encourage employees and teachers to give their best towards the betterment of the students and the university. The meeting was attended by registrar Himmat Singh Barhat, finance controller Suresh Jain, and deans of affiliated colleges. , including Kanika Sharma (Science), P K Singh (Commerce), Seema Malik (Humanities) Anand Paliwal (Law), dean (PG Studies) B L Ahuja, Dean Students Welfare Puranmal Yadav, controller Rajesh Kumawat etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlsu-to-offer-tech-courses-from-next-academic-session/articleshow/78610199.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP government's Mission Shakti from Navaratra for women safety||LUCKNOW: On a call given by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, the state government will dedicate Navaratra to the women’s safety, dignity and empowerment by launching ‘Mission Shakti’ on October 17. Various programmes will be organised from the first day of Navaratra to Ram Navmi to reaffirm the government’s faith and resolve towards women power. As many as 23 departments, including basic education, secondary education, higher education, MSME and other government and non-government agencies will be participating in the programmes. Uber and Ola will also be partners in the endeavour. Short films, street plays, safety pledge, sensitisation about women’s law and the public display of inspirational stories of women will mark the events. Earlier, at a meeting in this regard at his official residence, the CM watched a presentation with regards to ‘Mission Shakti’ in the presence of senior officers. He directed all the departments to prepare their respective action plans to execute the mission.  He also directed to set up a women help desk in every police station and strengthen the women power helpline 1090. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that teamwork can do wonders as witnessed during encephalitis and Covid. “ Similarly, we will do the same towards women empowerment, safety and dignity,’ he said adding that ‘it is our small gesture to express our gratitude towards women and girls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govts-mission-shakti-from-navaratra-for-women-safety/articleshow/78610742.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Of 208 abducted in dist, 170 minor girls: Report||Ludhiana: The previous year, 208 persons, including 198 women and 10 men, were abducted in the district. Of these 208, as many as 175 were minor boys and girls and 33 adults. Of the minors, 170 were girls and five boys. The city’s share in the total kidnapped persons in 34 metropolitan cities is 3.6%, which puts it at number 13 in the list. As per the data released by the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB), 170 persons were kidnapped in Ludhiana in 2017, which increased to 254 in 2018 and 208 in 2019. Of the 33 adults kidnapped the previous year, five were men and 28 women. In the category of minors’ kidnapping, Ludhiana is at number 12 in the list of 34 metropolitans. Maximum abductions were of girls between the age group of 16 years and 18 years. Below the age of six years, three children were kidnapped, two boys and one girl. In the age group of six to 12 years, two girls were abducted and between 12 and 16 years of age, 81 children were kidnapped, including two boys and 79 girls. Maximum of 89 were kidnapped in the age group of 16 to 18 years, including one boy and 88 girls. The number of unrecovered victims of previous years as on December 31, 2018, was 177, including 18 men and 159 women. Thus, the total number of unrecovered persons of 2018 and 2019 (208) comes to 385 persons, including 28 men and 357 women. Among these 385 persons, 228 were recovered alive by the end of 2019 and these included 10 men and 218 women. By the end of 2019, 157 persons, including 18 men and 139 women, were still unrecovered. In November 2019, Ludhiana police commissionerate had formed a team under the then additional deputy commissioner of police (detective) Harish Dayama to trace the missing children after a notice of the Punjab Human Rights Commission. The commission had sought an action-taken report from the city police. The PHRC action had come after a complaint by an RTI activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/of-208-abducted-in-dist-170-minor-girls-report/articleshow/78608358.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 12, 2020||Surat||Substance abuse in Surat more rampant than anticipated||Surat: When the city police started a drive to uncover the network of narcotics in September, it was believed that the drug peddling was limited in the Diamond City. But the series of narcotics seizures has revealed that the drug rot is much deeper in Surat, which is among the world’s fastest growing cities.And, it’s not just the addicts who are wasting their money on drugs, but young men and women from some affluent families are also splurging on contraband.In one month since September 4, as part of the state-wide drive against drugs, the city police registered 10 cases and seized narcotics and psychotropic products worth around Rs 2.5 crore, the biggest one being the mephedrone racket.As many as 30 persons have been arrested so far in these cases and the investigation is expected to throw up more and more names. Addicts are gorging on everything - from marijuana to some concentrated forms poppy, hashish besides the favourite party drug mephedrone or “meow meow’. The seizures include around 1.5 kg mephedrone worth Rs 1.40 crore, which touted to be biggest in Surat’s recent history.It has also been revealed that drug trafficking has picked up in some areas where no such illicit activity was ever found.After initial seizures of mephedrone, hashish and poppy in a small quantity, the crime branch seized 1,011.82 gram mephedrone from a peddler Salman alias Aman Zaveri on Dumas Road on September 22. In a separate case on the same day, an online garments seller Sanket Aslaliya was caught from Sarthana with 304.98 gram mephedrone and his interrogation led busting of a manufacturing unit where the drugs were being made with help of another accused Pragnesh Thummar, an M.Pharm, who was also caught later. Police officials claim that the drive has broken the back of narcotics peddling but a hawk eye is being maintained on those identified for their involvement in the network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/substance-abuse-in-surat-more-rampant-than-anticipated/articleshow/78608201.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 12, 2020||Varanasi||Big B to be Lord Buddha’s voice in Sarnath show||VARANASI: When the long-awaited sound and light show will begin using Dhamekha Stupa of Mauryan era at Sarnath as screen by the year-end, the audience will get to hear about the life of Lord Buddha in the rich baritone voice of Amitabh Bachchan. The company assigned production of the show has started preparations for recording, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Sunday. The show had to be ready for screening by September 30 as per initial plan, but Bachchan tested positive just when the recording had to begin, said Agrawal. Fresh dates have been given to the company and recording will complete by October 25 after which sound mixing will take some time and so the show is likely to be ready for screening by the year-end, he added. Efforts to rope in Bachchan for the recording of the narration of Lord Buddha’s life since childhood to his parinirvana for a global audience had started in 2018, said officials of the tourism department. Tourism joint director Avinash Mishra said the content of the show had been finalized long ago and the content creator who developed the light and sound show of Agra and Jhansi was engaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/big-bs-baritone-voice-to-narrate-lord-buddhas-life-in-light-sound-show/articleshow/78609418.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||‘Mob didn’t allow victim’s body to move from hospital for 10 hours’||LUCKNOW: The UP government said here on Sunday that despite an impressive record in tackling crimes against women in the past three years, the opposition parties in cahoots with anti-national forces conspired to foment a caste riots in the state over the unfortunate incident of Hathras. The NCRB data shows that the incidents of crime against women dipped by almost 42% in 2019 as compared to 2016-17, a government spokesperson said on Sunday. Prompt action in these have also led to high number of convictions in the past three years, he said, adding “in Hathras case also, the government took a swift action on the basis of the statements given by the victim and her family and all the accused were arrested quickly.” The government has submitted an affidavit before the Supreme Court which reveals both the sequence of events after the death of the victim at Safdarjung Hospital and conspiracies hatched by outfits like Bhim Army, Popular Front of India (PFI) and Campus Front of India (CFI), the spokesperson says, adding “they were threatening to disrupt law and order and were trying to trigger riots in the state.” “As the victim died at Safdarjung hospital at 6.55 am on September 29, the opposition was out on the streets and a crowd had started swelling outside the post-mortem house. MP Udit Raj, Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Ravan, Congress leader PL Punia, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs Ajaynath Valmiki, Rakhi Birla, Saurabh Bhardwaj and activists of other socio-political outfits were present. A large crowd had gathered inside and outside the hospital premises, raising slogans and pressurizing the victim’s family not to take her body to Hathras,” the intelligence report said. Intelligence inputs further mention that Opposition parties started demanding a government job for the deceased’s kin along with Rs 1 crore and a house. The mob was trying to disrupt law and order. For about 10 hours, the crowd did not allow family members of the victim to take her body following which the CRPF was called to control the situation and removed the victim’s body from the hospital, the report said. It was only after this that the police were able to leave for Hathras from Delhi after taking the victim’s body in an ambulance along with her family members at around 9.30 pm. During this period, Bhim Army activists and some organizations tried to snatch the victim’s body by stopping the ambulance at many places along the way, alleged the report. The police along with the family members of the victim reached their village at around 12.45 am, the report said. When the victim’s body finally reached the village, there was a crowd of hundreds of people armed with sticks waiting to indulge in arson. To perform last rites of the victim with respect and dignity, the decision of funeral was taken at around 2.30 am with the consent of the family, revealed the intelligence report. After this, the last rites were performed in the presence of the family, stated the intelligence report. According to intelligence sources, had the last rites not been performed in the night, the next morning there would have been riots across the region with Boolgarhi village of Hathras being the epicentre. According to intelligence sources, on September 30, a large number of people were supposed to reach the village in Hathras to give shape to their nefarious designs of spurring a riot in the region. Intelligence agencies had received inputs in the morning of September 29 that members of anti-national organizations would reach Hathras overnight and indulge in violence. The alliance of PFI, CFI, Bhim Army and Naxalite organizations, through the network of its cadres and supporters in several districts, had decided to disrupt peace in the entire state. “Safety of women has been the top priority of the Yogi government since it came to power in 2017. A series of measures, including setting up of an anti-Romeo squad and fast-tracking cases related to crime against women, were adopted and the practice of sending women IPS officers to take feedback from women victims was initiated,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mob-didnt-allow-victims-body-to-move-from-hospital-for-10-hours/articleshow/78610746.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 12, 2020||Ajmer||Six women among seven held for gambling in Ajmer||AJMER: Police arrested six women and a man for gambling in G Block of Vaishali Nagar on Sunday. Police caught them red-handed while playing cards behind bushes and seized Rs 13,650. Cops also recovered tokens worth Rs 37,000 from their possession. According to police, as part of a campaign initiated to rein in crime, a team of Christian Ganj police raided the place surrounded by bushes and found seven people gambling with playing cards. The accused are Rukmani, 48, Neetu, 57, Sangeeta, 52, Nanki, 50, Sona, 49, Maya, 45, and Sunny, 33. Police registered a case under Section 13 of Rajasthan Public Gambling Ordinance of 1949, which states that gaming and setting birds and animals to fight in public places is a crime. The accused must be produced before a magistrate and are liable to pay fine not exceeding Rs 50 or imprisonment either simple or rigorous not exceeding one month. Meanwhile, Dargah police arrested a person accused of stealing jewellery and cash worth Rs 4.25 lakh. According to police, Aslam, a resident of Dargah Bazaar registered a complaint on September 13 that when he went to pick his friend from bus stand, an unknown thief broke into his house and took away jewellery and other goods worth Rs 4.25 lakh. Police on Sunday arrested Saiuddin, 21, and recovered the stolen materials. Watch Rajasthan: Six women held for gambling in Ajmer||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/6-women-among-7-held-for-gambling/articleshow/78610227.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Allahabad||Over 1,000 people handed property cards by officials in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: As many as 1,430 people living in 10 villages under the limits of Bara tehsil were handed over property cards under the ‘SVAMITVA’ (ownership) scheme on Sunday. SDM (Bara) Gaurav Ranjan said, “ With Prime Minister Narendra Modi launching the distribution of property cards under the ‘SVAMITVA’ (ownership) scheme via video conferencing, Prayagraj district authorities have handed over property cards to as many as 16 persons physically as a token and the rest property cards were distributed among beneficiaries by the tehsil officials at their door steps”. These villages are Kapari, Chundwa, Abhaypur, Lakhar, Lohgara, Baradeeh, Bakuliha, Jorwat, Devra and Nibi. He added that a total of 1,420 people living in ten villages of Bara tehsil were handed over the property card on Sunday. The beneficiaries also heard the announcement of Prime Minister. Officials said the scheme will pave the way for villagers to use property as a financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits. The district administration had conducted mapping of each and every house with the help of drone camera at these villages between July23 and 25. These beneficiaries were selected from 763 villages across six states, including 346 from Uttar Pradesh. PM Narendra Modi also interacted a Barabanki based beneficiary of the Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-1000-people-handed-property-cards-by-officials/articleshow/78608712.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Bookie held for collecting bets on IPL matches||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad city police have arrested an infamous bookie and registered a case against him for collecting bets on the ongoing IPL cricket matches. Some of his accomplices have also been booked in the case. The offence is the result of city police chief Nikhil Gupta issuing an ultimatum to police personnel as well as the crime branch and asking them keep a check on every illegal activity in the city or face consequences. The arrested bookie has been identified as Ganesh Vyavhare (35), a resident of Hanumannagar. In addition, several names, including Manoj Dagda and at least a dozen others, have cropped up during the preliminary probe. Police have seized a couple of mobile phones as well as few thousand rupees from the arrested suspect. Jinsi police inspector Vyankat Kendre said that it was following a specific tip-off, Vyavhare was rounded up on Saturday late night on the charge of collecting bets through WhatsApp. Further probe revealed that he has been working for Dagda, who since the arrest of his agent, has reportedly gone mising. According to Kendre, the probe has indicated that there are multiple betting agents in the city who alike Vyavhare have been taking bets on behalf of Dagda. After each match, the agents reach out to the gamblers and either collect or give the money lost or won in the betting. Sources said that since day one of IPL cricket matches, the suspects have been using mobile-based applications for placing as well as accepting bets. For all the other communications as well as negotiation of rates, internet calls were being made to ensure that the law enforcement agencies find it difficult to tap the calls. An officer privy to the probe said that, in this case, names of bookies operating from other metro cities have also cropped and using the mobile numbers used for communication, the suspects are being identified. In the past four years, this is the first offence registered against cricket bookies in the city. During the last offence, many leading builders, traders and even industrialists had landed in the trap and remained behind bars for several days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bookie-held-for-collecting-bets-on-ipl-matches/articleshow/78610195.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Three, including Roorkee tehsildar, die after vehicle falls into canal||Dehradun: Three persons, including the tehsildar of Roorkee, died after the vehicle they were travelling in plunged into a canal near Najibabad town of Bijnor district in Uttar Pradesh late on Saturday night. The tehsildar, Sunaina Rana, her driver Sunder Singh, and another associate Ompal, were on their way back to Roorkee from Nainital when the accident occured, officials said. On receiving information, a police team from Bijnor reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation. Ramakant Pandey, district magistrate of Bijnor, and Dharamveer Singh, superintendent of police, also reached the spot. “The vehicle fell into the canal after breaking the side railing installed on a bridge over the canal, almost four kilometre before Najibabad town. All three persons inside the vehicle died,” said a district authority. Bodies of all three persons were recovered from the canal and the vehicle was also pulled out with the help of a crane. Meanwhile, Haridwar district officials have said that the tehsildar was returning after attending a training program.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-including-roorkee-tehsildar-die-after-vehicle-falls-into-canal/articleshow/78608347.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Rs 1 crore alleged financial fraud surfaces at IIT Roorkee, case registered||Roorkee: An alleged financial fraud to the tune of over Rs 1 crore has surfaced from the dean’s office of the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee (IIT-R). According to TOI sources at the institute, a clerk allegedly siphoned off government funds meant for IIT-R over a period of certain years and a cumulative amount of Rs 1,05,35,753 was directly transferred to his account. After the alleged fraud came to the fore, the clerk was suspended and the matter was reported to the police by the officials of the premier institute. “In June this year, a bank manager informed the institute authorities how the government money was being transferred to a personal account,” said Manpal Sharma, former superintendent of the institute. Sharma has also written a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office seeking a high-level probe into the matter. However, police officials allege that the institute officials are not cooperating with them in the probe. “We had asked them (IIT-R officials) to give us some relevant documents of the case but they have not responded so far,” said inspector Rajesh Sah, in-charge of Civil Lines police station. Meanwhile, legal experts have said that if the institute authorities had a fair intention of taking action against those who were responsible for this alleged fraud, they would have taken action against the dean and the assistant registrar for dereliction of duty and approving the transfer of government funds to the clerk’s account. “Before deposition of any fund to the bank, the dean and a registrar monitored the whole documentation. So, action must be taken against these officials,” said Rao Munfait Ali, member of Uttarakhand Bar Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-1-crore-alleged-financial-fraud-surfaces-at-iit-roorkee-case-registered/articleshow/78608360.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||2 killed, one injured in road mishap||Coimbatore: Two people were killed and one injured in a road accident on Siruvani Main Road at Alandurai on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Babu, 20, and Karthi, 19, both residents of Kavundampalayam. The injured has been identified as Anand, 19, who sustained injuries in his hands and legs. According to police, all the three were travelling in a motorcycle without helmet towards the Poondi temple from the city. When they neared the temple, a four-wheeler that was coming from the opposite direction rammed into the motorcycle. In the impact, Babu and Karthi died on the spot. The Alandurai police came to the spot and sent the bodies to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-killed-one-injured-in-road-mishap/articleshow/78609300.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Patna||Minor gang-raped in Danapur, 3 held||PATNA: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped in a vehicle workshop at Lekhanagar under Danapur police station area in western Patna late Saturday night. An FIR was lodged against four persons and three of them were arrested on Sunday, Danapur police station SHO Ajeet Kumar Saha said. The victim belongs to extremely backward class from a village under Bihiya police station area in Bhojpur district. Those arrested were identified as Rajesh Kumar (34), Tulsi Kumar (28) and Dharmendra Kumar (27). Rajesh is a resident of Naya Tola while Tulsi and Dharmendra hail from Ashopur, all under Danapur police station area. “One accused is still evading arrest,” the SHO said. Quoting the FIR lodged by the victim, he said Rajesh and the one evading arrest had actually raped her. “Tulsi and Dharmendra stood guard outside the workshop,” he said. The SHO said the victim worked as a maid at a house in Ashiana Nagar but left it on Saturday after some dispute. “She went to Danapur railway station to board a train for Bihiya. Rajesh and the other accused spotted her. They misguided victim saying she can have food and stay with them and they would inform her family to take her back,” he said. Saha said the duo brought her to the workshop in an autorickshaw and gang-raped her. “Some locals spotted the victim in pitiable conditions at Lekhanagar and informed the police. The victim narrated her ordeal after a police team reached the spot,” he said. The SHO said forensic experts examined the workshop run by Dharmendra . He said Dharmendra also used the place for storing items for a general store which he runs in the same area. He said Rajesh and Tulsi are autorickshaw drivers. Saha said the victim’s medical examination was conducted and her statement before judicial magistrate would be recorded on Monday. He said the victim’s family members in Bhojpur were also informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minor-gang-raped-in-danapur-3-held/articleshow/78608366.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 12, 2020||Vadodara||Amid decline, positive cases cross 13,000 mark in Vadodara||VADODARA: Even as fresh cases and number of samples tested continued its declining trend, number of Covid-19 positive cases in Vadodara city and district crossed 13,000 mark on Sunday. By evening, the city and the district put together had 108 fresh cases which pushed the tally to 13,056 since the beginning of the pandemic. The fresh cases were results of 4,321 samples that were tested in 24 hours ending Sunday evening. The number of fresh cases recorded every 24 hours has, however, continued to witness a declining trend since last couple of days. By Saturday evening, the city and district had 110 fresh cases which were results of 4,377 samples. Similarly, on Friday evening, Vadodara registered 112 fresh cases against 4,494 samples and on Thursday, it registered 114 fresh cases against 4,526 samples tested. The official death toll too remained stagnant at 205 as the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not declare any death on Sunday. The number of active cases or patients under treatment has now reached 1,848 of which condition of 1,613 patients is said to be stable. While 170 patients are being treated with oxygen support, 65 others are on ventilator support or BI-PAP machine. Meanwhile, the number of discharges has reached 11,003 with 83 more patients including 13 from government hospitals, eight from private and 62 from home isolation getting discharged. A total of 4,328 persons are under home quarantine. It is worth mentioning here that officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 Dr Vinod Rao on Saturday had said that Vadodara this week has successfully overcome its first wave of Covid that had started in April. He, however, had appealed citizens to take proper precautions during the festive season or Vadodara would witness a second wave in November-December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amid-decline-ve-cases-cross-13k-mark-in-vadodara/articleshow/78608031.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||5 lose battle with virus, 91 test positive in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Five residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 91, including 25 undertrials, tested positive on Sunday. As per the local media bulletin, the casualties included a 73-year-old man of Samrala, who had hypertension, coronary artery disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary ailment; a 64-year-old man of Akal Nagar, Rahon Road, with hypertension; a 62-year-old woman of Mohalla Bora with hypertension and diabetes; a 65-year-old man of Shakti Nagar; and a 71-year-old woman of Miller Ganj, who had chronic kidney disease. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally has risen to 799 and that of outsiders to 289. To date, 3,24,462 suspects have been tested. Of the 91 positive cases, 37 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), three were positive cases’ contacts, 14 from OPD, two police personnel, one domestic / international traveller, nine through tracing process, and 25 undertrials. On the day, 11 from outside Ludhiana tested positive here. The district case count now stands at 19,174 and that of outsiders at 2,475. So far, 17,885 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.27% of the total cases. There are 487 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,048. On Sunday, 80 persons were home isolated and 4,263 samples collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Of the 12 patients on ventilators, seven are from Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-lose-battle-with-virus-91-test-positive/articleshow/78608363.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur city residents grow ‘mini forests’ to beat stress||UDAIPUR: ‘Mini forests’ are springing up in and around Udaipur city at a steady pace. Residents are planting clusters of indigenous plants and creating mini ecosystems. The owners of these ‘mini forests’ claim the initiative had helped greatly in reducing their stress levels. “Birds, butterflies, insects and reptiles visiting the backyard is a beautiful sight to watch. The initiative is based on the work of Japanese botanist Dr Akira Miyawaki who pioneered the Miyawaki method, a technique of restoring indigenous forests,” said a resident. Udaipur got its first such ‘mini forest’ in May 2019 at the District Institute for Education and Training (DIET) office at Goverdhan Vilas. A senior citizen, Abbas Ali Bandookwala, sponsored the project which inspired many others to grow their own tiny forests. “When my daughter Tabbasum gave birth to a baby girl, she wanted me to plant trees instead of spending money on feast or celebrations. I contacted an expert who helped me find a public place to set up a forest,” Bandookwala said. He spent around Rs 1.5 lakh and even volunteered during the planting session. “I could have grown the forest on my private land, but then the pleasure would have been limited to my family only. Now, the forest is a public property and hundreds of people who visit the education office spread the word around and in turn inspire others to take up such initiative,” he said. Jatin Suhalka, a businessman who owns a farmhouse in Dabok, terms it a ‘truly delightful’ feeling to own a forest. "I spend hours roaming around the trees, some of which have grown up 20 feet high," he said. In May 2019, Jatin had started planting saplings for the tiny forest with mixed varieties of over 350 native plants. "There are mahua, mango, baheda, kachnar, keekar and other species, all local to the Aravali range. One of the anjeer trees has started fruiting and we are already enjoying the taste. My home is quite far away from the farmhouse and my family loves to come here every weekend to spend time amid nature," said Jatin. Vinu Hiran, another naturalist, too, is happy with her mini forest. "For city dwellers, a private green space is a delighting experience. Spending the morning and evening hours amid the plants itself has therapeutic affects," she said. Forest owners find it delightful to watch birds nesting on trees, squirrels running up and down and colorful butterflies fluttering around. Bhuvnesh Ojha of Pukar Foundation, who is helping people with the plantation, said one can create a mini forest on a minimum holding of 20x20sqft and grow 40 varieties of native trees. Watch Udaipur residents grow 'mini forests' to keep city green||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-city-residents-grow-mini-forests-to-beat-stress/articleshow/78610201.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
October 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra among key states being tapped for data on post-covid complications||Pune: Maharashtra is now among key states that will be tapped for data on post-Covid complications in recovered patients.The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Indian Council of Medical Research will be collating this data, based on a format drafted by the Union health ministry. Experts from the ICMR told TOI that the data on post-Covid complications will help plan public health responses. Maharashtra - with a recovery rate of over 80% - has already started efforts to research health complications, officials said. Post-Covid counselling centres, which were launched in Pune, will play a vital role in the process, they said. State surveillance expert Pradeep Awate said the counselling-centre model will now be replicated in other parts of the state, including Mumbai. "This is an area which will need data. We have already started the process to set up more such centres," Awate said. While central health officials will rely on data fed to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme wing of the union health government, state health officials said they have already started collating information gathered during the ongoing 'My family, My responsibility', which aims to cover 2.8 crore households. Awate said forms for the campaign also cover recovered Covid patients and information on post-recovery complications, if any. “We will have the required data thanks to this programme," he added.One official from the state health department said data gathered during the campaign can also be shared with central experts. “We have vast amounts of data. If the Centre needs this information, we can provide it," the official said.In September, the health ministry had initiated an exercise to document data on post-Covid complications which involved research institutes carrying out telephonic surveys among recovered patients. There have been instances of patients left with respiratory, cardiovascular and neurological complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-among-key-states-being-tapped-for-data-on-post-covid-complications/articleshow/78610205.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Lawyers’ association starts poster agitation||Aurangabad: The Indian Association of Lawyers has started a state-wide poster agitation in order to press for their long-pending demands and have warned of intensifying their agitation if theirs demands are not fulfilled by the government. As part of the agitation, the lawyers have started pasting posters comprising their demands at all the possible public places in towns and cities. Granting Rs 15,000 each to all the lawyers till the courts do not start functioning normally, lawyers be declared as Covid-19 warriors and should be given insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh are some of their demands. The association, which was founded by late justice VR Krishna Iyer, has demanded that lawyers and their families should be given health insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh. The association has even demanded mandatory stipend for the lawyers who are freshers as well as those working as juniors with law firms and senior lawyers. Lawyer Abhay Taksal said, “Due to the pandemic, the courts are working partially due to which there have been barely any hearings in the regular cases, having direct impact on the practice of many lawyers.” Citing examples, he pointed out that due to the financial crunch, many lawyers have vacated their rented office spaces, while some of them have shifted to smaller places where the rent is less. To catch attention of the government, association members are using social media to ensure their word reaches maximum number of people from within and outside the fraternity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lawyers-association-starts-poster-agitation/articleshow/78610207.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Location feature helps curb fraud on e-commerce portal||PUNE: An e-commerce website that facilitates the sale/purchase of used goods has updated its security policy, making it mandatory for sellers to upload their location data while posting advertisements. Pune cyber police say this feature has resulted in a drastic drop in cyber fraud complaints in the past month. According to the police, the website monitors the location data and flags any advertisements posted from places notorious for a large number of fraud complaints. These advertisements are then blocked from the website. The website developed this feature in consultation with Pune cybercrime police. Over the course of several meetings with the website administrators in a bid to reduce the number of complaints, this idea was born, police said. “On weekdays, we used to receive six to 10 complaints related to fraud on the website. Now, it has come down to two or three complaints per day,” inspector (cyber) Rajkumar Wakchaure said, adding that they expect the number of complaints to dip further in due course. “Some villages in Jharkhand, Rajasthan, and Haryana have gained notoriety as fraudsters upload fictitious advertisements for the sale of used motorcycles, cars and electronic goods against money paid in advance,” Wakchaure explained, adding, “Once they receive the money, they discard the SIM card and leave the purchaser in the lurch. Now, with the location feature, advertisements from these places won’t be allowed to be posted.” Earlier, the website, in a bid to prevent this type of fraud, had made it mandatory for sellers to upload government-issued identification, such as Aadhaar card, and a phone number. “But the fraudsters then started using fake ID cards and prepaid SIM cards to upload the advertisement and vanish with the buyers’ money. As this wasn’t working out, we sought a technology-based solution to block advertisements from a particular geographical location,” Wakchaure said. “That paved way for this system and now, it is compulsory for a seller to start his location while uploading the advertisement,” he said. An official from the website, refusing to divulge his identity, said, “We are coordinating with the police to reduce crime and will continue to work on different solutions.” So far this year, the police have registered 995 cases pertaining to misuse of the website’s services. Last year, more than 1,300 complaints were received by the police. Police said in many cases, fraudsters from Rajasthan and Noida posed as Army officers looking to sell their cars or two-wheelers, in a bid to add a sense of authenticity. They even uploaded fake Army ID cards to win the buyers’ confidence. Cybercrime police teams have raided several places in these villages and arrested residents in the past, but the ploy of using the portal to commit fraud was still prevalent in the city, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/location-feature-helps-curb-fraud-on-e-commerce-portal/articleshow/78609279.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||Physiotherapy proves vital for recovery: Pune doctors||PUNE: Physiotherapy has been playing a vital role in ensuring early recovery and rehabilitation in Covid-19 patients. In addition to improving lung capacity through breathing techniques, physiotherapists have also helped many come off ventilator support. “The role of physiotherapy in restoring lung capacity (pulmonary rehabilitation) has evolved over the last six months. Today, it has become a prerequisite for full recovery and particularly important for the elderly,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India (HBI), Pune. Infectious diseases expert, Parikshit Prayag said, “Little has been said about the role of physiotherapists during Covid, but they are key. Physiotherapy helps people improve oxygen uptake and stay mobile.” Pulmonary rehabilitation varies among patients. “It boosts lung function, keeps them free of secretions and cuts need for oxygen support,” said physiotherapist Heenaa Mackasare, of Sahyadri Hospital. Cough, troubled breathing and drops in oxygen levels are common symptoms in moderate to severely ill Covid patients. The challenge for specialists then is keeping as many patients as possible off ventilator support. “When these patients are on the bridge between simple oxygen support and the ventilator, that is when chest physiotherapy plays a critical role. Ventilator support can be avoided if a patient is administered proper chest physiotherapy,” Mackasare said. There’s also the problem of prolonged inactivity among ICU patients. “They are completely immobile. Many of these patients die not because of Covid but due to immobility, which then triggers deep vein thrombosis (DVT). So mobility exercises are important,” said Sassoon hospital’s senior physiotherapist, Pawan Shirsath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/physiotherapists-helping-covid-19-patients-breathe-easy/articleshow/78610198.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Low conviction rate in crime against women cases in Ludhiana: NCRB||LUDHIANA: Even as Ludhiana has been witnessing a rise in the cases of crime against women, the conviction rate here was second-lowest in 2019 compared to the other metropolitan cities in the region, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. Ludhiana had a pendency of over 80% of such cases last year. The NCRB report containing the data for 2019 suggests that the conviction rate for Ludhiana metropolitan city was 23.5%, which is second-lowest among the metropolitan cities of the region, with Srinagar at the bottom with 1.6% rate of conviction and Amritsar highest 35.6%. The conviction rate for 34 other metropolitan cities in the country stood at 32.4%. The NCRB data puts the pendency of such cases in Ludhiana in 2019 at the third-highest 81.5%, more than Amritsar’s 76%. Srinagar had the highest 93.9% case pendency last year, followed by Chandigarh at 83.6%. The pendency percentage for the 34 metropolitan cities is 86.5%, which means Ludhiana has a lower pendency percentage than the average percentage for these cities. The analysis of various categories of pending cases till 2019 suggests that the count of cases pending trial from the preceding year was 1,173 at the start of 2019 and 366 cases were sent for trial during the year, taking the number of total cases under trial last year to 1,539. It suggested that trial was completed in 268 cases and 285 cases were disposed of by the courts. Out of the total cases disposed of in 2019, convictions took place in 63, 162 cases saw acquittals, whereas 17 cases were disposed without holding any trial. In all, 1,254 cases were pending trial at the year-end. The data of conviction rate since 2016 suggests that there had been a drop in such rate in Ludhiana in 2019. However, the pendency percentage in the city was higher in 2018 (81.9%) and in 2016 (90.4%), while it was lowest in 2017 (77.6%). Legal experts attribute such low conviction rate in the city to various factors. “The legal process is long in such cases and it takes years for completion of these cases. Often such cases are related to the migrant population. During the pendency period, the victim faces harassment and also doesn’t have money to fight the case. Besides, there is also pressure from the accused side for compromise. So, many victims ultimately give up,” said senior advocate Lalita Jain. She added that conviction rate would improve if these cases are fast-tracked. The senior advocate said that Ludhiana being a big city, the number of such cases is more, but the courts to hear such cases are few, which also leads to the high pendency of cases. What constitutes crime against women? Kidnapping and abduction of women to compel her for marriage, cruelty by husband or his relatives, assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty, sexual exploitation of girl children, rape, dowry deaths, abetment to suicide of women, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/low-conviction-rate-in-crime-against-women-cases-in-ludhiana-ncrb/articleshow/78608353.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Police mock caller for complaint on cow theft||JAIPUR: An audio of Bharatpur control room has gone viral wherein a person called to complain about a stolen cow, but the cop at the PCR who attended his call did not take it seriously and started laughing instead. Cops claimed it was a technical error. On Saturday, it was captured on CCTV camera that a few accused were forcing a stray cow into an SUV. There was a witness to the incident as well who immediately called the police control room to report the matter, but the cop who recieved the call did not listen to thecomplainant and kept laughing along with his colleagues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-mock-caller-for-plaint-on-cow-theft/articleshow/78610255.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||Central Railway to start trains to Kolkata, Delhi||PUNE: Central Railway (CR) will run four additional special trains for passengers. A CR official said, “The Pune-Howrah Duronto bi-weekly special (02222) will leave Howrah every Thursday and Saturday from October 15 and arrive in Pune the next day. The train from Pune (02221) will leave every Monday and Saturday from October 17.” Similarly, the Pune-Hazrat Nizamuddin AC Express weekly special (02494) will leave Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station every Friday from October 16. The AC Special train (02493) will leave Pune every Sunday from October 18. CR has already started 12 pairs of special trains connecting different locations across the state, including Pune and Mumbai. The Pune-Hazrat Nizamuddin Duronto bi-weekly special (02264) will leave Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station every Monday and Thursday from October 15. On its return, the Duronto Special train (02263) will leave Pune every Tuesday and Friday from October 16. Lastly, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Kamakhya AC weekly special (02520) will leave Kamakhya Junction every Thursday from October 15 and arrive at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus on the third day. The AC Special train (02519) will leave Lokmanya Tilak Terminus every Sunday from October 18 and arrive at Kamakhya Junction on the third day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cr-to-start-trains-to-kolkata-delhi/articleshow/78609301.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 12, 2020||Pune||More PMPML buses set to ply till 10pm||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has increased the number of buses by a 100 more from the 450-odd vehicles. Since shops and other business establishments can now operate until 9pm, PMPML officials said their buses will now make the rounds till 10pm. “Earlier, we were running close to 470 buses on different routes of the city. With business establishments, hotels and restaurants opening up, we feel the need for the buses will increase,” the official added. On October 9 and October 10, the PMPML ran around 584 buses in both the municipal corporation areas. “The number of passengers has gone up to 1.80 lakh. We will have to add more buses to the current operational fleet,” the official said. PMPML CMD Rajendra Jagtap said a decision going back to full capacity will not happen so soon. “The Covid-19 situation in the city needs to improve first,” he added. The transport body is gearing up for the airport bus service from October 20. An app will be floated once the service begins. A total of 25 buses will pick and drop passengers to and from the Pune airport every 20 minutes..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-pmpml-buses-set-to-ply-till-10pm/articleshow/78609309.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||On-run Ludhiana businessman holidaying in Shimla, held||LUDHIANA: When the tax department sleuths were searching for the city businessman, who is a co-accused in the alleged GST refund fraud of Rs 61 crore, he was holidaying at a five-star hotel in Shimla. But on Wednesday, he eventually ran out of luck and was tracked down by the headquarters of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI).  A team of the department arrested him from the hotel room and also seized his mobile phones as he refused to provide passwords. He was produced before a court and sent to judicial custody at Tihar Jail in New Delhi for 14 days. In March, the DGGI had raided the businessman’s premises, but he was not arrested due to a death in the family. He is accused of indulging in circular trading by creating fake companies and supplying bogus bills to four Delhi firms, based upon which these establishments got GST refunds up to Rs 61 crore fraudulently. The DGGI, in its application in the court, said, “The investigations are being hampered because of the hostile attitude of the accused, who is a habitual offender. He is causing obstruction to the probe, may also destroy the vital evidence and flee the country. Thus, the competent authority on October 6, 2020, had approved his arrest under Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2019.” In an official statement, the DGGI said, “An intelligence was developed by the officers of DGGI that few exporter companies were engaged in fraudulent availment of input tax credit (ITC) on the invoices of non-existing and fictitious firms or such firms which apparently do not have any purchases themselves. The ITC so availed was utilized to pay IGST on the export goods, which was thereafter claimed as cash refund. Thus, the government exchequer was put at double loss… DGGI headquarters searched the exporter companies and residence of their owner as well as premises of various supplier companies on March 6, 2020.  These supplier companies were found to have supplied only bills to these exporters, without supply of goods. The exporters had taken ITC on these fake bills and had taken refund as the goods were shown to be exported. The controllers of the export firms were arrested on March 6 by the DGGI. However, the Ludhiana-based owner of the supplier firms was on the run and untraceable. He was not appearing for investigations even after various summons. He appears to be a habitual economic offender and numerous cases have been made against him and his companies. Earlier, he had also been put under preventive detention under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act (COFEPOSA) in a case of commercial fraud investigated by the DRI (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/on-run-city-bizman-holidaying-in-shimla-held/articleshow/78608371.cms||Mohit Behl
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Portals of Purnagiri temple to open from Navratri||Pithoragarh: The district administration of Champawat has given permission to open the portals of the famed Purnagiri temple in the area on the first day of the Navratri, which starts from October 17. The decision was taken in a meeting with priests and other stakeholders. The portals of the temple – which draws lakhs of pilgrims each year – have been closed since March due to the Covid pandemic. “This year, the Purnagiri Mela started on March 11. However, it was suspended on March 17 after the outbreak of Covid-19. Now, the priests have been allowed by the district administration to open portals of the shrine,” said Bhuwan Chandra Pande, chairman of the Purnagiri Temple Committee. Officials have maintained that pilgrims wishing to visit the temple will need to register their names in advance on the MyCity portal. “It will be mandatory for the priests and the pilgrims to wear face masks and maintain social distancing. We will ensure that all Covid-19 protocols are being followed so as to check any chances of spread of the virus. At Jagbuda and Thuligarh, a rapid antigen test of devotees will also be conducted and vehicles won’t be allowed beyond Kakrali Gate, Bhairav Temple, or Thuligarh,” said SN Pandey, district magistrate of Champawat. Notably, Purnagiri fair is popular in North India and pilgrims from different states flock to the temple every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/portals-of-purnagiri-temple-to-open-from-navratri/articleshow/78608370.cms||Prem Punetha
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Ensure 100% admission in govt arts colleges, principals told||Coimbatore: In order to attain 100% admission in government arts and science colleges in the region, officials of the regional directorate of collegiate education have asked principals to contact students who studied in schools located near the colleges, and take steps to admit those who had not already got admission. In a recent communication to the principals of government arts and science colleges, regional joint director of collegiate education V Kalaiselvi said the colleges should contact the HMs and principals of all government, government-aided and self-financing schools in the college’s locality, get the details of students who had passed, contact them, and take steps to ensure they are admitted. The communication also said the colleges should contact students who had applied online, but had not turned up for counselling, and ensure they get admitted. The colleges should maintain records for the initiatives.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ensure-100-admission-in-govt-arts-colleges-principals-told/articleshow/78609304.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Roll of honour(s): Entry to Delhi University in commerce, Political science tougher||NEW DELHI: For the candidates who have less than 95% in their best-of-four and wish to study BCom (H) at Delhi University, securing a berth in the college of their choice has become tougher this year. The cutoff for the course has gone up further, with a minimum increase of over 1 percentage point across all colleges. At most on- and off-campus colleges, the cutoff for BCom (H) is now above 95%. For the girls, there are a few colleges such as Bharati and Aditi Mahavidyalaya where the cutoff is still a little lower at 94% and 91%, respectively. For the boys, evening colleges or BCom pass programme are the only options. At Zakir Hussain College (Evening), the cutoff for BCom (H) is 92%. The highest cutoff for BCom (H) is at Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College for Women at 99.75%. Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), one of the most sought-after colleges for commerce courses, has a cutoff of 99.5%, an increase from 98.5% last year. However, unlike other courses, BCom (Hons) has more seats in most colleges. For instance, at Hansraj College, there are 105 seats for BCom (H) for the unreserved category against 27 seats for each humanity course. “It is true that unlike other courses, the number of seats for this course is more. The only reason behind this increase could be more commerce students scoring higher marks in the Class XII Boards and the university receiving more applications,” a commerce teacher at one of the prominent colleges explained. Political science (H) is another course for which the admission is getting difficult every year as it has been recording a steady rise in the cutoff. Last year, Hindu College had kept its first cutoff at 99%, while this year, LSR has put it at 100% and four other colleges at 99%. At Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma (ARSD) College, the cutoff for political science (H) has gone up from last year’s 93% to 97% this year. Last year, despite having such a high cutoff, Hindu College had closed its admission to the course for the general category in the first list itself. Even at ARSD and Kirori Mal colleges, the seats had filled up in the first list. This year, Kirori Mal College has increased its cutoff to 99% from last year’s 96%. “I and a few of my friends want to study political science as our goal is to crack the UPSC civil services examination. We think it’s a good subject for this purpose,” said Sanajana Dwivedi, an aspirant who wants to study the subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/roll-of-honours-entry-to-du-in-commerce-pol-science-tougher/articleshow/78610273.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Varanasi||Basic education min honours 51 teachers||Gorakhpur: Basic education minister Satish Dwivedi honoured 41 teachers of CBSE, ICSC and UP Board with Guru Ratn Sikshak Samman and 10 teachers with Nation Building award on Sunday evening. The programme was organised by the Rotary Club. The minister appealed to the teachers to provide quality education. Talking about importance of vocational education, VC DDU Gorakhpur University, Rajesh Singh said that 40 new courses will be started in the university in two months. Vyapari Kalyan Board vice president, Pushpdant Jain said the club has adopted 10 Basic Education schools and provided modern facilities there. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/basic-education-min-honours-51-teachers/articleshow/78625709.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||Minor fire at CoEP jumbo Covid facility||Pune: A fire caused by an overheated compressor unit of an air-conditioner located behind the administrative block of the jumbo Covid-19 facility at the CoEP grounds caused a flutter on Sunday afternoon. It was put out quickly by the fire brigade. No one was reported hurt. Pune fire brigade’s station duty fire officer Vijay Bhilare told TOI, “The fire broke out due to overheating around 1pm in an air-conditioner of the administrative block of the facility. A fire brigade team is on stand-by round-the-clock at the facility, and the firemen reacted to the situation promptly after witnessing smoke and flames from the AC unit. They used fire extinguishers available at the facility and doused the flames within a few minutes.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minor-fire-at-coep-jumbo-covid-facility/articleshow/78610237.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Reopening: Rural schools ready to welcome students but urban ones treading cautiously||Nagpur: When it comes to opinion about school reopening, there is a glaring urban-rural divide. Zilla Parishad (ZP) schools, especially in Gadchiroli and Chandrapur district, have shown eagerness in restarting while private aided and unaided ones in urban areas are exercising caution. In July, over 400 ZP schools had opened physically in these two districts. Hundreds more were lining up to seek permission for re-opening when the state government decided to close all of them down again, to align with central government guidelines. An education official from Gadchiroli said “Many schools would still reopen the day government gives us permission.” The official clarified that their eagerness to reopen must not be misunderstood as ‘casual attitude’ towards the virus. “Here the population density is very low. Also people don’t travel daily to cities or busy areas. So in these villages, schools can easily reopen as it’s a self sustained group which functions independently,” said the official who did not want to speak on record. In fact, in Gadchiroli, already teachers are visiting villages to teach children, once or twice a week. In Nagpur city, however, schools are concerned about taking the plunge. Madhusudan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur district) said, “It will be better if the government first comes out with detailed SOPs. We will have to take into account the safety of kids, which will depend on the local situation at that time. It is a very crucial decision which cannot be made without consulting all stakeholders.” In rural areas too, ZP schools had got in touch with parents and consulted them before reopening of school in July. A city-based school principal said that the dynamics of both regions are different. “In rural areas the social fabric is different. Concepts like social distancing won’t work. Parents would think that anyway those kids are playing in the village with each other entire day. Then what’s the harm in sending the same set of kids to school. Also in one class they have an average of six students. In city the number can be anywhere from 30 to 50,” said the principal, who did not wish to be identified as he felt his views might come across offensive to rural school principals. Rajendra Dayma, president of Independent English Schools Association (IESA) said before reopening, schools in urban areas need clarity on liability issue. “If after reopening students turn positive then who will be blamed? We need clarity on the legal issues which are likely to arise. These are all new things for us and nobody wants to take the risk,” said Dayma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reopening-rural-schools-ready-to-welcome-students-but-urban-ones-treading-cautiously/articleshow/78609306.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||International Day of the Girl Child: State govt facilitates 60 girls who resumed studies||Dehradun: On occasion of the International Day of the Girl Child, the state government facilitated girls who resumed studies after being forced to drop out due to factors ranging from unconducive environment at schools to disapproval of families. The state women and child development department said it got around 50 girls from Vikasnagar area back to school. Pooja Singh, 15, said she was embarrassed at first to sit in the same class with students much younger to her but decided to take the classes anyway when the government offered help under the “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” scheme. “I had left school midway as my mother was unwell and needed a hand with chores. I would cook and look after livestock. But I’m happy to rejoin school and want to be a teacher,” said Singh, who took admission in class IX of Junior High School, Sabhawala. Speaking at the felicitation programme, state women and child development department minister Rekha Arya said, “It takes a lot of courage to resume something after you have decided to leave, be it education or a profession. These young women, who dared to restart their education, are a motivation for us all.” Apart from the 50 girls, the Dehradun district administration has also identified 300 drop-outs who could be made to remsume studies after three months of meetings and counselling. Akhilesh Mishra, district programme officer (DPO), Women and Child Development Department, Dehradun, said, “We met girls who had quit studies for several reasons, ranging from it not being a priority in their families to having no motivation. Eventually, we got 50 girls back to school. Among them, around two dozen those have taken admission in class IX while over one dozen girls have been admitted to class X. Some, who cannot attend school, opted for distance education.” On the day, several social organizations also held events to mark the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/international-day-of-the-girl-child-state-govt-facilitates-60-girls-who-resumed-studies/articleshow/78608396.cms||Shivani Azad
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Dravidian outfits mount pressure on Vijay Sethupathi to give up Muralitharan’s biopic||Coimbatore: Dravidian outfits here have urged actor Vijay Sethupathi to desist from donning the lead role in a biopic on the life of Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan. Members of the outfits said Muralitharan allegedly did not speak up for Tamils during the civil war in the island nation, and that Sethupathi portraying him in a film could cause distress among people of the state.Their call comes after an announcement that the actor would don Muralitharan’s role in his upcoming biopic ‘800’, directed by M S Sripathy. The title is a reference to the 800 wickets Muralitharan took in test matches.On October 8, Sethupathi tweeted: “Honoured to be a part of this landmark project. Update soon #MuthiahMuralidaran #MuralidaranBiopic #MSSripathy #Vivekrangachari.”Following this, members of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) from Coimbatore called upon the actor to not portray the cricketer.K Ramakrishnan, president of TPDK, told TOI that though Muralitharan was born in a Tamil family, he has always supported the Rajapaksas and their Sinhalese majoritarian politics. “When there was a genocide of Tamil people in the civil war, he did not speak up for them, instead, he supported the Sinhalese,” he said.Ramakrishnan added that if Vijay Sethupathi, who has the goodwill of Tamil people across the world, and who is seen as a humble, humane, and a progressive person, dons Muralitharan’s role in the biopic, it would taint his own image. “Even if Vijay Sethupathi follows Periyar’s ideas, TPDK would oppose him, if his movies are against Tamil sentiments. We ask him to give up this project. If he doesn’t, we would not let the movie be released,” Ramakrishnan said.V Eswaran, state youth wing secretary of Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK), said Muralitharan might be a good cricketer, but when it came to the issue of the welfare of Tamils in Sri Lanka, he was silent about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dravidian-outfits-mount-pressure-on-vijay-sethupathi-to-give-up-muralitharans-biopic/articleshow/78609315.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||Zilla parishad set to move those with serious symptoms to Pune||PUNE: The Pune zilla parishad (ZP) has now asked authorities of dedicated Covid health centres in five talukas to immediately move patients with serious Covid symptoms to treatment facilities in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The Covid case fatality rate (CFR) in Pune rural is currently at 2.5% — much above the recommended 1% level. But five talukas in the region have registered a CFR of 3%. These are Purandar (3.7%); Bhor (3.6%); Junnar (3.6%); Maval (3.1%); and Duand (3.1%). The case fatality rate (CFR) is the proportion of people who eventually die from a disease. Officials from the zilla parishad said they also plan to utilize treatment facilities in neighbouring talukas that have registered a dip in the number of Covid cases. District health officer Bhagwan Pawar said, “A key reason for the high CFR in these five talukas is the fact that many ignored symptoms such as fever, respiratory issues and low oxygen levels.” He said moving serious patients will help reduce the CFR in the regions. “Pune city and nearby areas have reported drops in the cases. So it’s now possible to free up ventilator beds and other required facilities.” Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of the ZP, said, “Pune rural has an adequate number of oxygen and ventilator beds right now. Our focus in these parts will remain on early detection. We have observed that even now, at least four to five people with Covid, out of a 100, are reporting late to hospitals.” Prasad added, “There are several factors associated with the CFR during the Covid pandemic. Earlier, Junnar tesil had the district’s worst CFR at over 4.5 %. But within a month that value dropped to 3.6%. Officials there increased testing in the population. We plan to have a similar approach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patients-with-intense-ncov-symptoms-to-be-moved-to-pune-pcmc-facilities-zp/articleshow/78610232.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Two cops killed in Lucknow as dumpers hit police vehicles||LUCKNOW: A constable, deployed in UP 112 and identified as Umesh Kumar, died on the spot after a dumper hit a police reaction vehicle (PRV) from behind under the Mill area police station of Rae Bareli. After the accident, Rae Bareli police launched a checking drive. However, during the checking drive another dumper hit another police reaction vehicle near Sultanpur road in the same police station area. A jawan of Prantiya Raksha Dal (PRD) Rajdev lost his life, while two other constables deployed in UP 112 were injured and their condition was stated to be critical. The police managed to arrest and seize the vehicle in Mill area incident, but failed to arrest or trace the dumper in Maharajganj incident. Superintendent of police, Rae Bareli, Shlok Kumar told TOI that a dumper which had unloaded cement near the mill area, was bound to Kabrai in Mahoba. “During a checking area near the new RTO office in Hardaspur, a PRV intercepted a dumper and asked the driver to park it on the roadside. However, the driver, identified as Raj Roshan, was drunk and he deliberately hit the PRV,” said Kumar. As a result of which constable Umesh died on the spot, while two others sustained injuries and were admitted to KGMU Trauma centre in Lucknow. The police also said that Raj Roshan was arrested and his dumper was seized. Meanwhile, while an intensive operation was underway to intercept the dumper which crushed Umesh, another dumper hit another PRV near Sultanpur road. The police are yet to trace the dumper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/two-cops-killed-as-dumpers-hit-police-vehicles/articleshow/78610754.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kanpur||Unnao cops announce Rs 1 lakh reward for information on missing child||KANPUR: When all attempts to trace the missing six-year-old nephew of Unnao rape victim, who died last December after being set ablaze by upper caste men, failed, the Unnao Police have announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh to anyone giving information about the missing boy. It has been 10 days since the boy had gone missing on October 2 evening. Inspector Bihar police station Santosh Kumar Singh said the child, son of the deceased rape victim’s brother, had gone missing under mysterious circumstances from his aunt's house on October 2 evening. He said an FIR was lodged the same day under relevant sections of the IPC and nearly 14 police teams are working to recover the missing child. Singh further said that the reward of Rs1lakh has been announced after seeking permission of senior officials. The identity of the informer would be kept secret, he said. To recall, IG (Lucknow range) Lakshmi Singh on October 3 had suspended three cops deployed to secure the family members of the Unnao rape victim in this regard. The boy's aunt (the rape victim) was set ablaze on December 5, 2019. Police said, “Going by the clues, searches have been intensified in the neighbouring Rae Bareli district to trace the six-year-old child.The family of the child had lodged a complaint against five people — Capt Bajpai, Saroj Trivedi, Anita, Sundara Lodh and Harshit Bajpai — all of the same village and related to the accused Shubham and Shivam Trivedi, Harishankar, Umesh and Ram Kishore, who had allegedly poured petrol on the rape survivor and set her ablaze to prevent her from going to Baiswara railway station where she was supposed to board a train for Rae Bareli to meet her advocate.” SP Unnao, Sureshrao A Kulkarni, however, said, “Five accused are likely to undergo a narco test. Besides, a dog squad has also been pressed into service in the village. Fourteen teams under the supervision of ASP Vinod Kumar Pandey are working round the clock to recover the missing child.” Family members of the boy, meanwhile, organised a ‘hawan’ for his safe recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unnao-cops-announce-rs-1-lakh-reward-for-info-on-missing-child/articleshow/78609435.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Dead body swapped in Beed||Aurangabad: A Beed-based family and relatives of a 30-year-old man who died on Saturday were taken aback after they travelled over 90 km with a wrapped up dead body only to find that it belonged to someone else. Taking cognizance of the incident, an inquiry committee has been formed to ascertain what exactly went wrong at the time of handing over the body to the deceased’s relatives. Ifroz Shaikh, a resident of the Mominpura area of Beed, was a quarry worker who had travelled to Kej taluka-based quarry on Saturday. In the afternoon, he complaint of chest pain and was rushed to Swami Ramanand Tirth Rural (SRTR) Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Ambajogai where he succumbed during treatment. Following the due procedure, antigen as well as RT-PCR tests were conducted on the body to ascertain if he was infected with Covid-19. “On late Saturday night, we were handed over the wrapped dead body, following which we reached home and opened the wrapping only to find someone else instead of our family member,” the deceased’s elder brother told TOI. A message was immediately communicated to the hospital authorities who were reportedly on the verge of handing over Shaikh’s body to the family of another deceased. Accordingly, the mistakenly received dead body was rushed back to Ambajogai hospital and handed over to the morgue staffers. Hospital administration clarified that none of the exchanged bodies were Covid-19 infected and that the incident was the result of power failure. “The bodies were kept in a rack in the hospital’s morgue. Due to darkness, wrong body was handed over to the family. We have formed a three-member committee to carry out an investigation. The person responsible for the error will face action,” said SRT GMCH dean Dr. Shivaji Sukre. A medical officer from the hospital said that the other body handed over to Shaikh’s family was of a man hailing from Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dead-body-swapped-in-beed/articleshow/78610235.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Online attendance average 70% in urban Maha, below 50% in rural||Nagpur: An overwhelming majority of both aided and unaided schools in Maharashtra are witnessing average 70% attendance in online classes. Various associations representing schools and principals told TOI that in rural areas, this figure drops below 50%. They attribute this to lack smartphones and computers at homes of kids coming from lower income groups. Independent English Schools Association (IESA), a pan-Maharashtra group which represents unaided private schools, says a trend of attendance dropping gradually is being witnessed. Rajendra Dayma, president of IESA, said, “This is something which we are witnessing across the state. Attendance is touching 70% at the most and there is now a decline, which is clearly visible. Our members in rural areas are hardly touching the 50% attendance mark.” According to School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), aided schools are faring worse. Dilip Bose, a senior principal and office-bearer of SHCA, said, “The average is 50% here and that too in urban areas. In rural schools, you would be lucky to touch 30%.” He clarified that among private aided schools of English medium, attendance figures were seen touching 80% in some. “But that’s just a handful of schools. In vernacular schools, there is a constant struggle to get the attendance figures up,” said Bose. Ravindra Fadnavis’s Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal is an association of trusts which manages schools across Maharashtra. “Problem is lack of infrastructure to access online education because of affordability issues. Now that parents have started working, mobile phones go with them, leaving the child stuck. Even accessing recorded videos later becomes a challenge as many can’t afford data packs,” said Fadnavis, who has tied up with a social organization to arrange smartphones/tablets for his students. Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (HA), said this is a problem which can be solved through social partnerships or by children learning through government-run channels. “On Doordarshan, there are channels which broadcast tutorials according to state board curriculum. Also, the education department has tied up with a private mobile operator to broadcast the same through their inbuilt app. This academic year will require out-of-the-box thinking to take education ahead,” said Mude. With physical school reopening not happening till at least November, reliance on online classes will continue. Dayma said, “We worry about the those poor children who are being deprived of education. Unfortunately, there is no easy way out, as of now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/online-attendance-average-70-in-urban-maha-below-50-in-rural/articleshow/78610238.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Teen detained for killing girl||Jaipur: Alwar police has detained a minor boy who shot dead a 13-year-old girl. According to the family and cops, the shooting appears to be accidental. The girl was fatally shot when she went to buy groceries from a neighbourhood store following which the accused was absconding. The deceased was identified as Khushi Meo, while a case has been lodged by her father against Ansar, whose family owns the grocery shop. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-detained-for-killing-girl/articleshow/78610236.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Enjoy a ‘safe’ and green Puja parikrama on AC tram this year||KOLKATA: In a bid to dispel concerns over the spread of Covid-19 during Puja, West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) has designed the “safest possible” Puja parikrama by tram. The AC tram, which undergoes complete sanitization after every trip, is being touted to offer the most hygienic trip to some of the popular pandals after preliminary screening of passengers. “On Saptami and Nabami, the tram will roll through the city to take Puja revellers to the pandals. On the way, one can check out the various landmarks while nibbling on the light snacks served on board. The tram will also have WiFi,” said a senior WBTC officer. He added social distancing will be followed and only people wearing masks properly will be allowed on the tram,making it the safest Puja parikrama. The tram will be decked up for the occasion and the music of dhaks will provide the perfect ambience. One can grab a newspaper or can click some photos through the big glass windows of the tram. A guide will describe the city on the way. The package has been priced at Rs 500 per person. “We are trying to revive the magic of the city. The tram that has been running since 1873 will be weaved with one of the biggest carnivals on earth,” said WBTC managing director RVS Kapoor. The tram Puja parikrama will start at 11am on October 23 and 24. The tram will first go to Shyambazar from Esplanade. From there it will go to Gariahat. In north Kolkata, the tram will cover College Street, Hatibagan, Kashi Bose Lane, Nalini Sarkar Street and passengers can see Badamtala, 66 Pally, Deshapriya Park, Tridhara, Singhee Park and Ekdalia in the south.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/enjoy-a-safe-and-green-puja-parikrama-on-ac-tram-this-year/articleshow/78609312.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 12, 2020||Varanasi||‘Bombs’, ‘Naxalite’ letters trigger panic, prove hoax||VARANASI: There was panic and sensation in Rampur Kayasthan village under Gopiganj police station of Bhadohi district on Sunday morning when two bomb-like objects were recovered along with letters containing extortion threats on behalf of Naxalites. On Sunday mornig, after being informed, Gopiganj police and bomb disposal squad reached the two spots — one being the roof of the car that belongs to Rampur Kayasthan village head Ramesh Singh, and the other being the boundary wall of Jamaluddin Khan’s residence. “During initial investigation, it became clear that one suspicious object was nothing more than a cardboard box, and the other was very low-intensity bomb,” said Bhadohi superintendent of police R B Singh, adding that the presence of Naxalites has never been reported in the district. “However, since the threats have been issued in the name of Naxalites, teams have been engaged for proper investigation of the case,” said Singh. In the letters recovered along with the suspicious-looking objects, the miscreants had demanded Rs 2 lakh from village head Ramesh Singh and Rs 10 lakh from Jamaluddin Khan as extortion, while Rs 5 lakh was demanded from other people of the village. In a bid to create terror newspaper cuttings of the killing of a village head of Jaunpur district were also attached with the letters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bombs-naxalite-letters-trigger-panic-prove-hoax/articleshow/78609420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||PM distributes ‘property cards’ to beneficiaries in 50 villages of Uttarakhand||Dehradun: Around 6,800 residents of 50 villages in Uttarakhand received property cards on Sunday, which were distributed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a virtual event under the Survey of Villages and Mapping with Improvised Technology in Village Areas (SVAMITVA) scheme. Property cards are part of the pilot project of the ‘Meri Sampatti, Mera Haq (My Property, My Right)’ initiative, which aim to enable owners in rural areas to use their property for financial gain. A drone survey conducted jointly by the revenue department and the Survey of India helped create the ownership records. Using the document, villagers can get a loan against their property or use it for financial purposes. As the PM interacted with recipients of the cards, Suresh Chandra, a resident of Khirsu village, Pauri Garhwal district, said he wants to turn his home into a homestay for those going on the Char Dham Yatra. “Khirsu is famous for its scenic beauty and one can see spectacular panoramic views of the Himalayas. With property cards in their hands, several villagers are now planning to start homestays,” Chandra said, adding “The entire process was transparent. There was no dispute of any kind”. The PM responded that all details of homestays, including the photographs of the place and contact information should be available on the website, so that tourists and pilgrims get accurate information. Apart from Uttarakhand, the Prime Minister distributed property cards at villages of five other states - 346 from Uttar Pradesh, 221 from Haryana, 100 from Maharashtra, 44 from Madhya Pradesh, and two from Karnataka. According to the PMO, around one lakh property holders will be able to download the property cards through an SMS link sent to their phones, which will be followed by a distribution of the documents by respective state governments. The PM said the initiative under SVAMITVA (which translates to ownership) is a big step towards India becoming “atmanirbhar” and said that his government will try to give every household property cards in the next three to four years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-distributes-property-cards-to-beneficiaries-in-50-villages-of-uttarakhand/articleshow/78608402.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Lukewarm response to part-time engg courses||Coimbatore: For the 1,465 part-time BE/BTech seats in nine colleges across the state, only 520 eligible applications have been received, fewer than last year’s 607. The online admission process might have caused hassles for applicants, officials said. “Also, as the programme is open only for diploma holders with two-year work experience, applicants have to provide an experience certificate from their workplace. This could not have been possible in some cases, as companies were closed due to lockdown. We also need the company’s registration certificate, which some companies were not ready to issue,” said S Elango, coordinator of the online admission to part-time BE/BTech courses. As per the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) rules, the documents are necessary for admission. As many applications did not have them and were incomplete, officials could deem only half the applications received initially as eligible. While as per the initial schedule, the ranking should have been announced on September 17, officials said they couldn’t stick to it as there were many incomplete applications. “We had to contact such applicants and inform them of the procedures. This took us almost a month,” Elango said. As per the revised schedule, the rank list would be released on October 12. The online choice filling would go on from October 14 to 16. The process will end on October 19, with download of provisional allotment order. However, the officials have asked senior officials to allow a second phase of counselling for those who produce documents later. “We would conduct that after the first phase ends on October 19,” the coordinator said. This year, the 3.5-year part-time BE and BTech programme, comprising evening classes, were opened for unemployed diploma holders who had two years of work experience. The Coimbatore Institute of Technology (CIT) in the city is the secretarial centre for the part-time BE/BTech admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lukewarm-response-to-part-time-engg-courses/articleshow/78609324.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Land sharks eyeing temple plot shoot priest in UP||GONDA: In a near rerun of a priest’s murder in Rajasthan, gunmen shot at and critically injured a priest of Ram Janki Mandir in Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh, hours after midnight on Sunday. The shooting was a fallout of a feud over prime land on banks of Saryu tributary, Manorama. The priest, who’s battling for life at Trauma Centre, Lucknow, had been leading a crusade against the land sharks. The Ram Janki temple in Gonda, 45km from Ayodhya, has around 150 bighas of fertile land along the banks of Manorama that has a high market value and is also embroiled in court cases. Talking to TOI, Gonda superintendent of police, S K Pandey, said, “the priest, Samrat Das, was shot at inside the temple premises late night in vicinity of Ithia Tok police station area in Sadar tehsil of the district. An FIR has been registered against four persons, Amar Singh, Hariharan Singh, Mukesh Singh and Daroga Singh, but all are on the run. We have detained two persons till late Sunday.” In his statement to police, the temple head priest, Baba Sitaram Das, accused a local goon, Amar Singh, of engineering the attack. “The gunmen shot at Samrat Das while he was asleep at 2.30am. The assailants stormed inside the temple, thrashed the priest and pumped bullets into his chest despite deployment of two home guards to secure the premises. A similar attack took place in November last year and police are still investigating the case. Singh has been trying to grab 150 bigha of temple trust land, which priests had been opposing tooth and nail,” he said. On Thursday, a priest in Rajasthan died of burns after he was attacked by a group of men over a land dispute. The priest was cremated on Saturday after his family relented. Watch Land mafia opens fire at priest in Uttar Pradesh’s Gonda||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/priest-shot-at-over-feud-for-land-in-gonda-battles-for-life/articleshow/78610759.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 12, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Body of 22-year-old missing woman found in sugarcane field in Kheri||BAREILLY: The body of a 22-year-old missing woman was found in a waterlogged sugarcane field in Pasgava area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday evening. The woman had gone missing on Friday, following which her family lodged a complaint at Pasgava police station. The family suspects that she was raped and then strangled. Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull and additional SP Arun Kumar Singh also inspected the spot. Police have, meanwhile, deployed extra forces in the village and sent the body for autopsy. The ASP told TOI, “The woman had gone out for some personal work, but did not return. After police recovered her belongings from a field, a combing operation to trace her was launched in the area, and one of the police teams found her body in the waterlogged field. The body has started decomposing. Since there are no visible injuries, we are unable to comment on the reason for her death or the possibility of her being assaulted sexually. We have sought her call details to know about the people who had contacted her over the phone before she went missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-22-year-old-missing-woman-found-in-sugarcane-field-in-kheri/articleshow/78607473.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Woman kills alcoholic husband for torture||KOTA: Fed up with regular drinking issues and torture, a 40-year-old woman killed her 50-year-old husband, a railway employee in Kota, with a grinder (musal) at Loco Colony here on Friday and attempted to cover up her crime by cooking another story. But Kota city police busted the case within hours and arrested the woman who admitted to have committed the murder as she was fed up with torture and drinking trouble of her husband for years. Police produced the woman before a court on Sunday that sent her to police custody for two days. The blood-stained body of Rajendra Chobdaar was recovered from his bed on Friday night, circle inspector at Railway Colony Muninder Singh said. Acting promptly into the matter to trace the accused, a special team formed by Kota City SP Gourav Yadav and led by ASP Praveen Jain busted the mystery within hours on Saturday and arrested Lalita alias Premlata, who confessed to the crime. The woman had murdered her husband on Friday noon but in order to hide her crime, she cooked up a story and called her brother-in-law around 8pm saying she found her husband in the bed with blood oozing out of his ears, Singh said. She told police on Friday, her husband in an inebriated condition tortured her and in a fit of rage she attacked him with with a grinder killing him on the spot. The only son of the couple is already in jail for murder, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-kills-alcoholic-husband-for-torture/articleshow/78610296.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kanpur||Woman abducted and gang raped in Kannauj, 2 arrested||KANPUR: In a shocking sequence of events which has come to light from Kannauj district, a 20-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped and gang-raped by two people on late Saturday night. Police on Sunday said that the girl, a resident of an area under Tirwa police station, works at a garments shop in the town. On late Saturday evening, while she was returning home after buying vegetables from a nearby market, she was allegedly abducted by two locals known to her on the pretext of giving her lift and then gang-raped by them. The girl in her statement to the police said that she was going home at around 8pm after buying vegetables from a nearby market on late Saturday evening, when one Aman Khan of Buddhnagar, who was known to her, came riding a motorcycle, citing fear of criminal activities in the area, asked her to sit on his two-wheeler on the pretext of dropping her to her house. On the way, Aman picked his friend Ameen of Sarrafa Wali Gali. Instead of dropping the girl at her house, Aman took her to a secluded Kela Wala Bagh area on Bardhaiya road where she was kept hostage for three hours and raped repeatedly by him and his friend Ameen, the girl alleged in her statement. Inspector Tirwa Kotwali police station Indrapal Saroj said that when the girl’s condition had started deteriorating, the two accused at around 11 pm dumped her at an isolated spot and fled. Before escaping, they warned her of dire consequences if she spoke about the incident to anyone. The matter came to light only after the girl reached her home and narrated her ordeal to her family members who approached ‘dial 112’ and then lodged a complaint at Tirwa Kotwali. “An FIR under relevant sections, including section 376 (D) of IPC was lodged against the two accused on the basis of a complaint by the girl,” said SP Kannauj Amrendra Prasad. Subsequently, police swung into action and raided the hideouts of the accused and arrested them. Meanwhile, the victim was sent to the hospital for medical examination, he added. The incident has created tension as the victim and the accused belong to different communities. He said in view of the sensitive nature of the case, a large contingent of police has been deployed in the area. “Security personnel also patrolled the village,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-abducted-gang-raped-in-kannauj-accused-held/articleshow/78609425.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Mysterious drone flights keep Gadchiroli cops on toes||Nagpur: Unexplained movements in air space near police stations have become reason of prime concern in the highly sensitive Maoist-affected south Gadchiroli for the last one month. On Saturday too, a drone was spotted near police stations of Jimulgatta, Repanpalli and Zinganoor, with cops no closer to finding is source or motive. Sources said the top brass is engaged in analysing the latest tactics of the rival camp in the guerrilla zone. The cops had to also fire ‘warning shots’ at Jimulgatta as the drone was heading towards the police post. After shots were fired at it, the drone had started to drift away. The drone kept circling in the air above the village for some time before going away. But the incident had left the cops on high alert mode. Sources from the district said drones were spotted at Repanpalli and Zinganoor too but cops refrained from firing at them as they were at some distance from the police post. SP Ankit Goyal said police are analysing various aspects like flight paths, timing, heights and such issues. “We would first study and then reach a conclusion regarding the drones,” he said. Drones were spotted for the first time at Gatta on September 14 and later at different other posts like Koti, Kotmi, Hedri and Burgi. Cops had fired warning shots then too. “It seemed Maoists were conducting recce of the places with the help of the drones around police posts and also in villages,” said a source in the security agency. Sources in the police department said Maoists had tried to launch drone attack on security forces in the past too in Chhattisgarh. After several setbacks in the district, police sources said the Maoists are now trying to make a comeback with some casualties and drones may be part of such sabotage activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mysterious-drone-flights-keep-gadchiroli-cops-on-toes/articleshow/78609320.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Osmanabad sarpanch drives Covid patient to hosp||Aurangabad: After failing to get an ambulance to move two Covid-19 positive patients to hospital, Nitin Bhikkat, the 40-year old sarpanch of Fakrabad village in Washim taluka of Osmanabad district, donned a PPE kit and drove the patients to the hospital. The modest village with a population of 2,000 people is situated on the border of Beed and Osmanabad district with majority of the villagers being marginal farmers. Until recent, Fakrabad remained immune to coronavirus, but in the last one week, the village started reporting cases. As a precautionary measure, the administration organized a screening camp in the village on Saturday and 18 villagers voluntarily underwent antigen test. Of them, two tested positive for the contagion. They were immediately referred to Covid-19 treatment centre. Bhikkat told TOI, “We contacted the health officials as well as dialled 108, but in vain. Left with no option, I took one of the PPE kits brought by the health staffers and rushed the two positive patients, including an elderly woman, to the hospital in my car.” He said that he has decided to purchase an ambulance for the village in a span of 15 days so that any villager facing emergency situation may use it for reaching the hospital. Villagers said that Osmanabad district headquarters is comparatively far than Beed-based hospitals and markets owing to which the villagers from Fakrabad are more dependent on the Beed-based infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-sarpanch-drives-covid-patient-to-hosp/articleshow/78610259.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris district logs 128 new cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 128 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking its tally to 5,366, even as 137 patients recovered and were discharged from health facilities. A total of 4,537 cases have been discharged so far in the district. With this, the recovery rate as on date stands at 84.5%. According to health officials, the new cases are spread across the district, mostly rural areas. While 25 new cases were with travel history to other districts, the remaining cases were primary and secondary contacts of the earlier cases. “Of the 128 new cases, except for seven cases from Ooty town, the rest are from rural areas”, said a health official. As many as 799 active cases are still under treatment. While 17 covid patients are being treated at ESI hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, around 150 patients are being treated and monitored under home quarantine. The remaining active cases are being treated at Ooty GH, Coonoor GH, and Gudalur government hospital besides six covid care centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-district-logs-128-new-cases/articleshow/78609334.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur girl’s death: Fresh probe ordered||Jodhpur: A fresh investigation has been ordered by DG (crime) M L Lathar into the death of a 16-year-old girl whose body was found on railway tracks in Jodhpur’s Lohawat subdivision on September 21. The GRP had registered a suicide case on the basis of a note found with the deceased. Now, a fresh look into medical report, FSL report of the suicide note and call detail rerecord of the phone will shed light on the cause of death. The family of the deceased had alleged that she was raped and murdered by one Mahipal Bishnoi and others. “There were no evidences of her being crushed under the train. Her both legs were broken and the body was recovered in the morning even before any train passed on the track. This is a clear indication that she had been killed elsewhere and brought on the railway track later. She had injury marks on her body which were clear indication that she had been ill-treated, killed and dropped on railway track to look it like a suicide,” said Murildhar Viashnav, who took up the case with the higher authorities on behalf of the family. The railway police, investigating the case, had found a note in her pocket, which accused her mother and sisters along with a neighbour nurse as the causes of her suicide. But refusing to accept it as a suicide, her mother Sushila had given a complaint to the GRP accusing one Mahipal Bishnoi and others of raping and murdering her. Family also accused the police for hushing up the case alleging that the accused belonged to a dominant community. Family had also refused to accept the body for cremation, but later gave in to the pressure of the people and the district administration. “Bishnoi had called her up and asked her to come out to see him. He threatened that if she did not come, he would kill her and her family members the previous day. She finally left out of fear to see him and found dead next day,” her mother said in her complaint. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-girls-death-fresh-probe-ordered/articleshow/78610279.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Police bank on CCTV cams, drones to prevent crowding at Kolkata pandals||KOLKATA: The city police have begun to identify spots that will need CCTV surveillance to ensure there is no crowding due to the pandemic. The thrust this year is on physical distancing more than security. Kolkata Police — alarmed by the people out on streets for shopping without a care for social distancing — will be using as many as 750 CCTV cameras, many of which will be temporarily fixed in and around 129 major pandals of the city — as they are trying to ensure that people remain safe during the pandemic season. The cops have also trained more personnel to use drones and have connected all their live feeds directly to the Lalbazar control room. The cops alone are not the only ones who are worried. At least two major Puja organizers — Deshapriya Park in the south and Santosh Mitra Square in central Kolkata — have decided to temporarily shut down pandals if there is overcrowding. The police will try to ensure that important crossings like Rashbehari and Hatibagan are not crowded. They are also worried about the pandals — especially those in north Kolkata — which have narrow roads. “We shall use as much technology possible to enforce discipline. But nothing would be possible without public support,” said a divisional DCP. Every major pandal will have CCTV cameras at the entry and exit. “If there is 8-10 feet of entrance, we shall channel the crowd in two or three lanes. There will be thermal guns and not more than 25 people will be allowed inside,” said Saswata Basu from Forum for Durgotsav. But police said that the challenge will be to ensure that those waiting to enter the pandals do not crowd the entrance. “We have often found that people are not wearing the mask properly. Many wear it around their necks or merely cover their faces with handkerchiefs when they notice cops around. They forget that the mask is a protection against a virus that is killing people across the globe,” said a senior divisional officer. “We shall conduct a campaign — MaskUp — on the Puja theme to make people aware so that they remember at all times to wear a mask or keep their face adequately covered to contain the spread of infection,” commissioner Anuj Sharma told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-bank-on-cctv-cams-drones-to-prevent-crowding-at-city-pandals/articleshow/78609318.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: Hathras protest finds a voice in Catholic prayer||KOLKATA: In the wake of the Hathras incident, Catholic Association of Bengal (CAB) organized an open-air mass, congregating many faiths, against the perpetual injustice meted out to women. The congregation also prayed for the release of Stanislaus Lourduswamy, the 83-year-old Jesuit priest, who has been arrested on sedition charges. Jesuit priest Father Jyotiraj SJ read out the appeal from Archbishop Felix Machado, secretary general, Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India: “CBCI expresses its deep sorrow and anguish on the arrest of Fr Stan Swamy from his residence … accusing him of being related to the Bhima-Koregaon incident. Fr Stan Swamy has spent a major portion of his life serving tribals and downtrodden … The CBCI makes a strong appeal for immediate release Fr Stan Swamy…” After the event, CAB president Angelina Mantosh Jasnani told TOI, “It is also the International Day of the Girl Child. This would be the appropriate time to pray for all women who face discrimination and injustice.” Instead of having the mass within the confines of the church, CAB organized the prayer meet at the statue of Mother Teresa at Allen Park on Park Street. MP Nadimul Haque, who is also the chairman of West Bengal Minorities Commission, appealed for justice to the family of the Hathras victim and all those who subjected to similar outrage. The opening prayer was conducted by Fr Dominic Gomes, vicar general, Archdiocese of Calcutta, and the closing prayer was read by Devraj Fernandez along with Fr Rodney Burneo and Fr Lucas d’Cruze. “We at the CAB, of which Mother Teresa was a patron saint, decided to organize a day of solemnity for every human who has been victimized,” Francis Gomes, life member of CAB, said. Collin Fitzgerald, CAB’s treasurer, delivered the vote of thanks. Among those at the prayer meet were Sikh religious leader Sardar Bachchan Singh Saral, Jain guru Pramananda Maharaj, Buddhist monks Moni Maharaj and Chhoto Bante Maharaj. Reading the CBCI’s statement, Fr Jyotiraj added, “It is difficult to comprehend the plight of an octogenarian, like Fr Stan Swamy, with several ailments who is having to undergo such difficulties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hathras-protest-finds-a-voice-in-catholic-prayer/articleshow/78609328.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Child rights body seeks fee relief for Delhi govt school kids||NEW DELHI: With just a few days remaining for students of classes X and XII to pay the CBSE examination fee, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has written to the board asking for waiver or relaxation of 75% for government school students. Meanwhile, a parents’ body has crowdfunded Rs 4,47,000 for the 190 students of a government school in Moti Bagh. Many people have chipped in to help the students, including an eight-year-old boy who collected Rs.1.8 lakh through a crowdfunding website, Milaap. Adhiraaj Sejwal, the son of a government school teacher, will be donating the money to a government school in south Delhi’s Begumpur. Sejwal is a student of Amity International school. The education department had also issued a circular, saying that the contributions of people to schools and the department is most welcome in the interest of the students. Unlike last year, this year Delhi government is not paying the examination fees of the students in their schools. In the letter to CBSE, DCPCR chairman Anurag Kundu, said, “The loss in jobs and income has most drastically hit the unorganised informal sector, which is the biggest employer of the families of the children studying in government schools. The rising unemployment and poverty is making it difficult for the children and their families in Delhi to pay the CBSE board examination fee for classes X and XII. The commission to has received multiple requests from parents for relaxation of fees as otherwise, they may have to pull the children out of schools. The commission urges you to waive off the registration fees for the children studying in government schools by at least 75%.” All India Parents Association said that the organisation started started crowdfunding for as many students as they can fearing dropout in schools. AIPA president and advocate Ashok Agarwal has also filed a petition in the Supreme Court. “The school in Moti Bagh was the first we came in touch with. The collection is still going on and we will be paying for more students,” said Agarwal. In a letter to the department, AIPA said, “In case the fees have already been submitted by students, we would like to refund to the students, which they may use for their other necessities related to their education. We understand that most such students might have taken a loan to pay the fees.” Sejwal’s campaign has, however, four more days for completion. “From the money collected till now, I will be able to pay for 90 students of the school,” said the eight year old. The cheque would be handed over on Monday to the school. The last date for fee submission is October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/child-rights-body-seeks-fee-relief-for-govt-school-kids/articleshow/78610311.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 12, 2020||Pune||Bay of Bengal depression to bring rain to Maharashtra till Friday||PUNE/MUMBAI: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rains and thunderstorms across Maharashtra over the next five days. Met officials said light to moderate rain with thunder and lightning over Pune city will continue till October 16. Local convective activity has been bringing rain with lightning and thunderstorm for the past two days. The ghat areas of the district are likely to get heavy to very heavy rain in the next few days. The weather officials issued a yellow alert for Wednesday and Thursday for Mumbai, and till Thursday for Thane, Palghar and Raigad. An IMD official said the prevailing conditions were influenced by a weather system that turned from a low pressure system into a depression in the Bay of Bengal on Sunday. The system is further set to intensify into a deep depression on Monday. “This will result in strengthening of the monsoon winds over the state. And it will be eventually bring fairly widespread across the state,” said the official. The deep depression is expected to cross Visakhapatnam and Kakinada of Andhra Pradesh on Monday evening. “As this system heads westwards towards Maharashtra, the monsoon will become vigorous over most parts of the state and rainfall intensity will increase thereafter,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said. This monsoon, Pune has already recorded a surplus rain of 794mm. The IMD also predicated rainfall over Marathwada and Konkan-Goa region for the next few days. (With inputs from Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bay-of-bengal-depression-to-bring-rain-to-state-till-friday/articleshow/78609327.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 12, 2020||Pune||Lightning kills ambulance driver in Bhor||Pune: Saturday evening’s lighting and thunderstorm claimed the life of Vikas Shinde, 30, of Bhongavali village in Bhor taluka about 60km from Pune. Shinde worked as an ambulance driver at the primary health centre in Bhongavali.The Pune Rural police said Shinde and his wife were caught in the storm. “They took shelter near a brick kiln when a bolt of lighting struck him,” an officer from the Pune Rural police said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lightning-kills-ambulance-driver-in-bhor/articleshow/78609332.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Builders in Maharashtra to get full FSI when part of land given to BMC||MUMBAI: Now, builders in the state can utilise the entire floor space index (FSI) of a plot for commercial development when they surrender a portion of the land for public amenities to the BMC. FSI is the ratio that defines how much can be built on a plot. The state urban development department issued a clarification to this effect on September 25. Property market sources said the value of such plots could rise 10% to 40%, depending on the portion to be handed over to the BMC for a public road. Soon after this clarification was issued, sources said a seven-acre parcel in Vikhroli, which was purchased for Rs 363 crore in 2018, was sold by the owner for Rs 525 crore. The government’s decision will benefit all plot owners who wish to construct retail or office buildings under Regulation 33 (19) of Development Control and Promotions Regulations. The FSI under this regulation is a humongous 5 for commercial development. A leading architect said, “If 20% of a 1,000-square-metre plot is surrendered to the BMC for a public road, the FSI the builder received earlier was limited to just 80% of the plot (net area). The department’s clarification last month, though, will now allow the builder to use the FSI on the entire 100% (gross) of the plot.” With FSI 5, the builder would have earlier got 4,000 sq m of floor space. “Now the developer will be entitled to 5,000 sq m construction. In this case, the value of the plot shoots up by 20%,” he said. Early this month, Singapore-based Mapletree Investments concluded a deal to purchase the seven-acre land parcel in Vikhroli from Kanakia Group for Rs 525 crore. Kanakia had bought the plot just two years ago from India Tubes & Metal for Rs 363 crore. “This is a phenomenal appreciation in the land value within such a short period,” said a market source. Mapletree plans to build a commercial project on this plot. Hardeep Dayal, India head, Investments and Asset Management, Mapletree, did not respond to a TOI query on whether the firm planned to build the project under Regulation 33 (19).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bldrs-to-get-full-fsi-when-part-of-land-given-to-bmc/articleshow/78610764.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
October 12, 2020||Kanpur||Man in Kanpur hacked to death by 8 over old enmity||KANPUR: In a gruesome incident, eight people, including the brother and sons of a slain history-sheeter, hacked a 35-year-old Ola Bike rider to death with ‘chapads’ (a sharp-edged weapon) in Brahmnagar locality in Bajaria police station area of the city on late Saturday night. “The deceased Amit Valmiki was brutally attacked when he was returning home from work on late Saturday night. He was waylaid by Abhishek, his brother Gorey and six others, who then brutally attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and specifically targeted his vital organs,” said Bajaria police station in-charge Ram Murti Yadav. Amit was rushed to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, where he succumbed on Sunday morning, he added. According to police, there was old enmity between the victim, Amit Valmiki, and the main accused, Abhishek and his brother Gorey and the enmity was the cause behind the attack. “Abhishek and his brother Gorey had accused Amit, his brothers Gaurav and Gautam and two others of killing their father Bablu Ghisse, a history-sheeter who was found murdered near their house in 2013. A case was filed by Ghisse’s sons against Amit, his two brothers and two others following which police arrested them and sent them to jail. Amit was, however, released after four years, while his brother Gaurav was released after 14 months on getting bail in the murder case. Amit, who later got married, was currently working as Ola Bike rider in the city,” said Yadav. “We have registered a case and charged the accused with murder, rioting and under the Arms Act. We have arrested three aides of Abhishek and Gorey, and are on the lookout for them and their other aides,” the official said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-hacked-to-death-by-8-over-old-enmity/articleshow/78609434.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Plasma donors preferring private banks to govt ones||NAGPUR: The use of plasma for the treatment of Covid-19 has seen multifold growth since the private sector jumped in collecting plasma of recovered patients. But the two government hospitals of the city, which is leading the world’s largest plasma therapy trial, Project Platina, have been getting a lukewarm response from recovered patients as most of them preferring private banks to government ones. Since March 2020, these two medical colleges have treated over 6,000 patients of Covid-19 so far. But, only 31 of them have donated plasma in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and 17 in Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMCH). Against this, 200-plus recovered patients have donated plasma in Lifeline RBD plasma bank, and 45 in Hedgewar Blood bank. And this too, in less than 30 days since these banks started the collection and the distribution of plasma. Even those who need plasma find it easier to visit private plasma banks and get plasma bags. According to these banks, their approach towards patients is more sincere. “Being the first RBD Plasma bank in India, we collect plasma only from those donors who have enough antibodies developed. Due to this, the effectiveness of plasma provided by us is assured,” said Dr Harish Warbhe of Lifeline RBD Plasma Bank. He further said more than 400 patients have received plasma from his bank and most of them have cured. “Patients start showing improvement in oxygen count, within 24 hours of plasma therapy,” he said. State coordinator of Project Platina Dr Mohd Faisal said every possible measure is being taken to encourage more plasma donations in government hospitals. “In Mumbai, Pune and other cities, people are coming forward for plasma donations in government set-ups. But, Nagpur is an exception,” said Dr Faisal. According to him, it’s a responsibility of government authorities to check why private banks are getting more donors and more demands. “As far as Project Platina is concerned, it’s an ongoing scientific trial and we are progressing into it. Off-label use of plasma was a separate wing of this project which was launched to boost the chances of survival of serious Covid-19 patients by providing free plasma therapy. In government set-up, we need to follow the rules strictly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plasma-donors-preferring-pvt-banks-to-govt-ones/articleshow/78610315.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Panchayat elections: Voter turnout in 4 phases at 84%||Jaipur: The final turnout in the fourth phase of panchayat elections to 897 gram panchayats was recorded at 83.47%. The overall turnout percentage for all the four phases is 83.83%. The highest turnout was recorded in Jaisalmer’s Sam panchayat samiti at 94.03%. The lowest poll percentage in the fourth phase was recorded in Jalore’s Jaswantpura panchayat samiti at 71.87%. The poll percentage in the first phase of panchayat elections was 83.50%; 84.67% was recorded in the second phase and 83.69% in the third phase. In the fourth phase, the poll percentage till 10 am was 19.69%; up to 12 noon, it was recorded 38.91%; till 3 pm, the polling was 66.42% and at 5:30 pm, the poll percentage was 82.36%. Till the end of voting, it went up to 83.47%. Thanking the voters for ensuring peaceful elections in the all the four phases, state election commissioner P S Mehra said, “With the support of the voters and efforts of the district election officers, police personnel and all the other officials involved in poll-related activities, the polls in all the four phases were conducted successfully. With the completion of elections for the posts of Up-sarpanches on Sunday, the panchayat election-2020 comes to an end." In all, 4,629 candidates contested in the fourth phase of panchayat elections to 897 gram panchayats. Twenty six sarpanchs and 3,714 panchs were elected unopposed in the fourth phase of panchayat polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/panchayat-elections-voter-turnout-in-4-phases-at-84/articleshow/78610309.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra shifts metro car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg||MUMBAI: A month after declaring over 800 acres of Aarey Milk Colony a reserved forest, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday scrapped the construction of the metro car shed at Aarey and shifted the project to Kanjurmarg, fulfilling a key pre-poll environmental promise. The government has approved the merger of two metros, the underground Metro 3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) and the overground Metro 6 (Vikhroli-Lokhandwala), with a common car shed on 41 hectares in Kanjurmarg, said Thackeray in an address to the state. He also took a swipe at the previous BJP government, saying he did not believe in first cutting a forest and then making claims of planting five crore trees. Former CM Devendra Fadnavis, who had favoured the Aarey site and under whose government green protesters had to even face police action, tweeted that the decision was taken just to satisfy someone’s ego and would lead to a cost escalation of Rs 4,000 crore. He pointed to litigation on the Kanjurmarg land and its marshy nature to warn about Metro 3 getting delayed indefinitely and said the Rs 400 crore already spent on the Aarey car shed would go down the drain. Thackeray said in his address that government land in Kanjurmarg would be given free of cost for the car shed. “Not a single penny of the public money used in the construction at Aarey will be wasted,” he said. Thackeray said the cabinet had decided to take back the cases registered against “satyagrahis” who had protested against the Aarey project and the felling of trees. “Biodiversity in Aarey needs to be to conserved and protected. Nowhere in the world there is an 800-acre jungle in the heart of a city,” he said. His son, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, tweeted: “Aarey saved.” Last month, the state government had shortlisted two alternative sites, Kanjurmarg and Goregaon Pahadi, for a common car shed for Metro 3 and Metro 6. The Kanjurmarg announcement by Thackeray came as a surprise as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had been asked to undertake a feasibility study for the Goregaon Pahadi site. The Kanjurmarg land, which is part of a large land parcel along the Eastern Express Highway, is currently used for cultivation. On Sunday, soil testing and barricading of the area had started. The land comes under the CRZ but there are no mangroves there, said activists familiar with the project. The land had already been earmarked as a site for the proposed depot for Metro 6. The MMRDA had proposed to lay a Metro line between Kanjurmarg and Seepz in the master plan approved in 2004. Activists said there was a plan to merge Metro 3 and 6 in October 2015 as well. A six-member committee headed by the then metropolitan commissioner U P S Madan in its report had asked the state government to hand over the Kanjurmarg land to the Mumbai Metro Rail corporation (MMRC) in three months for work to start. The MMRC board decided to go ahead with the Aarey site, giving as its reasons cost escalation and, delay in execution of the project because of legal hurdles to acquire the plot. “This was exactly what was suggested in 2015 but rather than implementing it at that time, the government circulated false stories of the land parcel at Kanjurmarg being under litigation. This 41 hectares of land is free of any encroachment or litigation and is in government’s possession,” Zoru Bhathena, an environmental activist, said. He thanked Thackeray and his son, environment minister Aaditya. “This decision is a miracle. We were never against the metro line or anti-development but were fighting to save a green lung,” he said. Thackeray said public money spent on landfilling and construction of a building at the Aarey site would not be wasted. “Nearly Rs 100 crore has been spent on the construction at the site. The building that is standing at the site will be put to good use so that money, too, is not wasted,” he said. Officials said that work on construction of an electric substation and the portion where the underground Metro 3 goes through a tunnel and comes over-ground to merge with Metro 6 would be done at Aarey. Thackeray also said, “I cannot plant false trees. I am proud of the decision that we have taken to preserve and save Aarey. This ecological reserve will benefit not just our generation but several generations to come.” He said there was a need to relook at development with a focus on ecology and climate change, especially rise in temperature. “We need to take a relook at the development we want,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-shifts-metro-car-shed-from-aarey-to-kanjurmarg/articleshow/78610762.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Bikru: For this cop, gangster Vikas Dubey was source of raw mangoes||LUCKNOW: Why were you in touch with the Vikas Dubey gang? When this question was tossed to an under-scanner cop during the probe into police-mafia nexus after Bikru bloodbath, the reply was ludicrous. “Because he promised me give raw mangoes for pickle,” he said. Another cop shockingly told the special investigation team (SIT) officers that he gathered information on the slain gangster from newspaper reports. As the October 15 deadline for submission of the probe report into circumstances leading to the rise of mafia don Dubey draws close, SIT has gathered evidence against over a dozen police officers who were complicit in the don’s criminal activity. To the first cop’s pickle alibi, the SIT grilled him on how Dubey procured raw mangoes in July when the fruit had ripened at that time. Caught in his own web of lies, the intelligence officer stood sweating and exposed. When another officer peddled a lie about sourcing information on Dubey from a senior journalist, the SIT sought his mobile number and dialed. When the caller on the other side wasn’t a scribe, the trapped sleuth went down on his knees, begging for mercy. SIT under chairmanship of senior IAS officer Sanjay Bhusreddy is tightening the noose around tainted policemen from IPS to the lowest rung in the force, who abetted the Dubey’s crime and helped him expand his mafia empire. Other SIT members include ADG Hariram Sharma and DIG J Ravindra Gaud. Constituted on July 12, it has already received two extensions. SIT, however, is not probe the bizarre July 11 encounter of Dubey during his transit from Madhya Pradesh. This has been assigned to a retired Supreme Court judge and former director general of police. The probe team is particularly shocked over amassing of licensed and unlicensed weapons by the Dubey gang, despite multiple criminal cases against them. The report, which will be submitted to the chief minister, will be an eye opener, revealed a highly-placed source in the team, adding “there were many Dubey stooges in the police and intelligence apparatus and the nexus has been exposed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/for-this-cop-gangster-dubey-was-source-of-raw-mangoes/articleshow/78610770.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid cases, deaths drop; tally crosses 37,000-mark||COIMBATORE: In a relief for health officials as well as the general public in the district, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases continued to drop and remain less than 400 for the third consecutive day. The district recorded 389 new cases on Sunday, the lowest single-day count in the month so far, even as the tally zoomed past the 37,000-mark to 37,117, the third highest in the state. The daily count was at the current level way back in August, when the cases started raising steadily and crossed the 600-mark in September, before they started falling to 500. In the first week of October, the cases were slightly above 400. There was a slow but steady fall in the numbers on the subsequent days, giving hope that the virus spread would subside further in the coming weeks. A health officer said, “It’s a positive sign. We hope the trend continues.” The number of active Covid-19 cases stood at 4,917 on the day, as 390 patients were discharged from treatment facilities. The Covid-19 fatalities have also come down compared to the first week of the month. On October 1, the district had reported eight deaths. The number came down to five the next day and kept fluctuating in the following days. But for the past three days, the district has been recording four deaths, which again is seen as a positive sign. At 491, the district has the fourth highest Covid-19 toll in the state. City corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian said they would continue to conduct fever camps across the city to bring the cases further down. He has instructed the health staff to hold follow-up fever camps in all the places after a gap of a week.  He said Covid-19 testing would be conducted for the inmates of central prison in the city and suggested the jail authorities to quarantine new prisoners for 14 days, before letting them mingle with other inmates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-cases-deaths-drop-tally-crosses-37k-mark/articleshow/78609344.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Mastermind involved in firing at local jeweller held||DEHRADUN: A team of Dehradun police on Sunday arrested the mastermind of the recent crime involving firing at a local jeweller and robbery in Patel Nagar police station area. Acting on a tip-off, the accused, identified as Naeem, a resident of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh, was arrested from his hometown. On the basis of information provided by Naeem, police also recovered the jewellery robbed from the local jeweller on September 22. “The police team has recovered two gold rings and two pairs of earrings from his possession,” said SP City Shweta Choubey. To recall, police have already arrested two accused — Rahul Sharma and Nadeem — in connection with the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mastermind-involved-in-firing-at-local-jeweller-held/articleshow/78608423.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray warns of another lockdown if citizens don’t follow safety norms||MUMBAI: Reiterating that the war against Covid-19 will be won by the “whole-hearted participation” of people, CM Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday the government has asked the railways to increase the number of suburban train services to accommodate more ‘categories’ of citizens. Thackeray said that even as Maharashtra was slowly and carefully opening up all sectors, it is for the people to decide whether to follow social distancing and health norms to contain the pandemic or face a lockdown again. “We all want to travel by trains. But I don’t want crowding. We have asked railways to increase the number of suburban services and also the frequency after which more people will be allowed to travel in trains. A resolve from the people is needed to win this war,” said the CM. Thackeray added that despite the efforts of doctors and government, there seems to be carelessness on part of the public in wearing masks and following social distancing norms. “Many states in the US, Europe and Israel have announced lockdowns again. Now, I leave it to the citizens, whether wearing a mask is better or lockdown is better,” Thackeray said, pointing out that the virus is spreading from cities to rural areas. “With the number of Covid cases reducing, there is a sense of carelessness. Let us ensure that we do not create a situation where we have to go into a lockdown again. For this, there needs to be a massive people’s movement against the virus.” Pointing out that 70-80% of Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic and terming face masks as the “black belt” in the fight against the virus till a vaccine is found, Thackeray said some countries have imposed strict laws or harsh penalties for lockdown violations. “We don’t want that as of now,” he added. Thackeray also said that the government is taking its time to decide to reopen gyms and places of worship as it concerns the health of citizens. “In a gym, the heart pumping rate increases and if somebody is Covid-19 positive, the spread (by way of exhaling) will be faster,” he said, adding that he is in talks with gym owners for a standard operating procedure for them. “We want to re-open all sectors to bring in prosperity, but if care is not taken, we will end up aiding the spread of the virus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uddhav-warns-of-another-lockdown-if-citizens-dont-follow-safety-norms/articleshow/78611363.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 12, 2020||Salem||Labourer dies of electric shock||Salem: A 40-year-old man was electrocuted near Sivathapuram on the outskirts of Salem city on Sunday. The deceased ,V Raman of Chatram, was a manual labourer. On Sunday evening around 4 pm, a truck loaded with wooden logs from Tiruvannamalai came to Sivadhapuram in the district. Truck driver L Murali, 38, of Tiruvannamalai approached the local labourers in Shevapet to unload the logs. Raman and his friend S Rajasekar, 36, came forward. Both were sitting on the wooden logs in the truck. When the vehicle neared the Kothankadu area on the outskirts of the city, both Raman and Rajasekar accidentally hit a live wire above them and got electrocuted. Raman succumbed on the spot while Rajasekar sustained severe injuries. Suramangalam police have registered a case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/labourer-dies-of-electric-shock/articleshow/78609357.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Kirari sewage project gets nod, 423km lines to be laid||NEW DELHI: Facing the problem of sewage stagnating on the roads and by-lanes for years, residents of the Kirari belt may receive some respite. Delhi Jal Board has cleared one of its biggest sewage projects worth Rs 479cr to start laying down a sewage network in the entire belt. Over 7.25 lakh residents spread over 114 unauthorised colonies and six villages are expected to benefit under this project, that will take around three years to complete. A senior DJB official said that the sewage generated from these colonies will be taken to the 25 Million Gallons a Day (MGD) Rohini sewage treatment plant. The land for construction of pumping stations in Prem Nagar, Bhagya Vihar and Pratap Vihar has been allocated by Delhi Development Authority. The scale of the project can be gauged from the fact that the overall scheme will involve laying down 423.5kms of sewer lines and more than 23,900 manholes in the entire belt. The capacities of waste water pumping stations at Prem Nagar will be 6.5 MGD, Pratap Vihar 41 MGD, and Bhagya Vihar will be able to pump 9 million gallons of sewage per day. For several years, horrific images of houses filled with knee-deep sewage water and boats being used in some of these colonies have sparked public outrage. The board has now accorded approval to the work of providing and laying 250mm to 1,600mm internal and peripheral sewer line in Kirari group of colonies under Rohini catchment area as well as construction of waste pumping station at Prem Nagar Bhagya Vihar and Pratap Vihar including rising mains. “At present, the sewage of the colonies is being discharged into the Yamuna river through various drains, polluting it. The environmental conditions of the unauthorised colonies are also deteriorating because of the lack of sewerage systems. After the said work is implemented, sanitation and pollution-free living conditions will be provided to these residents,” the DJB official said. The sewage generated from these areas will be taken to the proposed STP at Rohini Phase-II through pumping stations and will be treated before outfall in the Yamuna. “After the execution of the project, around 7.25 lakh people will be benefit from it,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kirari-sewage-project-gets-nod-423km-lines-to-be-laid/articleshow/78610331.cms||Paras Singh
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh 2021: Sand beaches being prepared near Ganga for international sand art competition during fair||Haridwar: The Kumbh Mela officials are preparing two sand beaches on the banks of Ganga in Haridwar to conduct the international sand art competition during the religious event. Simultaneously, an Astha Path (faith path) is also being developed near Neeldhara Island. It has been learnt that the authorities are focussing on organising more outdoor than indoor activities this time around as there is a greater risk of Covid-19 transmission in closed spaces. Mela officer Deepak Rawat told TOI, “We have planned to organise more outdoor events this time. Two sand beaches are being prepared on the bank of Ganga. This is part of the Astha Path project and we are not spending any extra money for this. We have also planned to organise an international sand art competition during the mela. However, things will depend on the pandemic situation then. Nonetheless, these beaches will be a big attraction in the fair and also help in boosting Haridwar tourism.” Astha Path is being prepared by the irrigation department near Har-ki-Pauri. DK Singh, executive engineer of Uttarakhand irrigation department, said, “Around one-km-long Astha path is being prepared from Deen Dayal Upadhyay parking to Chandighat Bridge and the estimated cost of this is Rs 20 crore. Two beaches are also being readied on this Astha Path.” The Kumbh Mela is set to start from January next year in Haridwar. The first royal bath will take place on March 11 on the occasion of Mahashivratri. And the final bath will be held on April 27 at Har-ki-Pauri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-2021-sand-beaches-being-prepared-near-ganga-for-international-sand-art-competition-during-fair/articleshow/78608447.cms||MS Nawaz
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Three duplicate face masks of popular brand, arrested||Tirupur: Three men have been nabbed for duplicating face masks of a popular brand in Tirupur. Police said the trio were arrested based on a complaint lodged by Ramraj Cotton that was into marketing face masks under the brand name of ‘R R’. Police said the company approached them after finding face masks with the same logo of `RR’ being sold on an online portal. Police registered a case and launched an inquiry to trace the people selling the face masks using Ramaraj’s brand name and logo. They found it was Nermainathan, 32, owner of a banian making unit at KVR Nagar, who made the face masks. “While the logo on the mask was printed by Murugan, 32, of Moscow Nagar, who runs a printing press, it was Srinivasan, 30, of Thirineelakandapuram, who marketed them online,” said a police officer, who didn’t want to be named. Police arrested the trio and confiscated about 400 face masks and 1,500 logo stickers from them. Police said during the inquiry they had found that logos of several popular companies were being used by various small banian units. “But we have not received any complaints. If we get complaints, we will take action on others, who are using the brand name and logos of popular companies,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-duplicate-face-masks-of-popular-brand-arrested/articleshow/78609352.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Pune||19 people face police action for gambling||Pune: In separate actions, the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Saturday busted two gambling dens and filed cases against 19 people in this regard. A police team raided a den near Akurdi railway station and caught 12 people who were gambling. The team recovered equipment worth Rs36,000 from the spot. The same team later raided a video parlour in Pimple Gurav and took action against seven persons. The team recovered equipment worth Rs32,000. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/19-people-face-police-action-for-gambling/articleshow/78609350.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi: Minor dragged inside hostel, raped by polytechnic student||JHANSI: A 17-year girl was allegedly raped by a polytechnic student on Sunday. The girl alleged in her complaint stated that around a dozen students of the polytechnic forcibly took her inside the campus where one of them raped her on Sunday. She also alleged that the accused had extorted money from her, thrashed the boy whom she went to meet and filmed her objectionable video. The incident took place on the International Day of Girl Child inside the polytechnic campus where provincial civil services (PCS) exam was being held amidst heavy police protection. According to SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P, the victim had gone to her friend, a boy, when over a dozen students approached them. They forcibly took them inside the hostel campus where they manhandled the victim and thrashed her friend. Besides extorting Rs 2000 from the girl, one of the students raped her while the others filmed objectionable video of the duo. “When some police personnel, who were passing near the campus heard the cries of the victim, they took her to Sipree Bazar police station. The girl who was in a trauma, revealed the entire ordeal to the police and identified one of the accused as Bharat”, the SSP said. Talking to TOI on phone, principal of the polytechnic Naveen Kumar said, “The accused are second year students of the polytechnic whose actual identities are yet to be established. It has to be ascertained whether they are hostellers or not. There is only one security guard for the entire campus whose whereabouts are not known as he was busy with the PCS exams going in the college on Sunday”. On the other hand, the SSP said police have lodged an FIR against main accused Rohit Saini and Bharat and other 10-15 unknown persons under sections 120B, 376-D, 395, 386, 323 of the IPC, section 66D of the IT Act and section 3/4 of Posco Act. He said the main accused Rohit Saini and Bharat have been arrested. “Three police teams have been constituted to apprehend the other accused, The girl has been sent for medical examination. The college administration has been asked to identify the accused and give their details”, the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/minor-dragged-inside-hostel-raped-by-polytechnic-student/articleshow/78609441.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Fed up of long wait, locals fill potholes on road||KANPUR: Irked over the failure of authorities to get the roads repaired and get rid of potholes, the residents of Shyam Nagar decided to take the matter into their own hands. On Sunday, the residents of the localitye gathered and filled the potholes in nearly a stretch of over one kilometre of the road starting from Shujatganj to Harihardham crossing under the guidance of their local representatives. “As soon as BJP came to power, our CM Yogi Adityanath had promised to fix the problems of potholes on the roads in the entire state. But in vain, as we still see a plenty of them in our area,” said Shashank Mishra, a local resident of Shyamnagar. “We pay road tax and our roads are full of potholes. Everyone should come forward and raise the issue,” said local corporator Rajiv Setiya. “We have filled more than 500 potholes in the area. Elderlies and youngsters all are co-operating in this initiative. In fact, I get at least a dozen calls in a day wherein people request me to approach the concerned authorities regarding the pathetic condition of the road,” said Congress MLA Sohail Ansari. The residents complained that they have been making calls on the provided phone numbers of the district administration, but none pay heed to their calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fed-up-of-long-wait-locals-fill-potholes-on-road/articleshow/78609443.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Pune||Man arrested on charge of pal’s murder||Pune: The Alandi police arrested a 23-year-old man on Saturday on the charge of bludgeoning his friend to death following a quarrel over a petty issue. Suspect Deepak Bhimate from Nagpur went and informed his employer about the incident after bludgeoning Prafulla Gaikwad (27) to death late on Friday night. An officer from the Alandi police said Bhimate worked at a water purification plant at Solu village in Khed taluka. He used to stay in a rented accommodation with Gaikwad. “On Saturday night they entered a brawl over a pretty issue, following which Gaikwad slapped the Bhimae,” the officer said. Bhimate then picked up a stone and hurled it towards Gaikwad. “Bhimate then bludgeoned him to death and went to his owner’s house,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-arrested-on-charge-of-pals-murder/articleshow/78609345.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray warns of another lockdown if citizens don’t follow safety norms||MUMBAI: Reiterating that the war against Covid-19 will be won by the “whole-hearted participation” of people, CM Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday the government has asked the railways to increase the number of suburban train services to accommodate more ‘categories’ of citizens. Thackeray said that even as Maharashtra was slowly and carefully opening up all sectors, it is for the people to decide whether to follow social distancing and health norms to contain the pandemic or face a lockdown again. “We all want to travel by trains. But I don’t want crowding. We have asked railways to increase the number of suburban services and also the frequency after which more people will be allowed to travel in trains. A resolve from the people is needed to win this war,” said the CM. Thackeray added that despite the efforts of doctors and government, there seems to be carelessness on part of the public in wearing masks and following social distancing norms. “Many states in the US, Europe and Israel have announced lockdowns again. Now, I leave it to the citizens, whether wearing a mask is better or lockdown is better,” Thackeray said, pointing out that the virus is spreading from cities to rural areas. “With the number of Covid cases reducing, there is a sense of carelessness. Let us ensure that we do not create a situation where we have to go into a lockdown again. For this, there needs to be a massive people’s movement against the virus.” Pointing out that 70-80% of Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic and terming face masks as the “black belt” in the fight against the virus till a vaccine is found, Thackeray said some countries have imposed strict laws or harsh penalties for lockdown violations. “We don’t want that as of now,” he added. Thackeray also said that the government is taking its time to decide to reopen gyms and places of worship as it concerns the health of citizens. “In a gym, the heart pumping rate increases and if somebody is Covid-19 positive, the spread (by way of exhaling) will be faster,” he said, adding that he is in talks with gym owners for a standard operating procedure for them. “We want to re-open all sectors to bring in prosperity, but if care is not taken, we will end up aiding the spread of the virus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-warns-of-another-lockdown-if-citizens-dont-follow-safety-norms/articleshow/78610772.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 12, 2020||Surat||HIV+ve man hangs self in Lajpore jail||Surat: A 38-year-old HIV positive murder accused committed suicide in Lajpore Central Jail by hanging on Saturday night. The man, who was lodged in room number 1 of the high-security prison, used a bedsheet to hang from the ceiling fan. He was found hanging by the jail staff at around 10:30pm. “His family members told police that they had tried to get bail twice in the past few months, but the applications were rejected. He was physically weak due to prolonged illness,” said a police officer in Sachin police station. The accused was suffering from HIV for the past 20 years and was in the jail since 2017 for his alleged involvement in a murder case registered in Chowk Bazaar police station of the city. He was accused of killing his friend over some dispute. He was shifted to the high-security prison recently after he attempted to escape from the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on October 3 where he was hospitalized for treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hivve-man-hangs-self-in-lajpore-jail/articleshow/78608237.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||After filing FIR, CBI team reaches Hathras||LUCKNOW: A week after UP CM Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI probe into the Hathras case, the central agency on Sunday registered an FIR under sections 376D (gang rape), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act (offences of atrocities). Hours after registering the FIR, a CBI team reached Hathras and met the superintendent of police. Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal told TOI that a CBI team reached the district and sought documents regarding the victim girl’s case, which includes the case dairy and other evidence collected during the probe. “All paperwork has been wrapped up today. Their investigation will begin tomorrow,” a senior police official said, adding that the team has not met the victim’s family yet. Fifteen CBI officials are expected to be in Hathras for the next couple of weeks, a senior cop said. The CBI would also be inquiring into the forceful cremation if so by the local police, the allegation of negligence in not writing a case of rape on September 14, as alleged by the family. The SIT formed by the UP government, meanwhile, will continue its probe into police's role in the cremation incident. “That investigation is not related to the main case,” the senior cop added. A CBI spokesperson said the case had been assigned to its Ghaziabad unit with a special team to investigate the crime. The agency registered the case on the basis of the first FIR registered at Chandpa police station of Hathras on September 14 — an hour after the incident — for attempt to murder and under SC/ST Act against main accused Sandeep. The complainant in the case was the victim’s brother. The 19-year old girl died at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on September 29. She had suffered multiple fractures, paralysis in a brutal attack on September 14 in a Hathras village. "The CBI has today registered a case against an accused and taken over the investigation of the case, earlier registered ... at ... Hathras (Uttar Pradesh) on a complaint. The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field ... A team has been constituted. Investigation is continuing," a CBI press note said on Sunday. The investigating officer in the case is DSP (ACB, Ghaziabad) Seema Pahuja. The notification issued by the Centre on the request of the UP government had asked the CBI to probe rape, murder and atrocity and “any attempt, abetment and/or conspiracy, in relation to or in connection with such offence(s) and/or for any other offence committed in the course of the same transaction or arising out of the same facts”. The complainant had stated in the FIR that Sandeep had tried to strangle his sister while she was working in the fields. But she raised an alarm and his mother reached the spot. After that Sandeep fled the spot. Based on the incident, a case of attempt to murder and ST/SC act was registered. However, later the victim claimed to have been raped. The police later added the section of rape against the same accused on September 19 on the statement of the victim in JN Medical hospital. The next day cops arrested the main accused. Later, on September 22, the victim had claimed that she was gang-raped by three other youths of the same village as well and the cops added the penal section for gang rape and by September 26, all the accused were arrested and sent to the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-filing-fir-cbi-team-reaches-hathras/articleshow/78610774.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police book gangster with Rs 1.5 lakh reward under MCOCA||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Crime Branch has booked absconding south Delhi gangster Rohit Chaudhary under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and intensified their manhunt. Chaudhary (34), who carries a reward of Rs 1 lakh from Delhi Police and Rs 50,000 from the Uttar Pradesh Police, is supposedly shuttling between Uttarakhand and Haryana to dodge the police. When contacted, DCP (crime) Bhisham Singh confirmed the application of MCOCA on Choudhary but refused to share details, citing ongoing investigation. A source, however, said that an FIR under Section 3 of the MCOCA was registered against Choudhary on Friday and ACP Pankaj Singh has been made the investigating officer of the case. The special task force (STF) of the Crime Branch will probe it further. As part of proceedings , there will be a total crackdown on Choudhary’s crime syndicate, and not only arrest him and his absconding gang members, but also attach the properties bought by them from the proceeds of the crimes. The FIR names 13 associates who are at large and also details how he has created a criminal empire over the years. The accused has dozens of cases of murder, extortion, land grabbing and robbery against him. The FIR states that he graduated from Shaheed Bhagat Singh College of Delhi University. The cops say he was very active in student politics during his college days. Later, he came in contact with anti-social elements and took to crime. He never looked back after allegedly committing his first murder of a rival a few years ago. Early this year, Chaudhary had the cops hot on his tail after it emerged that the notorious gangster Ankit Gujjar had joined hands with Chaudhary to form a “Chaudhary-Gujjar gang” focussed on expanding their network in south Delhi. Till a few years ago, Chaudhary worked along with another gangster, Prince. However, they parted ways after being arrested together in a murder case of Lado Sarai in 2015. While operating from jail, they became archrivals and the gang members have been attacking each other since then. The rivalry is mostly over their attempts to extort money from builders and bookies. Last year in May, Choudhary’s hitmen allegedly gunned down 28-year-old Prince at a busy traffic signal in south Delhi’s Pushp Vihar, located near Saket Court. In November 2019, he allegedly gunned down another rival named Sudhir at a wedding function in Hapur, making it to UP Police’s wanted list. A senior crime branch officer said they had noticed that youths had joined Chaudhary’s gang of late, after being lured with promises of a lavish lifestyle, luxury cars and dominance in the society because of the gang's name. “Many of their gang members turn out to be first timers when arrested in cases of extortion or shootouts,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-book-gangster-with-rs-1-5l-reward-under-mcoca/articleshow/78610346.cms||Raj Shekhar
October 12, 2020||Vadodara||HIV-positive man calls cops before jumping to death in Vadodara||VADODARA: The officials at police control room on early Sunday morning were shocked when an HIV-positive man called informing them that he was standing on the terrace of the neighbouring Narmada Bhavan building and was about to jump off. The cops rushed to the Narmada Bhavan building as soon as they could, but the 65-year-old man had already jumped by then. The victim’s family members said that he had mentioned a few times that he would jump off the Narmada Bhavan one day as he was frustrated due to the disease for the past 12 years. He used to work as a stamp vendor in the same building until his son took over from him due to his age. When he called, he not only informed that he was ending his life but also shared his son’s contact number so that they could inform him about his death. “A PCR van was dispatched and his son was also told about the call, so he too left from his home in Chhani. We believe that the man had called minutes before jumping and after preparing himself mentally for it,” said a police official. The victim’s body was found near the rear gate of the building. A case of accidental death was registered at Raopura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hivve-man-calls-cops-before-jumping-to-death/articleshow/78608040.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hubballi||Lack of bridge forces villagers to take a 32-kilometre detour||DAVANAGERE: If one were to look at a map, it would not be very hard to see that Govinakovi, Kuruva, Rampura and a handful of other villages in Nyamathi taluk, Davanagere are hardly two or three kilometres farther apart from one another. However, the lack of a connecting bridge across the Tungabhadra River flowing between them compels them to take a 32-kilometre detour to travel between the villages! More than 55 years have elapsed since the demand for a connecting bridge across the river was first put across to the state government. It was in 1965 when HS Rudrappa was the Karnataka agriculture minister that the demand was first submitted by the villagers. Subsequently, during JH Patel’s tenure as chief minister, the project received government approval and Rs 6 crore sanctioned for its construction. The tireless efforts of Sri Vishveshwara Shivacharya Swami of Rampura Mutt also resulted in the soil being tested for the project. But, as Rampura resident D Manjunatha Gowda Patel pointed out, the project has since been hanging fire. The only alternative that the residents of the villages have is to take a boat across the Tungabhadra River, a risky affair even when there is no rain. Kavitha Shastri Holemutt, a resident of Nyamathi, said that the villagers can sail across the Tungabhdra only between January and the last week of May, when there is little danger of the boats getting swept away in the river. “But, during the monsoon, we have no choice but to take the detour. The bridge would really save us a lot of trouble,” she said. The Gadde Rameshwara temple and a cave, which is believed to have been the abode of a saint, become islands afloat on the Tungabhadra River after the rain, pointed out Swamy Holemutt of Honnali taluk. “The priests sail to these temples only once a week during the monsoon to conduct puja and other rituals. But if the river is in spate, the rituals are conducted only once in six months during the rainy season,” he added. MP Renukacharya, MLA for Honnali, said that he had discussed the need for the construction of a bridge across the Tungabhadra River with central ministers during a recent visit to New Delhi. “I will meet CM BS Yediyurappa and get his nod for the construction of the bridge at the earliest,” Renukacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lack-of-bridge-forces-villagers-to-take-a-32-kilometre-detour/articleshow/78610351.cms||SA Gangaraju
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch quizzes Republic CEO for 9 hours||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch on Sunday questioned Vikash Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV, for nine hours, in the Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging case, which involves alleged payments to homes where television sets were kept tuned to certain channels in order to boost their viewership. Among other executives of the channel, police recorded the statement of COO Hersh Bhandari and questioned distribution head Ghanshyam Singh in Daman. Singh, who was at a resort, was brought to Nani Daman police station and questioned for seven hours. The police, which wrote to a bank seeking details of Republic’s account, said it had received the statements. A police team from the economic offences wing (EOW) was examining the records.Police also took arrested accused Vishal Bhandari (21), a former employee of Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, which installed the bar-o-meters in homes for measuring viewership, to his Malad residence for a search. Investigators said they found a diary from Bhandari’s house which contained names of TV channels and households which received payoffs. “There are names of more than three channels. We can’t disclose them as the investigations are on. There are names of households/people who were paid money or were to be paid. We have seized it today and are going through it,” said an officer. Police have so far arrested four individuals in this case–Bhandari, Versova resident Bomapallirao Mistry (44), proprietor of Fakht Marathi, Shirish Shetty (44), and owner of Box Cinema, Narayan Sharma (47). They have claimed that Bhandari would pay Rs 400 to Rs 500 to some households, where bar-o-meters were installed, to keep specific channels on their TV sets on. Mistry is suspected of routing the payments. Investigators have sought bank account details of Fakht Marathi channel and Box Cinema too. “Sajjan Agarwal, CFO, Fakht Marathi, is expected to come to give a statement on Monday. He stays in Indore,” said an officer. A special team led by ACP Shashank Sandbhor and API Sachin Waze is probing the case. Republic TV’s Khanchandani, Bhandari and Singh have been summoned to the city crime branch office on Monday again. “We have asked Singh to come with a list of cable operators and DTH contracts. Other two have been asked to come with documents about TV ads and revenue generated,” said a police officer. Shiva Sundaram, CFO, Republic TV, has informed police that he would like to cooperate but due to his mother’s ill-health and reasons connected to the pandemic, he will present himself after October 14. Sundaram was summoned to appear on Saturday but did not turn up. Priya Mukherjee, COO Republic TV, was also summoned but she could not make it. “Mukherjee intimated us on Sunday morning that she was in Bangalore and was unable to come due to the pandemic. She will appear before police subject to directions of Supreme Court, where the channel has filed a petition seeking a stay on the probe,” added the police officer. In a statement on Sunday evening, Republic TV said its CEO, COO and a senior member of the distribution team were questioned by Mumbai police for 20 hours in all. According to the statement, the channel was “shocked to learn” that while questioning its CEO, police made “multiple attempts” to ascertain how the channel managed to access the complaint by Hansa which “made multiple mentions of a rival channel without a single reference of Republic TV, Republic Bharat or any affiliate of the Republic Media Network”. The channel said the complaint which forms the basis of the FIR was bereft of any mention of Republic. Meantime, a Mumbai police team has reached Rajasthan to trace another wanted accused in the case. The person’s identity was not disclosed. An officer said police have also opened an inquiry into the airing of a report on an English TV channel on Saturday. “It showed a document saying it was from Hansa. It claimed the document contained names of some other channels. Hansa has told us it was not their document. It was undated and unaddressed,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/crime-branch-quizzes-republic-ceo-for-9-hrs/articleshow/78610775.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 12, 2020||Kanpur||Nine grocery shops gutted in massive Baqarganj blaze||KANPUR: Atleast nine shops, mostly dealing with grocery products, were gutted in a major fire at Baqarganj area in Babupurwa on late Saturday night. The blaze was first spotted by the locals of the area, who alerted the fire and police departments. The flames soon spread to other shops, they said. By the time fire tenders reached the spot, nine shops were already engulfed in flames, said the police sources. “At least nine shops were reduced to ashes as fire fighters struggled for nearly two hours to contain the blaze,” said police. Four fire tenders from Meerpur Fire station were pressed into service to ensure that the flames were contained, they added. With no specific reason yet ascertained, most of the affected shopkeepers demanded an immediate probe into the incident. Inspector Babupurwa Janardan Pratap Singh said, “As per shopkeepers an estimated loss of Rs 50 lakh was assessed in the loss, meanwhile investigations are underway to ascertain the source which ignited the fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nine-grocery-shops-gutted-in-massive-baqarganj-blaze/articleshow/78609450.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||40,000 houses mapped, UP bags top slot in PM Swamitva Yojana||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has bagged the top slot among states under the ‘Swamitva Yojana’, which provisions allocation of a property card to house owners, essentially in rural areas to avail bank loans and other facilities. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday distributed 1 lakh cards under the scheme, which was launched on April 24, coinciding with Panchayati Raj Diwas. As per records of revenue department, which is the nodal department for implementation of the scheme, at least 40,000 rural households in 346 villages of 37 districts, mainly in eastern UP, have completed the process of household demarcation and mandatory documentation under ‘Swamitva Scheme’, making it the highest in the country. This was mapped with help of 346 drone cameras and data processing units. Terming the scheme as a historic effort towards rural transformation, the PM said it would be a great leap in ‘atmanirbhar abhiyan’. UP was followed by Haryana where survey was carried out in 221 villages, followed by Maharahtra where 100 villages were taken up. In Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, 50, 44 and 2 villages came in the ambit of the Swamitva Yojana. In all, 763 villages were covered in this phase of scheme. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, the state government convened meetings in rural areas and provided details of benefits along with the household surveys. He said, physical verification of private, institutional, semi-government and government properties was done with the help of drones. He said, villagers where properties were mapped were given 15 days to file objections. “Properties which had no dispute were finalised for issue of property cards,” Yogi said. The exercise, he said, would bring down disputes. Also, a primary data of the population would help the government in carrying out development. “The Swamitva Scheme would provide the much-needed financial liquidity and strength to put rural areas on a growth trajectory,” he said. Experts said, around 60% population resides in rural areas, but many households do not have ownership records. “The revenue department kept records of agricultural fields, but not of households,” said an official. In most villages, residential areas were unmapped and properties could not be officially attested. The scheme would also enable the government to keep a precise record of rural households and use them to recover taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/40k-houses-mapped-up-bags-top-slot-in-pm-swamitva-yojana/articleshow/78610777.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Smart City projects back on track||Coimbatore: The city is all set to get smarter with more revamped infrastructure soon, as the city corporation has asked the contractors to expediate work on some of the projects that are being implemented under the smart cities mission and complete them by early 2021. The city corporation had taken up 44 projects at a cost of Rs 984.86 crore under the smart city mission. It has completed 28 of them and the remaining projects are at different stages of execution. While projects such as solar park at Ukkadam and Kavundamapalayam, street art, flooding light at Nehru stadium and digital display boards are ready, works on lake beautification and rejuvenation, model road and multi-level car parking are underway. A source with the city corporation said, “Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian had in a recent meeting directed the contractors to speed up construction work and asked them to come up with monthly targets, which they have to complete within the stipulated time. We will review the work regularly.” He said they had fixed December as deadline for completing the model road project on DB Road at RS Puram and January 2021 for the multi-level car parking project and the lake beautification and rejuvenation project at Valankulam, Periyakulam and Selva Chinthamani tanks. “The contractor carrying out the car parking project has constructed two of the four floors. The plan to procure a hydraulic system from China was delayed because of the pandemic. Now, we have granted permission to buy the system from a manufacturer in Chennai,” the source said. It was only a few months ago that the city corporation commenced the model road project on Race Course Road, biomining at Vellalore dump yard and lake beautification project at five lakes. “Construction work is going on in full swing on Race Course Road,” the source said. In the case of biomining project, he said, the contractor has started installing machineries and was in the process to apply for electricity connection. He said the lockdown had caused slight delay in installing the machineries. The source said they had been identifying and removing encroachments along the Kumarasamy lake and Kurichi lake, before commencing the beautification work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/smart-city-projects-back-on-track/articleshow/78609371.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Coaching classes see writing on the wall, sell off desks & benches||MUMBAI: The Diwali sale season has a new entrant this year. With thousands of coaching classes in the city forced to fold up, sale street is flooded with desks and benches. With formulae and love stories etched on them, many of these pieces have witnessed more than just the academic journeys of students. But, much like beloved characters being bumped off in films, Covid has spelt an end to their role. About 30% or 9,500 coaching classes across the city have shut down and several have downsized. Desperate for financial liquidity, coaching class owners are putting up their furniture for sale. Some are even selling their entire set-up: Classrooms with whiteboards, seating for faculty and students, and notes with the copyright. Pandemic may change face of coaching classesMany coaching classes have not been able to survive the economic impact of the pandemic and they have been pushed to liquidate their assets,” said Maharashtra Coaching Classes Owners’ Association Sachin Karnavat. He is among the casualties, too. Just before the lockdown, he had rented premises with four classrooms in Badlapur to expand his footprint. “I have now moved to a new place which has three classrooms and the landlord has agreed to charge a lesser rent till business opens up fully. So, I am selling the benches of one class,” he said. Coaching classes operating out of slums are the worst hit. “Parents don’t pay fees for online classes and many don’t have internet connectivity or the device to take a class online. This has led to many classes closing down,” said another member of the association. There is also the feeling that the pandemic will forever alter the manner in which tutorials are run. In a future that could see either a tidal shift to online or a blended mode of education, owners of tutorials want to cut the flab. Some, however, are still holding out. “Several classes have stocked their furniture in warehouses,” said Karnavat. Old timers blame their downed shutters on hefty rents. “The tutorials that worked out of rented premises had thin margins. With landlords refusing to budge, class owners had no option but to shut shop,” said Narendra Bhambwani of Reliable Coaching Classes. His benches are in the market too. “I have given 25% of my premises on rent for a year. I had to give away benches to make space for the tenants. As I own all the properties where my classes were conducted, I am among the privileged few earning a rent,” he said. Despite prices being marked down, there are few takers. Bench vendors, the only buyers, are bargaining hard. The going rate in the market is between Rs 400-Rs 1,000 for a three-seater that perhaps saw backbenchers become besties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/coaching-classes-see-writing-on-the-wall-sell-off-desks-benches/articleshow/78610776.cms||Hemali Chhapia
October 12, 2020||Agra||Girl, 17, on road for 3 days & trudging back ‘towards’ her MP village, rescued in Hathras||AGRA: A 17 year-old- girl, who escaped from human traffickers in Delhi, walked blindly to UP for three days, walking 200 km to Hathras — about 794km short of her home in MP’s Mandla district— before she was spotted by passersby and cops. According to the girl, who was dazed and fatigued when police rescued late Saturday night, she was confined with at least 12 other girls her age in a tiny room in Delhi. Superintendent of police (SP) of Hathras, Vineet Jaiswal, said, “The girl is unable to tell us the exact location in Delhi where she was confined. She says there were 12 other girls and they all escaped. This is serious. The girl was distraught and hungry. She was on the road for the last three days, walking towards home in Madhya Pradesh’s Mandla district.” He added, “The matter is being investigated by circle officer (city) Ruchi Gupta.” The girl, meanwhile, was handed over to the child helpline, the SP said. “I have been walking for the last three days after escaping from the house. Someone said the man who brought me to the Delhi house will sell me. All the girls ran away. I also ran away, and started walking towards my home,” the girl said soon after the rescue. When police personnel asked her why she was sent to Delhi, the girl started crying. “My family is very poor and in need of money. Some villagers advised them to send me along with a few other girls to Delhi in lieu of some money. I don’t know how much, “ the girl said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-17-on-road-for-3-days-trudging-back-towards-her-mp-village-rescued-in-hathras/articleshow/78607512.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||Bhopal||Caste equation holds key to victory||Bhopal: The Ambah assembly constituency of Morena district which is a mix of semi-urban and rural population is all set to witness a triangular contest with all the three major parties BJP, Congress and BSP — aiming to win the seat. The BJP almost out of power in the constituency for the last seven years, is trying to win over the confidence of the voters riding the goodwill of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and his loyal candidate Kamlesh Jatav, who quit the Congress and his post following Scindia's footsteps in March this year. But, Ambah could prove a hard nut to crack with two factions of Scheduled Castes, Jatav and Sakhwar, who are facing each other on the local issues playing a decisive role. Kamlesh Jatav won the last election in 2018 by securing 37,343 votes, almost 30% vote share and a victory margin of 7,547 votes trouncing his nearest rival Neha Kinnar, an Independent who polled 29,796 votes. The BJP candidate Gabbar Sakhwar stood third in the fray securing 29,715 votes. This time, Kamlesh Jatav will face Congress nominee Satya Prakash Sakhwar, a one-term MLA from BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) in 2013 who switched sides ahead of by-poll and, Bhanupratap Singh Sakhwar, the BSP’s official candidate. The fourth name in the fray, Neha Kinnar, is yet to open her cards on contesting. Neha is learnt to have extended support to BJP after the fall of Congress government in the state and decided to stay away from the electoral battle. However, a faction of local leaders is trying to convince her to join the battle in order to turn it into a four-sided contest which could prove disastrous for the BJP. In the 2018 assembly polls, The BSP’s vote bank shifted to Congress that garnered maximum support from the Dalits and emerged victorious. The biggest challenge for Congress candidate Satya Prakash is to keep the Dalit votes intact. For BJP, the task to pacify angry Dalits who had been opposing the SC-ST Amendment Bill in 2018 and securing the votes for the saffron party would be the biggest challenge. The BJP having a record of four term victory on the seat from 1993 to 2008, is hopeful that the appointment of former minister Lalsingh Arya as the national president of SC Front will help in getting the support of Dalits to the party in the region. However, BJP candidate Jatav is facing opposition from within the party too for his remarks against senior leader and Scindia's blue-eyed boy, Tulsiram Silawat. Full story on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/caste-equation-holds-key-to-victory/articleshow/78610778.cms||Rajendra Sharma
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Big B to be Lord Buddha’s voice in Sarnath show||Varanasi: When the long-awaited sound and light show will begin using Dhamekha Stupa of Mauryan era at Sarnath as screen by the year-end, the audience will get to hear about the life of Lord Buddha in the rich baritone voice of Amitabh Bachchan, reports Rajeev Dikshit. The company assigned production of the show has started preparations for recording, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Sunday. The show had to be ready for screening by September 30 as per initial plan, but Bachchan tested positive just when the recording had to begin, said Agrawal. Fresh dates have been given to the company and recording will complete by October 25 after which sound mixing will take some time and so the show is likely to be ready for screening by the year-end, he added. Efforts to rope in Bachchan for the recording of the narration of Lord Buddha’s life since childhood to his parinirvana for a global audience had started in 2018, said officials of the tourism department. Tourism joint director Avinash Mishra said the content of the show had been finalized long ago and the content creator who developed the light and sound show of Agra and Jhansi was engaged. The Union ministry of tourism had in 2002-03 sanctioned Rs 3.52 crore for a light and sound show based on Lord Buddha at the Buddha Theme Park of Sarnath, where he had delivered his first sermon. Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) was assigned the project in 2003-04, but no work was done. The ministry withdrew the funds from ITDC in 2013. The UP tourism department decided to shift the site of the show to Dhamekha Stupa and sought consent from the Archaeological Survey of India. On ASI’s request, Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) experts evaluated the impact of the light and sound show on the monument. On getting a positive report, ASI gave its nod to the tourism department which asked Rajkiya Nirman Nigam to execute the project in 2016-17 and revised the budget to Rs 7.88 crore by February 2018. The audience gallery for the light and sound show has been developed in a park between stupa and ruins of some monuments with a makeshift sitting arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/big-b-to-be-lord-buddhas-voice-in-sarnath-show/articleshow/78610780.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Call to revive bicycle sharing project gets louder||Coimbatore: While the city corporation has put the bicycle sharing project on hold, cycle enthusiasts have urged the civic body to revive the same by putting in place the necessary infrastructure first. The city corporation had rolled out the project on a pilot basis at RS Puram for three months in 2018. The project, however, could not be implemented at Saibaba Colony and Vadavalli as planned, after the civic body failed to find a suitable bidder to execute the same. As its repeated attempts to find a contractor didn’t yield any results, the civic body had decided to put it on hold. Guinness P K Kumar, a cycle enthusiast, said if the corporation were to introduce the bicycle sharing system, people would gradually make that a success. “They are aware of the benefits of cycling and would come forward to use them. It would help us overcome lifestyle disorders, while reducing the pollution level in the city. The project, however, wouldn’t be successful without creating proper cycle tacks on the roads.” R Ravindran, secretary, Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore, also said the city corporation should create proper infrastructure before implementing the project. “Presently, pedestrian paths are occupied by the hawkers and the former are walking on the road. The city roads have to become bicycle-friendly first.” Pointing out that the vehicle population was higher than the roads could afford and there were no enough parking facilities, K Kathirmathiyon, of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, wondered how it was possible to introduce the bicycle sharing system in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/call-to-revive-bicycle-sharing-project-gets-louder/articleshow/78609387.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 12, 2020||Madurai||HC orders patta to landless man, but after thorough verification||MADURAI: Madras high court has directed Sivaganga district administration officials to issue patta to a man after conducting a thorough inquiry to verify if his claim of being a landless poor was true. The court was hearing the petition filed by B Sakthivel who sought grant of patta on two cents at Baiyoor Pillaivayal village in the district. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that according to the district adi dravidar and tribal welfare officer, 348 house sites were allotted to landless poor in the village and 64 people were given free house site patta in the first stage. Since Sakthivel was also a landless poor, he sought patta allotment from among the remaining 284 house sites. Justice S Vaidyanathan directed the authorities to consider the representation and issue patta after ascertaining by thorough enquiry that the petitioner is a landless poor. If he is found to be having land and had suppressed the info, the authorities could cancel the patta at any point of time. If it comes to light later that there is suppression of truth and the land has been obtained on the basis of false statement of being landless poor, the electricity and water supply connections shall be disconnected. The judge said that the burden is on the person who obtained the land by way of concealment of facts to disprove the allegation. He cannot take a plea that no notice was issued before disconnection of power and water, and show cause notice can be issued even after the disconnection. “There is no need for the official concerned to prove their case, as many citizens of the state have been, by one way or the other, attempting to grab government poramboke land or other public properties either by encroachment or by suppression as stated above,” observed the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-patta-to-landless-man-but-after-thorough-verification/articleshow/78609373.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 12, 2020||Trichy||HC imposes cost on public health director for submitting misleading facts on doc’s posting||Madurai: Taking a serious view of the delay in appointing a doctor to a vacant post, Madras high court imposed a cost of Rs 10,000 on the director of public health and preventive medicine as well as an official who held the post earlier for submitting misleading statements before the court. The court was hearing the petition filed by Dr B Dinesh Kumar who was working as assistant surgeon at the Vadamadurai primary health centre in Dindigul.Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) had issued a notification in 2014 inviting applications from eligible candidates for 33 posts of health officer in the state public health service. The provisional selection list showed the petitioner as placed in serial number one of the reserved list for Most Backward Class. Since a person who was employed in the said post belonging to the same community resigned, the petitioner sought appointment to the post.Justice R Suresh Kumar observed that the petitioner had filed two petitions before the court earlier, and this was the third, to get his legitimate right of appointment to the post which he ought to have been given long ago. The director of public health and preventive medicine in the positional note submitted before the court had stated that the petitioner’s name was not in the waitlist and he had subsequently written to the health secretary seeking to fill up the post as per the waitlist.The judge observed that the office of the director, whether the earlier incumbent or the present incumbent, had not cared to fill up the vacancy. “This kind of lethargic attitude on the part of the officials, which is a public utility department, has indicated a caution that all is not well,” noted the judge and directed authorities to issue appointment order to the petitioner.Since the judicial time of the court was consumed due to submission of wrong and misleading information, the judge imposed a cost of Rs 10,000 each on director of public health and preventive medicine Dr T S Selvavinayagam and Dr K Kulanthaisamy, the earlier incumbent of the post. The judge directed them to pay the same within two weeks to the registrar (administration) of HC Madurai bench which shall be used to augment the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hc-imposes-cost-on-public-health-director-for-submitting-misleading-facts-on-docs-posting/articleshow/78609377.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 12, 2020||Agra||No jobs for 43k labourers registered under MNREGS for past three months||Agra: Even though there has been a recent surge in the number of people seeking employment under the rural employment guarantee scheme due to the economic crisis during the Covid-19 lockdown, the data available with the rural development department suggests that at least 43,000 labourers registered under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) have not been assigned any work in the past 104 days in Agra district. Notably, following orders of the state government, the district administration during Covid Unlock 1 had started generating employment for the labourers under the scheme. Over 12 departments had started development works in different parts of the district engaging the labourers. The rural development department records show that 62,605 labourers were employed till June 26 in 15 blocks of Agra district. As many as 1,610 works related to the construction of roads, drains, digging of ponds, cleaning of canals were started in 680 out of 695 gram panchayats in the district. However, on October 7, the number of development works in progress under the scheme was 912. At present, only 18,753 labourers are employed in the works taking place in 588 villages. The remaining 43,852 are waiting for the past 104 days for employment. On Sunday, additional district programme officer Manish Kumar said, “The registration of labourers under the MNREGS had significantly increased after Covid-19 lockdown. Over 62,000 were employed in different activities across the district. With the completion of the proposed works, the requirement for labour has reduced in the past three months. We will be communicating with different departments to generate more work for those registered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-jobs-for-43k-labourers-registered-under-mnregs-for-past-three-months/articleshow/78607524.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Amid pandemic, IIMA lets 3 students take a gap year||Mumbai: Getting a spot in the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) is not easy. But the Covid-19 pandemic has forced a handful of management students to take a step back and opt for a gap year. Three students of IIM Ahmedabad are among those few. All other IIMs that TOI contacted said that as classes were online, students were largely attending them from home. Most IIMs did not permit students to take a gap year. Candidates who faced connectivity issues were allowed to return to campus and take classes from their hostel rooms. But three IIMA students opted to defer their academic pursuit after wrapping up their freshman year. “Three students from the new batch (MBA 2022) took deferment due to Covid-19 and the subsequent uncertainty,” said Shailesh Gandhi, Dean - Programmes, IIMA. “They will join next year (Batch 2021-2023).” The management school does not permit students to abruptly drop-out once they have been admitted and return to college after a year’s break. “But this year, that preference was given to candidates as many have been impacted by the pandemic,” said the faculty. The institute refused to disclose the identity of these candidates or mention the reason for their choice. IIMA is currently taking online classes for the MBA and MBA FABM 2022 batch. “Some of the students have requested to come to the campus and attend their online classes from their dorms citing connectivity and other issues in their respective hometowns. We are still considering the requests,” added Gandhi. At IIM Bangalore too, students with infrastructure problems like lack of reliable internet facilities have been allowed to come back. “There are about 100 students on campus. The institute is constantly assessing the difficulties experienced by the students and allowing them to come to campus,” said the spokesperson. Not every IIM has let students take a gap year. IIM Kozhikode does not allow deferment of an admission offer to subsequent years. At IIM Indore, some students reported occasional connectivity issues like poor or no internet, power cuts, and other circumstances beyond their control. “These applicants were interviewed by the Chair, PGP and allotted accommodation on the campus — about 50 participants till date. In addition, faculty members recorded all online sessions and shared the edited version with the participants (non-downloadable) through Google Drive. All specially-abled participants were provided with a hardcopy of the course materials,” said the institute’s spokesperson. Most IIMs felt that allowing students to take a year’s drop and subsequently permitting them to join in the next batch could have a bearing on the class strength that they wish to limit for “rich classroom experience”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amid-pandemic-iima-lets-3-students-take-a-gap-year/articleshow/78610783.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Congress hopes to tilt balance with Rudolfo’s entry||PANAJI: Former Santa Cruz MLA Victoria Fernandes’ son Rudolfo joined Congress at the Azad Maidan with several hundred supporters, a move which will boost the party’s prospects in Taleigao, Santa Cruz and Panaji, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar. While hinting that other prominent people are expected to join Congress in the coming weeks, Chodankar said that the party would win at least 25-26 constituencies in the 2022 assembly elections. Rudolfo said that along with his supporters, he would strengthen Congress and try to resolve people’s problems. “There are so many people with me and I am confident that I will get the ticket,” he said. Chodankar also said that those rebel MLAs who won on the Congress ticket but left to join BJP will not be accepted back into the party. “It is not right when a person wins on a Congress ticket and then without asking his supporters joins BJP,” Rudolfo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-rudolfos-entry-congress-hopes-to-tilt-balance-in-santa-cruz-taleigao-panaji/articleshow/78610831.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP brought Ravan Rajya, says sadhvi fielded by Congress||BHOPAL: Congress candidate for Badamalehara, Ramsiya Bharti, is emerging as a tough contender to BJP’s Pradhyumn Singh Lodhi, who shifted loyalty from Congress to BJP along with Jyotiraditya Scindia. The 35-year-old saffron-clad sadhvi has been fielded by Congress in Uma Bharti’s bastion. Lodhi was, in fact, initially with Bhartiya Janshakti Party, formed by Uma Bharti. He then joined BJP, switched to Congress, and is now back again with BJP. Expecting a clash of two sadhvis, people of Badamalehara are waiting for Uma Bharti, who is still quarantined in Haridwar following Coronavirus infection. She is expected back here after Navratra. On Saturday, while inaugurating her campaign office in Badamalehara, Sadhvi Ramsiya Bharati termed the BJP candidate “Kalnemi”, a demon depicted in Ramayana. She said that Kalnemi would be disguised as a saint and it was only Lord Hanuman who identified him as a demon, and gave him a sound beating. Without taking the name of the BJP candidate, she said, “He too is Kalnemi and we will defeat him.” In another campaign meeting, she said BJP has brought “Ravan Rajya”, and she would usher in Ram Rajya is she wins. Already known for her discourses on Ramayana, Ramsiya has been travelling alone in her constituency, holding election meetings. Last month Uma Bharti and CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had addressed a joint public rally for the BJP candidate, where Bharti exhorted people to vote for Lodhi. “Your vote will elect Pradhyumn Lodhi and I. Together, we will work for your development,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-brought-ravan-rajya-says-sadhvi-fielded-by-cong/articleshow/78610785.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
October 12, 2020||Madurai||Call to follow safety measures as festive shopping begins||Madurai: The shopping zones in the city have started to witness crowding, as people from the adjacent districts are also thronging for festival purchases, especially on weekends. As Masi Streets and Vilakkuthoon areas are getting crowded, activists and concerned residents have urged enforcement officials to ensure that Covid-19 precautionary measures are followed, else cases could surge again.“A section of shopkeepers have kept sanitisers for namesake and are not stressing on customers to use it. Some do not keep at the entrances. Many of the people have forgotten about the pandemic throw safety rules to the wind,” say concerned shoppers. V P Manikandan, a social activist from the city said, “No social distance, no wearing of masks and hand washing. People are behaving as if the pandemic has gone out of the country. Festive season shopping seems to have started. If the same situation prevails, we will have to pay a heavy price. We do not want second wave to hit, just like how it is happening in the neighbouring state of Kerala.”G Lingaraja, a resident of Tahsildar Nagar said, “Wearing a mask properly is not a big deal, but it is pathetic to see many of the people are not wearing one. Even if people wear it, they remove it when they talk to others.” “It is scary to go out to any shop as people do not maintain any distance whatsoever. People who are concerned about the disease try their best not to get into crowded places, hence we allow people in a hurry to finish up and leave before we get in,” he added.Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association, said that all the shops are strictly following the standard operating procedures in place. “We are getting only 60-70% of the customers compared to pre-covid times, hence, maintaining social distance in stores is not a big challenge. We will continue to follow the rules and make the festival shopping a safer one.”An official from Madurai corporation said that there is a trend of slight increase in Covid-19 cases reported in the last few days. “It is the responsibility of all to bring down the cases by means of cooperation. Teams will be formed to watch the commercial areas. Shopkeepers who violate rules will face music,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-follow-safety-measures-as-festive-shopping-begins/articleshow/78609388.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Madurai||HC tells man to gift 25 bags of rice to spl school for bail||Madurai: Granting bail to a man who was arrested for illegal possession of PDS rice, Madras high court directed him to donate 25 bags of rice to a special school for intellectually challenged children at Madurai. The court was hearing the bail plea of a man arrested by the Civil Supplies CID police in Tirunelveli on September 3 for offences under Essential Commodities Act. The prosecution said petitioner Arun and three others were in illegal possession of 12,000kg PDS rice. Arun’s counsel said his client, a driver, has been falsely implicated in the case and has been in jail for over 32 days, and hence sought bail. However, the government advocate submitted that the entire 12,000kg of PDS rice was seized by police from the accused people. Justice G K Ilanthiraiyan granted bail to the petitioner on condition that he donate 25 bags (50kg each) of branded ponni rice to Anbagam, a special school for intellectually challenged children, at Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-tells-man-to-gift-25-bags-of-rice-to-spl-school-for-bail/articleshow/78609382.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK will lead alliance in state, BJP at Centre: Min||Madurai: Edappadi K Palaniswami will be the chief minister candidate for the alliance that AIADMK forms for the assembly election which would be led by AIADMK only, revenue minister R B Udayakumar has said. “Till date, under the present alliance, it has been the rule that the BJP would lead the alliance at the Centre and AIADMK in the state. This would apply in the upcoming elections also as there would be no change in the fact that Edappadi Palaniswami will be the CM candidate,” he said, adding that Dravidian parties had always led the alliance in the state, be it DMK or AIADMK. He was speaking at an event organised to mark 100 days of Amma kitchen functioning in Madurai to provide food to patients, doctors and nurses at the Government Rajaji Hospital and five Covid care centres in Madurai, on Sunday. “The Amma kitchen was started with the concept that food was medicine and providing a healthy diet to patients and doctors and nurses tackling the disease. The encouragement given by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and ministers has helped this kitchen function successfully for 100 days and over 3 lakh parcels have been distributed till date,” he said. The minister said that in the past they had projected late chief ministers MGR and Jayalalithaa and sought votes, but this time they would also project Edappadi Palaniswami and his achievements during the election campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-will-lead-alliance-in-state-bjp-at-centre-min/articleshow/78609396.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath's exclusive interview with TOI||LUCKNOW: "Every person has the right to seek justice and my government will ensure that no injustice is done to anyone," said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath here on Sunday. "And for guaranteeing justice to all in Hathras case, we have sought a Supreme Court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation," he told TOI in an exclusive interview. “Sach Janata ke saamne aana chahihye aur Nyay paane ka adhikar harek vyakti ko hai,” he said. "That’s why we submitted our request before the Supreme court in an affidavit to request that CBI probe or any probe should happen under its supervision. We wanted everything to be transparent," he said, speaking on the issue for the first time to a newspaper, about this unusual taken by his government. For a general rule, state governments show reluctance to accept a CBI probe and go for it only after SC or HC issue notices. "All the named accused had been arrested in the case but opposition was indulging in petty politics and conspiracies,” CM Yogi Adityanath further said. “However, the people of the state are well aware that my government had adopted a series of measures for women safety and for the conviction of the accused in the cases of crime against women and young girls," he added. "There was a law and order situation in the state on September 30 (the girl died at a Delhi hospital on September 29) because of the impending court verdict on Babri maasjid demolition case, and then there were intelligence reports of vested interests all set to trigger cast riots in the shadow of the unfortunate Hathras case," he further said, adding "anyone going through those reports won't question the steps taken by us at the ground level." Enumerating the steps taken by his government, he said: “Besides the arrest of all four accused, action has been taken against the officers prima facie found responsible for lapses in the report submitted by the Special Investigation Team. Now, a CBI inquiry would further probe the cases.” “My government would not tolerate any crime against women and a zero-tolerance policy has been adopted in this regard,” he said, adding “a special campaign on women’s security will be carried out during the Navratra week, starting from October 17.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sought-sc-monitored-probe-in-hathras-for-total-transparency/articleshow/78610789.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 12, 2020||Agra||Spurt in number of patients with respiratory ailments at Agra’s SNMC over 10 days||Agra: The number of patients suffering from respiratory ailments like asthma who are visiting the emergency ward at the SN Medical College (SNMC) here has increased over the past 10 days. The number of those being admitted due to their serious condition has also gone up The period coincides with the air quality index (AQI) steadily worsening over the past 10 days.According to hospital data accessed by TOI, a month ago, on an average, three patients with respiratory ailments were being admitted at the emergency ward in a week. Now, at least three critical patients of asthma are being admitted every day. The number of calls for tele medicine consultancy for the same has doubled over the past 10 days. SNMC chest disease and tuberculosis department head Dr Santosh Kumar said, “Three to five patients of asthma, tuberculosis and other respiratory problems are being admitted daily at the emergency ward. The number of critical patients of asthma has increased following an increase in air pollution level and change in weather conditions.”Kumar added,“The number of calls on tele-medicine facility regarding breathing issues and other chest related problems has doubled over the last 10 days. On an average, 20 patients are being provided help on the phone every day." Chief medical officer of Agra district, Dr RC Pandey said, “Asthma and tuberculosis patients should avoid going to construction sites or any dusty area. They should avoid public places, especially during the daytime." He suggested that patients don a mask, It will not only protect against contracting Covid-19 but guard against the ill effects of pollution.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) at 4 pm on Sunday reported 'poor' AQI quality index in Agra at 242. Particulate matter 2.5 remained prominent air pollutant. According to CPCB sources, AQI in 'poor' category can cause “breathing discomfort among most pelople on prolonged exposure”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/spurt-in-number-of-patients-with-respiratory-ailments-at-agras-snmc-over-10-days/articleshow/78607542.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Bhopal||MP forensic doctor who went to Hathras village faces inquiry||JABALPUR: Dr Rajkumari Bansal, the 40-year-old forensic specialist from MP’s Jabalpur, who has been accused by some media outlets of being a Naxalite and living with the Hathras victim’s family “posing as a relative”, will now face an inquiry by the administration of Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, where she works as an assistant professor. “She went on leave without intimation. So, we will send her a showcause notice on Monday. We are not concerned with where she went and why. Our concern is that she went on leave without information. The rest is police matter,” college dean Dr P K Kasar told TOI. Dr Kasar said that he has seen videos of Dr Bansal at the Hathras victim’s house on TV. “If we get anything written from the police or government, we will take further action in accordance with law,” he said, adding that she had submitted a leave application only after returning from UP. Dr Bansal, however, maintains that she had followed due procedure before going on leave. “People are spreading false news. I had a telephonic conversation with the head of my department for urgent leave application. No rules were violated,” she said. She says she never hid her identity before police in Hathras and had only gone to extend financial and moral support to the family. “I was driven by my conscience to reach out to the Hathras family,” she said. She has complained to the cyber cell that her phone has been put under surveillance. Dr Bansal said she will take legal action against those spreading rumours about “Naxal” connections. “I was upset and disturbed following the incident and did not want a repeat of the Unnao case, where the entire family was targeted. Seeing women reporters putting up a strong fight and voicing the family’s concern, I got the courage to go there,” Dr Bansal had told TOI on Saturday. She took a train from Jabalpur to Agra on October 3 and reached Hathras the next afternoon. Bansal said she had booked a return ticket to Jabalpur on October 5, but the family insisted that she stay back for two more days. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/forensic-doc-who-went-to-hathras-faces-inquiry-for-leave-without-approval/articleshow/78610805.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: New norms for renting a home in the time of Covid||CHENNAI: House rents that hit rock-bottom in the city as people fled the city after Chennai became a hotspot for Covid-19 are slowly going up. Rents that dropped to about 50% in June are now 20% below the pre-Covid levels across the city due to rise in demand for accommodations. While there is a spike in demand in south Chennai and western suburbs, rents are yet to recover in Old Mahabalipuram Road and areas branching out of Rajiv Gandhi Salai. Data sourced from leading property portals and inquiries with independent real estate agents revealed that property rentals have picked up in the past 45 days though the movement is largely limited to city residents. During the past four months, online portals saw a sharp rise in property listings when compared to the corresponding period of 2019. According to online property platform Magicbricks, Chennai’s rental listings on the portal fell by 20% in June. It improved in September with rental listings climbing by 13% as vacated properties were advertised. The rental values continued to slide last month as landlords were eager to get tenants. On NoBroker, another real estate platform, there was a 47% increase in listings by house owners in the past four months when compared to June-September 2019. The platform said locations that were not close to work places was seeing a better traction. Saurabh Garg, co-founder and chief business officer of NoBroker, said properties in Kolathur and Ambattur were the most sought after while searches for home in Velachery and Perungudi dipped as companies encouraged work from home. “As per our analysis, the rental residential market has bounced back to pre-Covid times. However, the annual rental revision of five percent is not happening, though rentals could have plunged further in some locations such as Velachery and Perungidi due to lower demand,” he said. The spike in online listings was also due to massive shifting from offline to online platform for searching rental houses during the peak of Covid, he said. City-based real estate agents said the difference between rents in pre-Covid times and now has shrunk. But the premium segment, in which rents are above Rs 50,000, has very few takers save the villas along ECR. Yasser Rahman, partner, Connection Point, said large companies have cut down HRA and other perks, and many transfers have been put on hold this year. “So the demand in high value rentals is very low and at the same time inventory that are above the range of Rs 50,000 is increasing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-norms-for-renting-a-home-in-the-time-of-covid/articleshow/78609397.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
October 12, 2020||Madurai||800-year-old stone inscription with horse’s image found in Virudhunagar||Madurai: An eight hundred-year-old stone inscription with an image of a horse inscribed on it has been discovered near Tiruchuzhi in Virudhunagar district. The inscription was found along with two more inscriptions and broken idols from the same era.President of the Ramanathapuram Archaeological Society, V Rajaguru, said that he had been informed of stone inscriptions and idols scattered near a tank in Purasalur near Tiruchuzhi by two persons, S Ramesh and T Sripal. Rajaguru said that he visited the spot and recovered the artefacts. He said that there was a temple near the tank which is now in a dilapidated condition. A sluice had also been constructed for the tank near the temple over 800 years ago. It was when the villagers decided to construct a new sluice for the tank that the stones inscriptions and idols were unearthed.Broken pieces of idols of deities like Jagathi, Kumutham and Yazhi were also found. It was determined that they belonged to the 13th century AD. Of the three inscriptions recovered, the researchers were able to decipher one of the inscriptions. The inscription has four lines speaking of the boundaries of a certain piece of land and the name Varulvasanallur is inscribed on it. He said that it may refer to the present day Thiruvarulvasaganallur.There is a mention of Karana Maravar, a community in which the menfolk were usually soldiers, found in the inscription and there is an image of a horse inscribed next to it. Hence, it may refer to the soldiers in the calvary, Rajaguru said. It may be an inscription detailing about the land given to soldiers by the king and the people from the Karana Maravar community may have been appointed as caretakers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/800-year-old-stone-inscription-with-horses-image-found-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/78609400.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Surat||Two staffers of restaurant chain killed in hit-and-run||SURAT: Two employees of a prominent restaurant chain, Barbeque Nation, were knocked to death by a speeding car in a hit-and-run accident that happened at Kargil Chowk on Dumas road on Sunday. The victims, Paresh Uttam Malvi (35), senior captain and Govindsinh Umed Kathayat (28), materials executive, were returning home in Umra village on foot at around 1:30am when a dark-coloured Honda car going towards SVNIT circle hit them. They were dragged for nearly 30 metres and died on the spot due to severe injuries and blood loss, said police sources. The complaint was lodged by Ramchandra Keshu Chaudhary, a resident of Parle Point. Some passer-by noticed the identity cards of the victims and reached Barbeque Nation at Parle Point to inform Ramchandra Chaudhary, another senior captain at the restaurant. Police are examining various CCTV footages of the location but the vehicle is yet to be traced. “It is suspected that a mini SUV type of vehicle is involved in the accident. We will nab the driver soon,” said a police officer in Umra police station. Police found a broken wiper of a Honda car from the spot. An unidentified driver was booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any negligent act that endanger human life), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life), 304A (causing death by negligence) and various sections of The Motor Vehicle Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-staffers-of-restaurant-chain-killed-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/78608219.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mysuru||Woman, son murdered in Shivamogga||SHIVAMOGGA: A woman and her son were brutally murdered in Sagar taluk on Saturday night. They were stabbed to death with a knife by miscreants. Murderers have left two persons alive including a child. The victims are Bangaramma, 62, and her son Praveen, 32. They were killed by an unknown gang on Saturday night at Kaskasekodlu village near Keladi in Sagara. Praveen, working as a mason, was married last year. He has a 10-months-old baby. Surprisingly, the murderers left his wife and the baby but stabbed him and his mother mercilessly with knives in front of the wife. “Some people, who had covered their faces with masks, came at midnight and knocked on the door. My husband opened the door. They caught him and stabbed him. They tied my hands and plastered my mouth with plastic sheets. They also stabbed my mother-in-law,” said Praveen’s wife Rohini. Superintendent of police Shivamogga KM Shantharaju visited the village. Speaking to the media, Gopala Krishna Beluru, former MLA of Sagara, said crime rate is alarmingly rising in Malnad. Administration has failed in Shivamogga, he added. This is the second double murder in Shivamogga is a month. About 20 days ago, miscreants killed an aged couple in Byakodu village in Sharavathi valley of Sagara taluk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-son-murdered-in-shivamogga/articleshow/78610082.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Vadodara||Teenager threatened of acid attack for spurning proposal||VADODARA: A spurned man threatened a 16-year-old girl of acid attack in Dabhoi for rejecting his proposal for marriage. Police have registered an offence of sexual harassment, criminal intimidation and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against Jameel Jambusaria on Saturday and have also detained the accused. In her complaint, the minor girl aid she got in touch with the accused on a social media platform around six months ago. While chatting her up, he also took the girl’s mobile phone number and started calling her up. The girl alleged that Jambusaria would keep calling her to his home and when she refused, would threaten her of jumping off the terrace of his house and blaming her in his suicide note. Jambusaria allegedly stalked the girl wherever she went and finally irritated by his threat, she met him. The accused held her hand and clicked her photos on his mobile against her wishes. The girl alleged that later Jambusaria asked her to talk to her parents about their marriage. While she refused saying that she is young and not interested in marrying him, the accused became furious. “He told the girl that she will have to marry him no matter what and if she continues opposing his proposal, he will throw acid on her face,” said a police official, adding that though she left the place immediately, the accused continued to trouble her. Tired of the harassment, the girl finally told her parents and also approached the police. “We have kept him in quarantine as his Covid-19 test result is awaited,” said a Dabhoi police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teenager-threatened-of-acid-attack-for-spurning-proposal/articleshow/78608067.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Madurai||Residents say blocked stormwater drain will lead to flooding in Thiruppalai||Madurai: The flow of water in a stormwater drain channel in Thiruppalai was blocked for the construction of a culvert underneath Natham Main Road six months ago. However, with frequent rain lashing the city, residents are worried that it may result in water logging in the residential areasThe areas near the channel are prone to water logging, hence, the residents have urged the highways officials to use pipe structures to allow water movement till the construction is completed.R Sivanarayanapandian, coordinator of federation of various residents’ welfare associations alongside Natham Road, said that, “The channel carries excess water from Sathaiyar dam. It helps in water to recede from nearby residential areas whenever it rains. Since it is blocked, there is a threat of water flooding residential areas if there is a downpour,” he said.He said that areas like TWAD Colony, MM Nagar and Guru Nagar may get flooded if the water movement is not allowed. It has been more than six months since the construction of culvert on the storm water drain channel was taken up, but it is yet to be completed, he added.G Shenbagam, a resident of Thiruppalai said that mosquito menace has increased ever since the channel was blocked and often bad smell is emitted from the channel as the water is stagnant for long. Action should be taken to drain the water, Shenbagam, said.Sivanarayanapandian said that officials concerned from the highways department should also expedite the construction work. Meanwhile, a temporary arrangement should be done to release the water, he urged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/residents-say-blocked-stormwater-drain-will-lead-to-flooding-in-thiruppalai/articleshow/78609405.cms||V Devanathan
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: Daily cases hover above 500 in southern, central regions||MADURAI/TRICHY: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases continued to be above 500 on Sunday, in the ten southern districts of the state. With 529 fresh cases, the tally has climbed to 1,17,505 cases, which include 4,395 active cases and 1,11,184 recoveries. The region also reported six deaths taking the toll to 1,926 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 572 fresh cases taking the tally to 58,915, which include 3,990 active cases. The region also recorded seven deaths pushing the toll to 783. Madurai (97) reported the most number of cases on Sunday followed by Kanyakumari (79) and Tirunelveli (77). All the southern districts continued to report less than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases. Kanyakumari and Madurai report the most number of active cases (776) in the southern region. The total active cases in Tirunelveli came down to 693. Tuticorin (69) and Theni (64) also reported more than 50 Covid-19 cases. The active cases in Tuticorin and Theni are 531 and 447. All other districts Dindigul (35), Virudhunagar (35), Sivaganga (28), Ramanathapuram (26), and Tenkasi (19) reported only less than 50 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Three districts, Sivaganga (197), Ramanathapuram (186) and Tenkasi (186) have less than 200 active cases in south TN. The six deaths reported on Sunday were at Kanyakumari (2), Madurai (1), Sivaganga (1), Tenkasi (1), and Theni (1). The death rate in the southern region is 1.64%. Thanjavur district reported 181 cases, the highest in the central region, and two deaths. So far 13,719 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, while 12,571 patients have been discharged. Tiruvarur recorded 98 fresh cases for the second consecutive day on Sunday taking the tally to 8,396. Trichy reported 87 cases, while the total tally is 11,396. Tiruvarur reported three deaths. Nagapattinam reported 61 cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 5,845. Covid cases were also reported in Pudukottai (48), Karur (48), Ariyalur (37), Perambalur (12).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/daily-cases-hover-above-500-in-southern-central-regions/articleshow/78614625.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan interstate IPL betting gang busted by ATS||JAIPUR: In a major operation, the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) busted an interstate gang involved in betting on the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) on Sunday. Simultaneous raids were conducted in Delhi, Cyberabad in Telangana, Jaipur and Nagaur, and 14 persons were arrested late on Sunday evening. The ATS had received information that bookies from the state were operating in other states and taking bets on IPL matches, currently underway in UAE. “Based on the information, the ATS teams conducted simultaneous raids at five different places in three states. The accused had followed a modus operandi of switching places, moving to other states to hoodwink cops and carry out their illegal activities. We came to know that they would change their location from Monday and, hence, we conducted the raids with the help of police from other states on Sunday, when two IPL matches were going on. We are in the process of registering cases at different places.” ADG Ashok Rathore, SOG & ATS, told TOI. Although the accounts are yet to be checked thoroughly, officials believe that the betting racket would have dealt in at least Rs 20 crore. Cops recovered Rs 2.5 lakh from the Jaipur residence of one of the accused who was arrested from Telangana. Of 14 accused, seven held from CyberabadOf the 14 arrested, seven were held from Cyberabad, while the remaining were caught from Jaipur. Most of the arrested hail from Bikaner in Rajasthan. In Delhi and Nagaur, the accused managed to escape from the cops. Police seized mobile phones, laptops and computers which were being used to run the betting racket. In Jaipur, the accused were found to be using range diverters to divert location of mobile phones. Cops are also looking at the possibility if the betting network is into match-fixing and have international links. This year, the IPL season kicked off last month, following which the Rajasthan police had been catching smalltime bookies. This is the biggest haul covering other states. The accused are being questioned for more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-interstateipl-betting-gangbusted-by-ats/articleshow/78610369.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Madurai||Vigil in Madurai as daily cases go up||Madurai: While the number of fresh Covid-19 cases is seeing a marginal rise in Madurai for the past one week, in Kanyakumari, around 100 new cases are cropping up every day. This has led to the two districts reporting the most number of active cases in south Tamil Nadu. With more patients being diagnosed with Covid-19, health officials and doctors are on alert. In Madurai, around 90 fresh Covid-19 cases are reported every day. However, during the period between mid-September and September-end, the numbers had dropped to around 70 cases per day. “It is a worrying factor as we also see a number of patients are diagnosed after undergoing CT scan and getting treated. A few people are also testing negative after undergoing RT-PCR test and hence not included in the official tally. As of now, the active cases are still manageable but the public must be vigilant,” said a senior pulmonologist. The doctor said that young people and children must follow all safety precautions as they often easily spread it to vulnerable populations. Meanwhile, health officials asserted that the positivity rate is still low and the numbers are less compared to other districts in the state. However, they admitted that enforcing Covid-19 safety norms is a challenge. “People still flout mask and social distancing norms at many places, despite imposition of fines. With festival season approaching, there is a definite need to be alert. While we understand celebration cannot be missed, we urge the public to co-operate and follow the safety norms,” said a health official. In Kanyakumari district, an average of 100 new Covid-19 cases is being reported per day. While the cases are not increasing since September, the numbers have not declined in the district unlike Tirunelveli and Tuticorin. “It is clear that there is a local spread. The spread has also been sporadic rather than in any particular area. It has been a challenge to prevent crowding in public places. People should co-operate for their own welfare,” said a senior health official. The average positivity rate in the district is still 6.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vigil-in-madurai-as-daily-cases-go-up/articleshow/78609408.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 12, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Daily cases hover above 500 in southern, central regions||MADURAI/TRICHY: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases continued to be above 500 on Sunday, in the ten southern districts of the state. With 529 fresh cases, the tally has climbed to 1,17,505 cases, which include 4,395 active cases and 1,11,184 recoveries. The region also reported six deaths taking the toll to 1,926 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 572 fresh cases taking the tally to 58,915, which include 3,990 active cases. The region also recorded seven deaths pushing the toll to 783. Madurai (97) reported the most number of cases on Sunday followed by Kanyakumari (79) and Tirunelveli (77). All the southern districts continued to report less than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases. Kanyakumari and Madurai report the most number of active cases (776) in the southern region. The total active cases in Tirunelveli came down to 693. Tuticorin (69) and Theni (64) also reported more than 50 Covid-19 cases. The active cases in Tuticorin and Theni are 531 and 447. All other districts Dindigul (35), Virudhunagar (35), Sivaganga (28), Ramanathapuram (26), and Tenkasi (19) reported only less than 50 Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Three districts, Sivaganga (197), Ramanathapuram (186) and Tenkasi (186) have less than 200 active cases in south TN. The six deaths reported on Sunday were at Kanyakumari (2), Madurai (1), Sivaganga (1), Tenkasi (1), and Theni (1). The death rate in the southern region is 1.64%. Thanjavur district reported 181 cases, the highest in the central region, and two deaths. So far 13,719 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, while 12,571 patients have been discharged. Tiruvarur recorded 98 fresh cases for the second consecutive day on Sunday taking the tally to 8,396. Trichy reported 87 cases, while the total tally is 11,396. Tiruvarur reported three deaths. Nagapattinam reported 61 cases and two deaths, taking the tally to 5,845. Covid cases were also reported in Pudukottai (48), Karur (48), Ariyalur (37), Perambalur (12).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/daily-cases-hover-above-500-in-southern-central-regions/articleshow/78609412.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Residents want Uyyakondan aqueduct road repaired||Trichy: Residents using the Uyyakondan aqueduct road behind the district collectorate have demanded that the stretch be repaired since the narrow road has developed potholes and cracks recently. Uyyakondan aqueduct road, also called Aarukan Road, connects Bharathidasan Road and serves as a parallel road for people to evade the congested Vayalur road to reach Somarasampettai and other suburbs on Vayalur road. The road passing through PWD Uyyakondan’s aqueduct connects Kuzhumayee Amman temple and the rear entrances of residential localities including Bharathi Nagar, thus witnessing frequent public movement during the day. Residents of late have been complaining that the road running along either bank of Uyyakondan canal is in bad shape with cracks and craters at many spots. “People familiar with the potholes and craters can evade them but those riding on the road in a rush or for the first time will fall victims. A minor slip would make the riders fall into the canal,” K Sathish Kumar, a road user said. PWD officials said the cracks developed near the aqueduct were minor. “We have inspected the stretch. The aqueduct structure is safe, we will attend to the grievances raised at the earliest,” an official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-want-uyyakondan-aqueduct-road-repaired/articleshow/78610374.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Clashes erupt in Churu after pregnant woman dies in hospital||JAIPUR: Clashes broke out between cops and villagers in the Sadulpur police station area of Churu on Sunday following the death of a pregnant woman two days ago, allegedly due to medical negligence. After the death of 25-year-old pregnant Ratna Meena of Rampura village at a local government hospital on Saturday, her family refused to cremate the body and a crowd, which had gathered at the spot, pelted stones at the police who in turn lathicharged the protesters and used tear gas to disperse them. The family is demanding action against the medical staff as well as a compensation of Rs 10 lakh. Following the violence, MLA Krishna Poonia and deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore came to the spot to take stock of the situation. More forces deployed in ChuruWhen Poonia tried to talk to the women of the village, they refused and entered the hospital with other protesters, forcing cops to resort to a mild lathicharge. This angered the crowd who pelted stones at the police, leaving many injured on both sides. An ambulance and a vehicle of the district administration official were also damaged. Talks between officials and protesters have also failed. “The agitators demanded the hospital staff be changed. This has been done and an FIR has also been registered. The matter is now about monetary compensation. Till now, we have not reached an agreement on this demand,” Churu SP Paras Deshmukh said. Opposition leader Rathore supported the demands of villagers andclaimedthatitwas a societal matter and not a political issue. The woman, Ratna Meena, was brought to the hospital for delivery on October 9. The family alleged that she died due to medical negligence before giving birth. Her family and villagers staged a protest and refused to receive and cremate the body till their demands were met after the autopsy was conducted. The agitators have now said that they would sit on dharna again on Monday morning. Meanwhile, the body of the deceased woman has been kept in the freezer. Additional forces have been deployed in the area to maintain law and order. The SP said that, at present, they have not arrested anyone for pelting stones at cops. "Several of our personnel were injured and we are looking into the matter," he said. One more held in priest murder case: The Karauli police have arrested one more accused in the murder of the temple priest, taking the count of those arrested to three. Search is still going on for the remaining two accused. After the murder, cops had arrested the main accused, who had thrown petrolon the priest and set him on fire, in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/clashes-eruptin-churu-afterpregnant-womandies-in-hospital/articleshow/78610377.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 12, 2020||Agra||Mayawati’s silence on Hathras gang rape irks community leaders||AGRA: Members of Agra-based Jatav Mahapanchayat and other Dalit community leaders have expressed resentment over the silence of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on the Hathras alleged gang rape case. They had burnt the party’s flags and posters of the BSP supremo earlier this week in Jagdishpura for not speaking on the issue. Agra – often called the Dalit capital of the state – is considered to be lucky for the BSP chief, who always starts her election campaign from here. Talking to TOI, Jatav Mahapanchayat president Ramvir Singh Kardam said, “The BSP’s mission to support the community and raise issues related to Dalits ended with the death of Kanshi Ram. Leaders from all political parties visited Hathras and stood in support of the victim’s family but Behenji did not meet the family even once.” Kardam further said that the people from the community are not “bonded labourers” and they will vote for the leader who supports the Dalit community. “Her silence over the issue and not meeting the aggrieved family shows that she has no emotions for the community,” he said. BSP’s former Agra district president Ravindra Paras also admitted that there is resentment in the Valmiki community over Behenji’s silence on the issue. “It was disheartening for the whole community that our leader did not stand for them the way others have,” he said. Another Jatav community member Dharam Pal refused to comment on the issue and said that they will support the political leaders who stand for the community. Condemning the recent burning of posters of Mayawati by the Dalit community members in Agra, BSP district president Vimal Kumar Verma said that she was very much active on social media on the issue. She also held a press conference over Hathras issue, he added. “Our party’s delegation led by Gaya Charan Dinkar visited the victim’s village immediately after the incident on September 14 but it was stopped by the police. The local BSP leaders helped the victim’s family at all levels,” he said. Verma clarified that Mayawati didn’t visit Hathras “just to avoid any clashes and tension”. “Our ground workers would gather in large numbers after knowing about Behenji’s visit and that could lead to chaos and ultimately poor people would suffer as the police would frame them,” he said. Verma also lodged a complaint against Dalits led by Kardam for burning their leader’s poster. The FIR was registered for violating prohibitory orders and promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence at Jagdishpura police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mayas-silence-on-hathras-gang-rape-irks-community-leaders/articleshow/78607573.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||India||‘Swapna said Vijayan met UAE envoy’, CMO denies||KOCHI: In a purported statement to the ED in the Kerala gold smuggling case, prime accused Swapna Suresh has accused CM Pinarayi Vijayan of having multiple “private meetings” with the consul general of the UAE in 2017 and “unofficially” recommending his suspended former principal secretary M Sivasankar as the state government’s official point of contact with that country’s consulate. Swapna has been quoted as saying in the unconfirmed statement that all the alleged private meetings between Vijayan and the foreign diplomat took place at the CM’s official residence in Thiruvananthapuram. Terming the “leaked” statement of Swapna “a fabricated one”, the CM’s office said, “All these are well-calculated campaigns against the government”. Sivasankar, who was allegedly instrumental in getting Swapna a job at the state-owned SpacePark in Thiruvananthapuram, has been interrogated several times by the NIA, Customs and ED over his alleged links with the main accused in the case. CM Vijayan has consistently denied knowing Swapna. LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan rubbished her allegations on Sunday. “There is nothing wrong in the secretary of the UAE consul general meeting the principal secretary of the CM or the CM himself. They might have met for official purposes. We cannot go behind the statement given by someone to ED. How do you know the statement is an official one?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/swapna-said-vijayan-met-uae-envoy-cmo-denies/articleshow/78611040.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Meerut||550 camps set up in 14 west UP districts toresolve electricity consumers’ complaints||Meerut: Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) set up 550 camps in 14 districts of western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to look into and solve the complaints of electricity consumers, following an instruction issued by state power minister Shrikant Sharma.The camps were set up a day after a few locals protested the snapping of electricity supply in parts of Meerut. The connections were cut despite documents showing power supply to their houses. At least, hundred such complaints were resolved by Sunday afternoon at the camps. PVVNL managing director Arvind Malappa Bangari, chief engineer, Meerut zone, SB Yadav and other oficers heard the complaints and resolved them.Bangari said, “At the camps, complaints regarding electricity bill, re-connection and power supply were solved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/550-camps-set-up-in-14-west-up-districts-toresolve-electricity-consumers-complaints/articleshow/78608556.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Covid doubling time up, viral spread slows down||CHENNAI: At a time when Chennai continues to record more than 1,200 Covid-19 cases a day, a key statistic shows that the spread of the infection in the city has slowed down. The doubling time, the number of days taken for Covid cases to double, has shown a positive trend as compared to August, official data from Greater Chennai Corporation shows. For instance, the case doubling rate on August 3 was 63.3 days, but on October 9 it is 110 days. In August, the lowest doubling time in the city among zones was in Ambattur at 36.5 days. Compared to that in October, the lowest doubling time is 84.8 days, in Perungudi . The data shows that for some zones the case doubling rate has either stagnated or has decreased. Royapuram and Tondiarpet, which had doubling times of 140 days and 128 days in August, have almost the same doubling time now. In August, Manali zone, which has the lowest number of cases in the city, had a doubling time of 158 days. However, the spread increased in October and the doubling time dropped to 102 days. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said they were watching the doubling time of zones and would focus where the spread of the infection is faster. “The focus would be in terms of samples collected, containment zones, medical camps and patient management systems,” he said. Epidemiologist P Ganeshkumar from the National Institute of Epidemiology said despite opening up, Chennai has not reported a major increase in the number of cases. “Testing is intense and contact tracing is being done. There is a special focus on industries, workplace and vendors. Cases cropping up in central regions of the city is inevitable due to presence of commercial hubs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-doubling-time-up-viral-spread-slows-down/articleshow/78609430.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Couple abused in Bypass road rage in Kolkata||KOLKATA: An incident of road rage spiralled into a serious crime after a woman and her husband were allegedly abused by a cab driver on EM Bypass around 5pm on Saturday. Cops at Maniktala police station said the couple, living in a housing estate at Kustia under Tiljala police station, were returning home on a motorbike from Ultadanga end of Bypass when the incident occurred. “The luxury cab was behind them and the taxi driver was driving rashly, overtaking other vehicles dangerously. The cab hit the motorbike in front of Goutam’s Dhaba. The number plate of the bike was damaged and the couple got hurt. But the woman’s husband managed to save both of them,” said a police officer. However, the couple chased down the cab on EM Bypass, seeking an explanation for such reckless driving. Near Salt Lake stadium, they spotted the cab and by the time they overtook it, they realised that there were other people inside the cab.  When the biker and his wife confronted the driver, he and his associates abused the couple and “outraged the modesty of the woman with a foul tongue,” the FIR stated. The investigation of the case is in progress, said police sources. It has been alleged that the woman’s husband was also pushed and shoved by the accused. Cops registered the FIR under the charges of negligent driving, mischief and outraging the modesty of a woman, sources said. Cops have got leads on the accused who is on the run and said he would be arrested in the “next couple of days”. Initial probe revealed that the car involved with the incident was a luxury cab that was running without a fitness certificate. The papers of the cab are not in order, making it difficult for the police to trace the accused, said the police, citing Centre’s Vahan website. Cops said they would make an appeal in the court to record the couple’s statements before a magistrate after arresting the accused. “We are going through the CCTV footage of the area. We will have to find some witnesses to develop the case,” said police sources. Though many road rage cases took place in the city last year, cops said this was one of the rare cases, where a woman alleged that her modesty was outraged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/couple-abused-in-bypass-road-rage/articleshow/78609428.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 12, 2020||Bareilly||Three workers fall into paper mill tank in UP; one dead, two critical||Bareilly: A worker died after falling into a tank of a paper mill in Kaant area of UP's Shahjahanpur on Saturday evening. Two others, who also fell, were injured and are in critical condition. Shishupal Jatav, the deceased employee, was working in the mill since 2019. An FIR has been registered after a complaint by his son, Surjeet. “My father’s shift was extended twice and he was not given any safety gear while working in the tank. The mill workers even tried to take away my father’s body to conceal the truth behind his death," Surjeet said. The survivors of the accident are under treatment at separate private hospitals in Bareilly. Refuting Surjeet's charges on "safety gear", the mill's spokesperson Sumit Maheshwari told TOI, “We had provided the safety gear to all the workers at the time of joining. It was the negligence on the part of the workers as they were working without wearing it. We have ensured the best possible treatment for the survivors and their lives will be saved.” An FIR has been registered against the mill manager under section 304a (causing death by negligence) for extending the shift and sending the workers into the tank without safety gear. Kaant SHO Upendra Yadav said, “The manager of the paper mill has been booked and an investigation is on. We are also in touch with the families of the survivors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-workers-fall-into-paper-mill-tank-in-up-one-dead-two-critical/articleshow/78606990.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 12, 2020||Meerut||550 camps set up in 14 west UP districts to resolve electricity consumers’ complaints||Meerut: Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) set up 550 camps in 14 districts of western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to look into and solve the complaints of electricity consumers, following an instruction issued by state power minister Shrikant Sharma.The camps were set up a day after a few locals protested the snapping of electricity supply in parts of Meerut. The connections were cut despite documents showing power supply to their houses. At least, hundred such complaints were resolved by Sunday afternoon at the camps. PVVNL managing director Arvind Malappa Bangari, chief engineer, Meerut zone, SB Yadav and other oficers heard the complaints and resolved them.Bangari said, “At the camps, complaints regarding electricity bill, re-connection and power supply were solved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/550-camps-set-up-in-14-west-up-districts-to-resolve-electricity-consumers-complaints/articleshow/78608567.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Increase in substance abuse by Covid patients, say Hyderabad doctors||HYDERABAD: While 50% of post Covid-19 patients have moderate to severe psychological symptoms even three months after recovery, psychiatrists at the state-run Gandhi Hospital say that a marked increase in substance abuse has been seen among Covid-19 patients. Psychological symptoms among newly diagnosed Covid-19 positive patients, meanwhile, are as high as 60%-65%. In most cases, it begins with burnout after knowing their Covid positive health status (tired, insecure, low self-esteem, lack of completeness), progressing to adjustment problems which mimic symptoms of depression, loneliness, fatigue, low communication, loss of interest in previous pleasurable activities, sadness and loss of appetite. “These are phases and if the patient is unable to cope, it goes on to aggressive, impulsive behaviour, irritability and intolerant behaviour especially if they have been stigmatized or discriminated against. In these, mood swings and panic attacks are seen in patients, which continue even after recovery, said Dr Ajay Kumar Joopaka, assistant professor (psychiatry) Gandhi Hospital. There is a drastic increase in substance abuse that we have seen among patients, the doctor said. Without elaborating on the type of substances, he said they were addicted to alcohol and drugs. “Especially the vulnerable group, who are already dependent on these, tend to consume more alcohol and drugs when they come to know of their Covid positive status. Some think that they are going to die and therefore begin using more while others say they are unable to cope with the extreme anxiety and hence end up depending on these,” said Dr Joopaka, who has already seen over 900 Covid positive patients referred from other departments. Covid-19, being a highly stigmatized disease, led to patients having to face discrimination in the initial months and left many with suicidal thoughts, according to Gandhi Hospital doctors. Many patients have been referred with extreme problems, including patients attempting to jump off the hospital building, locking themselves up while in psychosis and delusion in extreme cases have been documented at Gandhi Hospital, which is the nodal centre for Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/increase-in-substance-abuse-by-covid-patients-say-docs/articleshow/78610385.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Deoria: Congress woman neta assaulted for slur on bypoll candidate||DEORIA: Four Congress leaders, including the party’s Deoria district president were booked for assault and other sections of IPC, twenty-four hours after a woman party leader was brutally thrashed at a Congress meet where she alleged a “rapist” had been handed over a ticket for the November 3 bypoll. In swift damage-control, the Congress brass on Sunday set up an inquiry and expelled two members for indiscipline even as assault videos went viral, triggering acute embarrassment for the grand old party. National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma said, she has written to UP director general of police, seeking strict action against the accused. A massive controversy broke out on Saturday when Congress party state in charge of unorganised sector, Tara Yadav, was heckled and thrashed by party colleagues, when she reportedly said that while party leaders were fighting for justice for Dalit girl in Hathras, the bypoll ticket in Deoria was given to a rape accused. Earlier, Congresswoman Tara Yadav lodged a police complaint against four Congress office-bearers, including the district president, for alleged assault and molestation. The party candidate in the eye of the storm, Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi, however, denied the rape charge, saying no case was pending against him and he would file a defamation suit. Assistant superintendent of police, Deoria, Shishya Pal, told TOI that on Tara Yadav’s complaint, an FIR has been lodged against Congress district president Dharmendra Singh and party functionaries, Ajay Singh Sainthwar, Jaideep Tripathi and Bharat Mani Tripathi. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said, the party has suspended two leaders, Deen Dayal Yadav and Ajay Kumar Sainthwar, and a three-member committee comprising AICC member Talat Aziz, state women Congress president, Shahla Ahrari, and women vice-president Congress (east zone) Chandrakala Pushkar will probe the incident and submit a report in three days. Talking to TOI, Congresswoman Tara Yadav said, “During the welcome ceremony for party candidate, Mukund Bhaskar Mani, I appealed to AICC secretary Sachin Naik not to give a ticket to a rape accused when our top leaders were fighting for justice for Hathras girl. Within minutes, someone pushed me from behind and they began thrashing me while lay grovelling on the floor. I have an injury on my lips and ear too.” Deoria district president Dharmendra Singh said, the woman leader had lobbied for the bypoll ticket and was upset when she was refused. Later, talking to TOI, party candidate Mukund Bhaskar Tripathi called the ruckus an Opposition conspiracy. “Ticket distribution is not in my hand and the woman leader is like my sister and we had earlier worked together. I will file a defamation case to clear my name,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-woman-neta-assaulted-for-slur-on-bypoll-candidate/articleshow/78610833.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Meerut||Body of a man in sadhu's attire found in Yamuna, probe ordered||Meerut: A body of an unidentified man in the attire of a sadhu was found floating in the Yamuna river in Baghpat on Sunday. Locals informed the police and it was fished out of the water. The body was then sent for a postmortem. A probe has been ordered and efforts are on to identify him. Ompal Singh, circle officer, Baghpat city, said, “The body is yet to be identified. However, prima facie, it looks like the sadhu died by drowning. The body was taken out using a fishing net. He was found near Niwara police post in the Yamuna river.” Meanwhile, another body was found on the Meerut route in Baghpat and efforts are on to identify him. The body was found in Meetli village and has been sent for a postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/body-of-a-man-in-sadhus-attire-found-in-yamuna-probe-ordered/articleshow/78608581.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 12, 2020||Mysuru||Rampura police seize 154 kg ganja, accused flees||MYSURU: Rampura police seized 154kg ganja plants cultivated in a residential plot and agricultural field in Kollegal taluk on Sunday. Based on a tip off, Rampura SI Manoj Kumar along with Shettalli panchayat development officer Mahadeva and Arabagere forest officer Mallikharjuna Hangaragi conducted a raid in Hosahalli village at 4am on Sunday. The team seized 228 ganja plants weighing 154kgs and with a market value of more than Rs 15 lakh. The team seized 150 ganja plants grown in a residential site. The owner of the plot had allegedly erected an eight-feet-tall compound around the 13x40 site to conceal the plants from being noticed. The raid team also seized 78 ganja plants in an agricultural field adjacent to the vacant plot. Manoj Kumar told TOI that prime accused Govindharaju had recently constructed a house and had erected a compound around the vacant site adjacent to his new house to cultivate ganja plants. As the village is near Mekedatu and close to Tamil Nadu border, Govindaraja is believed to have managed to cross the border and escaped to Tamil Nadu. Chamarajanagar SP Divya Sara Thomas, while appreciating the police team has announced a cash award to the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/police-seize-154kg-ganja-accused-flees/articleshow/78610131.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||Cops suspect Bishnoi may be operating out of prison||Jaipur: Gangster Lawrence Bishnoi (35) has become a cause of concern for police as it seems that he was still getting access to mobile phones inside Bharatpur jail and was issuing regular death threats to businessmen from his cell. Now, cops are looking for ways to curtail this by lodging cases against jail staff. Also, Bharatpur jail will have new cameras installed to keep a vigil on inmates, though senior officials did concede that Bishnoi has become “comfortable” inside the prison. Bishnoi has been in the news for various instances including threatening actor Salman Khan through a social media post and being in touch with contract killers through his gang members. SP Bharatpur Amandeep Kapoor told TOI, “It does seem that Bishnnoi is operating from his cell and we have registered cases against the jail staff in the last one month for providing mobile phones to inmates. Raids are being conducted regularly to confiscate all forms of contrabands.” Bishnoi is facing over 20 cases of attempt to murder, carjacking, extortion and snatching in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. In September, Bishnoi also made a threat call to a businessman in Haryana’s Panchkula, though officials are yet to confirm it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-suspect-bishnoi-may-be-operating-out-of-prison/articleshow/78610390.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Meerut||UP gangster's property worth Rs 1 cr seized in Saharanpur||Meerut: In a continued crackdown against criminals in UP, assets worth Rs 1 crore, including a parental house, of gangster Phoolmia was seized by the local police in Deoband area of Saharanpur district. According to police, there are several cases, including murder, registered against Phoolmia who is also booked under the Gangster Act. Based on a confidential report, Saharanpur district magistrate (DM) had on September 16 ordered the seizing of Phoolmia's assets under relevant sections of the Act. "Phoolmia is a criminal and a native of Deoband. Several cases, including murder, and under Gangster Act are registered against him. The illicit property and assets earned through criminal activities amounting to Rs 1 crore was seized on the orders of the DM," the police said. Such crackdowns are now a norm across the state. Official estimates suggest that properties worth Rs 160 crore belonging to criminals have either been attached or demolished following police and administrative action. A lion’s share of the crackdown was focused on two criminals – Mukhtar Ansari, currently lodged in a jail in Punjab, and Atiq Ahmad, lodged in Ahmedabad jail, with Rs 65 crore each [total Rs 130 crore] worth of properties owned by them or their associates now attached or demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-gangsters-property-worth-rs-1-cr-seized-in-saharanpur/articleshow/78608589.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: No-contact drunk driving check welcome||CHENNAI: Amid the still raging Covid-19 pandemic, the city police are coming up with new methods to test motorists for drunk driving. Henceforth, people driving or riding vehicles stopped for checks have to alight and blow into a breathalyser that comes with a hand-held stand fitted with a disposable plastic straw. It looks like a selfie stick and can be fitted to a vehicle or held by a police officer. After each use, the straw is packed in a polythene cover and disposed of by the motorist. The traffic police have also framed a standard operating procedure (SoP) to be followed by field officers. Since October 1, when the lockdown norms were relaxed to a large extent, police were a bit hesitant to book motorists, fearing spread of Covid-19, before coming up with the new method. From January 1 to June 30, 2020, there have been 603 accidents in the city, most of them due to drunk driving, against 1,229 accidents in the whole of 2019 and 1,268 accidents during entire 2018. In 2019, most of the 514 accidents caused due to drunk driving involved bikers. Unlike in other violations, police personnel doing drunk driving checks are required to come close to a motorist, posing a risk to both of them. Now, under the new system, police can make sure that the breathalyser is not handled by multiple personnel. As per the new SoP, the motorist disposes of the straw he/she used and the police personnel present at the spot will only check the readings. “After analysing the major cause for road accidents, it was found that drunk driving was the main reason. This can be avoided through stricter enforcement, which will result in saving lives,” said additional commissioner of police (traffic) N Kannan. “Whenever we tightened measures to check drunk driving, the result was that there were very few accidents,” he said. The traffic police has intensified checks and were also focused on creating awareness among motorists instead of just letting off the violators after imposing a fine, he said. Motorists too feel this is welcome move. “Earlier, our only scare was being subjected to a drunk-driving test. Though I was never drunk during travel, police subjected everyone to a test to find if they were drunk. Now, this system has ensured safety for both,” said Karhtik Raja, a resident of Saidapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-contact-drunk-driving-check-welcome/articleshow/78609442.cms||Sindhu Kannan
October 12, 2020||Meerut||Sub-inspector dies of Covid-19 in Saharanpur||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A 45-year-old sub-inspector (SI) died of Covid-19 in Saharanpur, late on Saturday. He was transferred from Muzaffarnagar to Saharanpur recently and was posted as station house officer (SHO) of Nagal police station. The 2012-13 batch SI, Jitendra Kumar Ambawat, was shifted to a hospital in Meerut after he tested positive on September 15. A week later, due to his critical condition, he was referred to Max Hospital in Delhi where he was put on a ventilator. His friend who is also a police officer and posted as SHO at Ramraj police station in Muzaffarnagar said, "The SI was a kind-hearted man. He started his career as a police constable in 1998 and was promoted in 2012-13 as SI. He is survived by his wife and two sons."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sub-inspector-dies-of-covid-19-in-saharanpur/articleshow/78608594.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 12, 2020||Bareilly||Body of 22-year-old missing girl found in sugarcane field in Kheri||Bareilly: The body of a 22-year-old missing girl was found in a waterlogged sugarcane field in Pasgava area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday evening.The girl had gone missing on Friday, following which her family lodged a complaint at Pasgava police station. The family suspect that she was raped and then strangled. Kheri superintendent of police Vijay Dhull and additional SP Arun Kumar Singh also inspected the spot. Police have, meanwhile, deployed extra forces in the village and sent the body for autopsy.The ASP told TOI, “The girl had gone out for some personal work, but did not return. After police recovered her belongings from a crop field, a combing operation to trace her was launched in the area, and one of the police teams found her body in the waterlogged field. The body has started decomposing. Since there are no visible injuries, we are unable to comment on the reason for her death or the possibility of her being assaulted sexually. We have sought her call details to know about the people who had contacted her before she went missing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-22-year-old-missing-girl-found-in-sugarcane-field-in-kheri/articleshow/78607010.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Cops bust Lake Gardens fraud hub||Kolkata: Lake Gardens is in the news with its neighbouring area, Jodhpur Gardens, for fake call centres. These posh localities in south Kolkata have turned into hotbeds for fake call centres and this prompted cops from three other states like UP, Chhattisgarh and Telangana to come down to the city for investigation. A month ago, the interference of a global IT firm led to the busting of a call centre that had duped international clients in Europe and US. Over 25 BPOs, which duped people of faking their computer devices, were busted across the city in the past three years. It is newer trend as was noticed in the past one month and this led the city police to probe the fraud and the state intelligence agencies to prepare a robust report. Cops from UP, Chhattisgarh and Hyderabad police cyber cell came down to Lake Gardens and busted call centres that were minting money by offering sex chats to hundreds of clients in north and south India. On Friday, Hyderabad police arrested two real estate dealers, Ananda Kar and Buddhadeb Pal, for allegedly running a fake friendship club through a call centre at a rented house in Lake Gardens. The arrest was made with the help of local cops who found that women had been employed and paid between Rs 20,000 and Rs 40,000 a month to make “dirty” video calls. The targets were mostly the men from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The Hyderabad police alone had lodged 10 FIRs in this regard. Barely a week ago, a joint team of Chhattisgarh police and Kolkata Police busted a call centre in Jodhpur Gardens, which was duping people in the name of friendship clubs. The Surajpur district police in Chattisgarh said two of the accused — Jeevan Krishna Singh and Sandhya Sekhar Barik, originally from Midnapore — had defrauded a Chattisgarh-based businessman to the tune of Rs 12 lakh during the lockdown. The intelligence reports, shared with both Kolkata Police and Bidhannagar police, stated that the “sex chatrooms” targeted the southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Telengana and identified Lake Gardens to house other such fake call centres. “There has to be administrative support to the police for putting such fake networks under scanner. The flats rented out to people need to be checked,” said Arindam Chatterjee, a CA and a resident of Lake Gardens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-bust-lake-gardens-fraud-hub/articleshow/78609447.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Panchayat chiefs move HC to stall Jal Jeevan tenders||Chennai: Panchayat presidents from across the state have moved the Madras high court again, challenging the tenders floated to implement Centre’s Jal Jeevan scheme and an order of a single judge dismissing an earlier petition. A division bench of chief justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued notice to authorities including the Centre and state government on the matter and adjourned the hearing to the first week of November. In their appeal petition, seven panchayat presidents from Tiruvannamalai, Cuddalore, Salem and Krishnagiri districts stated that the rural development and panchayat raj department has been issuing instructions and work orders for maintaining ponds without involving them, which is unconstitutional. The Centre launched the Jal Jeevan mission to provide functional household tap connections to every rural household by 2024, for which a state-level committee has been constituted. According to their petition, in a government order (GO) passed in June this year, the state government had issued state specific guidelines for the implementation of jal jeevan mission, under which the village panchayat president is the tender inviting authority and the village panchayat, the tender accepting authority. While this being so, within a month, the director of Rural Development and panhayat raj sent a letter clarifying to all district collectors that the project director of DRDA (District Rural Development Agency) in respective districts shall be tender inviting authority and district collector shall be tender accepting authority. The panchayat presidents contended that this is totally against the object of the mission and usurps the statutory powers of the village panchayats, they said. “the district collector must accord administrative sanction only for tenders valued more than Rs 50,000, the proposals must emanate from the local body concerned. Unless it is an emergency, the local body must deliberate and make proposals,” the petition stated and sought an interim stay on calling tenders under the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/panchayat-chiefs-move-hc-to-stall-jal-jeevan-tenders/articleshow/78609446.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Plaint against men who assaulted docs||Hyderabad: Following an attack on doctors at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) by a patient’s relative on October 6, a police complaint was lodged at the Punjagutta police station. The complaint was filed by the duty Resident Medical Officer (RMO) against the attendants of the patient who had expired on October 6 saying that the assault on duty doctors by the attendants has left them mentally traumatised. While this is the second major assault at NIMS in last six months, eight incidents of assaults on doctors have been recorded since the onset of the pandemic at Gandhi Hospital and Osmania General Hospital so far. “After the patient died, the patient’s attendants came and argued with duty doctors Dr Vasundhara and Dr Raghuram. They explained about the patient’s medical condition which caused the death. However, the attendants turned angry, spoke arrogantly with the security personnel when they were asked to clear the formalities before handing over the dead body. They pushed them and misbehaved with duty CMPs, Dr Krana and Dr Vinathi. In the process Dr Karan got injured...,” said the complaint..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaint-against-men-who-assaulted-docs/articleshow/78610392.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Meerut||3 injured in brawl over serving of food||Meerut: A brawl broke out over serving of food at a local eatery here. The incident happened in Abdullapur area late on Saturday night after a few persons landed at a local eatery which was about to close, and they were denied food. An argument ensued but the customers left only to confront the owner later at his home. The group then resorted to stone pelting and firing following which police rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. Three persons were injured. Police have registered an FIR in the case. Meerut’s superintendent of police (rural) Avinash Pandey said, “Four people have been arrested and investigation in the case is ongoing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-injured-in-brawl-over-serving-of-food/articleshow/78608604.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jaipur||68-year-old man sent to judicial custody for rape||Kota: A 68-year-old man was sent to judicial custody in Jhalawar on Saturday for raping a 17-year-old mentally challenged girl in Jhalrapatan town on Wednesday last. The minor survivor along with her parents lodged a case of rape against the accused on the same day. The girl had approached the mahila police station in Jhalawar on Wednesday and lodged a rape case against Abdul Yaqub, who lived in a portion of the survivor’s house and ran a commodity shop in the neighbourhood, Ramesh Meena, SHO, Mahila police station, said. On the report, the police lodged a case of rape against Yaqub under Section 376 of IPC and the POCSO Act, he added. The parents in the report stated that the survivor would address the accused old man as ‘dadaji’ (grandfather) and would often go to his commodity shop in the neighborhood to give him tiffin, the SHO said. Her parents alleged that when the minor survivor went to give him the food on Wednesday noon, the old man raped her, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/68-year-old-man-sent-to-judicial-custody-for-rape/articleshow/78610391.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Intense spell of rain in western corridor of Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The vigorous southwest monsoon, over parts of the state, has resulted in an intense spell of rainfall in many parts of the western corridor of the city on Sunday even as many other parts of the city - in the central corridor and in Secunderabad - remained dry. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society, Lingampally received the highest rainfall of 63.5 mm and was followed by 62.3 mm at Patancheruvu and 59.5 mm at RC Puram. Many other areas such as Kondapur, Madhapur, Kukatpally, Quthbullapur received light rainfall of up to 30 mm. Meteorologists said that an overcast sky with thick clouds and intermittent rain and thunder showers occurred only in the western corridor. “An upper air cyclonic circulation over north interior Karnataka and neighbourhood and a depression in Bay of Bengal resulted in cloud formation in western parts of the city and left other parts of the city dry,” said Raja Rao, meteorologist, India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad. Several districts too received heavy rainfall following which state officials have been put on high alert. As per TSDPS figures, Mogaamadka in Narayanpet district received the highest rainfall of 102.5 mm and was followed by 97.5 in Habshipur in Siddipet. IMD-H has issued thunderstorm and heavy rainfall warning till October 15 following which the withdrawal of southwest monsoon is expected. “A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over north Andaman Sea and neighbourhood around October 14 that may trigger rains over Telangana. Due to this, withdrawal of southwest monsoon will be delayed and may occur only by third week of October,” said Rao. CM puts all dist admins on high alertChief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday put administration of all districts on a high alert as the meteorological department has predicted heavy to very heavy rain in the next two days. The CM instructed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to ensure that district collectors and superintendents of police review the situation as and when required and take immediate action to protect lives and property. He asked the officials as well as people to remain vigilant and cautious keeping in view the forecast for the next two days. Heavy rains have been lashing several places across the state since Saturday evening. “Collectors and SPs are requested to put the entire district administration on alert and strictly follow the flood protocol communicated earlier,” Somesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intense-spell-of-rain-in-western-corridor-of-city/articleshow/78610398.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Platforms smart, but parking haphazard on Trichy roads||Trichy: Contrary to expectation, the construction of smart pedestrian platforms on a couple of arterial roads in the city has led to traffic woes due to motorists parking their vehicles on the road in a haphazard manner. Although smart pedestrian platforms have double the width of West Boulevard and Karur bypass roads than before, proper space was not earmarked for parking, residents allege. Two-wheelers and cars are parked on the road illegally. “Four lanes of Karur bypass road and West Boulevard has become two-lanes due to on-street parking. The wide platforms should integrate parking as well to prevent vehicles occupying the right of way of roads,” said K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam. A majority of the shops on West Boulevard road and Karur bypass road do not have adequate parking space for their customers. As vehicles parked on roads occupy almost two of the four lanes, there is congestion when buses or heavy vehicles get stuck. Trichy Corporation sources said that on-street parking is not allowed on West Boulevard road. As a solution, residents have sought the shops functioning on arterial streets to allocate a certain space at the shop or nearby vacant land to accommodate vehicles of customers. Yanaikulam ground near West Boulevard road and the vacant space in Annamalai Nagar was suggested to be used for a paid parking lot. “We have been penalising parking violation at the rate of 45-50 cases per day. Lack of coordination between the stakeholders in implementing projects is one of the reasons for such hiccups. We will arrange temporary parking space to prevent on-street parking,” a city police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/platforms-smart-but-parking-haphazard-on-trichy-roads/articleshow/78610395.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 12, 2020||Meerut||Two bike-lifters arrested in Amroha, three vehicles seized from them||Bijnor: Amroha police has arrested two bike-lifters and seized three motorcycles from them. An FIR has been registered against them. Giving details, Vipin Tada. Amroha superintendent of police, said, "The two were nabbed during routine vehicle-checking at Kashipur canal on Saturday night. Police team spotted a bike coming from Dhanora side and hailed it to stop but the bikers tried to flee. Police gave a chase to them and managed to nab them.* The two were identified as Faem and Fursat of Chakbasipur village under Amroha's Dhanora police station, said Tada. During questioning, the duo confessed to being bike-lifters, having stolen two-wheelers at several places. Police recovered two more bikes from their possession. Police are trying to trace their crime history. A case has been registered against them under relevent sections of the IPC, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-bike-lifters-arrested-in-amroha-three-vehicles-seized-from-them/articleshow/78608624.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Does Thamirabarani check dam have nod? NGT to see||CHENNAI: The state public works department (PWD) is constructing a check dam across Thamirabarani River at Kanyakumari district without obtaining environmental clearances, claim fishermen referring to official documents. After appeals to several government agencies, the group recently moved the National Green Tribunal, which has formed a committee to look into the allegations. Despite Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) warning, construction activities were taken up in full swing amid Covid lockdown, show photos accessed by TOI. The controversial check dam is constructed at Erayumanthurai — close to where the river empties into the Arabian sea forming estuaries. The estuary, the confluence point of fresh water from the river and the salt water, has high-nutrient value and supports reproduction of rare species of fish, other marine life and growth of aquatic plants. Constructing a check dam here will affect free flow of water in the river and endanger not only flora and fauna but also water needs of people, said fishermen associations. In 2019, a minor fishing harbour was constructed here known as Thengaipatinam Harbour. So, further construction means further impact on free flow of river water and flooding, they said. Representations made to various government agencies including the chief minister’s office went unanswered, they added. TOI recently reported about the state fisheries department allotting Rs 1.6 crore to clear silt from the harbour after three men died and 12 boats were damaged in rough waves. The associations, filed Right to Information (RTI) petitions to find out that the proposed check dam location was a Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) and PWD needs to obtain permission from Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority (TNCZMA) for any activity in the area. “But authorities went ahead with the construction anyways, resulting in accumulation of construction debris and formation of sand dunes causing boat accidents. At least three died in June,” alleged advocate Edwin Jerome, who represented the fishermen. The petitioners finally approached the National Green Tribunal Southern Zone, which has constituted a joint-committee to look into the issue and ascertain if any damage was caused. Kanyakumari collector Prashanth M Wadnere told TOI that the check dam construction was taken up only after getting considerations from all departments. A government order was issued three years ago and Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) was not done as it was not necessary for this project. When asked about CRZ clearances, he said, “We need to check the coastal map before commenting on it and it will be taken up during our inspection. With NGT too coming in, we will do a fair and impartial assessment of the situation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/does-thamirabarani-check-dam-have-nod-ngt-to-see/articleshow/78609454.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Two sleaze rackets busted: 16 arrested, 15 women rescued in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Cops from the detective department, anti-human trafficking unit and special task force on Saturday, rescued 15 women from two massage parlours in south and central Kolkata, which were allegedly operating as brothels at prominent residential neighbourhoods. Sixteen people were arrested for allegedly indulging in forced prostitution. On Saturday afternoon, cops raided a massage parlour on Rashbehari Avenue near Deshapriya Park and arrested 11 people including the brothel owner, two managers, a pimp and seven customers — one of them being a leading actor and a popular face in Bengali TV serials. All of them were booked under different sections of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act. Around the same time, a separate team of officers raided another massage parlour on Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road in Taltala area and arrested five persons — the brothel owner, two pimps and two customers. Cops said they rescued eight women from the south Kolkata parlour and seven women from the Taltala parlour. “All the victims rescued were above 18 years of age. They were sent to an NGO that works for rehabilitating such victims,” said an officer. The rates range from Rs 500 to several thousands, he said, adding that these parlours keep one or two men as pimps and if any customer is unaware of the illegal business inside, they give him hints about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-sleaze-rackets-busted-16-arrested-15-women-rescued/articleshow/78609455.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai to see more rainy nights as depression nears Andhra coast||CHENNAI: The city is likely to experience cloudy days and rainy nights as the low pressure over Bay of Bengal near north Andaman has turned into a depression and started moving closer to the Andhra Pradesh coast. It is expected to cross the coast between Visakhapatnam and Narsapur on Monday night. A Met department forecast said, “The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Thunderstorms with light to moderate rain are likely to occur in some areas.” The depression is likely to intensify into a deep depression in 24 hours. It rained heavily on Saturday night till early on Sunday morning in many of the southern suburbs. While Chengalpet, Tirupporur, Tiruttani, Mamallapuram, Kelambakkam received 2cm rain, Sriperumbudur, Padur, Tiruvallur received 1cm. Meenambakkam recorded only 0.5mm rain. Core areas of the city such as Nungambakkam saw only light rain or drizzle. The rain and a cloudy sky brought down day temperature slightly in the city on Sunday. Nungambakkam recorded 32.5C, a dip by 0.2C, and Meenambakkam recorded 32.4C, a dip by 0.6C. Triggered by upper air circulation and convective action due to the depression, the rain will continue as long as the system remains over the sea and Chennai, its suburbs will have a dry spell once it enters land, said a met department official. The dry spell is, however, not likely to last long as a fresh low pressure will develop over north Andaman on October 14 creating a conducive atmosphere for rain. This system is likely to trigger more light pre-monsoon rain on some of the days in the coming weeks. Weather tracking sites showed that the depression had triggered thunderstorms over the entire expanse of Bay of Bengal on Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-to-see-more-rainy-nights-as-depression-nears-andhra-coast/articleshow/78609464.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Ballari’s jeans industry back on track||BALLARI: Jeans manufacturing units in Ballai, the hub of the sector in the state, is slowly getting back on track with orders flowing from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Sales, which had crashed during the lockdown, are now back to 50% of what it used to be priory to the pandemic. There are over 600 manufacturing units in the district and with most back in business, thousands of workers, who took other temporary jobs, are now returning to the industry. Manufacturers hope business will be back to pre-Covid days by January. S Bhanuprasad, owner, Pointblank, said sales began picking up from the second week of September, but is still low considering people are more focused on food and shelter. “We were completely down for six months so we are relatively better off now,” he said. “People are buying products ahead of Dasara and Diwali. However, payments from retailers are still slow. Currently Mumbai and Salem cities are our big buyers and we ship by road. Overseas exports are problematic as flight services have not resumed.” Praveen Bafana, president, Bengaluru Appartel Manufacturers Association, said “50% is the new normal”. “We sell primarily to retailers, who are showing decent sales. We have to wait for results. Labour though is not a problem since we employ mostly locals.” Narasimha, Ramanna, Shivamurthy and other labourers in Cowl Bazar in Ballari, said they had taken up other jobs during the lockdown. “Now, jeans manufacturers are offering jobs,” they added. Over 70,000 families in Ballari, Chitradurga and Adoni district of AP rely on the industry which comprises mostly small and medium manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ballaris-jeans-industry-back-on-track/articleshow/78608669.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Enquiry ordered into fee violation issue||Hyderabad: The education department has ordered re-enquiry into 10 schools, which are affiliated to CBSE, ICSE, and other boards, in the city over allegations that schools are violating fee regulation norms by collecting fees under various headers instead of only the tuition fee. The officials were directed to conduct a detailed enquiry with regard to complaints of violation of GO Rt No 46 dated April 21, 2020, by examining the records and documents of the said schools. M Somi Reddy, joint director, Telangana Open Schools Society and K Satyanarayana Reddy, joint director, Telangana Samagra Shiksha were asked to conduct a detailed enquiry into the issue. Additionally, G Ramesh Kumar, joint director, Telangana Samagra Shiksha and P Rajeev, joint director, Telangana Model Schools were asked into allegation levied against the schools. “The district educational officers of Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal districts are instructed to coordinate with the enquiry team,” read the proceedings issued by A Sridevasena, director of school education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/enquiry-ordered-into-fee-violation-issue/articleshow/78610400.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||World||Fauci says his remarks were taken out of context in Trump's campaign||WASHINGTON: Top US infectious diseases expert Dr Anthony Fauci said on Sunday he had not agreed to be featured in an ad by President Donald Trump's re-election campaign and that his comments were taken out of context. The ad, released last week, discusses Trump's effort to recover from the coronavirus personally, as well as his administration's work to address the pandemic. The 30-second spot uses older remarks from Fauci in a way that suggests he was praising the president. "I can't imagine that anybody could be doing more," the ad shows Fauci saying. But those remarks are from a March interview, where Fauci, who has been director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) since 1984, was discussing the broader effort, including by the White House coronavirus task force. "In my nearly five decades of public service, I have never publicly endorsed any political candidate," Fauci said in a statement. "The comments attributed to me without my permission in the GOP campaign ad were taken out of context from a broad statement I made months ago about the efforts of federal public health officials," his statement added. Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh defended the ad in a statement on Sunday, saying the words from Fauci "are accurate, and directly from Dr Fauci’s mouth. "As Dr Fauci recently testified in the Senate, President Trump took the virus seriously from the beginning, acted quickly, and saved lives,” Murtaugh's statement added. Trump himself echoed that sentiment in a tweet on Sunday, saying: "They are indeed Dr Fauci's own words. We have done a 'phenomenal' job, according to certain governors." Fauci and Trump have not always agreed on how to handle the pandemic, which has infected nearly 7.7 million people in the United States and killed more than 214,000. Opinion polls show most voters disapprove of the president's handling of the crisis. On Friday, Fauci described a Sept. 26 White House event, after which several attendees including Trump, tested positive for the virus, as a "superspreader event." ABC News said on Sunday it had asked the White House to allow Fauci to appear on "The Week," but the administration refused to make him or other members of the task force available. Alyssa Farah, the White House communications director, said later on Twitter that Fauci had made other media appearances earlier in the week, rebutting the charge he was "muzzled."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/fauci-says-his-remarks-were-taken-out-of-context-in-trumps-campaign/articleshow/78611056.cms||---
October 12, 2020||World||Fauci says his remarks were taken out of context in Trump's campaign||WASHINGTON: Top US infectious diseases expert Dr Anthony Fauci said on Sunday he had not agreed to be featured in an ad by President Donald Trump's re-election campaign and that his comments were taken out of context. The ad, released last week, discusses Trump's effort to recover from the coronavirus personally, as well as his administration's work to address the pandemic. The 30-second spot uses older remarks from Fauci in a way that suggests he was praising the president. "I can't imagine that anybody could be doing more," the ad shows Fauci saying. But those remarks are from a March interview, where Fauci, who has been director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) since 1984, was discussing the broader effort, including by the White House coronavirus task force. "In my nearly five decades of public service, I have never publicly endorsed any political candidate," Fauci said in a statement. "The comments attributed to me without my permission in the GOP campaign ad were taken out of context from a broad statement I made months ago about the efforts of federal public health officials," his statement added. Trump campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh defended the ad in a statement on Sunday, saying the words from Fauci "are accurate, and directly from Dr Fauci’s mouth. "As Dr Fauci recently testified in the Senate, President Trump took the virus seriously from the beginning, acted quickly, and saved lives,” Murtaugh's statement added. Trump himself echoed that sentiment in a tweet on Sunday, saying: "They are indeed Dr Fauci's own words. We have done a 'phenomenal' job, according to certain governors." Fauci and Trump have not always agreed on how to handle the pandemic, which has infected nearly 7.7 million people in the United States and killed more than 214,000. Opinion polls show most voters disapprove of the president's handling of the crisis. On Friday, Fauci described a Sept. 26 White House event, after which several attendees including Trump, tested positive for the virus, as a "superspreader event." ABC News said on Sunday it had asked the White House to allow Fauci to appear on "The Week," but the administration refused to make him or other members of the task force available. Alyssa Farah, the White House communications director, said later on Twitter that Fauci had made other media appearances earlier in the week, rebutting the charge he was "muzzled."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/fauci-says-his-remarks-were-taken-out-of-context-in-trumps-campaign/articleshow/78611057.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Biriyani sold for ‘10 paise’ to public, Re 1 to Covid warriors in Trichy||TRICHY: A restaurant here offered chicken and mutton biriyani for locals in exchange for a 10 paise coin, which is no longer in use in the country, on the occasion of World Biriyani Day on Sunday. The eatery also sold biriyani for one rupee to Covid-19 frontline workers in recognition of their efforts. The restaurant saw a footfall of around 200 people as people queued up to grab the offer. City-based KMS Hakkim Kalyana Biriyani said that the low-cost biriyani offer was to highlight World Biriyani Day celebrated by a section of eateries across the state. The restaurant in its social media campaign, launched a few days back, said that people, who have the old 10 paise coin can approach the outlet situated on Sasthri Road to grab a pack of biriyani each after handing over the coin. “We did not expect such a massive reception. We initially planned to sell 100 biriyani packs in return for the 10 paise coins. But, more than 200 people came with the coins,” KMS Hakkim, proprietor of the restaurant told TOI. The restaurant management that runs outlets at eight locations in the city claimed that they have no specific plan to use the collected coins. At its Palakkarai branch, they sold biriyani for Re1 to Covid-19 frontline workers. Sanitary workers, police personal and health workers were given chicken biriyani for Re1 after showing their official identity cards. “To reciprocate the efforts of field workers in battling Covid-19, we offered biriyani for Re1 to them. No head-count or quantity ceiling was fixed for this offer,” Hakkim added. The restaurant said that their staff was deployed to streamline the huge crowd outside the shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/biriyani-sold-for-10-paise-to-public-re-1-to-covid-warriors-in-trichy/articleshow/78610402.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Woman buys e-pass, attempts suicide||Kolkata: Metro services along the north-south line were disrupted for 45 minutes on Sunday after a 25-year-old woman attempted suicide by jumping in front of a Noapara-bound train at Belgachhia station, said a Metro Railway official. Services were disrupted from 11.35am to 12.20pm. This was the first suicide attempt in the Metro since the resumption of services after the 175-day hiatus due to Covid-induced lockdown. The woman, a resident of Rajendra Mullick Street in Jorasanko, was taken to RG Kar Hospital and later shifted to AMRI Hospital, Salt Lake, where her condition was stated to be serious but stable. She received injuries on her left hand and right leg, said the police. Cops are still in the dark why the woman took such a step. “She is not in a position to speak,” said a police officer. “It is rather strange that someone has taken the trouble to book an e-pass to enter a Metro station just to kill herself,” said a Metro official said. On Sunday, when services were disrupted for 45 minutes, e-passes booked during the slots had to be cancelled. Metro Railway resumed Sunday services only last week with 58 trips. The first train on Sunday starts at 10.10am. The 45-minute disruption inconvenienced several commuters, mostly Puja shoppers. (With inputs from Dwaipayan Ghosh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-buys-e-pass-attempts-suicide/articleshow/78609462.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Missing 16-yr-old girl returns home||Hyderabad: The 16-year-old girl student who went missing from Hayathnagar four days ago after a tiff with her father, returned home at 7pm on Sunday. The missing girl, a class 12 student and resident of Laxmi Ganapathi Colony was missing since the night of October 7. A missing complaint was lodged and police formed teams to search for the missing girl. “The girl was traced within a kilometre range of her house. We had formed seven teams to trace the girl,” said Hayathnagar inspector, M Surender. According to the family, the girl was hiding in a thicket close to the house for four days. “She hasn’t spoken to police. We’ll record her statement soon,” added the inspector. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-16-yr-old-girl-returns-home/articleshow/78610403.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||‘Techie’ with memory loss languishes in hosp for 9 mnths||Kolkata: A young woman in her 20s, who has been languishing at the Mathurapur Rural Hospital in South 24-Parganas for nearly nine months now, has finally caught the attention of senior health officials in the district. The woman, who speaks fluently in English, is claiming that she worked at an IT firm in Rajarhat. Officials are unsure how she landed up in Mathurapur, nearly 65-km away from her workplace. Inquiries carried out over the last few days have revealed that the woman was employed in an office at a high-rise in Rajarhat. and that she lost both her parents over the last few years. “I came to know about the woman during a visit to the hospital in September. I was curious as she didn’t seem to fit in there. On inquiring, I was told that she was found loitering near Mathurapur railway station in January by locals who got her admitted to the hospital. Initially, she had been behaving in a violent manner but received treatment. For the last few months, she has been behaving quite normally,” said a senior health official from the district. This official got in touch with the West Bengal Radio Club (WBRC), an organisation of HAM operators. The amateur radio operators succeeded in tracing her family and are now attempting to find out where she worked. “We spoke to her for nearly 17 days. She claims she had an accident, after which she was admitted to the hospital. She also said that she lived with three paying guests. She gave hints that she had lived somewhere in Chetla. We inquired and found that her family did live in a rented house in Chetla before her father died and she moved with her mother to Malancha in South 24-Parganas. In Malancha, we tracked down the locality, where she lived. Locals informed us that her mother has passed away. We got details of two of her maternal uncles who said they have no links with the family and were of the belief that her mother is still alive,” said Ambarish Nag Biswas, secretary, WBRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/techie-with-memory-loss-languishes-in-hosp-for-9-mnths/articleshow/78609465.cms||Jayanta Gupta
October 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala governor urged to stop open univ from offering courses||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Save University Campaign Committee has urged governor Arif Mohammed Khan to stop the newly set up Sree Narayana Guru Open University from its move to offer courses before getting UGC recognition. The move to start courses without ensuring infrastructure facilities and teaching faculties would harm the prospects of students in a big way. Instead of pressing ahead with the plans to start offering courses at once, the governor, who is also the chancellor of the university, should advise the authorities concerned to let other universities to offer distance education courses until the new university is well equipped. “The entire matter has been hurried up to make top-level appointments, flouting all the UGC rules and regulations in this matter. Lakhs of students depend on the distance programmes run by the existing universities in Kerala to advance the career and learning options. These programmes are being run in accordance with the UGC approval. Over the years, these universities have also established the basic infrastructure facilities and other requirements such as the appointment of faculty for the conduct of the courses. Now, the government, all of a sudden, has directed these universities to stop the distance mode courses to facilitate admission to the Open University. This will jeopardize the future of the students as the programmes run by the new university don’t have the recognition of the UGC,” the memorandum said. “It is therefore urged that the chancellor may interfere in the matter urgently to direct the government to first get the UGC approval for the conduct of courses after fulfilling the norms laid down under the UGC Regulations 2017. Until then, admissions to these programmes should strictly be kept on the hold. Also, during this time, the existing universities be permitted to conduct their distance mode courses to support the students,” the memorandum said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/governor-urged-to-stop-open-univ-from-offering-courses/articleshow/78608689.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Trichy||77 stolen two-wheelers recovered, one arrested||Trichy: The city crime branch has traced 77 missing and stolen motorbikes across delta districts and arrested one person in this regard. The bikes were handed over to the owners at an event held here on Sunday. Based on several complaints that two-wheelers parked at various places in the city went missing in the last few weeks, police commissioner J Loganathan formed a special team headed by Fort police crime branch SI Karunakaran to solve the case. When the team was conducting a vehicle check near Singarathope a few days back, they intercepted a person who was riding a bike bearing a registration number of Srirangam regional transport office. However, the person who rode the bike said that he was V Rajkumar, 51, of Melamaruthur village near Thiruthuraipoondi in Tiruvarur district. During interrogation, his statements were contradictory. When police intensified their investigation, they came to light that the bike he rode was the one which went missing from Chinna Kadai street on September 28. Rajkumar confessed that he had stolen 77 two-wheelers from Trichy, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts. Subsequently, he was arrested. The special police team recovered all the 77 bikes from various locations. Commissioner J Loganathan, handed over the recovered two-wheelers to the owners on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/77-stolen-two-wheelers-recovered-one-arrested/articleshow/78610405.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Munnar monorail project: High-level meeting held||Idukki: A high-level meeting of officials and stakeholders was held on Friday to look into the proposed monorail project in the district. Prior to the meeting, the team surveyed the area of the proposed project. Officials from the railways, Kannan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP) and tourism department were present at the meeting in Munnar, which was led by Devikulam MLA S Rajendran. It is learnt that the railway officials will submit a report to Kerala Tourism Infrastructure Ltd (KTIL) soon. Last year, the tourism department had decided to initiate the monorail project in Munnar to attract more tourists to the region. Idukki tourism deputy director Thomas Antony said, “The monorail project will be implemented as a joint venture. The starting station of the six-kilometre-long monorail project will be Munnar and last station will be Mattuppetty. There will be a middle station at RDH”. “Tourism department is expecting 2,000 tourists per hour in the peak time. The expected cost of the construction is Rs 50 crore per kilometre. The railway line will be passing through KDHP-owned land and permission from the company is essential for the same,” said the official. “Kerala Tourism Infrastructure Ltd is the implementing agency of the proposed monorail project. The preliminary survey found that the project is feasible. Tourism department expects the project will attract more tourists to Munnar,”said Antony. The old Munnar monorail railway station was built in 1902. Tea and other goods were transported through this line. But, a devastating flood in 1924 destroyed the railway line. The old Munnar railway station is now being used as the head office of KDHP, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/munnar-monorail-project-high-level-meeting-held/articleshow/78604571.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Vadodara||Man rapes niece with learning difficulties||VADODARA: A 27-year-old woman with learning difficulties was repeatedly raped by her distant uncle last year in Kawant taluka of Chhota Udepur. The woman’s father approached police on Saturday when the accused did not obey the settlement terms set by the gram panchayat. According to the police, the accused used to take the woman to his field for work. The woman’s parents used to allow her to go as her mental health was not stable and there would be nobody to look after her at home when the parents would go for work. In October last year, the uncle raped the woman and repeated the offence several times. The parents were unaware of this as the woman never shared anything with them. Over a period as she became pregnant and her baby bump became visible, the parents asked the woman. It was only then that the woman told her parents that her uncle had been raping her at the farm. The girl’s father took up the issue with the gram panchayat. The woman’s uncle admitted to the crime following which the gram panchayat asked him to pay Rs 1.1 lakh to the rape survivor. As the accused did not pay the money and the woman delivered a baby girl in August, the survivor’s father approached the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-rapes-niece-with-learning-difficulties/articleshow/78608096.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||City doc patents tool to remotely monitor patients on dialysis||Hyderabad: A remote monitoring software for peritoneal dialysis patients that was developed by a Hyderabad-based nephrologist has now been patented in India and is awaiting patents in USA and Australia. The remote monitoring system is under study by several nations and experts said it could help patients of hemodialysis wanting to shift to peritoneal dialysis as it will allow them to cut out the risk of exposure to Covid-19. Developed by a nephrologist from the city’s Virinchi Hospital, Dr KS Nayak, the software makes use of audio-visual depictions to show patients what to do at every step of the peritoneal dialysis exchange. It is also capable of training patients before initiation of the process and requires only 4 hours training and has the potential to reduce training time as well as periodically reinforce optimal technique. In addition to recording details about the PD exchange (time, volume, percentage of dextrose, and other variables), this software is also capable of recording videos and taking images and allows real-time consultation. The software platform can help patients who normally perform the treatment themselves at their place of residence, need proper monitoring by a nephrologist or clinical staff, he said. “Catheter-related infections, peritonitis and exit-site infections are important causes of hospitalisation and catheter loss in patients undergoing chronic peritoneal dialysis. Peritonitis remains a major cause representing technique failure, leading to morbidity and mortality in these patients. Infections are the leading causes of morbidity and one of the leading causes of mortality in the dialysis population,” explained Dr Nayak. “As the Covid-19 pandemic continues its relentless spread across the subcontinent, we are now facing a bleak reality – overflowing hospitals with severe shortage of trained personnel and an acute dearth of essential equipment like ventilators and haemodialysis machines. The remote monitoring platform for patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis could help patients undergoing treatment for End Stage Kidney Disease (ESKD), not only in India but worldwide,” said Dr Nayak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-doc-patents-tool-to-remotely-monitor-patients-on-dialysis/articleshow/78610407.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 12, 2020||Trichy||BDU conducts PhD online entrance exam with AI support||Trichy: As many as 874 candidates took online PhD qualifying examination on Sunday for admission to PhD programs across 39 disciplines in Bharathidasan University and its affiliated colleges.A total 92% registered candidates sit the examination from their homes using a computer or smart phone. BDU had ensured a robust system for the qualifying examination unlike the end semester online examination where there wasn’t any monitoring mechanism.The university hired a private firm for technology support and candidates were monitored through web camera of their device giving little room for any irregularity.A minimum 3G internet speed was required for the candidates to appear for the examination. To reduce data consumption, the examination was cut short to one hour with 50 multiple choice questions.The examination started at 10 am and went on till 11 am. A grace time of 15 minutes was given for the candidates to complete the examination.Right from candidate entering a separate room to appear for the examination and till the completion of the examination, the entire process was video recorded for each of the candidate. Except for the candidates, no one should accompany the candidate while appearing for the examination. AI was used to detect and record face emotions, pupil movement and all activities of the candidates during the examination.“The online examination system was programmed to issue regular warning sign on the screen in case of unusual activities from the candidates,” said S Srinivasaragavan, controller of examination, BDU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-conducts-phd-online-entrance-exam-with-ai-support/articleshow/78610408.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 12, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Man ends life at pit in quarry||MYSURU: A man allegedly committed suicide by jumping into a water-filled quarry in Periyapatna taluk. Yogesh, 35, a hairdresser allegedly made a video in his mobile phone claiming harassment from two persons leading to his suicide. Police said his body was found on Friday morning. Yogesh from Panchavalli village is said to have gone missing on Thursday. Villagers claimed that around 2.45 pm on Thursday, he sent a video through Whatsapp to his family and relatives. Based on the details in the video, the family members and police rushed to the quarry site where they found his parked bike and footwear. They found the mobile phone in the petrol tank cover of the bike. Police, who had rushed to the quarry, tried to fish out the body. They could find it only on Friday after taking the help of expert swimmers. Yogesh is survived by wife Poornima and a daughter. In his police complaint, Yogesh’s elder brother Mallesh claimed that Yogesh had taken loans from several private institutions. Unable to repay the loans, he committed suicide. Based on the complaint, Periyapatna police have registered a case of unnatural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-ends-life-at-pit-in-quarry/articleshow/78610244.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Meerut||Illegal arms making factory busted in Muzaffarnagar, two held||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Police busted an illegal arms making factory and arrested two men in the Civil Lines area of Muzaffarnagar on Sunday. Sources said a police team raided a shut brick kiln unit and found a large number of illegal weapons, including equipment. The cops picked up two persons - identified as Ilyas and Dinu. Both are residents of Muzaffarnagar. SP (Rural) Nepal Singh said, "Investigation is on and two individuals were sent to jail. A case has been registered against them." As many as 10 illegal weapons and a dozen unmade ones were recovered. Earlier, a few days ago, in another drive against illegal arms, police in Muzaffarnagar busted an illegal weapons making unit and arrested three persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/illegal-arms-making-factorybusted-in-mnagar-two-held/articleshow/78608681.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: Alarm bells in Krishna dist as cases rise again||VIJAYAWADA: An increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in Krishna district has raised fears among the administration that the district, which earlier saw a fall in caseload, might be witnessing a second wave of infections. Health wing authorities have warned of a further spike if officials fail to implement restrictions at containment zones. The district ranks at the bottom in number of all cases and fifth in number of deaths. Even as health wing continues with efforts to minimise the Covid-19 mortality rate, district collector A Md Imtiaz has directed that positive cases be identified quickly and timely treatment be provided to bring down the death rate. The collector expressed dissatisfaction over the performance of Nimra Covid hospital in Vijayawada and Machilipatnam government hospital in handling Covid-19 cases. The collector also directed municipal, panchayat, health, police and revenue officials to control large gatherings. The administration will run campaigns to explain the potential risks involved in crowded places and markets in view of the increase in number of people at public places and resumption of some business establishments following relaxations. Other ongoing measures include volunteers carrying out door-to-door visits to check residents’ health condition. SMS alerts are being sent to neighbours of Covid-19 patients under home isolation. The district has also reported some cases of reinfection in the last 10 days. On Sunday, the district registered 462 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 31,950. Two deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 493. Active cases under treatment number at 2,877. The collector on Sunday notified seven new containment zones. The number of containment zones now stands at 525.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/alarm-bells-in-krishna-dist-as-cases-rise-again/articleshow/78608690.cms||Venu Lanka
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM KCR puts all dist admins on high alert||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday put administration of all districts on a high alert as the meteorological department has predicted heavy to very heavy rain in the next two days. The CM instructed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to ensure that district collectors and superintendents of police review the situation as and when required and take immediate action to protect lives and property. He asked the officials as well as people to remain vigilant and cautious keeping in view the forecast for the next two days. Heavy rains have been lashing several places across the state since Saturday evening. “Collectors and SPs are requested to put the entire district administration on alert and strictly follow the flood protocol communicated earlier,” Somesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-puts-all-dist-admins-on-high-alert/articleshow/78610410.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Stalin to address 1L cadre via videoconference||Trichy: DMK president M K Stalin will address one lakh cadres of nine assembly segments in Trichy through videoconference from Chennai as part of ‘MupperumVizha’. Though the schedule is yet to be worked out, party principal secretary K N Nehru said here on Sunday that the event will kickstart the party’s assembly election campaign in the state. “Assembly elections are going to be held next year for which many parties have already begun preparations. We have also begun our work to make our party leader M K Stalin the chief minister. The executive committee meeting is being held today to discuss all related matters,” he said. “M K Stalin regularly tours at least 15 days a month to meet party cadres and the general public. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he has addressed millions of cadres through video conferencing. Elaborate arrangements have been made to conduct a meeting where our party president is going to meet about one lakh cadres from all the nine assembly segments in the district through videoconferencing,” Nehru said. Condemning the incident in which a dalit woman president of a Cuddalore village panchayat was made to sit on the ground for meetings, he said dalit panchayatpresidents must be given due respect. He said the situation in the state was such that panchayat elections could not be conducted in four villages in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-to-address-1l-cadre-via-videoconference/articleshow/78610411.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Jica demands 80% land acquisition||Thiruvananthapuram: In a guarded move, Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) is learnt to have informed the state government that it could commit to funding the ambitious ‘Silver Line’ semi-high speed rail project only after at least 80% land acquisition for the project is complete. The condition is put forward by Jica, one of the international financial agencies with whom the Kerala Rail Development Corporation LTD, a joint venture of railways and the state government, is in talks with for mobilizing Rs 33,700 crore funding for the project. The Silver Line project proposes to establish semi-high speed rail connectivity between Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod. However, the fresh condition set by Jica, say sources close to the developments, could give a flip to the project than affecting its prospects. “From its experience, funding agencies usually incorporate new conditions while funding for new projects. Since land acquisition in a major hurdle in a state like Kerala, the agency must have thought of ensuring land availability before giving out a commitment on funding. Since the land acquisition is being done using funding raised through a different mechanism, it could further increase the chances for the realisation of the project at the earliest,” sources said. The first tranche of funds to the tune of Rs 2,100 crore for land acquisition is expected to the released to K-Rail in a month or so. Funds for the land acquisition is being mobilized through KIIFB, Hudco and Indian Railway Finance Corporation. For the international funding, the talks are with Jica, ABDI, German Development Bank and Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. Silver Line will be running parallel to the existing railway line from Kasaragod to Tirur, while an alternative green-field alignment has been chosen for the Tirur- Thiruvananthapuram stretch. Starting from the state capital, Silver Line trains will have stoppages at Kollam, Chengannur, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Tirur, Kozhikode and Kannur before reaching Kasaragod. The Rs 63,941-crore project is expected to be completed within five years of commencement of the work. “The line will be laid through least populated areas in 15-25metre width, so as to limit the acquisition of land to the barest minimum possible. “Grievances and concerns of the affected people will be addressed and the project will be implemented only by taking them into confidence,” said PWD minister Sudhakaran. The Silver Line corridor connecting Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod in 4 hours will enable running of semi-high speed trains at an operational speed of 200km per hour along the 529.45km stretch. These trains will cover the Thiruvananthapuram-Ernakulam stretch in one-and-a-half hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jica-demands-80-land-acquisition/articleshow/78608725.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Move to make teachers go to college abandoned||Trichy: Principals of two governments arts colleges here had to roll back their decision to make teachers come to college regularly from Monday following stiff resistance from them citing possible spread of Covid-19. “Some of the teachers are already down with Covid-19, so we are scared to come,” said a teacher of government arts college in Thiruverumbur. He said there is no written instruction from the higher education department in this regard, but principals were asking them to come to college. Though colleges are closed since lockdown in March, a few teachers have been coming to college to look after admission work. Others are taking online classes from home, but there were complaints that teachers are not turning up even for admission work. “This had prompted higher education secretary S Apoorva to give oral instructions to colleges through the director of collegiate education to ask teachers to come to colleges,” said one of the principals. The principal further said that most teachers in private colleges have been taking online classes from college. “It is unfortunate that teachers in government colleges are not showing the commitment,” he said. “Less than 40% students attend online classes and teachers aren’t showing any interest in students who are left out,” added the principal. A Mekala, regional joint director of collegiate education confirmed the decision was rolled back after teachers raised objection. The decision to call teachers was taken only after teachers were not turning up for admission work. Since they fear Covid infection and cite network issues to take online class from the colleges, we rolled back the decision, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/move-to-make-teachers-go-to-college-abandoned/articleshow/78610409.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Man being kidnapped signals traffic cop, saved||CHENNAI: A sub-inspector of police helped in the rescue of a kidnap victim after seeing him signalling from inside a car at a traffic signal in Pallavaram on Saturday evening. Police later detained Nagaraj, 42, of Karur and Suresh, 38, of Vriddhachalam, and are questioning them in connection with the abduction of Thendral Anand alias Mohan Kumar, 36, of Anjugam Nagar at Kunrathur. A senior police officer said Thendral Anand befriended Nagaraj and Suresh who told him they could all become partners in a business deal that would help make money during the lockdown as they were all jobless.  Realising that many private schools were not being able to run online classes due to lack of funds, the three decided to run classes for such institutions through some private trusts, the officer said. The three men checked into a lodge in Trichy, on a monthly rent basis, and began collecting details of schools that wanted to run online classes but couldn’t. They, however, failed to pay the rent for several months at the lodge whose owner recently handed them a bill for Rs 50,000. Thendral Anand, who had no money, went absconding and the lodge owner began pressuring Nagaraj and Suresh. The two men, who too had run out of money, were frustrated as they had no clue about Thendral Anand. On Saturday, after getting information that he was at a lodge on Wallajah Road in Triplicane, Chennai, they rented a car and came to the city. After escorting him out of the car, they bundled him into the rear seat of the vehicle with his hands tied and set out for Trichy. At a traffic signal in Pallavaram on GST Road, Thendral Anand noticed traffic sub-inspector Sundarajan and alerted him by banging his head against the car window. The SI, who smelled something fishy, alerted a team of the policemen on patrol that was passing by. The patrol team stopped the car, rescued him and secured Nagaraj and Suresh. The case was transferred to the Triplicane police as the lodge from where Thendral Anand was kidnapped comes under their jurisdiction. The abductors are being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-being-kidnapped-signals-traffic-cop-saved/articleshow/78609479.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Pet stays continue to stare at loss as festive season begins||CHENNAI: During the festive seasons, Suresh Rajaram, founder of the Petancia boarding and daycare for pets, would have at least 60 dogs and cats in his facility as pet-parents go holidaying over long weekends. This year, however, he hardly has any customers. “I would be happy if I have half the number of customers I had last year. Inquiries are slowly starting to come in, we are positive,” said Suresh. Sai Kiran who runs the Happy Paws Pet Home Stay at Poonamallee, said inquiries would usually start pouring in at least two months ahead of the festive season that starts in October but due to the lockdown, there were none. We have had inquiries only after the lockdown eased, since the last few weeks. “A few are from families where one or both pet-parents had contracted Covid-19, and they wanted a space to keep the pets while they are under quarantine,” said Sai Kiran. There are at least 50 pet homestays, boarding, and daycare facilities in the city. They mainly take in dogs and cats while a few centres also board birds, turtles and sometimes allow pet snakes. The centres are air-conditioned and largely run inside homes. The prices of these facilities range between Rs 400 to Rs 2,000 a day. Because of high demand and people willing to pay a premium for the services, many owners have taken this up full-time. Suresh, who has pet boarding facilities in Koyambedu and near Thiruverkadu, said like other businesses, theirs was also hit by the pandemic. “There was zero income during all those months of lockdown. We had a tough time maintaining the facilities and paying our staff. We had to use our savings to keep the business afloat.” Rishabh Kumar, who works as a pet sitter and also boards dogs in his house, said families are now more concerned than ever about safety and hygiene in boarding centres. “They visit personally and ensure that everything is clean and disinfected,” he said. Rishabh said during the lockdown he received a dog for boarding but never heard from the family even after the stay ended. When he finally got in touch, they didn’t want the dog back as they were scared of contracting the virus from it. The dog was adopted later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pet-stays-continue-to-stare-at-loss-as-festive-season-begins/articleshow/78609486.cms||Aditi R
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Woman, 78, found dead at home with legs, hands tied up||TRICHY: A septuagenarian woman was found dead with her hands and legs tied at her house in Sangiliyandapuram in Trichy. Her two earrings weighing a few grams were also missing. Police said the deceased Ananthi, 78, a native of Nagammai Nagar, has a son and a daughter who live with their families nearby. The victim has been residing alone in the house after her husband passed away a few years ago. When she did not come out of her house on Sunday morning, neighbours went to check and noticed that the door remained closed. Soon, her son Kumar arrived and opened the house only to find the woman dead with her legs and hand tied. On being informed, Palakkarai police arrived and conducted an inquiry with neighbours and relatives. During investigation, they came to know that two earrings and a stud from her nose weighing one sovereign were missing. Since no external injuries were found on her body, police feel the miscreants barged into her house, snatched her valuables after tying her up and may have strangulated her. The body was sent to MGMGH for postmortem. Palakkarai police registered a case and further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-78-found-dead-at-home-with-legs-hands-tied-up/articleshow/78610416.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||‘Responsible birding is need of the hour’||PANAJI: With birdwatching in India growing as a hobby coupled with digital photography, the onus of ensuring responsible birding lies with the people, said naturalist, Omkar Dharwadkar who is also the president of the Goa bird conservation network (GBCN). “It is the responsibility of the local guide who accompanies them to control the kind of birdwatching that people do. They must restrict certain things like the approach used to draw the birds out of bushes or go to any extent just to get a good photograph,” Dharwadkar said in an online session for wildlife week. He pointed out that bird watching sites in the Himalayas, Western Ghats and Andaman Islands have become popular but also very crowded with photographers. He said that he sees more photographers than birders at some sites, and there are people who will not look at the bird if it’s not photographable. “While the onus is on the bird guides, the bird watchers need to be responsible as their actions could disrupt the bird’s activities in the nest or affect its breeding. Bird watchers need to be conscious about such things,” he added. Dharwadkar also said that the growing popularity of social media often leads many photographers seek likes and comments by photographing rare birds. In such a scenario, common birds like crows get ignored. Talking about bird monitoring in Goa, he said that it boils down to passion and gathering true data for monitoring. Dharwadkar busted myths about the population of house sparrows. He referred to the State of India’s Bird 2020 and said their population is stable but there are various misconceptions like the mobile towers affecting their population. “The kind of housing we have right now is not conducive for the breeding of sparrows which is why they are possibly moving to other areas. There is no published data which says that mobile towers are responsible for the decline of sparrows. If someone hypothesizes then we can accept it as per their report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/responsible-birding-is-need-of-the-hour/articleshow/78610844.cms||Nida Sayed
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Biz women swear by WE Hub||Hyderabad: Aspiring women entrepreneurs who are undergoing tailor-made programmes by Hyderabad-based exclusive women’s incubator WE Hub shared their experience with TOI. They said representatives from WE Hub enquired about their area of interest, and documented the details to chalk out a plan for them. “The programme is useful as several women, especially from rural areas don’t know several business aspects which include applying licence to run a business, benefits and loans that can be availed through government schemes among others. Soon after the session ends, I will start selling cosmetics and start a manufacturing unit too,” said G Sandhya, one of the aspiring entrepreneurs attending the session. Another aspiring entrepreneur said she wants to use WE Hub as a platform to promote, brand and sell farmer products. “I have formed a team of 1,000 farmers. Our plan is reach out to supermarkets and consumers to deliver millets, red dal and other products grown by farmers,” said T Niramal from Narayanpet. WE Hub, under the second cohort of its Her&Now programme implemented by GIZ GmbH, is fishing for aspiring entrepreneurs from villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biz-women-swear-by-we-hub/articleshow/78610414.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh Covid-19 recoveries go past 7 lakh-mark||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 5,210 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,55,727. The toll increased to 6,224 as 30 more people died of the disease. As many as 5,509 patients recovered from the novel coronavirus on Sunday, taking the cumulative recoveries past the seven lakh-mark to 7,03,208. There are currently 46,295 active cases with an overall recovery rate of over 93%. The recovery rate was 96% in Anantapur and Kurnool districts, while it was above 90% in all the districts. West Godavari reported 786 new cases on Sunday, followed by Chittoor (713) and East Godavari (701). The remaining districts reported fewer than 500 cases. Vizianagaram recorded the day’s lowest of 161 infections. Chittoor crossed the 70,000 Covid-19 case mark on Sunday, becoming the third district to achieve the grim feat after East Godavari and West Godavari districts. East Godavari continued to lead the table with 1,06,043 cases as of Sunday. Nine districts have a caseload of at least 50,000 infections, while Krishna is at the bottom with 31,950 cases. Of the deaths registered on Sunday, eight are from Prakasam, four from Chittoor, three each from East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam, two each from Anantapur and Krishna, and one each from Srikakulam and West Godavari. AP has so far tested 65.69 lakh Covid-19 samples, including 75,517 who were tested for the virus on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-covid-19-recoveries-go-past-7l-mark/articleshow/78608711.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Congress seeks B S Yeddiyurappa's ouster over ‘corruption by kin’||NEW DELHI: Congress on Sunday demanded the dismissal of the B S Yeddiyurappa-led BJP government in Karnataka over allegations of corruption against the CM’s family members and said there should be a time-bound judicial probe into the matter. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said Yediyurappa had dismissed the charges as “baseless” when leader of opposition Siddaramaiah had made the allegations last month. But with fresh “evidence” presenting itself, Singhvi alleged the BJP government in Karnataka is “engulfed in the clutches of corruption with dented, tainted leaders ruling the roost”, and asked why PM Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda were “silent” over the reported allegations against the son, son-in-law, and grandson of the Karnataka chief minister. “If the CM has the slightest sense of shame, he must resign or be sacked,” Singhvi said. The allegations relate to a Rs 662-crore construction of an apartment project in Bengaluru, Singhvi said and claimed media reports have “disclosed direct involvement of close relatives like son, son-in-law and grandson in corruption and bribery in connection with the project”. Singhvi said additional bribe was paid through shell companies in Kolkata and demanded that the Prevention of Corruption Act and the PML Act be invoked to probe the allegations. “We demand... appoint a sitting SC (judge) or a sitting chief justice of a HC as an inquirer for two months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-seeks-b-s-yeddiyurappas-ouster-over-corruption-by-kin/articleshow/78611064.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Trichy||Those coming from Kerala to be tested at border||Trichy: People entering the bordering districts from neighbouring states like Kerala will be monitored and tested for Covid-19 symptoms in the coming days, health minister C Vijaya Baskar said in Pudukottai on Sunday. Surveillance has been strengthened in these districts following the manifold increase in coronavirus cases in states like Kerala. “We are in a phase where people are getting back to their routines with relaxation in lockdown norms. This is the time when we need to be extra cautious by wearing mask and ensuring social distancing,” he said. Pointing to his own example, the minister said he has been interacting with Covid-19 patients every day, but he wears a mask and maintains social distancing, which have helped avoid infection. He said challenges are aplenty in the coming days as relaxation has been announced ahead of the festival season and monsoon. The government is taking numerous steps to contain the spread of Covid-19 which has led to a significant reduction in the positivity rate. While an average 90,000 RT-PCR tests are done every day, only 6% is testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/those-coming-from-kerala-to-be-tested-at-border/articleshow/78610420.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops summon 14 UoH students over anti-CAA protest||HYDERABAD: The Cyberabad police has filed an FIR and summoned 14 students of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) in the case of an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protest held in February this year. The Hyderabad Central University Coordination Committee had organised a protest meeting at the Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu), Hyderabad on February 21. The Raidurgam police station summoned the 14 students to appear before a investigating officer on October 6 on charges of Sections 143 (unlawful assembly) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) read with Section 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, many students state that they received the summon copy only by October 10. Due to the lockdown, many students belonging to different states such as Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Delhi and Bihar, named in the FIR have left for their home. “We didn’t even know that an FIR was registered against us until we received the summon copy. We were going to Manuu for a peaceful protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens. On our way to the university, the police stopped us and questioned us,” said Hadif Nisar, one of the 14 students summoned by the cops. Police alleged that the students neither took permission from them or the Manuu authorities to hold the protest gathering within the campus. “About 20 to 30 students of Hyderabad Central University (HCU) illegally gathered at a coffee shop and led a rally from there to Manuu carrying placards, raising slogans against the Central government and gave lectures there so as to provoke the students to break tranquility at the university,” said Muraleedhar, sub-inspector of police, Raidurgam police station, in his complaint copy. The UoH students union condemned the police action as they held a protest at the north shopping complex on Sunday. “This is not the first time that the Telangana police has intervened in lawful and peaceful protests and rallies taken out by Hyderabad university students. Several protest marches by the students union were forcefully stopped by the police. They even detained an entire group of students to stop them from joining a massive protests that took place outside the university,” said Abhishek Nandan, president, UoH students union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-summon-14-uoh-students-over-anti-caa-protest/articleshow/78610422.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||30 PILs in Andhra Pradesh high court over shifting of state capital||VIJAYAWADA: The move to shift the state capital from Amaravati as part of what the state government has called a decentralised development plan has triggered an unprecedented flow of public interest litigations (PILs) in the Andhra Pradesh High Court. As many as 30 PILs were filed by various groups including farmers, leading the state government to sniff a a conspiracy behind the barrage of challenges to a series of its decisions. It is perhaps the first time that the high court is flooded with so many PILs in such a short time. The PILs have been filed since January 2020 and the high court has now started daily hearing of the Amaravati capital city case. Pending disposal of the case the state government is barred from shifting state-level offices from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam, where “executive” capital is supposed to come up. Also, the government had proposed to move the high court and all state-level judicial bodies to Kurnool, which would be developed as the “judicial” capital. Amaravati will remain as the “legislative” capital. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in his letter last week to the Chief Justice of India, Justice SA Bobde, has said “the PILs got filed at various stages of legitimate government functioning, impleading the chief minister as party respondent, with the choicest of abuses”. The PILs in question were all about the trifurcation of capital: a reversal of the previous government's decision to locate the capital in Amravati after the loss of Hyderabad to Telangana following the partition. Farmers, who parted with land for Amaravati, and representatives of opposition parties moved petitions challenging every move of the government towards capital trifurcation. This has infuriated the government. The PILs challenged the constitution of expert committee to study decentralised development, raising objections about the report of the expert committee, seeking implementation of contractual agreements with farmers, opposing allotment of house sites in Amaravati to poor people from other areas, challenging shifting of offices and the twin Bills introduced for trifurcation of capital. In his letter, Jagan draws a link between PILs moved since January 2020 and the land purchases made by the high functionaries of various institutions in Amaravati. He alleged the vested interests in Amaravati capital and the protests are being organised and funded by these vested individuals including former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and a sitting judge of supreme court. With the judiciary and executive locking horns, legal experts are worried about the consequences. Senior counsel A Satya Prasad told TOI that while the allegations stand as they were, the approach taken by the state government over its apprehensions on judiciary would not serve any purpose. He said that the high court has vast jurisdiction than the Supreme Court and the CJI also does not have any administrative control over the functioning of high courts. “In my opinion, it is not in the constitutional scheme of things and not a very well thought out decision. By linking judges with political leaders, it has now become a personal issue rather than an issue pertaining to the institutional overstepping. Present happenings will only undermine the institutions. It will not help in strengthening them” he said. Another senior counsel Pichuka Srinivas said a series of unwarranted events brought the situation this far. He was critical about some of the judgements especially in the matters of stalling further proceedings in criminal cases. “The investigation should not have been stopped in the cases like Ramesh Hospital fire mishap and Amaravati land scam allegations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-pils-in-high-court-over-shifting-of-state-capital/articleshow/78608731.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 12, 2020||Coimbatore||State topper aspires to become cardiologist||Coimbatore: R Srijan, 19, who is ranked eighth nationally in NEET, says his aim is to become a cardiologist. A native of Vellakovil in Tirupur, he has scored 710 marks out of 720, the highest in the state, in the test. He says he was deeply interested in biology and has read the biology textbooks of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) fully six times. “Reading the NCERT biology texts over and again made me thorough in the subject.” As for physics and chemistry, he says, he focused on solving problems. “Here too, I understood the concepts given in the NCERT textbook, and practised by solving problems. My coaching centre also gave me material for this.” This was Srijan’s second NEET attempt. Last year, he could score only 385 marks out of 720. He then decided to take a year’s break and attempt the test again. He attended coaching sessions at a private coaching centre in Namakkal. “As this was my second attempt, I was better prepared. First time, I was nervous, but with experience, I was more composed this year.” It was his passion for biology that made him try for MBBS. “I want to join Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research (Jipmer) in Puducherry to pursue MBBS and after that take up cardiology,” Srijan says. Apart from biology, what fascinates Srijan is football. He has represented his school in several matches. “But I had to sacrifice football for a year to focus on NEET. If the coursework allows time, I would play again after joining the college,” he says. Srijan did his schooling at a Central Board of Secondary Education school in Erode. His father D Rajavel owns a spinning mill in Tirupur and his mother R Kanimozhi is a homemaker. He has a younger brother, Akilesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-topper-aspires-to-become-cardiologist/articleshow/78738715.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Customs seeks more info on Sivasankar’s foreign trips||Kochi: Customs sleuths, probing the gold smuggling case, are conducting a comprehensive enquiry into the foreign trips made by M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. They suspect Sivasankar is yet to reveal several facts relating to the import of dates as well. He has been asked to appear again on Tuesday along with documents to support his claims. Interrogations had earlier revealed that Sivasankartravelled abroad with Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the case, on a couple of occasions. Customs is in the process of verifying the statements made by Sivasankar during the 22-hour questioning spread over two days. The statements of Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS and Sandeep Nair, the accused in the gold smuggling case, would also be analysed simultaneously by the sleuths to identify contradictions and to confront Sivasankar with them during the next round of questioning. Sources said while probing details on Sivasankaran’s foreign trips, the sleuths have stumbled upon foreign trips violating protocol, by legislators and certain bureaucrats. Trips taken without necessary permissions and trips undertaken by senior bureaucrats on official capacity without diplomatic passports are also under the agency’s radar. Sources said the agency suspects that several such trips which were claimed to be official were neither funded by the state or the central governments and that accepting foreign contributions, including hospitality, amounts to violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act. Customs are also probing the involvement of other officials in the case as well.  The exemption certificate for the consignment of dates was issued by the state protocol office. This has led Customs to probe the involvement of other officials with the state government in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-seeks-more-info-on-sivasankars-foreign-trips/articleshow/78608755.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||GARUD to fast track clearances for drones to carry out Covid relief||Hyderabad: In the midst of the lockdown in May, the Union civil aviation ministry launched the GARUD ‘Government Authorisation for Relief Using Drones’ portal to fast track clearances for drones helping to carry out Covid-19-related relief work. But drone developers and manufacturers now expect the authorities to act with the same swiftness to boost the drone manufacturing ecosystem as demand for drones is soaring in multiple sectors like agriculture, media, mining, healthcare, construction, insurance, logistics and defence. “A majority of parts are imported and UAVs assembled here. We are still figuring out carbon fibre manufacturing, which is essential for building UAV frames. Even in terms of semiconductor and electronics, which are used in building flight controllers we have talent but are yet to figure out large-scale manufacturing. These motors and semiconductors are used in building flight controllers, the brains of UAVs,” said B Sidhanth Jain, founder & CEO of city-based UAV startup, Binford Robotics. Even as drone demand grows in multiple sectors, UAV players are grappling with delays in even pursuing R&D work because all the major components, that have to be assembled here to make prototypes, have to be procured from countries like Israel, US, Germany, Taiwan and Hong Kong. “The biggest problem is that all the hardware gets stuck in customs…and delays our research work, for which we don’t require many units of drones. So, we need certain import exceptions for R&D work at least,” said Prem Kumar Vislawath, founder & CEO, Marut Drones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/garud-to-fast-track-clearances-for-drones-to-carry-out-covid-relief/articleshow/78610429.cms||Swati Rathor
October 12, 2020||India||BJP names 16 for bypolls in five states||NEW DELHI: BJP on Sunday released a list of 16 candidates for bypolls to assembly seats spread across five states. The party’s central election commission, which had met on Saturday, cleared the names for the upcoming bypolls in Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Manipur and Odisha. The meeting, chaired by party chief J P Nadda, was attended by PM Modi, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and highways minister Nitin Gadkari, among others. The CEC has named Gambhir Singh for Chhattisgarh’s Marwahi constituency, while in Gujarat bypolls for seven seats, Pradyuman Singh Jadeja will contest from Avdasa, Brijesh Mirja from Morbi, J B Kakdia from Dhari, Atmaram Parmar from Gadhada, Ajay Patel from Karjan, Vijay Patel from Dangs and Jitubhai Chowdhury from Kaprada constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-names-16-for-bypolls-in-five-states/articleshow/78611070.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Missing children cases up by 19% in T: NCRB||Hyderabad: Telangana saw a 19% increase in cases of missing children in 2019, as compared to the previous year, latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data has revealed. The state recorded 445 instances of missing children who were deemed as kidnapped in 2019, while 372 such cases were reported in 2018. Hyderabad saw 156 cases of missing children, as per the data. According to police, when a complaint of a missing child is lodged, it is investigated as a kidnapping case. “If the boy or a girl is a minor, we take up the investigation as a kidnapping case under IPC Section 363. The cases of teenagers going missing are higher in number as elopement still remains a major cause,” said a senior police officer from Hyderabad commissionerate. The officer said that instances of children leaving home after a tiff with the family members are also included in the numbers. Telangana police’s facial recognition took, DARPAN app, is being used to trace the missing people in the state. The women safety wing of Telangana police said that since the launch of the application in 2018, the police officers have been able to unite 33 children with their families across India. Meanwhile, city-based child right activist say that the NCRB data shows far less number of missing children as every year, close to a thousand children go missing. “The data shows less than 500 children have gone missing in the state, while, the actual data may touch thousand. The data of operation Muskaan and Smile conducted to rescue the child labourers and identify missing children too does not match with the numbers of by cops and labour department or with the NCRB data. Currently, the actual number of children missing in the state remains unclear,” said Varsha Bhargavi, advisor to Telangana State Child Rights Protection Forum (TSCRPF). The activist says that most of the missing children end up being victims of trafficking or child labour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-children-cases-up-by-19-in-t-ncrb/articleshow/78609535.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan Mohan Reddy’s battle with the judiciary unprecedented||HYDERABAD: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s open fight with the judiciary is perhaps the first instance in the country where a chief minister has openly attacked a Supreme Court judge and those in the high court. Though this is not the first instance of a politician casting aspersions on the judiciary, no senior leader in the past had openly taken on so many judges at a time – six in all. Jagan in his complaint to Supreme Court chief justice SA Bobde, not only alleged interference of a Supreme Court judge in the affairs of the AP High Court, but also named five HC judges, finding fault with their observations or verdicts. Sources said that no chief minister in the past has so elaborately spoken of the “politicisation of institutions” as Jagan did in his complaint, running into 16 pages. He went to the extent of alleging that there was a conspiracy to “destabilise and topple” his government. A little dig into the past reveals that it was Indira Gandhi, who had openly challenged the judiciary in 1967, a year after she took over as the third prime minister of India. This was the first ever open attack on the judiciary by a politician. Indira wanted to amend the Constitution and change some of the fundamental rights. The decision was challenged in Supreme Court. Justice Kota Subba Rao, who was the CJI then, gave a verdict stating that the Constitution cannot be amended. The verdict invited Indira Gandhi’s wrath and she openly spoke against the CJI stating that the judgement was an attack on “sovereignty of people”. Things went to such a pass that Justice Subba Rao had resigned and unsuccessfully contested for the Presidential election as a united opposition candidate in 1967. The second time Indira took on the judiciary openly was when her decision to nationalise private banks and abolish privy purses and titles of erstwhile heads of princely states in 1971 was challenged in SC. While Indira’s open criticism of the judiciary was general in nature and not judge-specific, it is for the first time that a chief minister of a state has named as many as half a dozen judges in his complaint to the CJI. “Facts would clearly demonstrate that the august institution of the high court is being used to destabilize and topple the democratically elected government of the state of AP with indelible trail leading back to the overt and covert actions of N Chandrababu Naidu through… (SC judge),” Jagan alleged in the annexure attached to the letter submitted to the CJI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagans-battle-with-the-judiciary-unprecedented/articleshow/78608753.cms||Syed Akbar
October 12, 2020||Hubballi||Taming bull Kodihalli Huli passes away, gets grand farewell||HAVERI: Kodihalli Huli, a bull that participated in bull-taming competitions and was aged 17, passed away on Saturday morning due to an illness. Kodihalli Huli was a local breed bull, which was purchased by Revanasiddappa Matanavar, a resident of Kodihalli village in Byadagi taluk, 15 years ago. Revanasiddappa, villagers, the bull’s fans, and lovers of the sport of bull-taming offered a tearful farewell during its last rites on Saturday evening. The bull had won more than 50 competitions in bull-taming games in Haveri, and other neighbouring districts, in the last 10 years. Revanasiddappa paid his tribute to the bull, and said that Kodihalli Huli was a humble animal. He said that his bull was intelligent, and had beaten many bulls in competitions. He said that it was ill for the last eight months, after which it didn’t participate in any competitions. “He was very attached to me for the last 15 years, and I feel really sad that he has passed away,” he added. “Kodihalli Huli was the pride of our village, because it never failed to win prizes in bull-taming competitions. It has won 40g gold, two motorbikes, and many other awards. The bull was like a member of the family,” said Kodihalli Huli’s fan Girish Koppad. Villager Mantesh Pujar said that Kodihalli Huli had thousands of fans across the district, as well as outside, as it had won the hearts of many through its running, and no one was able to catch it during competitions. “The bull was like a deity to us, due to which we decided to give it a grand farewell. In breach of the lockdown norms, youngsters carried garlands and carried out a procession around Kodihalli village, after which Kodihalli Huli was placed in a funeral cask especially made for it,” he shared. Revanasiddappa took care of Kodihalli Huli like a family member, and provided him quality food and shelter, as well as a mat to sleep on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/taming-bull-kodihalli-huli-passes-away-gets-grand-farewell/articleshow/78610047.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 12, 2020||Vadodara||Amid Covid gloom, AAU’s budding agribiz managers secure 100% jobs||VADODARA/ ANAND: Even amidst Covid-19 induced gloom, budding agribusiness managers of Anand Agricultural University’s International Agribusiness Management Institute (IABMI) are in jubilant mood. Maintaining its record since the institute’s inception in 2008, IABMI has achieved 100 % placement for students of MBA-agribusiness even this year. Interestingly, even as the number of companies recruiting the agribusiness managers has come down from 13 last year to nine this year, the highest salary package offered to students has increased. “We are happy that even in these adverse conditions, all our 23 students have been placed. In fact, two of our students have received the highest package of Rs 5.80 lakh per annum as credit risk managers at HDFC Housing Ltd. This is higher compared to last year when the highest salary package offered to one of our students was Rs 5 lakh per annum,” said Dr Yogesh Lad, placement coordinator at IABMI. The placement was completed in two phases. While 20 % of students had got selected in first phase held in the second week of February, the rest were placed after completion of their projects. “The average pay package for the batch was Rs 4.25 lakh per annum which is almost same as last year,” he said, adding that one student also joined as programme coordinator with an NGO – centre for youth and social development with Rs 4.5 lakh CTC. Reliance Jio emerged as the largest recruiter of the year as it offered placement to four students. “Companies like Tirth Agro Engineering Pvt Ltd, Tata Rallis India Ltd and Adare Food Ingredients Pvt Ltd which are associated with us from years have also recruited our students with packages in the range of Rs 4-5 lakh per year,” he said. “As part of the curriculum, students are exposed to practical industry-oriented training for a period of four months,” he said, adding that IABMI is associated with some premier institutions including the National Dairy Development Board, the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation, International Water Management Institute, National Council of State Agricultural Marketing Boards and many more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amid-covid-gloom-aaus-budding-agribiz-managers-secure-100-jobs/articleshow/78608123.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Two youngsters drown in Chittoor pond||Tirupati: A weekend trip turned tragic for a group as two among them drowned in a pond in Durgam Gattu, close to Chandragirir fort in Chittoor district. The bodies of the two youngsters were fished out by the Chandrairi police early on Sunday. According to Chandragiri SI Rama Krishna, the two victims — Srirangam Srinivas (27) and Anudeep (23) — along with one Nithin (17), all from different parts of Tirupati, had gone to the pond for a swim on Saturday afternoon. They thought the pond was shallow but got sucked inside. Nitihin managed to come out to safety but Srinivas and Anudeep drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-youngsters-drown-in-chittoor-pond/articleshow/78608833.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 12, 2020||Kochi||At 12,533, active Covid cases in Ernakulam highest in Kerala||KOCHI: Ernakulam has secured top spot in the state with highest number of active cases, thanks to its steep spike in daily Covid-19 positive cases. As per data updated on the government dashboard on Sunday night, Ernakulam has 12,533 active cases followed by Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode with 11,611 and 11,207 cases, respectively. Meanwhile, the district administration has approached private hospitals demanding 10% of their total Covid beds to treat patients referred by the government under Kerala Arogya Suraksha Paddhati (KASP) as government Covid hospitals has been running out of beds. While some senior officials with the district health department have claimed that the high number of active cases has not put any pressure on the health system, others have contradicted it. “With surge in cases and bed occupancy reaching its full capacity, we have asked private hospitals to allot 10% of their Covid beds with intensive care ventilator support. We have already sent around 30 patients to private hospitals under KASP, under which government will fund the private hospital for utilizing their facility,” said NHM district programme officer Dr Mathew Numpeli, adding that spike in number of active cases is also due to delay in retest of positives. “Testing of patients, who undergo home care, has to be done on the 10th day. But in many cases, it happens after 11 or 14 days. Retests are done only when the mobile unit reaches their houses. The units collect samples visiting each area on a rotational basis. So, patients are subjected to testing when the unit reaches their house,” he said. However, a few officials argued that such cases were very rare. “Rising active cases means the bed capacity in hospitals and CFLTCs are getting exhausted. Many cases do not get tested negative even after 10 days. In such cases, we have to do testing every alternative day until the patient is tested negative. The other issue is delay in implementing decentralized shifting systems by local bodies. It makes matters worse forcing patients to wait longer to get shifted to FLTCs or hospitals,” said another official. “There have been instances where asymptomatic patients were brought dead to hospitals. Two ‘brought dead’ cases were reported in Ernakulam on Saturday and three on Friday. Leaving the close contacts of such patients untested is a disaster. The only solution is increase testing and ICU bed capacity, decentralize transportation and make stabilizing units accessible for extending treatment to patients in time. The district cannot move forward with the existing strategy,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/at-12533-active-covid-cases-in-ernakulam-highest-in-state/articleshow/78608768.cms||T C Sreemol
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD EO inspects prep for Brahmotsavams||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) executive officer (EO) KS Jawahar Reddy accompanied by senior TTD officials inspected the four mada streets, the vahana mandapam and other locations at Tirumala on Sunday ahead of the Navratri Brahmotsavams. This is Jawahar Reddy’s maiden inspections at Tirumala after assuming charge as EO on Saturday. The nine-day-long Brahmotsavams will begin on October 16. In view of restrictions for Covid-19, the TTD plans to not allow more than 7,000 devotees into the galleries encircling the main temple complex. Though last month’s annual Brahmotsavams was conducted inside the main temple complex without any procession in the four mada streets, as is the usual practice, all processions will be held for the Navratri Brahmotsavams. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-eo-inspects-prep-for-brahmotsavams/articleshow/78608822.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Push for dedicated fly zones to test drones||HYDERABAD: There is a growing chorus among drone manufacturers asking authorities to provide earmarked flying zones for testing drones as currently such facilities are available only at select defence labs. “Government needs to set up a miniature drone city to enable manufacturers to test drones,” said Sanjay Sharma, VP, Cyient Solutions & Systems, Cyient’s JV with Israel’s Bluebird. Ankit Mehta, CEO of ideaForge, said government can create a level-playing field for industrial license holders vis-a-vis non-license holding manufacturers and importers, who sell fully built or CKDs to end customers without value addition in India, and grey market drones by stepping up information dissemination. He also sought removal of ambiguities in export norms under sections of SCOMET (Special Chemicals, Organisms, Materials, Equipment and Technologies) list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/push-for-dedicated-fly-zones-to-test-drones/articleshow/78610430.cms||Swati Rathor
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Girl students take charge of district offices for a day||ANANTHAPURAM: In a dream come true, a Class XI student of Kasturba Gandhi Ashram School under Garladinne mandal in Anantapur district, M Sravani officiated as district collector for a day on International Day of the Girl Child on Sunday. Her decisions taken as district collector were also treated as official and implemented. As collector, Sravani signed a file releasing compensation to a victim under the Disha Act and directed district officials to not call women officials between 8 pm to 8 am except in case of emergencies. The initiative, under which girl students from government and ashram schools officiated in government posts for a day, was the brainchild of district collector Gandham Chandrudu. The students were selected through a draw of lots and briefed about the posts to be headed by them. “We decided to appoint girl students as officials to boost their morale and make them set their focus on higher positions,” Chandrudu said about the initiative. “It is a big honour for me to sit in this chair. I will study hard and become an IAS officer in future,” said Sravani. All posts, from district collector, joint collector, revenue divisional officer at district and divisional levels to tehsildar and mandal parishad development officers at the mandal level, were filled by girl students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/girl-students-take-charge-of-district-offices-for-a-day/articleshow/78608769.cms||Samdani MN
October 12, 2020||Kochi||10-year-old Malayali chef prepares 33 dishes in 1 hr, kid grabs record||KOCHI: Idli, uthappam, paneer tikka, corn-fritters, mushroom tikka, sandwich, waffle... don’t mistake it for a restaurant menu card. These are among the 33 dishes prepared by 10-year-old Malayali chef Saanvi M Pragit within an hour. Her effort has earned her a place in the Asia Book of Records and India Book of Records for making the maximum number of dishes in an hour by a child. Hailing from Ernakulam, Saanvi is the daughter of Wing Commander Prajit Babu, an Air Force officer currently based at the Naval base Visakhapatnam, and Manjma H K, a corporate trainer and dancer. Saanvi, a Class VI student at Navy Children School, Visakhapatnam, set the record on August 29 at the age of 10 years 06 months and 12 days. Of the 33 dishes, 27 were fire-cooked and six were non-fire cooked. In fact it was the first time she cooked using a gas stove and managed a four-burner stove like a professional during the record-setting performance. She was inspired by her mother Manjma, a reality cookery show finalist. Manjma said Saanvi showed fascination for cooking at the age of 2 when she started watching her mother and grandmother cooking in the kitchen. “At the age of 2, in order to make her sit quiet I used to give her a small portion of Atta to knead, which she would happily do. Her toys were mostly utensils. Later, she started helping me with cooking and when I participated in a cookery reality show in Ernakulam, she accompanied me. Knowing her passion, we trained her and she picked up very fast,” said Manjma. Saanvi has participated in many cookery shows for children and won honours. She showcases her culinary skills on her YouTube channel named ‘Saanvi Cloud 9’. Saanvi is also a trained Bharatanatyam dancer and is adept at horse-riding. “Cooking is my favourite hobby but I never thought I could create a record. I am happy about the achievement and hope I would try for the world record some day,” said Saanvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/33-dishes-in-1-hr-kid-grabs-record/articleshow/78608779.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Man arrested for 8 robberies in a night in Chennai||CHENNAI: A 23-year-old man who was involved in more than eight robberies reported on Friday night was nabbed from his house in Vysarpadi on Sunday. Police said Arun, also known as ‘Karadi Karan’ was a repeat offender. On Saturday night, he went to a fuel outlet in Vysarpadi, attacked a person there with a knife and threatened the outlet’s employees to fill his bike’s petrol tank and fled. He then went on to snatch a cellphone from Swetha, 21, of Vysarpadi and another man from Sharma Nagar. On his way home from the robberies, he also snatched mobile phones at Kodungaiyur, Ezhil Nagar, Kuppaimedu, Otteri, Tondiarpet and Villivakkam. Based on a complaint, the MKB Nagar police analysed the CCTV footage and took down the identity of the accused and his bike’s registration number. Police found him crossing Mullai Nagar on one of the surveillance videos and did a door-to-door check in the area before finding a bike matching the registration number parked outside a house. A police team barged into the house when he tried to escape sensing the cops were onto him. Investigations revealed that Arun was involved in three attempt to murder cases and several other robberies. He lay low in Coimbatore and returned to Chennai only last week, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-arrested-for-8-robberies-in-a-night/articleshow/78609567.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Agra||58 more test Covid +ve in Agra, active cases now 585||Agra: At least 58 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 6,356. A doctor of the district hospital was among those infected. Moreover, a 65-year-old woman died during treatment at SN Medical College on Sunday. The resident of Loha Mandi locality was suffering from type 2 diabetes, bilateral pulmonary fibrosis and pneumonia. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a comorbid condition. So far, 132 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, 68 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 6,365 cases reported in the district, 5,648 (88.7%) have been declared as "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district is now 585.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/58-more-test-covid-ve-in-agra-active-cases-now-585/articleshow/78607870.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Watchman kills wife at Saroornagar||HYDERABAD: A watchman killed his wife by setting her ablaze at Saroornagar on Sunday. The victim who suffered severe burns, succumbed while undergoing treatment at OGH.  On Saturday night, the husband, Venkanna came home in drunken condition and picked up an argument with the victim, B Subhadra (35) as she asked him to look for employment. “At 2.30am, Venkanna doused Subhadra with petrol and set her ablaze. Subhadra was rushed to OGH and she succumbed while undergoing treatment at around 11 am,” Saroornagar inspector K Seetharam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/watchman-kills-wife/articleshow/78610434.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Accused in dowry death murdered||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old software engineer, an accused in his wife’s dowry death case, was stabbed to death by four persons at an apartment in Ameerpet on Sunday morning. Police suspect involvement of his wife’s family members in the murder. The deceased was identified as K Chandrasekhar Raju, a resident of Allwyn Colony in Jagadgirigutta and a native of Repalle in Guntur district. Raju was currently staying at a relative’s flat at Padmasri Apartment in Ameerpet. At 9.30am on Sunday, Raju went out to buy chicken. When he returned and parked the two-wheeler, four persons rushed to him from outside and stabbed him multiple times, SR Nagar inspector K Saidulu said. The victim died on the spot. “My son was innocent. After my daughter-in-law killed herself, my son and I spent time in jail. Her family members assaulted my husband. I think they are responsible for killing my son,” Raju’s mother Jhansi Lakshmi said. Raju had married Lakshmi Gowri, 22 a native of Machilipatnam on February 24, 2019. On June 1, 2020, Lakshmi killed herself at their house in Jagadgirigutta. Lakshmi’s father alleged that despite taking Rs 40 lakh cash, gold and land as dowry, Raju and his family harassed his daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accused-in-dowry-death-murdered/articleshow/78609572.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Mattancherry residents protest synagogue work||KOCHI: Work undertaken by archaeology department since Friday to protect Malabari Jews’ Kadavumbhagam synagogue at Mattancherry is facing threats due to objection from residents. The structure, which is said to be more than five centuries old, has been in a dilapidated condition for nearly three decades. In 2015, unknown people pulled down a portion of the structure. In September 2019, the façade of the structure fell off during rain. Meanwhile, the archaeology department, in 2015, had initiated measures to take over the structure and declare it a protected monument. Last year, disposing a petition, Kerala high court ordered authorities to expedite measures to acquire the land. Given the fact that the acquisition process and declaration as a monument would take years, activists, to protect the structure, demanded temporary measures to ensure that the building would not collapse until then. “It may collapse any time. The archaeology department conducted a site visit after the collapse of the façade last year. Then, it was decided to erect a temporary roof to ensure that the structure does not collapse in the rains. Permanent steps to protect the structure could be taken only after the final notification for declaring it as a protected monument is out,” an official with archaeology department said. “Due to restrictions as part of Covid-19, work which was scheduled to begin in June couldn’t be started. When the temporary protection work was started on Friday, residents have come up with protest,” the official said. According to residents, there will be restrictions on construction within 100 metre of the structure once it is declared a protected monument. “It is not true. When Kerala government takes over the structure, it will be taken over as per Kerala Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1968. There is no restricted zone around such monuments. There will be a restricted zone only when the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) takes over a structure as a monument,” said prof C Karmachandran, a scholar in Jewish history. According to MLA John Fernandez, who took initiative for the protection of the structure, vested interests are passing misinformation to local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mattancherry-residents-protest-synagogue-work/articleshow/78608783.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 12, 2020||Goa||Vasco traffic cell seeks civic body’s help to dispose abandoned vehicles||Vasco: The Vasco traffic cell has written to the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) seeking its assistance in disposing of abandoned vehicles that have been identified in various areas of the port town. In May, the traffic cell had submitted a list of 20 abandoned vehicles located in various public places and carriageways, some of which are obstructing vehicular traffic while also posing a health hazard during the monsoon. “Abandoned vehicles are first identified by the police or traffic cell, and are then towed away with the municipality’s help. After this, the municipality has to publish a notice, directing owners to claim their vehicles. If the vehicles are not claimed within a stipulated period, then the municipality approaches the judicial magistrate first class to seek permit for auction proceedings,” an official from the Vasco traffic cell told TOI. In 2013, about 12 vehicles were towed away to an MMC yard at Sada. A notice was published calling owners to claim the vehicles. However, the council failed to proceed with the auctioning process. In May this year, the traffic cell wrote to the municipality requesting that the open space near Taniya hotel, which is developed and levelled, be alloted to accommodate the abandoned vehicles. “Many unattended vehicles are lying in public places, depriving people from utilising these areas. There is a risk of diseases like malaria, dengue, etc, spreading due to rain water accumulation and vegetation growth around these vehicles,” the traffic cell stated in the letter to the MMC. Since the civic body has not replied to the letter, an official from the traffic cell said that they will be shortly sending a reminder. “People dump their vehicles on the road if it is beyond repair, but never return to take it. Many a times, stolen vehicles involved in thefts are also dumped by the roadside, sometimes even in parking lots,” an official from the traffic cell said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-traffic-cell-seeks-civic-bodys-help-to-dispose-abandoned-vehicles/articleshow/78610892.cms||Ruvina Khan
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Nigerian held for supplying drugs in Kochi||KOCHI: City police, on Sunday, arrested a Nigerian national from Bengaluru for allegedly supplying drugs, including MDMA, to peddlers in Kochi city. Police recovered a fake passport as well as foreign currency from the accused, Amachukwu Okkeke, 37, a resident of Belekahalli in Bengaluru. Okkeke was an accused in a drug case registered by Goa Narcotic Cell. However, he escaped during the trial and was in hiding in Bengaluru, police said. Four among the five accused in the case has already been arrested, said police. Fifth accused Muhammed Shifaz is still on the run. According to police, they received information that the supplier was a Nigerian after they arrested and interrogated Ahammed Yasin, 21, and Mohammed Shahad, 22, on March 2 after recovering 21 grams of ecstasy from them. The duo revealed that Shifaz, an Aluva resident who studies in Bengaluru, was the point of contact. They procured drug with the help of one Muhammed Riyas. Shifaz, police said, had paid Rs.40,000 to Okkeke for the contraband. According to police, Riyas surrendered on October 7 and they found details about Okkeke from him . The accused would be produced before the court on Monday, police said. ‘Beware of online scamsters’: Rural police on Sunday came out with a general warning for residents against scamsters who target job aspirants online. “It has come to our notice that scamsters are offering jobs abroad to dupe young professionals, especially nurses. Fake online data entry jobs are also being offered to dupe people. Beware of such scams,” warned rural police through a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nigerian-held-for-supplyingdrugs-in-city/articleshow/78608803.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation floats IPL-like league to boost tax collection||CHENNAI: Amid the IPL season, Greater Chennai Corporation has come up with a league of its own to motivate tax collectors to shore up the civic body’s revenue, using ideas from game theory. Titled the Great (GCC Revenue Evaluation and Augmentation Task) League, the idea basically divides every zone of the civic body into a team and awards points based on property tax collected, new tax areas assessed and trade licenses renewed. The technical part of the league was designed using game theory by M P Azhagu Pandia Raja, India smart city fellow from the ministry of housing and urban affairs, under the guidance of GCC commissioner G Prakash and deputy commissioner (revenue) Meghanath Reddy. This comes at a time when the civic body’s finances are in a total mess due to Covid-19 and moratorium given to residents and commercial establishments on payment of property tax. Best performing tax collectors (TC), assessors and licence inspectors (LI) are honoured with an award every month and zones that perform well in tax collection are also ranked. The assistant revenue officers (AROs) of each zone are captains of their teams. The game, which was started in September, has had a resounding effect on the ground-level revenue staff — from April to August Rs 70 crore property tax was collected by GCC. But in September alone, Rs 89.2 crore tax was collected. Similarly, professional tax collected increased from Rs 78 crore in the April-August period to Rs 157 crore in September. The number of trade licences issued during April-August were just 737, but in September alone, 1,602 were issued. “This is one way to recognise the efforts of those working on the field despite the Covid-19 situation. Points are awarded for different parameters, for example tax collected through PoS machines, trade licences issued, etc,” said Meghanath Reddy. Reddy said this was one of the ways the civic body is trying to improve the face of tax collection in the city and make it more trendy. GCC’s social media team has even brought out a mascot, ‘Vari Kumar’, an ideal citizen who pays taxes on time and gets a rebate. This is an initiative many cities would be willing to adopt as all of them are facing similar issues in revenue generation, Azhagu Pandia Raja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-floats-ipl-like-league-to-boost-tax-collection/articleshow/78609588.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||No test for 3 weeks after reopening: CISCE||Kolkata: There should be no assessment up to three weeks after reopening of schools and the transition form home-based learning to classroom lessons should be smooth: these are the instructions that Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has sent to the heads of its affiliated schools as the state gradually gears up to call students back to campuses in Unlock 5 after the Centre gave the nod. Directing school heads to inspect their institutes to ensure all safety measures were in place, the council said flexible attendance and sick leave policies might have to be framed to encourage students and staff to stay at home when unwell. In a circular, chief executive and secretary of the council Gerry Arathoon said the MHA, in its notification, had suggested that schools might reopen after October 15 and that students might attend on-campus classes in a graded manner, subject to written parental approval. Saturday’s notice to the school heads mentioning specific criteria to resume classes on campus is in addition to the other guidelines issued by the Centre and endorsed by the council.Some states have indicated that schools might reopen later in November. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said a decision would be considered only after Diwali, looking at the situation. The council will follow the state directives to bring back students and also include any other guidelines issued by it. “Whenever schools reopen in your respective states, the CISCE mandates that every school should adhere to certain basic safety procedures, as the health and well-being of all the students and teachers are to be of topmost priority,” Arathoon stated in the circular. The CISCE has pointed out that before schools formally call back students and teachers, the entire building/s must be thoroughly fumigated and sanitized. “All the classrooms, labs, hall/s, library, recreation rooms, games rooms, staff rooms, reception areas, storage places, canteen, including the furniture, equipment, stationery, must be cleaned and disinfected. All outdoor areas ie corridors, open spaces, garden area, playgrounds, open fields, swimming pools, water tanks must be attended to,” read the circular.In residential schools, special care will need to be taken for dormitories, dining halls, school kitchen, living quarters of the staff and places of worship. “Infrared thermometers must be used at the main gate to check the temperature of students and teachers... An adequate number of face masks should be made available at exam centre/classrooms to be used in case a student is found coughing/sneezing and has not brought his/her own mask. Bottles of sanitizers should be placed at various points...” schools have been told. Teachers have been asked to ensure kids do not share food or stationery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-test-for-3-weeks-after-reopening-cisce/articleshow/78610846.cms||Somdatta Basu
October 12, 2020||Patna||Gaya hosts country’s first open election rally in times of Covid||GAYA: BJP national president JP Nadda, while addressing the first physical election rally amid the Covid pandemic in the country, said on Sunday that Bihar needs the combined leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Nitish Kumar to maintain its momentum of development. Addressing the maiden election rally of NDA here for the Bihar assembly polls from October 28 to November 7, Nadda said, “Modi hain toh mumkin hai, Nitish hain toh Bihar aage badhega (Everything is possible if Modi is there and Bihar will progress because Nitish is here).” Candidates of all the 10 assembly constituencies in Gaya district were present during the rally. Nadda said those (RJD) who came to power due to Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan’s fight against Congress, have ended up joining hands with that very party. He said Bihar was in the safe hands of Nitish as development has found new dimensions in the state under his regime. Similarly, BJP, under PM Modi, seeks vote on the basis of its report card of development,” Nadda said at Gandhi Maidan in Gaya. Targeting the opposition RJD, he reminded the people of the “lawlessness” in Bihar during the 15 years of Lalu-Rabri rule. Nadda, who had spent his childhood in Patna, said its Fraser Road had shops like D Lall and Sons and restaurants like May Fair. “When I enquired recently, people told me that the shops closed down due to lawlessness in Lalu era,” he said. “The busiest of crossroads used to get deserted by 6pm and doctors were requested by their families not to leave home for attending patients out of fear of their kidnapping,” Nadda alleged and asked people if they would like such an era to return in Bihar. He said PM Modi had promised a special package of Rs1.25 lakh crore for Bihar before 2015 assembly election. All the promises have been fulfilled, he claimed. “I challenge the detractors to prove that any of the figures quoted by me is incorrect,” he said. Nadda said only four medical colleges were in Bihar, but the state got 14 medical colleges in the last six years and work is going on for 11 others. “New dimensions of development are being written in Bihar and it is our responsibility to drive this development,” he said. Nadda enumerated the projects implemented, like electrification of railway lines, opening of new medical colleges, building roads and the bridges and other infrastructure. “NDA contests election on the agenda of development,” he said. Launching a scathing attack on Congress, the BJP chief said: “The brother-sister duo (read Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi) raised much hue and cry when PM Modi asked the poor to open Jan-dhan bank accounts. “The relevance of these accounts has been proved during the Covid-19 pandemic when money was transferred directly to a large number of people,” he said. Addressing the rally, BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal said all the NDA candidates are nominees of PM Modi. He called upon the people to ensure the victory of the NDA candidates for all round development of Bihar. JD(U) national general secretary (organization) RCP Singh praised the prime minister for his management during the Covid-19 pandemic. Singh said the mortality rate in India is just 1.67% while the situation in countries like the USA, the UK and France is worse. HAM(S) president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi praised Nitish for the improvement in law and order situation in the state and his agriculture policy for the betterment of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-hosts-countrys-1st-open-election-rally-in-times-of-covid/articleshow/78609590.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Action against land grab in Munnar||IDUKKI: Three years after demolishing a cross erected on a piece of government land by a sect called Spirit in Jesus at Pappathichola, near Suryanelli, in another major anti-encroachment drive, the revenue department on Sunday took over a resort and a camp that encroached on government land at Anayirangal, near Munnar. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan had issued an order to acquire the resort and the land owned by one Vellukunnel Jimmy Zakaria on October 7 after finding that the title deeds of the properties were forged. Vellukunnel family has been accused of encroaching over 300 acres of government land in Munnar. It is Jimmy Zakaria’s brother Tom Zakaria who heads the Spirit in Jesus. The report submitted by Premkrishnan to the district collector had stated that title deeds of three plots, covering around 3.68 hectares, owned by Jimmy Zakkaria were found to be forged. “The verification by revenue team revealed that the original title deed of the Calypso Adventure Resort and the camp was issued to another plot situated nearly half a kilometre away from the resort,” said the report. It further stated that the revenue department had summoned Jimmy Zakaria several times to submit the original land records but he never turned up. The report also recommended action against former Chinnakkanal taluk surveyor M S Anoop. The tehsildar was instructed to prepare a sketch of the controversial plot but he made a survey report excluding the resort from it. “The action by the government official was aimed at helping the land owner to cover up the encroachment,” said the report. “All the three plots with forged title deeds are in prime locations. The other two plots will be take over after verification,” said the sub-collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/action-against-land-grab-in-munnar/articleshow/78608812.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||100 years ago, reformist Sikhs ended caste discrimination at Darbar Sahib||JALANDHAR: It was a determined endeavour by reformists among Sikhs to end caste discrimination by priests/mahants at Darbar Sahib, Amritsar exactly a century back on October 12, 1920 during the Gurdwara Reform Movement that became a defining moment for the SGPC formation a month later. It was followed by the birth of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The formation of both these bodies has roots in efforts of not only throwing out morally, religiously and financially corrupt priests and mahants from historic gurdwaras, but also in ending caste discrimination practised at Darbar Sahib. The reformist Sikhs, who accompanied the Ravidassia Sikhs on the fateful day, came from the so called upper castes – including Khatris and Jatts. They never flaunted their background and worked against casteism within the community, as envisioned by the Gurus. Graphic details of the October 12 event have been mentioned in book ‘Akali Morche Ate Jhabbar’, authored by Narain Singh, who was present at the event as a student of the Khalsa College. He, however, wrote his book on the basis of daily diary maintained by Kartar Singh Jhabbar — who played central role in freeing major gurdwaras from corrupt mahants. A lot of information was also gathered from the book ‘Gurdwara Reform Movement’ and autobiography ‘Aarsi’ of Principal Teja Singh, who played key role in taking Khalsa College professors and students along with Ravidassia Sikhs to the Darbar Sahib. Apart from mentioning how priests would not accept ‘prasad’ from Ravidassia or Mazhabi Sikhs, they have mentioned the corrupt practices of the priests and anger in the community against them. While describing how different Sikh bodies — including landed Sikh elites’ body Chief Khalsa Diwan — were involved in bringing low castes into Sikh fold, he also mentions that on October 12, 1920, Khalsa Brotherhood held its annual event at Jallianwala Bagh and announced to include people from outcastes in Sikh fold by Amrit Sanchar (baptising) and then to take them to Darbar Sahib. The priests, obviously, opposed the proposal, after which Khalsa College professors and students decided to join the procession. Priests tried to fix a time for them but the reformists refused to oblige them. It was after arguments inside Darbar Sahib by Prof Bawa Harkishan Singh and a strong rebuke by Jhabbar that the head priest agreed to take Hukamnama from Guru Granth Sahib, after which priests agreed to accept ‘ardaas’ from newly converted Sikhs. The same group of reformists, professors, students and Ravidassia Sikhs reached the Akal Takht, from where priests had fled. There, Jhabbar formed a committee of volunteers to run its affairs. Next day, the then Amritsar deputy commissioner called the reformers, including Jhabbar and Teja Singh, to his residence and conveyed that the Punjab governor had written to him that government would not interfere in Sikh affairs. The officer then asked for names from Sikh representatives and formed a nine-member committee to run affairs of Akal Takht. This was the first step towards Sikhs getting control of Darbar Sahib. A month later, they formed the SGPC. Former Punjab University, Chandigarh, history professor Dr Gurdarshan Singh Dhillon, who specialises on Singh Sabha movement, clarifies: "There was no ban on entry of lower castes in Darbar Sahib but priests would discriminate on acceptance of prasad offered by them or even when distributing prasad to them." ‘Gandhi opposed eviction of mahants’Kartar Singh Jhabbar addressed a three-day long function of the Sikh League at Lahore on October 19, 1920. Mahatma Gandhi addressed the function the next day. Jhabbar’s book quotes him saying: “Mujhe maloom hua hai ki kuchh naujawan Sikh gurduaron per kabze kar rahe hein. Yeh theek nahi hai, mahant logon ko nikaal kar gurduaron ka kabza krna jabr hai. Congress ka kaam karna chaahiye (I came to know that some young Sikh are taking possession of gurdwaras. It is wrong to turn out mahants by force. Rather they should do Congress’s work).” Jhabbar again got Gandhi’s message a few weeks later at Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj, Lahore, through Amar Singh Jhabaal that India would get Swaraj by December 31, 1920, and rather than taking possession of gurdwaras, Sikhs should do the Congress work but Jhabar refused to heed the plea. Reformist Majithia sufferedKartar Singh Jhabbar has recorded that priests refused to accept ‘prasad’ even from Sunder Singh Majithia, who had brought his son and daughter-in-law to Darbar Sahib after their marriage, on the grounds that the marriage was performed according to Gurmat. Majithia was big landlord and very influential Sikh leader. “The Sikhs were tabooed. A Sikh regularly baptised from a low caste would not be admitted along with other Sikhs into the temple but if he became a Christian and came with a hat on, the priests would run to meet him ,” Teja Singh has written.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/100-years-ago-reformist-sikhs-ended-caste-discrimination-at-darbar-sahib/articleshow/78609575.cms||IP Singh
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Elusive leopard that killed calves caught by forest dept using new trapping technique||Hyderabad: A six-year-old male leopard, sighter around Rajendranagar on the outskirts of Hyderabad a few months ago, was trapped by the forest department on Saturday night. The leopard was found in one of the trap cages set up by the forest department after it killed two calves in a cattle shed near Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute. The leopard had also killed a cow in the same area a month ago. “Cages with bait and cameras were set up to trap the leopard after a cattle death was reported in the area last month. But our efforts went in vain then. This time, we left the carcass of the two calves in the same area expecting the big cat to return to finish the prey. As we expected, the leopard returned to the same spot and got trapped in one of the cages,” said Shamshabad forest divisional officer ) Ch Sivaiah. While leopards usually don’t get lured into the trap cages, sources from the forest department and zoo informed that they adopted a new technique this time. “This was probably the first time we placed the leftover prey of the calves inside the trap cage. Usually, a live animal is placed inside the trap cage,” informed a source. After the officials noticed the leopard in one of the cages on Sunday morning, they shifted it to the Nehru Zoological Park. The leopard is said to be around 60-65 kg, officials said. “The leopard might have suffered some bruises to its forehead while trying to escape from the trap. We have done dressing to the wounds and will keep him under observation for a couple of days. After the bruises heal, it will be released in the wild,” said a source from the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/elusive-leopard-that-killed-calves-caught-by-forest-dept-using-new-trapping-technique/articleshow/78609598.cms||Moulika.KV
October 12, 2020||India||Crime branch quizzes Republic CEO for 9 hours||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch on Sunday questioned Vikash Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV, for nine hours, in the Television Rating Points (TRP) rigging case, which involves alleged payments to homes where television sets were kept tuned to certain channels in order to boost their viewership. Among other executives of the channel, police recorded the statement of COO Hersh Bhandari and questioned distribution head Ghanshyam Singh in Daman. Singh, who was at a resort, was brought to Nani Daman police station and questioned for seven hours. The police, which wrote to a bank seeking details of Republic’s account, said it had received the statements. A police team from the economic offences wing (EOW) was examining the records. Police also took arrested accused Vishal Bhandari (21), a former employee of Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, which installed the bar-o-meters in homes for measuring viewership, to his residence for a search. Investigators said they found a diary from Bhandari’s house which contained names of TV channels and households which received payoffs. Read AlsoTRPs: Built on houses of cards?The entire TRP system that underpins over Rs 25,000 crore worth of TV advertising is riddled with serious vulnerabilities and challenges: A tiny and skewed sample of 44,000 homes for a viewership of 84 crore, outdated survey data, regulatory changes – and, as the unfolding scandal has highlighted,Police have so far arrested Bhandari, Bomapallirao Mistry (44), proprietor of Fakht Marathi Shirish Shetty (44), and owner of Box Cinema Narayan Sharma (47). They have claimed that Bhandari would pay Rs 400 to Rs 500 to some households, where bar-o-meters were installed, to keep specific channels or their TV sets on. Mistry is suspected of routing the payments. Investigators have sought bank account details of Fakht Marathi channel and Box Cinema. “Sajjan Agarwal, CFO, Fakht Marathi, is expected to come on Monday. He stays in Indore,” said an officer. Read AlsoMumbai: Man held in TRP scam got over Rs 1 crore in account since NovemberInvestigations into the television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam have shown that one of the four arrested accused, Bomapallirao Mistry, had in the last one year received a total of more than Rs 1 crore in his bank account from four-five people, the Mumbai police said.Republic TV’s Khanchandani, Bhandari and Singh have been summoned on Monday again. Shiva Sundaram, CFO, Republic TV, has informed police that he will present himself after October 14. Sundaram was summoned to appear on Saturday but did not turn up. Priya Mukherjee, COO Republic TV, was also summoned but she could not make it. “Mukherjee intimated us on Sunday morning that she was in Bangalore and was unable to come due to the pandemic,” added the police officer. In a statement on Sunday evening, Republic TV said its CEO, COO and a senior member of the distribution team were questioned for 20 hours. According to the statement, the channel was “shocked to learn” that while questioning its CEO, police made “multiple attempts” to ascertain how the channel managed to access the complaint by Hansa which “made multiple mentions of a rival channel without a single reference of Republic TV, Republic Bharat or any affiliate of the Republic Media Network.” The channel said the complaint which forms the basis of the FIR was bereft of any mention of Republic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crime-branch-quizzes-republic-ceo-for-9-hours/articleshow/78611080.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: NUJS gets 18 students for domicile-quota seats||KOLKATA: The sixth and 43rd CLAT rank-holders have chosen The WB National University of Juridical Sciences, Kolkata, over other law schools after the first round of admissions at the city institute ended on Sunday. After 30% domicile reservation came into effect at NUJS for the first time, 18 students took admissions in those seats. These domiciled students have ranked between 275 and 842. “Domicile quota is not new in other national law schools, with at least 10 institutes having the policy. For us, this is a first,” said NUJS vice-chancellor Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty. NUJS has 127 seats, including reserved ones; admissions to 124 seats are over. Candidates for the three vacant seats had indicated earlier that NUJS was their choice, but did not turn up for counselling, perhaps because they had secured admissions in other streams, the NUJS administration felt. NUJS opened up those three seats for admission on Sunday when the second list was published. Shailja Beria ranked sixth and Sanyam Jha 43rd in the law entrance test. Ranks 20, 28, 31 and 35 have been clinched by students from Bengal but they have chosen other law schools. Students ranking between 130 and 225 have taken admission to NUJS undergraduate programmes this year and the administration said that this was far better than last year, when the ranks went below 300-plus. “There are several reasons why the top students in the CLAT list choose Bangalore, Delhi and Hyderabad over us. They are older law schools and have a long track record. We have to take a re-look at areas, like placements, research, faculty, bagging government projects and filling faculty positions. We have just recruited 16 new faculty members and will continue to recruit the best. We are about to bring in a lot of infrastructural changes. But to feel the impact of these changes, we will need at least two more years,” Chakraborty added. Despite the recent developments that saw a large number of people from Kashmir return home and the difficulties in communication, two seats reserved for students of Jammu and Kashmir have also been filled. Aditya Gupta, who ranked 821st, and Shreya Parihar, who ranked 1,681st in CLAT, have taken admissions to NUJS. According to NIRF ranking, conducted by the ministry of human resource development, NUJS has been placed sixth among 22 law schools. In the top three ranks are NLSIU Bangalore, NLU Delhi and Nalsar University of Law, Hyderabad. The law school of IIT Kgp, Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law, has ranked fourth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nujs-gets-18-students-for-domicile-quota-seats/articleshow/78610847.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Disability, Covid curbs do not dampen their productivity||KOCHI: Rising to the challenge of the Covid restrictions and work from home (WFH) conditions, a motivated team of blind persons led by their managers have been carrying on their office work even from the remote areas of their home locations. At a time when even the most motivated are unable to work professionally from their homes, a group of about 19 young men and women, who are blind and employed by Envision Trust, have trained themselves to work individually from their homes as part of their telesales project which involves making telecalls for companies. The Envision Trust is the first call centre exclusively involving the differently-abled in the state. It started by partnering with Vodafone from July 2016 to December 2017, supporting postpaid sales and follow up work. “Our current project, which began in January 2018, is with Asianet. Twenty persons and a team leader have been employed full time to oversee operations. The work involves following up with Asianet broadband customers for reminder/ renewal process of AMC packages and the team has been successful in meeting targets every month. At Chavara centre, we had established a fully furnished office with computers having screen access readers (audio support for the visually challenged), a server facility with a dedicated internet and electricity connection. There are amenities like air conditioning,” said Envision Trust managing trustee Sunil J Mathew. “We have employees working from remote areas in Idukki, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Ernakulam. Some of them have computers at home while others use mobile phones,” he said. “In a month, they have to reach out to 4,500 customers and do follow-up. Each of them submits call details for further action and I submit the report to the companies. They are good at telecalling and can be trained in two weeks. On a day, they work in office time and make about 60-70 calls,” said team coordinator Shabana Rasheed. “We hope this can encourage more employers / corporates / businesses to come forward and hire these persons who are very professional in their work zone,” said Mathew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/disability-covid-curbs-do-not-dampen-their-productivity/articleshow/78608824.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
October 12, 2020||Kozhikode||IMA welfare society to return money collected for apartment complex||Kozhikode: District unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has asked a welfare society under it to return the money collected from its members for constructing an apartment complex which didn’t materialise. A virtual emergency meeting of IMA executive committee on Saturday asked the society to settle all the complaints regarding the project at the earliest. Calicut Indian Medical Association Welfare and Research Society was registered at IMA office in Kozhikode and is governed by separate bylaws. The society was formed with the approval of the IMA in 2011, a statement by Kozhikode IMA president Dr S V Rakhesh and secretary Dr Raju Balaram said. The society had proposed to construct a convention centre and apartment complex and collected Rs 10 lakh as initial instalment from 90 members and Rs 1 lakh as membership fee from 203 members. The society purchased 2.2 acres at Kotooli in 2011. The project did not take off due to technical reasons and some investors had demanded the money back with interest, the statement said. The society decided to sell the land to return the money in 2019. “On receiving complaints from the investors, the Kozhikode IMA branch instituted a five-member committee in August 2020. The inquiry committee was to submit the report on October 15, but had sought an extension of two months,” the statement said. The statement said the IMA, Kozhikode, has a strong moral and ethical responsibility towards the investors ‘although a legal responsibility may not be undertaken.’ The meeting of the IMA ‘has advised’ the society to expedite the sale process by forming an ad-hoc committee and settle the complaints of the investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ima-welfare-society-to-return-money-collected-for-apartment-complex/articleshow/78608825.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Seven rape woman after killing her son in Buxar||PATNA/BUXAR: Seven people allegedly gang-raped a 28-year-old dalit woman after throttling her five-year-old son to death at a village under the Murar police station area in Buxar district on Saturday. SHO of Murar police station Manoj Kumar Pathak said the incident came to light on Sunday after the woman’s father approached the police and lodged an FIR against two known and five unknown people in connection with the crime. “As per the FIR, the woman had gone to a bank along with her son for some work, but didn’t return home on time. Her family members finally found her near a pond in the village around 3am on Sunday. The body of the woman’s son was fished out from the pond,” Pathak said, adding the woman’s father alleged that his grandson was killed by the accused in front of his mother’s eyes. The SHO said the rape survivor was undergoing treatment at sadar hospital in Buxar and her condition was stable. Buxar SP Neeraj Kumar Singh said one of the accused, Meena Ram (50), was arrested. “Another named accused – Bhola Ram – is evading arrest. Raids are on to arrest all those involved in the crime. The woman’s medical examination was conducted by a board of doctors and the report is awaited. Her statement will be recorded in the court of judicial magistrate on Monday,” the SP added. Dumraon SDPO Krishna Kumar Singh said the woman has sour relations with her husband and she lives with her parents. “The woman’s husband was staying at the house of his in-laws for the last two days in a bid to convince his wife to return home,” the SDPO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-rape-woman-after-killing-her-son-in-buxar/articleshow/78609620.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab makes stamp duty incentive refund easy||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has amended the procedure of submission of online application for refund of incentive of stamp duty under the industrial and business development police of 2017, to ensure greater ease to investors. Industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora said that after receiving chief minister Amarinder Singh’s approval to this effect, a notification has been issued. The industrial department would now clear the pending cases expeditiously giving relief to investors, he added. Arora said the refund of stamp duty can be claimed after the start of commercial production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-makes-stamp-duty-incentive-refund-easy/articleshow/78609595.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangalore university faces women’s commission’s wrath over delay in submitting ICC report||MANGALURU: Mangalore University is in the cross hairs of the Karnataka State Commission for Women. This follows ‘prima facie’ delay on part of the then registrar AM Khan in placing an internal complaints committee (ICC) report on allegations of sexual harassment against Arabi U, professor, department of PG studies in economics at the Mangalagangothri campus before the vice-chancellor and the Syndicate for appropriate action. PS Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor, told TOI that the ICC, set up as per SPARSH guidelines, had given its report on the allegation made by a student against Arabi in December 2018. Khan, as per procedure should have placed this report given by the 10-member ICC headed by Monika Sadanand, professor, department of PG studies in bio-sciences, before the university authorities for appropriate action. “He did not do so and sat on it,” the VC said. The issue came to the fore when the student flagged lack of action on her complaint that she had lodged with the commission directly. The commission in turn sent a reminder to the university in the last week of September. Raju Mogaveera, registrar, told TOI that on inquiry, the university ascertained that ICC had indeed submitted its report to his predecessor in a sealed cover in December 2018. “We found the sealed cover in the registrar’s office,” Raju Mogaveera said. The registrar placed the report before the Syndicate at its meeting on October 9. Syndicate is the university’s highest decision making body with powers to appoint and enforce discipline. “We will send the ICC report to the commission as directed by the Syndicate,” the registrar said. The university will also issue a showcause notice to Khan for the lapse in not placing the ICC report before the university authorities for action, the registrar said. Both Yadapadithaya and Raju Mogaveera refused to comment the Syndicate members were not happy with the commission sending the reminder for this apparent lapse on part of a statutory officer of the university. “Yes, the Syndicate discussed this issue at its meeting on Friday and the university has taken steps as directed by the body,” the registrar said. Due process will be followed against Khan for his apparent lapse, the VC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/varsity-faces-womens-commissions-wrath-over-delay-in-submitting-icc-report/articleshow/78608858.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Fatality rate sees decline as T records 5 deaths, 1.7k cases||Hyderabad: Telangana on Sunday recorded 1,717 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths, raising the caseload in the state to 2,12,063. The death toll has reached 1,222 in the state. As many as 1,85,128 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection until now, even as 25,713 people remain under medical treatment in hospitals and at home. The case fatality rate, which is a measure of the percentage of patients succumbing to the disease as compared to the total number of patients getting affected, has been on a decline for the last two months. The fatality rate in the state is currently below one percent, as against 1.5 percent in the country. The recovery is 87 percent as compared to the country average of 85 percent. On Sunday, 46,657 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 35.5 lakh so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fatality-rate-sees-decline-as-t-records-5-deaths-1-7k-cases/articleshow/78609648.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Durbar Hall Art Centre to house gallery for artist T K Padmini||KOCHI: More than five decades after her death, artist T K Padmini, who left behind brilliant art works with a feminist sensibility, is getting a dedicated gallery at Durbar Hall Art Centre. Though the works by the artist born in 1940 and died at the age of 29, when her work was getting noticed, had a display at Durbar Hall Art gallery in Kochi before it underwent a renovation, they were relegated to the archive. “The work on an air-conditioned gallery to house the paintings of Padmini is currently going on at Durbar Hall Art Centre,” said Lalithakala Akademi chairman Nemom Pushparaj. The gallery is coming up in the first floor of the building in the space where the wooden stair from the ground floor lands. “The work has started and it is estimated to cost around Rs 30 lakh,” he said. The Akademi is planning to exhibit around 80 works of the celebrated artist they own at the dedicated space. “We have plans to display artefacts like brushes used by her and sketch books,” Pushparaj said. A relief work of Padmini in wood by artist Raju has been commissioned and would be part of the exhibits. Works by Padmini, now considered one of the most prominent painters of her time, can also be found at the National Art Gallery and Salar Jung Museum in Hyderabad. Padmini’s husband artist K Damodaran, known for his abstract works, had passed away in June this year. The Lalithakala Akademi website has also created a virtual 3D gallery dedicated to Padmini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/durbar-hall-art-centre-to-house-gallery-for-artist-t-k-padmini/articleshow/78608849.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Photos: Ferrari runs over pedestrian in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A Ferrari ran amok and crashed into a 50-year-old pedestrian and a hawker on 100 Feet Road in Madhapur on Sunday afternoon. The pedestrian, a watchman at an apartment, died on the spot, while the hawker sustained minor injuries. The victim was identified as Yesu Babu. The Ferrari driver was identified as P Naveen Kumar Goud, employed with infra giant Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited and a resident of Jagadgirigutta. Around 3.30pm, Yesu Babu was walking on the footpath when a rashly driven Ferrari crashed into him and the hawker, Shaik Jameel, at 100 Feet Road. According to police, the victim sustained multiple injuries, including severe injuries on his abdomen and leg, while the hawker escaped with a minor injuries in the accident. Naveen, who was working for the infra company for the past two years, was travelling from Jubilee Hills towards Kukatpally for work when the accident occurred and was immediately taken into custody. “He was on duty and was speeding on the road. He lost control of the vehicle and hit the two men. We checked the offender’s blood alcohol content (BAC) level and found he was sober,” assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Madhapur, Ch Raghunandan Rao told TOI. Police shifted the victim’s body to Osmania General Hospital for an autopsy. The deceased is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. The family had moved to the city from East Godavari district in Andhra Pradesh a few years ago. The Ferrari driver was booked under Sections 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 337 (causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) of the IPC. Watch On cam: Speeding Ferrari runs over pedestrian in Hyderabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ferrari-runs-over-pedestrian-in-city/articleshow/78610458.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Ex-Xaverians share their tales of success at e-meet||Kolkata: Three distinguished St Xavier’s College alumni on Saturday shared the tales of their lives, talking about the transformation in the lives that helped them achieve their goals in the industry and business. As Sagar Daryani, co-founder and CEO of WOW MOMO, Raghav Beriwal, director Shyam Steel and Rachit Mehta, country marketing head of Red Bull, spoke at the TEDxStXaviersCollegeKolkata U-Connect virtual meet on Sunday, St Xavier’s College principal Fr Dominic Savio called it a “homecoming call” for the three Xaverians.Daryani pointed that it were his school and St Xavier’s College that taught him to multi-task. “My college taught me that not everything was hunky dory and life had a lot of struggle. We went camping, stayed in villages and adopted the villages, we held evening classes, where slum kids came and we played with them. My college taught me to be sensitive towards the hardship of people. At the same time, it gave me lifelong friends, including the co-founder of my business.” Sharing his mantra, Daryani said he believed a winner never quit and a quitter never won. “Go out there and win.” Asked how to build a personal brand while still in college, Mehta explained that personal branding became the most important as one crossed over to work life. “Whether it is an internship, or joining the first job, aspire to a career and determine what your next jump should be. Only when you have focus can you chase a dream,” he said. “Identify the fire within you, and work towards it.” Beriwal remembered St Xavier’s as an institution that instilled a sense of discipline in him. “It had a grounding and maturing effect on me,” he said.In his address, Fr Savio said, “In the new normal, we have shifted from the physical setting of our very own Father Depelchin Auditorium to a digital platform and today, we Xaverians are all united and digitally integrated. The three Xaverians are going to infuse an invigorating thought process in the minds of the current Xaverians, in this new normal.” The event invited young, accomplished Xaverians of different batches spanning over the past two decades to share their views on ‘The Road Ahead’. It was a bid to digitally connect ex-students with their alma mater and inculcate a feeling of oneness with existing students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-xaverians-share-their-tales-of-success-at-e-meet/articleshow/78610873.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Gurgaon||82 condos in Gurugram & Faridabad rely on gensets, EPCA told||GURUGRAM: There are 82 housing societies in Gurugram and Faridabad that are dependent on diesel generator sets for electricity, the state power distribution utility has informed the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) through a survey report. The revelation comes just four days before the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) kicks in across NCR, a move that will put a ban on the use of DG sets except for emergency purposes like in hospitals and schools. Officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), which conducted the survey, said that of these 82 condominiums, 26 are in Gurugram city itself while three are in Faridabad. These societies, home to at least 2 lakh residents, can’t do without generators as permanent power connections are yet to be set up because the developers have not fulfilled certain norms. So, if gensets are banned from October 15, these societies will have no means of power backup. However, many of these flats are yet to be occupied. DHBVN has given notices to all these developers to submit compliance reports by October 15. Last year, a similar survey by discom had found 97 condominiums heavily dependent on diesel gensets. Though these societies were given a year for getting connections, only 15 could manage to get permanent supply. DHBVN agreed that seven more connections were held up because of delay on its part. Officials said the issue would be sorted soon. So, if seven societies get the connections, it would bring down the number of condominiums dependent on DG sets to 75. The survey by the power utility followed a directive by EPCA to submit a status report on the number of societies that were still using generators. The pollution watchdog is slated to take on call this week on “emergency services” where the use of gensets can be allowed. “We have carefully studied the issue and submitted a status report to the EPCA for evaluation. All protocols have been met at our end. Now, there are 82 condominiums across Gurugram and Faridabad that are dependent on DG sets. They have temporary connections, but they still need gensets for power supply,” said Vinitha Singh, chief engineer (smart grid) in the Delhi circle. She pointed out that developers such as DLF, Unitech, Ansal and Ardee were among the 82 that were yet to take permanent power connections. “There are 75 residential societies between sectors 58 and 115 that are still using gensets. For DLF-The Camellias, which also does not have a permanent connection, we have also asked HVPL to provide electricity. DHBVN was supposed to get more than Rs 1 crore from each builder for electricity connection. But the money is still pending,” Singh added. Officials in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said the EPCA would take the final call on the fate of residents living in these 82 societies. “It will evaluate the status this week and take a decision,” said S Narayan, member secretary of HSPCB. On October 8, EPCA chairman Bhure Lal had directed the pollution departments of Haryana, Delhi, UP and Rajasthan to impose GRAP by October 15. Bhure Lal had specified that the use of diesel gensets would be banned in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida except for emergency purposes. When a similar plan was implemented last year, the power utilities of Haryana and UP had sought time till winter 2020 to supply seamless electricity from the grid, which would obviate the need of diesel gensets. While developers are yet to fulfil certain norms so that power connections can be granted to their projects, the discoms, too, have failed to provide seamless supply in some cases. Watch 82 condos in Gurugram & Faridabad rely on gensets: EPCA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/just-4-days-to-grap-82-condos-in-ggn-fbd-still-rely-on-gensets/articleshow/78609762.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 12, 2020||Bareilly||DM finds middlemen at paddy procurement centre, orders probe||Bareilly: After paying a surprise visit to a government paddy procurement centre in the disguise of a farmer on a bike, the Rampur district magistrate was approached by middlemen for selling the paddy at a price lower than Minimum Support price (MSP) to private buyers. He also found that the centre in-charge was delaying the procurement of paddy which was forcing farmers to sell their crop to private buyers. The DM ordered an FIR against the centre in-charge and a probe against another. There were many complaints from the farmers that they were unable to sell their crop at the procurement centres on MSP because of the lackadaisical attitude of the centre in-charge and their inclination towards private buyers who buy crops at lower price taking advantage of their financial constraints. District magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “The delay in crop weighing and the presence of moisture give an opportunity to the middlemen to come into play. We have decided to establish extra weighing units and such surprise visits will continue to ensure farmers are able to get the MSP for their crops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-finds-middlemen-at-paddy-procurement-centre-orders-probe/articleshow/78607920.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Man complains of wife’s affair with constable||Hyderabad: A private employee approached the Raidurgam police with a complaint of his wife allegedly being in an affair with a police constable on Saturday. The man went to the police and said that his wife was with an armed reserve constable, Vamsi Krishna, in a hotel room. When cops accompanied him to the hotel, the constable was found with the woman. As both of them are adults, police counselled the groups and sent them away. No case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-complains-of-wifes-affair-with-constable/articleshow/78609687.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Survivors turn up with breathlessness, chest pain at city’s first post-Covid camp||KOLKATA: Many cured Covid patients continue to battle post-infection health issues after coming back home from hospital. On Sunday, a group of doctors checked 64 such patients in Salt Lake’s Duttabad, who complained of various conditions like breathlessness, chest pain, weakness and severe body ache. This was the first such post-Covid care camp in the city. ID Hospital, Beliaghata already runs a permanent clinic in the hospital premises. “We are still learning many aspects of the Novel coronavirus. Patients, especially who have been on prolonged oxygen therapy during treatment, tend to develop health issues like that of lung and weakness. Such post-Covid care clinics are important to cater to recovered patients,” said Yogiraj Ray, infectious diseases specialist, who is part of the core Covid team at ID Hospital. Organized by Protect The Warriors (PTW) — an organisation of doctors — from both private and public hospitals, in association with Sporsho, 18 doctors from different specialties attended to the patients. “A portion of patients will develop issues like that of lung, heart, general weakness and stomach within two months of recovery. But don’t get frightened. These are post-Covid complications. All one should do is seek a doctor’s help,” said public health expert Pritam Roy, programme convenor PTW. Health experts said that in severe infected patients, the involvement of the lung could be 60% to 70%, as a result the residual impact causes breathing issues even after recovery from the infection due to lung fibrosis. Doctors found out that some of the patients, who had turned up at the camp, were still plagued with issues of anxiety and panic even after their recovery. “We also came across a few patients, who still are suffering from anosmia (loss of smell) and parosmia (distortion of smell) even two months after recovery. This was something new for us,” said PTW secretary, ENT specialist Abhik Ghosh of Apollo. Some recovered patients even came up with queries on whether it was safe to go pandal hopping during the Pujas, to which most doctors asked them not to venture into any crowd. “We will be organizing more such camps on regular basis in other parts of the city to cater to the health requirement of recovered Covid patients,” said medicine consultant Suddhsattwya Chatterjee of Apollo. Dedicated to Bipalab Kanti Dasgupta, a senior doctor with the state health department, who died after battling Covid, free medicines were also given to patients in addition to psychiatric counselling. Many of the recovered patients also expressed their willingness to donate plasma. PTW is planning to draw up a list of such potential donors, who could donate their plasma either at a government plasma bank or any other private bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/survivors-turn-up-with-breathlessness-chest-pain-at-citys-first-post-covid-camp/articleshow/78610893.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka Bank ex-chairman Ananthakrishna passes away||MANGALURU: Former chairman and chief executive officer of city-based private sector bank, Karnataka Bank Ltd, Ananthakrishna, passed away here on Sunday. He was 74. An erudite banker with an experience of more than four decades, Ananthakrishna leaves behind his wife Renuka and son Avinash. He served as chairman and chief executive officer of the bank from 2000 to 2009, and later as the non-executive chairman of the bank up to 2016. A resident of Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada, Ananthakrishna joined the bank in 1971 as an officer. Prior to that, he worked as a teacher in Deepika High School, Modankaup in Bantwal, later as a lecturer at the Manipal Institute of Technology and also had a stint at the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited as a junior programmer. His mortal remains were kept at his residence at Deepa Arcade at Bejai for people to pay respects, and later cremated at Boloor. Paying rich tributes to his senior, Mahabaleshwara M S, managing director and CEO of the bank told TOI that the bank saw all-round growth under Ananthakrishna’s stewardship. “He was a successful chairman and a great human being. Ananthakrishna was a senior manager when I joined the bank, and I have seen his growth as well as the growth of the bank from close quarters. He was a major inspiration for the Karnataka Bank family,” he said. The bank implemented core banking solutions across all its branches in India during his stint as the chairman of the bank, a move that improved productivity, Mahabaleshwara said. “We have lost an elderly figure who shepherded the bank to its present heights. I pay my rich and humble tributes to this genial person, and pray to the almighty to give his family the strength to bear this personal loss,” Mahabaleshwara said of his former boss. At Karnataka Bank, Ananthakrishna served in various capacities—at the operational level and in key management positions in various areas such as treasury and accounts, corporate taxation, IT and credit administration. His performance saw the bank elevate him to general manager in 1994 and later as chief GM in 1998. He was appointed as chairman and CEO in July 2000. He also served as the honorary secretary of the Indian Banks’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-bank-ex-chairman-ananthakrishna-passes-away/articleshow/78608872.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ghaziabad||82 condos in Gurugram & Faridabad rely on gensets, EPCA told||GURUGRAM: There are 82 housing societies in Gurugram and Faridabad that are dependent on diesel generator sets for electricity, the state power distribution utility has informed the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) through a survey report. The revelation comes just four days before the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) kicks in across NCR, a move that will put a ban on the use of DG sets except for emergency purposes like in hospitals and schools. Officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), which conducted the survey, said that of these 82 condominiums, 26 are in Gurugram city itself while three are in Faridabad. These societies, home to at least 2 lakh residents, can’t do without generators as permanent power connections are yet to be set up because the developers have not fulfilled certain norms. So, if gensets are banned from October 15, these societies will have no means of power backup. However, many of these flats are yet to be occupied. DHBVN has given notices to all these developers to submit compliance reports by October 15. Last year, a similar survey by discom had found 97 condominiums heavily dependent on diesel gensets. Though these societies were given a year for getting connections, only 15 could manage to get permanent supply. DHBVN agreed that seven more connections were held up because of delay on its part. Officials said the issue would be sorted soon. So, if seven societies get the connections, it would bring down the number of condominiums dependent on DG sets to 75. The survey by the power utility followed a directive by EPCA to submit a status report on the number of societies that were still using generators. The pollution watchdog is slated to take on call this week on “emergency services” where the use of gensets can be allowed. “We have carefully studied the issue and submitted a status report to the EPCA for evaluation. All protocols have been met at our end. Now, there are 82 condominiums across Gurugram and Faridabad that are dependent on DG sets. They have temporary connections, but they still need gensets for power supply,” said Vinitha Singh, chief engineer (smart grid) in the Delhi circle. She pointed out that developers such as DLF, Unitech, Ansal and Ardee were among the 82 that were yet to take permanent power connections. “There are 75 residential societies between sectors 58 and 115 that are still using gensets. For DLF-The Camellias, which also does not have a permanent connection, we have also asked HVPL to provide electricity. DHBVN was supposed to get more than Rs 1 crore from each builder for electricity connection. But the money is still pending,” Singh added. Officials in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said the EPCA would take the final call on the fate of residents living in these 82 societies. “It will evaluate the status this week and take a decision,” said S Narayan, member secretary of HSPCB. On October 8, EPCA chairman Bhure Lal had directed the pollution departments of Haryana, Delhi, UP and Rajasthan to impose GRAP by October 15. Bhure Lal had specified that the use of diesel gensets would be banned in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida except for emergency purposes. When a similar plan was implemented last year, the power utilities of Haryana and UP had sought time till winter 2020 to supply seamless electricity from the grid, which would obviate the need of diesel gensets. While developers are yet to fulfil certain norms so that power connections can be granted to their projects, the discoms, too, have failed to provide seamless supply in some cases. Watch 82 condos in Gurugram & Faridabad rely on gensets: EPCA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/just-4-days-to-grap-82-condos-in-ggn-fbd-still-rely-on-gensets/articleshow/78611234.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 12, 2020||Faridabad||82 condos in Gurugram & Faridabad rely on gensets, EPCA told||GURUGRAM: There are 82 housing societies in Gurugram and Faridabad that are dependent on diesel generator sets for electricity, the state power distribution utility has informed the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) through a survey report. The revelation comes just four days before the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) kicks in across NCR, a move that will put a ban on the use of DG sets except for emergency purposes like in hospitals and schools. Officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), which conducted the survey, said that of these 82 condominiums, 26 are in Gurugram city itself while three are in Faridabad. These societies, home to at least 2 lakh residents, can’t do without generators as permanent power connections are yet to be set up because the developers have not fulfilled certain norms. So, if gensets are banned from October 15, these societies will have no means of power backup. However, many of these flats are yet to be occupied. DHBVN has given notices to all these developers to submit compliance reports by October 15. Last year, a similar survey by discom had found 97 condominiums heavily dependent on diesel gensets. Though these societies were given a year for getting connections, only 15 could manage to get permanent supply. DHBVN agreed that seven more connections were held up because of delay on its part. Officials said the issue would be sorted soon. So, if seven societies get the connections, it would bring down the number of condominiums dependent on DG sets to 75. The survey by the power utility followed a directive by EPCA to submit a status report on the number of societies that were still using generators. The pollution watchdog is slated to take on call this week on “emergency services” where the use of gensets can be allowed. “We have carefully studied the issue and submitted a status report to the EPCA for evaluation. All protocols have been met at our end. Now, there are 82 condominiums across Gurugram and Faridabad that are dependent on DG sets. They have temporary connections, but they still need gensets for power supply,” said Vinitha Singh, chief engineer (smart grid) in the Delhi circle. She pointed out that developers such as DLF, Unitech, Ansal and Ardee were among the 82 that were yet to take permanent power connections. “There are 75 residential societies between sectors 58 and 115 that are still using gensets. For DLF-The Camellias, which also does not have a permanent connection, we have also asked HVPL to provide electricity. DHBVN was supposed to get more than Rs 1 crore from each builder for electricity connection. But the money is still pending,” Singh added. Officials in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said the EPCA would take the final call on the fate of residents living in these 82 societies. “It will evaluate the status this week and take a decision,” said S Narayan, member secretary of HSPCB. On October 8, EPCA chairman Bhure Lal had directed the pollution departments of Haryana, Delhi, UP and Rajasthan to impose GRAP by October 15. Bhure Lal had specified that the use of diesel gensets would be banned in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida except for emergency purposes. When a similar plan was implemented last year, the power utilities of Haryana and UP had sought time till winter 2020 to supply seamless electricity from the grid, which would obviate the need of diesel gensets. While developers are yet to fulfil certain norms so that power connections can be granted to their projects, the discoms, too, have failed to provide seamless supply in some cases. Watch 82 condos in Gurugram & Faridabad rely on gensets: EPCA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/just-4-days-to-grap-82-condos-in-ggn-fbd-still-rely-on-gensets/articleshow/78611235.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 12, 2020||Agra||Hathras girl’s family to appear before Allahabad high court today||AGRA: The Allahabad high court will on Monday hold its first hearing after taking suo motu cognisance of the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras. Apart from senior police and administrative officials, including UP’s director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, the parents of the slain girl and three other family members will also be present in the court. The Lucknow bench of the court has also directed the Hathras DM and SP to be present during the hearing. The family members of the girl will leave for Lucknow on early Monday morning amid tight security. They were expected to reach Lucknow on Sunday night, but refused to travel in the dark citing “fear”. The girl’s brother said, “We were supposed to reach Lucknow on Sunday. But we refused to travel at night. Now, we have been asked to get ready by 5am on Monday.” Taking a stern view of the matter, the division bench comprising justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh had on October 1 said, “We are inclined to examine as to whether there has been gross violation of the fundamental rights of the deceased victim and the family members of the victim. Whether the state authorities have acted oppressively high-handedly and illegally to violate such rights as if it is found to be so, then, this would be a case where accountability will not only have to be fixed but for future guidance also stern action would be required.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/allahabad-hc-to-hold-first-hearing-in-hathras-case-slain-girls-family-top-officials-to-be-present/articleshow/78608871.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists kill TRS man at home in Mulugu||HYDERABAD: A Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) party activist was killed by Maoists in Mulugu district barely days after a high-level security meeting was conducted by the Union home ministry in the same district to finalise strategies to counter CPI (Maoists). Mulugu police said that Maduri Bheemeshwara Rao (55) was repeatedly stabbed in his home at Alubaka village by six armed Maoists who accused him of being a police informer. “I was dragged away when I rushed to protect my husband. Five people came inside the house, while one person was waiting outside. After killing my husband, they fled,’’ Rao’s wife Kumari told reporters, adding that two Maoists were armed with guns while others had knives on them. Police said Rao, who also owns a fertilizers business, was killed by Maoists, as he refused to give them funds. “Maoists asked him for party funds, but he stopped giving money. This murder could also be a retaliation for Maoists who died in a police encounter some days ago in the state. They want to create fear among tribals,’’ a district cop probing the case said. Mulugu SP Sangram Singh Patil Ganapatrao said that the six men might be from the Maoist action team and the victim was killed after being branded as a police informer. In a two-page letter released after the killing, the Maoists warned the local TRS and BJP leaders to quit. In the letter they accused Rao of selling fertilizers at higher cost than the MRP, harassing locals by using his political clout and contacts with police and collecting higher interest rates on loans. The Maoists also warned local leaders and others who work against the interest of tribals of similar consequences. Vijay Kumar, internal security advisor (MHA), was present at Mulugu district just a few days ago to discuss plans ahead of a crackdown against the CPI (Maoists).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-kill-trs-man-at-home-in-mulugu/articleshow/78610468.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||200 million-year-old spider species spotted in Bengal||KOLKATA: A professor of zoology from Keshpur College has found a rare species of spider— Idipos Nilagiri, a member of the tarantula family, in Midnapore. The species, which is around 200 million years old, was first discovered in Odisha last year. Named after the Nilagiri region in the state, the Mygalomorph species (under the large group of Tarantulas), is a long living one. The same species was sighted a few months back by the zoology professor Suman Pratihar. His paper, on the recent finding, has now been published in The Journal of British Tarantula Society in its October issue. Unlike other commonly found spiders, this species does not form a web and stays in small holes in the soil. The finding also points at the nature of vegetation/jungle in parts of Odisha and West Bengal, which are still conducive to these species — one of the most ancient spiders. Pratihar started a comprehensive field survey during the lockdown. “I spotted both male and female species during the field survey. The first one was sighted at Midnapore and the second one at Purulia 10 days after that,” Pratihar said: “The female spider, found in Purulia, was larger in size. It was reddish brown and the abdomen was covered in hair. There was no previous record of the spider from West Bengal. In fact, West Bengal is not recognized for Mygalomorph spiders,” Pratihar said. “This species is significantly more wide-ranging than scientists previously believed. This, in turn, furthers our understanding of the population dynamics and distribution of little-known and little-studied species such as Idiops Nilagiri,” said Peter Kirk, chairman of the British Tarantula Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/200-million-yr-old-spider-species-spotted-in-bengal/articleshow/78610894.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||As patient count dips, Punjab has sufficient medical oxygen||Chandigarh: Once struggling to meet rising demand for medical oxygen for management of moderate and severe Covid-19 cases, Punjab is now comfortably placed with sufficient availability of oxygen. The improved availability is largely due to the decline in number of critical patients in the recent weeks and optimum utilisation by cutting down on wastage. Due to a rise in the number of patients needing oxygen in August and September, the demand had touched about 130 metric tonne (MT), which has come down to about 105 MT. According to the requirement status report for October 10, a total of 12,542 cylinders of oxygen were required, while 13,342 cylinders were in stock. What is encouraging, about 63% of the demand is being met locally. In Jalandhar, the daily demand of 2,300 cylinders is being met with local supplies, while in Ludhiana, 1,200 out of 1,500 cylinders are supplied by local units. Joint commissioner (drugs) Pardeep Kumar, who is also nodal officer for medical oxygen, said timely corrective measures taken by the government helped in ensuring uninterrupted supply of oxygen in required quantities. “At present, we are comfortably placed and have surplus availability of oxygen,” said Kumar, adding that SOPs issued by the state government helped in rationalising the usage. Oxygen saturation rate target has been set at 94% to 95% for Covid patients and once it is achieved, the flow of oxygen is not increased, as it provides no additional benefit to the patient. In case of severe patients with oxygen saturation rate below 90%, the flow has been fixed at 10-15 litre per minute, while for moderate patients with saturation rate above 90% and below 95%, the oxygen flow has been capped at 2-5 litre per minute. To meet the growing demand, the government had asked the suppliers of liquid medical oxygen to provide the same to healthcare institutions on priority basis within the state and the surplus, if any, to the industrial units. Punjab-based medical oxygen manufacturers had also been restrained from selling to other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-patient-count-dips-punjab-has-sufficient-medical-oxygen/articleshow/78609715.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 12, 2020||Bareilly||Committees set up to buy land for cane offices||Pilibhit: State's sugarcane administration has set up committees for selection and purchasing of plots for construction of new office premises. The land is required for cane development societies and cane councils, especially in eastern UP, as they are being operated from rented premises, said Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, principal chief secretary, sugarcane and sugar industry. In this context, all district cane officers have been issued guidelines for acquisition or purchase of land for the construction of new office premises. The site selection would depend on road connectivity, drain system, supply of power and gas and nearby rivers or canals among others, he said. The land acquisition committee would also review land related disputes, whether it is in a non-construction green zone and other aspects in accordance with the norms of the National Green Tribunal and the pollution control board, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/committees-set-up-to-buy-land-for-cane-offices/articleshow/78607944.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||‘NGRI must play leading role in Geosciences research’||Hyderabad: Professor K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the Union government, on Sunday said that the city-based CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) should play a leading role in the future Geosciences research in India. Speaking at the Diamond Jubilee Year Celebrations of CSIR-NGRI that began through a virtual inaugural ceremony on Sunday, he said the NGRI could be a national integrator with scientific leadership of all geological, geophysical and environmental studies in the country in partnership with other academic/research organisations and the related industries. He exhorted NGRI to become a nodal agency between academia on the one hand and industries on the other as well as nurture talents within NGRI for the advancement of Geosciences. “NGRI should contribute to understanding the effects of climate change and biodiversity and modeling of geological consequences like landslides, inundations, tsunamis in collaboration with leading institutions of other scientific disciplines. Professor Shekhar C Mande, director general, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) lauded the geochemical atlas of India, produced by NGRI, the extensive aquifer mapping carried out in different parts of the country. He said that the drone-based Geophysical Survey System being developed by the institute is going to be a game changer in the designing of future exploratory programmes in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngri-must-play-leading-role-in-geosciences-research/articleshow/78609720.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Car dealer asked to pay Rs 70k to buyer||Hyderabad: A district consumer forum here has directed Concorde Motors (India) Limited to pay a buyer Rs 70,000 for charging extra amount on a car purchase. Janakiram K, the complainant, submitted that he purchased a Tata Tiago XZ, manufactured by Tata Motors Ltd, from Concorde Motors on November 3, 2018. He paid Rs 5.19 lakh for the vehicle. Janakiram said that he had availed a loan of Rs 4 lakh for the purchase and that there was an excess payment of Rs 40,000, which he was entitled to get as subsidy as a defence employee. After the vehicle’s delivery, he requested Concorde Motors multiple times to refund the excess amount. While the firm initially said that that they would inform his about the status of the refund, on April 19,2019, he was was told that no excess amount was collected during the purchase. Alleging that the firm intentionally did not provide a subsidy even after a lapse of five months from the date of purchase, Janakiram filed a complaint. While Concorde Motors remained ex parte, Tata Motors, in its written version, submitted that it is the manufacturer of cars and utility vehicles and that it does not deal with any customer for the sale of the new vehicle. The bench noticed that Concorde Motors representatives have expressed their regret via mails sent to Janakiram, for the delay in refund on more than one occasion and tendered an apology. “In the light of the admission made by opposite party no.1 in email, no further proof is required to substantiate that they have collected the excess amount and failed to refund it. Refusing to refund the excess amounts to unfair trade practice and deficiency of service,” said the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-dealer-asked-to-pay-rs-70k-to-buyer/articleshow/78609743.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 12, 2020||Agra||CBI registers fresh FIR against main accused in Hathras case||AGRA: A week after the UP government had recommended a CBI probe into the alleged gang-rape and murder of a 19-year-old Dalit girl, the investigating agency registered a fresh FIR against one of the four accused, a copy of which is with TOI. A CBI team also visited Hathras and is expected to begin the investigation on Monday. "The Central Bureau of Investigation has today registered a case against an accused and taken over the investigation of the case, earlier registered ... at ... Hathras (Uttar Pradesh) on a complaint. The complainant had alleged that on 14.09.2020, the accused tried to strangulate his sister in the millet field ... A team has been constituted. Investigation is continuing," a CBI press note said on Sunday. The investigating officer in the case is DSP (ACB, Ghaziabad) Seema Pahuja. The CBI registered an FIR against main accused Sandeep under sections 376D (gang rape), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) of the IPC and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act (offences of atrocities). "In pursuance of UP government's consent and Union government’s order dated 10 October, the CBI takes over the investigation of the case," the FIR said. It was based on the police FIR at the Chandpa station that followed a complaint by the victim's brother on September 14, the day she was allegedly gang-raped. She died 15 days later in a Delhi hospital. A senior police official in Hathras confirmed the CBI team had visited the village on Sunday. Police handed over all case-related documents to the CBI. "All paperwork has been wrapped up today. Their investigation will begin tomorrow," the senior official said, adding that the team has not met the victim's family yet. Fifteen CBI officials are expected to be in Hathras for the next couple of weeks, a senior cop said. The SIT formed by the government, meanwhile, will continue its probe into police's role in the incident. "That investigation is not related to the main case," the senior cop added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-registers-fresh-fir-against-main-accused-in-hathras-case/articleshow/78608903.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||At 53, this CA came 1st by covering 6,333km in 100 days global running event||LUDHIANA: Age is just a number for 53-year-old city-based chartered account Rajnish Sharma, who took part in one of the toughest global running challenges of 100 days of running (HDOR) and bagged first position after covering an astonishing distance of 6,333.3km from July till the first week of October. A total of 20,000 runners in the age group of 18 to 60 year participated in this global initiative of 100 days challenges and put online tracking devices on their body to track their running distance along with daily timing in different parts of the world. Rajnish, who is a resident of Maya Nagar, had already performed in more than 50 half marathons and 12 full marathons in the past one decade following his passion for sports activities (mostly running). After his consecutive successful performances in different sports events (running, cycling and fast walking) for the past several years, a group of city cyclists, along with sports enthusiasts, honoured Rajnish on Sunday as he had made the city proud after his unique set of records in sports world with his dedication and hard work. Rajnish said, “I didn’t believe in age because if you are mentally strong, then you can achieve everything in your life till the last breath. My passion for sports events has helped me climb up the ladder of success in global running events of 100 days and I was able to secure first rank in 2020.” “I have been trying to achieve the first position in 100 days running challenge for the past two years as I first participated in 2018 and covered a distance of 1,667km and then I took part in 2019 and covered a distance of 3,250km but still couldn’t secure any specific rank in the 100 days challenges. But my family members and friends didn’t lose hope on me and motivated me to increase the level of stamina and covered more distance in the next year’s challenge.” “As of this, I again took part in the 2020 global challenges of 100 days running that started from the last week of July till the first week of October and covered an astonishing distance of 6,333.3km, which is the highest among this year’s competitors,” Rajnish told TOI. “During this 100-day challenge, I daily spent 8 to 9 hours in running activity for completing maximum distances even after following my nutritious diet plan along with performing professional duties.” “I daily woke up early in the morning at 3am for performing my running challenges after wearing a hi-tech watch, which remained inter-connected with online tracking device to store the data in the software of the initiative management company and maintained an average of covering a distance of 63km on a daily basis,” he added. “Mostly, people above 50 years of age cannot maintain their fitness for completing such long running events. Even a young child nowadays avoids physical activities, which is very shocking as sports makes a person physically and mentally fit.” “I like being part of sports activities, whether it’s cycling for long hours or attending marathons, but it’s really difficult to maintain fitness level for such a running event. My friend Ashok helped a lot for achieving these heights in the running events,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/at-53-this-ca-came-1st-by-covering-6333km-in-100-days-global-running-event/articleshow/78608914.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Signs of Covid-19 curve flattening in Siddipet dist?||Hyderabad: Is the Dubbak bypoll an indicator of the Covid-19 curve flattening in Telangana? The number of cases in Siddipet district, under which the constituency falls, shows that the daily average cases came down from around 300 in September to 140 in October despite intense political activity. Siddipet, till October 10, reported 14,100 cases and the first case was reported on March 31. Between September 1 and September 10, the count was around 300 per day. The district saw intense political activity in the last week of September, after the announcement of poll dates. Sources say the restrictions on large gatherings — limiting the number of people to 100 — could be one of the reasons for the drop in the number of cases. However, the movement of people and small gatherings was more compared to other districts. The district in the past few days reported just 1,400 cases (from October 1 to 10), an average of just over 100 cases per day. However, this scenario poses a critical question: Is the curve flattening or will there be an increase in the number of cases after the end of the election season, similar to the what was witnessed after Ganesh Chathurthi. Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra had reported the highest number of cases post the festival. Kerala, too, displayed a similar trend after Onam. In the state, the difference in Covid-19 cases reported before and after the festival stands at 62,260 (a difference of nearly 50%. Same is the case with the number of deaths. The percentage of difference in casualties before and after the festival is 302, which is 37%). Among the three divisions of Siddipet, namely Gajwel, Husnabad and Siddipet (Urban), the latter is witnessing more number of cases. “The number of cases is more here due to the migration of people between Hyderabad and urban areas, but we have less number of cases since the past few days despite increased activity. We are following all Covid- 19 protocols with more focus now,” Dr Manohar, district, medical and health officer (DMHO) said. Health experts see this as a stable trend but urge people to be on guard. “One reason why this particular district is seeing less number of cases could be that the first case (index case) was reported late, on March 31, compared to the first case reported in the state on March 1. The later the index case is reported, the later the number of cases will come down. But we can only say that we are fairly safe when we see a similar trend after the winter season too” said Saswat Kishore Misra, assistant professor, Centre for Healthcare Management, ASCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/signs-of-covid-19-curve-flattening-in-siddipet-dist/articleshow/78609749.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 12, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports higher recovery rate amid spike in deaths||SHIMLA: Amid spike in Covid deaths and positive cases, Himachal Pradesh has reported higher recovery rate. From October 1 to 10, total 62 were been reported in the state. State has recorded recovery rate of 82.70% as of the 17,244 people who tested positive till Saturday, 14,261 have recovered. The occupancy rate of isolation beds is 39.10% as 305 patients are admitted against the total 780 beds. Till October 8, 171 of the 229 deaths reported were due to co-morbidities, five occurred at home, while 23 cases were brought dead to hospital. Also, 105 deaths occurred within 24 hours of reaching hospital, 27 within 48 hours, and 69 later. Dharamshala’s Zonal Hospital, Shimla’s Indira Gandhi Medical College, Tanda’s Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, and Kumarhatti’s MMU Medical College are most crowded with Covid patients. Dharamshala has 76.67% occupancy (69 patients for 90 beds, excluding ICU). The occupancy rate is 17.14% (27/140) for Mandi’s Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College; 42.86% (36/84) for Shimla’s Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital; 60 (16/30) for Kumarhatti, and 10% (5/50) for Bilaspur’s Ghumwarwin civil hospital. The occupancy is 32.61% for (15/46) Chamba’s Dalhousie civil hospital, 10% (5/50) for Hamirpur’s Bhota charitable hospital; 6.25% (1/16) for Kinnaur’s Reckong Peo District Ayurvedic Hospital, 28.57% (10/35) for Kullu’s Tegubehar civil hospital, and 37.50% for the Sarahan civil hospital, which has 12 patients against 32 isolation beds. Solan’s Katha ESI Model Hospital has 19.57% occupancy (9 patients for 46 isolation beds), while the figure is 32.14% (9/28) for Una’s Haroli civil hospital, 64% (32/50) for Tanda medical college, and 72.29% for the Shimla IGMC, which has 60 patients against 83 isolation beds. The district Covid-care centres have 9.89% occupancy, with only 254 patients against 2,567 beds, while 2,062 positive case are in home isolation and 63 in military hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-reports-higher-recovery-rate-amid-spike-in-deaths/articleshow/78609751.cms||Anand Bodh
October 12, 2020||Delhi||First academic session of skill univ starts in ’21||New Delhi: Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University is expected to begin its first academic session from 2021. This was announced after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met the newly appointed vice-chancellor, Neharika Vohra, and other board members on Monday. Vohra was the chairperson of Centre for Innovation Incubation and Entrepreneurship at IIM-Ahmedabad. The board members comprise Pramath Raj Sinha, who started Indian School of Business and Ashoka University, Pramod Bhasin, who started Genpact in 1997, Sanjeev Bikhchandani, founder of naukri.com, Shrikant Sastri, who helped launch various startups and ventures, Prof KK Aggarwal, the former vice-chancellor of IP University, and Prof G Srinivasan, professor of Management Studies at IIT-Madras. “The university has been established through an Act of Delhi legislative assembly. Students will be imparted skills and training to get jobs easily after passing out or pursuing business by getting hands-on training,” said Kejriwal, adding that the only objective and ideology of the university was to ensure employability of students. The CM said that the unemployment rate in the country was very high and his dream was that every youth should be in a job. “There are two types of youths in our country. First, those who do not receive education, and second, who are unemployed even after getting degrees. Our education system is such that it does not prepare students for an employable future,” he added. Stressing on the need of courses being designed in close consultation with the industry, Kejriwal said, “The courses should be designed in a manner that students get jobs based on the curriculum. The university should address the qualitative gap that exists in the skilling sector. This was seen when all industries, businesses, shops and markets shut down during the lockdown and people lost their jobs.” Giving an example of the job portal that was started by Delhi government, the CM said, “When the lockdown opened, I met people who did not have jobs. I also met businessmen who didn’t have people to work for them. This means both are available,but they are not on a common platform.” He added that the university was also guided by the same principle. “On one hand, many youngsters are unemployed and on the other, industries cannot find skilled and trained labour. If we impart skills to students, the industries will give them jobs. New businesses and services can be started in many economic sectors. If we impart business skills to students, they will be able to start their own workplace and employ others too,” said Kejriwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/first-academic-session-of-skill-univ-starts-in-21/articleshow/78628493.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress leaders scout for accommodation in Dubbak||Hyderabad: The Congress is going all out to connect with voters of Dubbak assembly constituency as 140 of its leaders are busy scouting for a suitable accommodation in various parts of the segment going to bypolls on November 3. The aim is to get an accommodation to stay put at night in towns and villages of which they have been made in-charge and campaign for the victory of party candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy. While Congress biggies including TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former MP Ponnam Prabhakar among others have managed to get houses on rent in the towns and villages they have been campaigning in, other party leaders are either staying in lodges in Dubbak town or coming back to Hyderabad for night stay and going back to the constituency next morning. “The effort is to get accommodation for all the 140-plus party leaders in different villages and towns before October 16, the last date for filing of nominations. The plan is that all the leaders will stay put in the area they have been appointed as in-charge of and campaign for the victory of the party candidate. There are 146 villages in the constituency,” said Prabhakar, TPCC working president. Uttam Kumar Reddy, who has already taken a house on rent in Dubbak municipal area, told TOI that the Congress is contesting against two candidates S Sujatha and Raghunandan Rao, who are sponsored by the state and central governments, respectively. “The Congress is going to give the ruling TRS a shock by winning Dubbak bypoll,” he said. The fact that Uttam-led team is going all out to win Dubbak can be seen from the padayatra launched by all the 140-leaders even before the party candidate has filed his nomination. AICC in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore will go to Dubbak and hold a review meeting there regarding the campaigning and work done by 140 leaders deputed by him to win the bypoll. Party leaders have been asked to submit details of voters in every town and village and data on how many votes these respective leaders can get for the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-leaders-scout-for-accommodation-in-dubbak/articleshow/78609768.cms||Roushan Ali
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Two dead as house collapses in rain in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Two women died and five others from the same family sustained serious injuries after an old dilapidated house collapsed in Hussaini Alam in the Old City on Sunday afternoon. Witnesses said that the house in Moosa Bowli collapsed around 12.30 pm during blinding rain. A family member saw a concrete slab falling inside the kitchen and within seconds the entire single-storied building fell like a pack of cards, trapping many under debris of concrete and wood. The two who died were identified as Farah Begum (24) and Anees Begum (18). The rescued were identified as Haji Mohammed khan (54), Parveen Begum (42), Azmath Khan (28), Hussain Khan (2), Master Hussain khan, a four-month-old Infant. GHMC’s disaster response force and fire personnel took an hour to pull out the trapped family members from the rubble and shifted them to nearby hospitals. “Two women were killed in the incident and five others have been injured. They are all being treated in hospital. The building was decades-old,” Ramesh Kotwal, SHO of Hussaini Alam, told TOI. GHMC zonal commissioner Ashok Samrat said refusal to move from old buildings despite being served notices led to the unfortunate incident. “We served notices to everyone and most of the dilapidated buildings have been demolished,’’ Samrat told TOI. AIMIM MLA Mumtaz Ahmed Khan termed the mishap an unexpected tragedy and assured to provide all possible help to the family. “The injured have been shifted to hospitals and GHMC officials were asked to cleared debris from the spot,” Khan told media. The Bhartiya Janata Party Minority Morcha (BJPMM) and Telugu Desam Party’s minority cell (TDPMC) found fault with GHMC and blamed officials for doing little to persuade people to vacate old buildings. They demanded Rs 20 lakh ex gratia each for the two deaths. “A meeting must be held prior to every rainy season. But it didn’t happen and due to their negligence this incident took place,” Mohd Ahmed, TDP GHMC minority vice-president, alleged. They alleged that GHMC south zone officials have completely failed to address public grievances in the Old City areas. A similar incident took place in 2015 at Hussaini Alam when a dilapidated Ashoorkhana collapsed killing a couple, said Mir Firasat Ali Baqri, spokesperson, BJPMM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-dead-as-house-collapses-in-rain/articleshow/78610511.cms||Omar bin Taher
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Waste manegment: 2 councillors to implement Indore model in their wards||LUDHIANA: After learning lessons from Indore, the two councillors, who were part of the delegation that went to there, have decided to implement the system of waste management first of all in their respective wards. The main objective is to impose ban on use of plastic carry bags and source segregation at home. Both councillors have sought support from cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu as for both tasks political support is required. The councillors claimed by next week they will start conducting the meetings with shopkeepers and residents’ welfare associations. The cabinet minister has asked the councillors to submit a detailed plan and he will show that plan in Chandigarh to officials as well. Congress councillors Parvinder Lapran and Pankaj Sharma have decided to implement the system in their wards. First of all the meetings will take place with shopkeepers and vendors for encouraging them to shun the usage of plastic carry bags. The residents will be encouraged to start source segregation at home as well. The councillor from ward number 48, Parvinder Lapran, said, “I want to impose a blanket ban on the use of plastic carry bags in the ward and for that I will personally convince the shopkeepers.” He said he had also planned to distribute two big and one small dust bin for segregation of waste and diapers and sanitary napkins. He claimed that he was also thinking to get dustbins installed at the entry and exit points of streets in the colony so that people should not throw garbage in streets. He said he had asked for political backing from the cabinet minister because these things would bring resentment and protests as well. “By Wednesday, I will be submitting a detailed report regarding our Indore visit to the cabinet minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal for implementation.” Meanwhile, councillor from ward number 74, Pankaj Sharma, said, “If we did not act at this moment then the city will face tough time in solving the garbage issue as heaps of garbage are getting collected at the main garbage dump. In the next week I will organise a meeting of shopkeepers and vegetable vendors from my ward with MC commissioner for discussion regarding ban on plastic carry bags.” He said apart from this, he was thinking to involve A2Z waste management for door-to-door garbage collection from households instead of informal sector, so that source segregation could take place seriously. A delegation of councillors and officials had gone to Indore for learning the techniques being followed up there for solid waste management and now it would be seen whether these councillors would be able to take the challenge or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/waste-mgmt-2-councillors-to-implement-indore-model-in-their-wards/articleshow/78608937.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat's lowest daily tally for state in 47 days||AHMEDABAD: With the addition of 1,181 positive cases in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday, the state’s total tally has crossed 1.51 lakh. It was the state’s lowest daily tally in 47 days as the number went below 1,200 after 45 days — Gujarat had recorded 1,190 cases on August 27. An analysis of the daily cases reveals that the figure is constantly falling. In fact, in a matter of 15 days, the number has gone down from 1,411 to 1,181 — a dive of 230 cases or 16.3%. The state registered nine deaths, taking the total to 3,569. The deaths included four from Ahmedabad, three from Surat, and one each from Rajkot and Vadodara. With the update, the toll for Surat district reached 801 and for Rajkot district, 150. The toll for Ahmedabad and Vadodara were 1,849 and 196 respectively. In all, 1,413 patients were discharged in the 24 hours, taking the total to 1.32 lakh. The discharges include 297 from Surat, 198 from Ahmedabad, 166 from Rajkot, and 83 from Vadodara. The active cases in Gujarat are now 15,717. The shares of active, discharged, and deceased patients of the total cases so far are 10.4%, 87.3%, and 2.3% respectively. Gujarat carried out 51,250 tests in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 50.12 lakh. It was the lowest daily tests in 45 days. In the 11 days of October, the average daily testing has fallen by 10%, reveals the analysis. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 5.92 lakh persons under quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lowest-daily-tally-for-state-in-47-days/articleshow/78608961.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||TSPL’s second unit shut, last runs on half capacity||Patiala: With coal stock in the three operational private thermal plants in Punjab depleting, power crisis has become a distinct possibility. Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) shut down its second unit on late Saturday evening and is running its last unit on half capacity. In all likelihood, it would close all its operations by Sunday evening. GVK power plant, Goindwal Sahib, is operating one of its two units on half capacity. Officials said the plant would shut its operations completely by Sunday late evening due to coal depletion. On Sunday evening, GVK recorded 149 MW power generation out of its total 540 MW installed capacity whereas TSPL generated 321 MW out of its total 1,980 MW capacity. Nabha Power Plant, Rajpura, recorded 665 MW power generation out of its 1,400 MW installed capacity. Punjab witnessed maximum demand of 8,764 MW on Sunday morning, of which 6,400 MW (almost 73%) was met out from outside power sources. PSPCL can draw power only up to 6,500 MW from the northern-grid. Last year at this time, power demand in Punjab was 7,292 MW. On Sunday, PSPCL overdrew power from the northern grid during peak evening hours. Sources said 100 to 130 MW power was overdrawn by the PSPCL from the northern grid after 4pm. On Saturday night, PSPCL overdrew around 113 MW of power between 1am and 2am. Sources said, the frequency dipped below 50 following overdraw but did not cross the dangerous mark where appliances in domestic and commercial sectors can sustain damage. Sources said Punjab is getting around 1,127 lakh units (LU) per day of power from outside sources, including the central pool. Over 360 LU is being supplied by three private power plants in Punjab, which is witnessing around 7,000 MW power demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tspls-second-unit-shut-last-runs-on-half-capacity/articleshow/78609790.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana records second lowest conviction rate in crime against kids: NCRB||LUDHIANA: More than 325 cases of crime against children were recorded in Ludhiana police commissionerate in 2019, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. This has been the second lowest conviction rate of such crimes among the metropolitan cities in the region in the year. Ludhiana also has a pendency of more than 70% of the cases of crime against children in 2019. As per the latest NCRB report that has data for 2019, the conviction rate for Ludhiana metropolitan city was 31.5%, which is the second lowest among the metropolitan cities in the region with Srinagar having such rate at 0. In the region, Amritsar has the highest conviction rate in such crimes at 42.6%. The conviction rate for 34 metropolitan cities is 37.1%. The latest NCRB report of court disposal of crime cases against children in metropolitan cities suggests that Ludhiana had the third highest pendency percentage in the region at 72.2% in 2019, which is more than Chandigarh at 70.2%. Srinagar had the highest pendency percentage of such cases in 2019 at 98%, followed by Amritsar ,which had such percentage at 72.9%. The pendency percentage for 34 metropolitan cities is 80.1%, which means Ludhiana has lower pendency percentage that the average percentage for all such cities. The analysis of various categories of the NCRB report for 2019 suggests that cases pending trial from previous year were 284 at the start of 2019 and the cases sent for trial during 2019 were 169, so the total cases for trial in 2019 were 453. It said that cases in which trial was completed in 2019 were 124 and 126 cases were disposed of by courts. Of the cases disposed of in 2019, 39 cases witnessed conviction, 10 cases were discharged and 75 cases recorded acquittal, whereas two cases were disposed of by courts without trial. The cases pending trial at the end of 2019 were 327. The data of conviction rate for the last few years suggests that there had been a drop in such rate from 37.1% in 2016 to the present percentage in 2019, but in between the rate has been very low, which was just 11.8% in 2017. The pendency percentage in Ludhiana has witnessed a fall from 73% to the present value, but it was lower in 2018 at 71.7%. Some legal experts say that there were multiple reasons for such low conviction rate in Ludhiana. “Even as Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act came in 2012, but it became applicable later. As it takes about five to six years for judgment to come in such cases, so most trials in the cases are going on. Hopefully, the rate will increase in a year or two as verdict in these cases will start coming during this time. In most such cases conviction of the accused does happen as the statement of a child victim is considered supreme,” said senior advocate Rakesh Gandhi. He added that pendency was there as earlier there was just one special court for such cases, which had been increased to two and now there were six such courts. So, hopefully it would decrease in the next one or two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-records-second-lowest-conviction-rate-in-crime-against-kids-ncrb/articleshow/78608963.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 12, 2020||Kochi||Cabinet issued order for rehab of Pettimudy victims||Idukki: The state cabinet has issued an order for the rehabilitation of Pettimudy victims. Last week, collector H Dineshan had sent a proposal to the state cabinet to get a special sanction for allotting title deeds to eight families. The cabinet issued a special order allotting 50 cents of land at Kuttiyarvalley to the families. According to the order, each family will get five cents of land to construction houses. The district administration has already identified 50 cents of land for construction of eight houses at Kuttiyarvalley near Munnar. The title deed will be given in the name of victims. A report submitted by Munnar special tahsildar Binu Joseph led team found that eight families were eligible for rehabilitation process. “The district administration will provide the ownership certificate of the lands to the victims within one week. The KDHP company will begin the construction works soon,” said the sub-collector. “Devikulam tahslildar has already completed the verification process to provide compensation to the immediate kin of the August 6 landslide victims. The tahsildar will submit a report to the collector and then distribute the compensation.” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cabinet-issued-order-for-rehab-of-pettimudy-victims/articleshow/78605744.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS slams BJP over farm laws||Hyderabad: The TRS on Sunday charged BJP of making noise over petty issues in Telangana while maintaining silence against the farm laws brought by the NDA government. TRS MLA Kranthi Kiran lashed out at Raghunandan Rao, BJP candidate for Dubbak by-poll, and other leaders from the saffron party for trying to defend the anti-farmer laws. The two anti-farmer laws would not only rob the farmers of getting minimum support price, but the proposed electricity bill of the central government would make it mandatory for the farmers to install meters to their agricultural connections and pump sets. “TRS government is giving free power to the farmers. BJP should first explain to the farmers why the central government passed the anti-farmer laws despite TRS and other opposition parties opposing it,” Kranti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-slams-bjp-over-farm-laws/articleshow/78609837.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka CM okays 200 invitees for Dasara inauguration, 300 for Jamboo Savari||MYSURU: The health department will release dedicated SoPs to the Mysuru Dasara celebration which will start from October 17. The state government also decided to ensure people will not gather in more numbers at any places even at the time of Jamboo Savari to prevent any Covid-19 outbreak. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister BS Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Sunday. It was also decided to celebrate the festival according to the recommendation of the three-member technical committee. The CM okayed 300 invitees to the Dasara procession and 200 to the inauguration atop Chamundi Hills, as recommended by the committee. The meeting was attended by medical education minister K Sudhakar, chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, additional chief secretary (health) Jawaid Akhtar, health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, tourism department principal secretary TK Anil Kumar and Mysuru DC Rohini Sindhuri Dasari. “The technical committee’s suggestions will be followed. We are celebrating the Dasara in a simple way,” Sudhakar told TOI. According to sources, in the meeting it was decided to ensure all Covid-19 rules are followed strictly. “In one place, not more than 50 people will be allowed to gather. All shall wear masks and maintaining social distance is compulsory,” said a source. Sources said the Covid 19 crisis in Mysuru was also reviewed at the meeting. Box Day long Covid-19 review meeting Medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar will hold day-long Covid-19 review meeting in Mysuru on Monday. “I am visiting Mysuru with health and medical education department officials on Monday morning. I will hold a meeting with doctors from both government and private hospitals. I will visit a few Covid-19 hospitals in a PPE kit. I want to review the situation based on ground realities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cm-okays-200-invitees-for-dasara-inauguration-300-for-jamboo-savari/articleshow/78608953.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Leading Karnal miller arrested in Rs 5.9 crore rice scam||KARNAL: Four years after being booked in a case over non-delivery of custom-milled rice (CMR) worth around Rs 5.9 crore, one of the top rice exporters of Karnal has finally surrendered in the court. The man was also booked earlier this year by the CBI for allegedly cheating a consortium of six banks to the tune of Rs 414 crore. The police said Naresh Kumar, managing director of Ram Dev International Ltd, Karnal—an accused in the 2016 CMR scam—surrendered before the district court on Saturday. He has been sent to seven-day police remand. The Karnal police had registered an FIR in July 2016 on the complaint of Karnal district food and supplies controller (DFSC) against owner-managing director Naresh and director Suresh Kumar of Ram Dev International Ltd and his guarantors on charges of criminal conspiracy, fraud and cheating. As per the policy, the firm was committed to deliver 51,911.35 quintal rice within a stipulated period, but he delivered only 32,295.40 quintal and the remaining 19,615.95 quintal worth nearly Rs 5.9 crore was never delivered despite repeated reminders, after which the complaint was filed. In May this year, the owners of Ram Dev International Rice Mill, Naresh, Suresh and Sangeeta Rani, all residents of Sector 7 of Karnal, had been booked by the Central, Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on a complaint of the State Bank of India of six public sector banks of Rs 414 crore and then fleeing the country. Rajneesh Choudhary, president of Karnal Arhtiyas Association, alleged that the owners of Ram Dev International have also cheated hundreds of local arhtiyas to the tune of Rs 9.54 crore in 2015-2016, as they used to purchase paddy from the farmers for Ram Dev International. Sandeep Kumar, in-charge of the economic offences cell of the Karnal police, confirmed that the accused surrendered before the district court and has been sent to police remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/leading-karnal-miller-arrested-in-rs-5-9cr-rice-scam/articleshow/78609821.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Tutor murder: Girl to testify against kin||New Delhi: The 21-year-old woman whose family members have been arrested for killing 18-year-old Rahul Rajput in north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar has agreed to testify against the killers in court, according to police sources. She has also refused to return home, fearing for her own safety. The police on Saturday moved her to a shelter home at an undisclosed location and provided her with security. When Rajput was being thrashed by a group of men near his house on Wednesday night, the woman, with whom he was in a relationship, was looking on helplessly. In a CCTV footage recovered by the police, the girl is seen standing near Rajput’s house soon after which he steps out and follows her. In another footage, she can be seen with Rajput as the accused escort him to another lane. The FIR lodged by the police in the case confirms that the Rajput was in a relationship with the girl and her family had objected to it. She belongs to a different community. According to the FIR, Rajput’s family had got to know about their relationship just two months back. “He was pursuing his BA second year from School of Open Learning. Around two months back, we got to know that he was in love with a girl who stayed at Jahangirpuri. The girl’s family was angry with Rajput and did not want her to meet him. We were worried for his safety,” Rajput’s uncle, Dharampal, has been quoted as saying in the FIR. It was Dharampal who was first informed by a friend of Rajput that some boys were beating him up. “I quickly reached the spot where I saw some boys from the girl’s family were thrashing him. He was lying on the road. I managed to catch hold of one of them and asked what the issue was. They said they wanted to teach him a lesson for speaking to their sister. I told them to let him go and took him to a clinic,” Dharampal said in the FIR. Rajput’s father, Sanjay, who drives private taxis for a living, was quite distraught at his house in Moolchand Colony. He said he was not at home when the incident happened and he had been informed about it by Rajput’s cousins. “When he was brought home from the clinic, he did not tell us that he had been beaten up badly or even what had exactly happened. We thought it was some fight and he had been slapped a bit. He was lying down. Later at night, his condition deteriorated and he was taken to the hospital where he passed away. I want all those involved in the incident to be behind bars and I hope they never come out as this could happen to any other child,” said Sanjay. According to the post-mortem report, he died of a ruptured spleen. This was because of the kicks and blows that rained on him. Rajput’s family members have one regret. They said when he was being beaten up, a crowd had gathered, but instead of helping him, they were just recording videos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tutor-murder-girl-to-testify-against-kin/articleshow/78603236.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana leads CPs in number of burglaries in 2019: NCRB||LUDHIANA: Raising doubts over the fear of police among burglars in Ludhiana commissionerate of police (CP), the latest National Records Bureau Report (NCRB) report of 2019 suggests that more than 19% of burglaries happen in Ludhiana CP during day time. The data further suggests that Ludhiana CP had the highest number of burglaries as compared to various other CPs of the state. As per the latest NCRB data, Ludhiana CP had 59 cases of day-time burglaries among the total burglary cases of 309 in 2019, which comes to be around 19.09% of the total number of such cases. 250 of the total number of such cases in 2019 were of night-time burglary. The latest NCRB report suggests that when it comes to burglary cases in 2019, Ludhiana CP tops the list, whereas Amritsar CP is at number two spot with 245 such cases and chief minister’s Patiala district is at number three spot with 229 such cases. Pathankot had the lowest number of such cases in 2019 at 41. The comparison of burglary cases in the last few years suggests that there has been a rise and fall in the number of such cases in Ludhiana since 2017. While the number of such cases in Ludhiana CP was 314 in 2017, it increased to 354 in 2018 but decreased to a three-year lowest at 309 cases in 2019. The data further indicates that the percentage of day-time burglary cases as compared to the total cases has also witnessed a rise and fall. Whereas it was 17.83% in 2017, it dropped to 15.53% in 2018 but increased to 19.09% in 2019. Even as the burglary cases are the highest in Ludhiana CP for the last many years, Ludhiana police claims that it has solved most of such cases. Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Aggarwal said that they had been able to detect around 90% of such cases. He added that more number of such cases in Ludhiana as compared to other areas of the state was because of the bigger size of Ludhiana CP, more migratory population and careless attitude of the people that makes the job of the police difficult. A police officer asking not to be named said that in a sizeable number of such cases, servants, whose credentials are not shared by their employers with the police, are involved. Many residents said that besides role of citizens, the police had an important role to play in such crimes. “I believe that there is a need for more aggressive patrolling by the cops, especially the PCR cops, to build a sense of fear among the thieves. Besides people also need to be alert to such crimes and should play more active part in helping the police,” said Narinder Singh, a resident of Pakhowal road .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-leads-cps-in-number-of-burglaries-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/78608952.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Bhupinder Singh Hooda slams government for chaos in grain markets||KURUKSHETRA: Haryana leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda visited the grain markets at Shahabad and Pipli in Kurukshetra district on Sunday. He alleged that the state government has failed to streamline paddy procurement and the farmers and arhtiyas have not received any payments which should have been made within 72 hours. Hooda also alleged that the farmers are being harassed at the mandi. He lashed out at the government for chaos in mandis as he said there are no purchases, no MSP (minimum support price) for farmers, no gunny bags to pack whatever crops arrive, no gate passes, no lifting and no payment to farmers, who sell their crops. Hooda said it looks as if the government has made up its mind to harass not only the farmers but all those who are involved in agricultural sector. “It seems as if farmers are being intentionally harassed because they are lining up to sell paddy but even the official portal is not functioning two weeks after the process was started. The government is taking days to repair a problem that should have taken a few seconds,” he added. Hooda said while the farmers are desperate to sell their paddy and start planning for the next crop, the government has been able to purchase barely 5% to 10% of the crops that has arrived in the markets. “This has led to a situation where the farmer is selling his crop to private agencies at whatever price they are offering,” he added. According to him, the private agencies are buying paddy at Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per quintal, way below MSP while maize farmers are being forced to sell at Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 per quintal. Hooda said millet and cotton farmers are also facing a similar fate. “The farmers have not been paid yet for the procured paddy since October 25. The government should buy paddy, millet, maize and cotton as soon as possible. The government should also compensate farmers who have sold their crops under compulsion at a low rate,” Hooda demanded. Hooda also said BJP leaders cannot make up their mind whether to stand with the farmers or with the government. “On one hand the BJP MLAs are protesting against the chaos at the mandis, on the other, they are rallying in Gohana and claiming that everything is all right. If BJP leaders want to see ground reality, they should go to the mandis and talk to the farmers,” Hooda added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooda-slams-govt-for-chaos-in-grain-mkts/articleshow/78609841.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Stormwater drains in Sec’bad to get a facelift||Secunderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials are gearing up to give a facelift to three-kilometre length of stormwater drains in Secunderabad, Begumpet, Musheerabad, Malkajgiri and Amberpet. The municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department had sanctioned Rs 19.18 crore last month for the project. Works are likely to commence in a month’s time. Even though the civic body used to take up desilting work ahead of the monsoon, residents were troubled by the foul smell from the drains, which also pose a danger to the residents as they do not have safety grills. “A detailed survey was done in Secunderabad zone and we have identified a three km length of stormwater drain (width up to two metres) for the works. We will build box type models and cover up the open stormwater drains in Secunderabad jurisdiction,” S Anil Raj, superintending engineer, GHMC, told TOI. Apart from this, a mesh will be put up as barrier on open drains for the safety of residents. The civic body has taken up works to build the retaining walls along with stormwater drains, he said. The official also said that the open drains have turned into dumping yards because residents throw waste material into them as most of the nalas do not have iron mesh facilities. Hence, the nalas overflow during the rainy season. Recollecting an incident where a girl died after she fell into an open nala in Malkajgiri, the civic body official said that Malkajgiri GHMC circle does not have a proper drainage system. “New residential colonies have come up on the old drainage system, which was laid three decades ago. There is a need to revamp the entire drainage system in this circle,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stormwater-drains-in-secbad-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/78609842.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||IPL betting racket busted, 14 held||Hyderabad: Cyberabad Special Operations Team (SOT), along with Rajasthan ATS police, has carried out a joint operation in the city and apprehended 14 bookies here and in Rajasthan, running interstate Indian Premier League (IPL) betting racket worth crores. The arrests were made in the course of past few weeks after interrogation of the leads. The police teams organised simultaneous raids in Gachibowli here, and Jaipur and other places in Rajasthan on Sunday night. The teams arrested 14 people, including seven from a flat in Gachibowli. Sources in the city police revealed that they managed to apprehend several bookies, including Ganesh, Ashok, Surender, Shanti Lal, Manoj, Beratam and Pankaj, indulging in multi-crore IPL betting. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ipl-betting-racket-busted-14-held/articleshow/78609859.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to raise another Rs 1,500 crore through bonds||HYDERABAD: Telangana is set for another round of market borrowings. The state will raise Rs 1,500 crore via bonds on Tuesday. The repayment tenure of these bonds will be for 30 years. So far, the state had borrowed 29% more from the market to tide over Covid- 19-induced financial crisis compared to the same period last year (2019-20 financial year). Till September 28, the state had borrowed Rs 22, 961 crore. Till September 30, last year it had borrowed Rs 17,800 crore. Apart from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Odisha too had borrowed more this year compared to the last fiscal. The hike in borrowing percentage of Telangana, however, was less compared to other states. Finance experts say that borrowing was necessary for states. “But, this must be in a controlled manner and borrowed funds should be spent in a way that they push market demand and increase consumption,” University of Hyderabad assistant professor (School of Economics) Ch Krishna Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-to-raise-another-rs-1500-crore-through-bonds/articleshow/78609857.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 12, 2020||Aurangabad||In Aurangabad village school, students greet you with a ‘Konnichiwa’||Aurangabad: This Aurangabad village school’s tryst with the Japanese language began after some of its students took up studying robotics under the innovative learning programme of the Maharashtra government. Today, around 100 students from Class 4 to 8 in the school are learning the language and some of them are set to start online training for students from seven other village schools in Aurangabad district. The school run by the zilla parishad (ZP) in Gadiwat, a modest village surrounded by hills, is located around 25km from Aurangabad and has 2,000 inhabitants living in four hamlets. The school has 372 children studying up to Class 8. Their parents are mostly marginal farmers and farm labourers, who cannot help chuckling when the students wish each other with a “konnichiwa” (Japanese for hello). Last year, the school decided to get affiliation from the Maharashtra International Education Board, which has since been disbanded by the present state government. For the affiliation, the school needed to take up a foreign language. Japanese was the first choice since the students studying robotics knew Japan as a leader in technology. Dadasaheb Navpute, a secondary teacher of the school, said, “To begin with, the students started learning the language through mobile-based applications, but they were done with the available content on the apps within a month.” The students then started using Google translator but were slightly confused with the multiple answers given to their queries. When Aurangabad-based Japanese language tutor Sunil Jogdeo heard about the school, he started free online classes for the students since July 5 this year. He conducts 90-minute online sessions every day through Google Meet, which has seen the students vastly improve their language skills. Recently, Pune’s Dr Prashant Pardeshi, a professor with Tokyo University, learnt about the students through social media and sent them dictionaries, workbooks and Japanese literature along with their translation in Marathi. As not all parents in the village have smartphones, the ZP teachers have formed groups among the students so that the ones with smartphones attend online classes and impart the learning to other students in their group. ZP education extension officer Ramesh Thakur said the students will soon start teaching the language online to the students of seven other village schools in Aurangabad district — Garkheda near Chitepimpalgaon, Kachner, Khodegaon, Garegaon Pimpri, Bemdawadi, Sanjkheda and Adegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/in-aurangabad-village-school-students-greet-you-with-a-konnichiwa/articleshow/78608020.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers’ stir: Northern Railway to resume certain train from Ambala||LUDHIANA: In an attempt to check the financial losses being faced by Northern Railway after cancellation of all premium as well certain other passenger trains on the major Amritsar-New Delhi railway route for the past 17 days following farmers’ agitation against the three farmer laws, the authorities concerned have decided to resume the service of several premium trains, including the Garib Rath Express, Jan-Shatabdi Express, Shaheed Express train, from Ambala railway station for giving more options to local passengers who had visited the reservation counters for getting back their refunds against cancelled train tickets. The Northern Railway authorities have taken development action to counter the issues being faced by frequent passengers who are facing difficulties in reaching their hometowns ahead of the festival season. Local officials at the city railway stations are also fed up with daily queries of frequent passengers who are waiting for restart of all passengers train services because road transportation is costlier than railways and it will take a lot of time to help them reach their destinations. On the other hand, private contractors working in maintenance and cleanliness department have started to reduce the number of workers on the station premises with each passing day by stating that they were in a worst phase of their life and couldn’t bear the expenses of all employees working on maintaining cleanliness of tracks and bathrooms. They added that these were not being used for the past several days after the disruption of the railway traffic. Meanwhile, the railway authorities have made it clear that every worker of cleanliness unit will get proper salaries from contractors, whosoever hired them for maintaining cleanliness of railway station as there is no provision to deduct salaries. Speaking on this, Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “With a view to giving options to local passengers who are eagerly wanted to reach their hometown on trains, Northern Railway has started the service of several premium as well passengers train from Ambala railway station as several passengers got struck in the city after the cancellation of some long-route train for the past 17 days.” He further said, “Local officials of the commercial department are also making regular passengers aware about the recent development of the Northern Railway with a view to keeping a check on daily losses. The railway authorities are sharing detailed information about the latest resumption of trains from Ambala station with all passengers, so that they can be made aware about the process to catch their hometown trains ahead of the festival season because road transportation is costlier and every one cannot bear such expenses.” “Apart from that, local railway authorities have refunded more than Rs 7 lakh to local passengers who had booked their ticket on various passenger trains as well as premium trains ahead of the festival season,” the station director further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-stir-northern-railway-to-resume-certain-train-from-ambala/articleshow/78608974.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Delhi Public School East parents to meet today||AHMEDABAD: The parents of DPS East students will hold a meeting in DPS Bopal to pressurize management to admit their wards in DPS Bopal. The parents who are meeting on Monday have also decided that if the management fails to give a satisfactory reply they will lodge a complaint of cheating against trustee Manjula Pooja Shroff and Hiten Vasant. Parents said they will also meet the government and evaluate the state’s proposal. Since the CBSE had cancelled the school’s recognition it was functioning as a Gujarat Board school. The parents said that they do not want the children to be shifted to any other school but the DPS management should take care of these students and should increase their class strength by 15 students. DPS East has 450 students studying from Class 1 to VIII. The directorate of primary education, Gujarat government, has slapped a fine of Rs 50 lakh on the Delhi Public School (East) and ordered to shut down the controversy-ridden school after the end of current academic year. The school was functioning irregularly, without proper no-objection certificate from the state government between the year 2008 to 2011, according to an order issued by DPE on October 9. The school run by Manjula Pooja Shroff, one of the trustees, had in 2011 submitted a proposal for opening a new school at the same location, according to the order. Parents claimed that they will submit a memorandum of their demands to the management of DPS and will seek their reply. “If the management fails to give a satisfactory reply we would also lodge complaints of cheating in the high court against the trustees,” said a parent. The parents will also meet education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and demand a permanent solution in the interest of the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dps-east-parents-to-meet-today/articleshow/78608990.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mysuru||Forum to hold Mahisha Dasara on Thursday||MYSURU: Members of Mahisha Dasara Celebration Committee along with various Dalit associations have decided to celebrate Mahisha Dasara on October 15 at Ashokpuram Park in the city, said former mayor Purushottam here on Sunday. He said the committee had sought permission from the deputy commissioner and city police commissioner to hold the celebration. "Whether the government authorities give permission or not, the committee members are firm on celebrating the event,” he stated. “The committee had been celebrating Mahisha Dasara for seven years. It will be a low-key affair this year in the wake of the pandemic while adhering to all social distancing norms and standard operating procedures issued by the government,” he said. “From next year, the committee members have decided to hold the event after taking permission from court,” Purushottam said. Celebration committee member and rationalist Prof KS Bhagavan said that Mahisha was a Dalit king but he was wrongly portrayed as a demon in Hindu mythology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forum-to-hold-mahisha-dasara-on-thursday/articleshow/78608987.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolhapur||KMT staffers threaten to go on strike||KOLHAPUR: Staffers of the Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) have threatened to go on a strike from October 21 if their salary dues are not paid. The KMT administration is planning to roll out transport services to its full capacity before Diwali. Currently, around 50 buses of 120 fleet are running along some major routes. Since March, bus service has been stopped owing to the lockdown. The bus service resumed a couple of months ago but only for a few routes. Nishikant Sarnaik, president of KMT workers union, said, “Since March, we are being underpaid. Our salaries are cut by 25%. We expect the management to clear all our dues along with full salary before Diwali. We are planning to go on a strike if no decision is taken by the administration before October 21.” The KMT staffers have met higher civic authorities to put forth their demand. The civic administration requires around Rs 2 crore to pay the pending dues as well as November salary of workers. The authorities claim that they will have to seek permission of the general body to make the payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmt-staffers-threaten-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/78608032.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Bareilly||Excise officials on alert as UP bypolls, Bihar assembly polls draw near||Pilibhit: Additional chief secretary (excise) Sanjay R Bhoosreddy has put excise personnel in the state on alert to keep vigil for illegal trading, smuggling and price gouging of liquor in the state, especially in districts bordering Bihar, and ordered special drives against distillation of illicit liquor, in view of the forthcoming by-elections in some assembly seats of UP and Vidhan Sabha elections in neighbouring Bihar. According to Bhoosreddy, strategies have been chalked out to drastically curb illegal trading and smuggling of liquor from Punjab and Haryana into UP and Bihar. Excise staff and UP Police will jointly man posts at the UP-Bihar border to keep the activities of smugglers on watch. In addition, orders have been issued to regularly monitor all wine shops in the border districts, he said. UP excise commissioner P Guruprasad said the department received record revenue of Rs 2,140.61 crore in September this year, which exceeded the revenue of September 2019 by Rs 329.65 crore, and claimed it was possible because of a concerted and synchronised operation by excise teams. In September, excise teams across the state registered 28,205 cases against defaulters, arrested 2,876 accused and sent them to jail, impounded 328 vehicles used in illegal trading and smuggling of liquor, and recovered 8.1 LAKH? litre of illegal liquor at various destinations, he said. He added that in a joint operation by excise and police in Lucknow, 15,600 liters of illegal spirit and 5,486 liters of liquor was recovered on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/excise-officials-on-alert-as-up-bypolls-bihar-assembly-polls-draw-near/articleshow/78605784.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Virtual event held to mark girl child day||Hyderabad: A virtual event ‘My voice-Our Equal Future’ was organised by Youngistaan Foundation in partnership with Telangana police, women safety wing, and Telangana State Innovation Cell on Sunday to mark the International Day of Girl Child. The event saw participation of 20 girls from orphanages, government schools and NGOs in the state. “We aimed at re-imagining the development of the girl child,” said Arun Daniel Yellamaty, founder, Youngistaan Foundation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virtual-event-held-to-mark-girl-child-day/articleshow/78609863.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress promises to stand by Dalits, provide assistance||Hyderabad: Congress on Sunday promised Dalits that it would stand by them, provide legal and financial assistance to fight against the atrocities being perpetrated against them in Telangana. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy spoke to the family members of Narasimha, a farmer from Gajwel who committed suicide after the state government allegedly acquired his land, while CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka expressed solidarity with the farmers whose land was being acquired by the state for pharma city project. Stating that Telangana has turned worse than UP in terms of atrocities against Dalits, Uttam said the Congress would not rest until all victims’ families get justice. “Congress will help Dalits by providing them legal assistance, besides extending help in education, jobs and financial aid,” he added. Eight Dalit families, whose family member or the family itself were allegedly subjected to atrocities including attempt to rape, murder, abetment to suicide, and land grab, shared their pain with AICC secretary SA Sampath Kumar, TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi, TPCC SC cell chairman Preetam and Uttam. The Congress leaders distributed Rs 50,000 each to the families on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-promises-to-stand-by-dalits-provide-assistance/articleshow/78609861.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Kudla demands revocation of ban on pilivesha||MANGALURU: Expressing their dissatisfaction over the ban imposed on pilivesha in the wake of the pandemic, fans of the traditional tiger dance form have urged the district administration to lift the ban and allow the performance during Dasara festivities. Mangaladevi Dasara Shobhayatre Samiti has appealed to the the district administration that pilivesha should be allowed during the festival as a ‘seve’. Committee president Dilraj Alva said festival committees of Sri Mangaladevi Temple and Sri Mariyamma Temple have held a meeting and resolved to demand the district administration for revocation of ban on pilivesha. “We have urged the district administration to allow pilivesha during the rathayatra processions of Mangaladevi Temple and Mariyamma Temple. Various pilivesha teams also have demanded that they should be allowed to take part in the festival. We have submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner and requested that at least 10 artists from different teams may be allowed to present dance during temple rituals. A meeting of the Dharmika Parishat scheduled to be chaired by the deputy commissioner on October 13 will discuss the issue,” Alva said. He added that pilivesha this year should be strictly limited to be part of religious rituals and it will not be part of cultural and profitable activities. Advocate Dinakar Shetty said the pilivesha is not limited to mere entertainment, but it is more of a tradition attached to the worship of goddess. “Pilivesha seve should be allowed since it is part of religious tradition in Tulunadu during Navaratri. Do not limit pilivesha to entertainment. It is an integral part of Tulunadu’s culture and part of Goddess Devi’s worship. Protecting this tradition is a responsibility of all people in this region,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kudla-demands-revocation-of-ban-on-pilivesha/articleshow/78609006.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Environmentalists worried about impact of Shradi Tunnel on Western Ghats||MANGALURU: Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang, Himachal Pradesh, a debate on the need for the proposed tunnel through Shiradi Ghat road, connecting the state’s capital with the coast, has emerged. This even as green activists in Kerala are opposing the proposed tunnel along the Kozhikode-Wayanad road, stating that the project will have an adverse ecological impact in one of the most ecologically fragile areas of the Western Ghats, that is susceptible to landslides. “Do we need a 23.5 km-long-tunnel-cum-bridge via Sakleshpur to connect Bengaluru and Mangaluru?” questioned Dinesh Holla, convenor, Sahyadri Sanchaya, which is fighting for the preservation of the Western Ghats. During the last decade, governments have been destroying the Western Ghats in instalments, he said. On the Shiradi Ghat road, he said that there is already a railway track and a road, and that the government has implemented the Yettinahole project. “Can the government guarantee in its detailed project report for the tunnel project, that there will be no damage to the dams built as part of the Yettinahole project, during the construction of the tunnel. Will the government ensure that no further damage is caused to the environment. The Yettinahole project is already causing landslides in the ghat section, and building a tunnel next to the dam, when the project is near completion, may only increase chances of more landslides,” he said. “Despite being witness to climate change in recent years, nobody is looking at the long-term impact of various projects such as the Shishila-Byrapura road, Hubballi-Ankola railway line and ropeway at Kodachadri among others,” Holla added. Sandeep Anirudhan, founder, Aikyam Community for Sustainable Living, said the proposed tunnel needs to be looked at from a holistic perspective. It should be first subjected to an environmental impact assessment (EIA) and a social impact assessment. At a time when work from home is the new normal and technology has replaced travel among cities, we need to look at new models of development, and not follow the outdated models of blindly building infrastructure. The real need for the project must be assessed, rather than implementing the project only to cater to the demands of contractor lobbies. For example, the DPR for the Hubbali-Ankola railway line was based on the requirement of the mining industry, which does not exist any more, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/environmentalists-worried-about-impact-of-shradi-tunnel-on-western-ghats/articleshow/78610218.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Man held for cheating woman||Hyderabad: A 24-year-old car driver was arrested by Malkajgiri police on Sunday for cheating a woman on the pretext of marriage. The accused, Sunny Chukka, a resident of Kothagudem district, met the victim on social media and the duo have been in a relationship for the past two years. During their relationship, he approached her family for marriage and allegedly met the victim on several occasions. Recently, when the victim asked him to get married, he refused and blocked all contact with her. The accused was booked for cheating and sent to judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-cheating-woman/articleshow/78609869.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Barbie doll modelled after para-badminton champ Manasi Joshi||AHMEDABAD: World para-badminton champion Manasi Joshi has a Barbie doll modelled after her. On the occasion of international day of girl child on Sunday, Joshi joined the select club of women – Barbie Sheroes — who have had Barbie dolls modelled to their likeness. Manasi Joshi is only the second Indian woman — and the first para-athlete – to have a Barbie doll modelled after her. The only other Indian to have received this laurel is gymnast Dipa Karmakar in 2019. Joshi has received the one-of-a-kind (OOAK) Barbie doll modelled to her likeness. “It is an immense honour to be felicitated by Barbie and having a doll modelled after me. Recognitions like these will help me change perceptions among people about disability,” Manasi Joshi told TOI. Commenting on Barbie’s tagline – “You can be anything”, Manasi said, “Yes, it does apply to me to a large extent. This is about converting situations into those of advantage.” Sports was part of Joshi’s schedule before she met with a road accident in 2011. Her left leg had to be amputated because of the accident. Eight years down the line, in August 2019, Joshi was crowned the para badminton champion at the world championships in Basel, Switzerland. “The doll looks exactly like me, complete with the ponytail. It is beautiful, complete with the prosthesis and it can even hold a badminton racquet. It is a one-of-a-kind- which I will cherish and keep for myself,” an elated Manasi said. Lokesh Kataria, head, marketing and franchise, Mattel Toys India (Pvt) Ltd, said, “We believe that every girl should have the power to conquer her dreams and these role models are the perfect inspiration to help them believe in themselves. Imagining she can be anything is just the beginning. Actually, seeing that she can, makes all the difference.” Manasi Joshi joins the likes of Frida Kahlo (fine artist), Naomi Osaka (tennis player), Patty Jenkins (filmmaker), Nicola Adams Obe (boxing champion), Ibtihaj Muhammad (fencing champion), Bindi Irwin (conservationist) Madison De Rozario (Wheelchair Racing champion) and Sumeyye Boyaci (Para-Swimming Champion) among many others, who have had Barbie dolls modelled to their likeness in recognition of their achievements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/barbie-doll-modelled-after-para-badminton-champ-manasi-joshi/articleshow/78609033.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Eye surgeon booked for negligence||Hyderabad: A doctor of a private hospital has been booked for negligence based on the complaints by two senior citizens who suffered eye sight complications after cataract surgeries. On October 6, K Kalavathi, 65, a housewife from Domalguda lodged a complaint with Panjagutta police alleging that a doctor had advised her to undergo a cataract surgery. But after a few days of the operation, she experienced pain and lost some eye sight. Citing infection, the hospital referred her to another branch where she underwent a surgery again. Following this, she lost her sight. On the same day, a similar complaint was received from D Padma, 72, resident of Gandhi Nagar, who also underwent a cataract surgery. The police has lodged complaint against the doctor. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eye-surgeon-booked-for-negligence/articleshow/78609872.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist has most active cases in region||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district reported 109 fresh Covid cases and nine fatalities on Sunday. The total number of cases in the district has now climbed to 46,808. Of them, 40,771 patients have been cured, 1,550 have succumbed and 4,487 are currently undergoing treatment. On Sunday, 995 patients were discharged. The Kolhapur city reported 28 Covid cases, the lowest single-day rise in cases in recent months. The total number of cases in the city has now reached 14,172. One of the nine patients who died in the district was from Guruwar Peth in the city. The city has reported 346 deaths so far. Currently, 300 beds out of 1,600 earmarked in private hospitals in the city are vacant. Meanwhile, just 149 out of the 650 beds in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation-run Covid centres are currently occupied. The total number of tests done every day in the Kolhapur district has also come down. In government labs, 405 swabs were tested and in private laboratories 230 swabs were tested, both by RT-PCR method. By antigen rapid testing method, 195 swabs were tested. Sangli gets 277 new cases The Sangli district reported 277 fresh Covid cases and eight deaths on Sunday. The total number of cases in the Sangli district has now reached 41,171. Of them, 35,383 people have been cured, 1,520 have succumbed to the infection and 4,268 are still undergoing treatment. On Sunday, 546 patients were discharged. 10 deaths in rural Solapur The rural parts of the Solapur district reported 205 cases and 10 deaths due to Covid. The total number of cases in the district has risen to 27,803. So far, 763 Covid patients have succumbed to the infection, 22,569 have been discharged and 4,471 are currently undergoing treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-has-most-active-cases-in-region/articleshow/78608069.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Most states not yet ready to unlock schools, to take call after festive season||NEW DELHI: The Union education ministry has paved the way for re-opening of schools from October 15 under Unlock 5.0, but most states are not willing to throw the school gates open yet. While some states are still deliberating on when to open schools, many are waiting for the festival season to get over even as parents in most states are not willing to send their children to school. Hectic consultations are on within various government departments in the states, with many even taking up the issue in their cabinet meetings. Meetings are also on with stakeholders, especially parents. Many states have set up panels to review the situation. Haryana has already opened all government schools and UP and Uttarakhand are ready to open up schools from the third week of October. UP will do so in a phased manner with classes from IX to XII opening from October 19. But attendance will not be compulsory as students will have the option to continue with online classes. In West Bengal, CM Mamata Banerjee has hinted at a likely opening after Diwali. Maharashtra, in a recent cabinet meeting, decided to take a call once Diwali is over. Gujarat will also wait for Diwali. While Odisha and Assam have decided not to open schools till Durga Puja is over and Andhra Pradesh has set a tentative date of November 2, states like Delhi, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Karnataka, Telangana and Tamil Nadu are yet undecided. Many states feel the need to open schools was to ensure students with limited or no internet access don’t get left out. While Assam principal secretary, education, B Kalyan Chakarvarthy felt that “offline classes are must so that students who do not have access to online facilities are not left behind,” director of school education of Chandigarh Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: “Lack of gadgets and internet facilities was the reason behind initiating reopening of schools.” When students get back to school, life would not be the same again with state governments ensuring safety measures through elaborate SOPs. In UP’s capital Lucknow, the district magistrate has asked schools to keep an infirmary ready with two beds, oxygen cylinders and a nurse at hand. Air-conditioners will not be used in classrooms, outdoor games have been barred and no tiffin boxes would be allowed. In MP, all school buses and vans will be sanitised. Most states may not have decided on a date yet, but all agree to following SOPs drawn up by the Centre. All state governments agree on continuing online classes, even after students —whose parents give consent — begin to attend schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/most-states-not-yet-ready-to-unlock-schools-to-take-call-after-festive-season/articleshow/78611083.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Activists oppose plan to terminate train linking Bengaluru at Miraj||Kolhapur: Railway activists and public representatives from Kolhapur are opposing the plan to terminate the Rani Chennamma Express at the Miraj junctionRani Chennamma express runs between Kolhapur and Bengaluru every day and travels 795 km. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, interstate trains are not allowed to operate. Currently, the railways has decided to run Mahalakshmi, Koyna and Maharashtra Express from CSMT Kolhapur.The railways is planning to terminate the train at Miraj junction citing few passengers boarding and de-boarding at the Kolhapur station.Passengers from North Karnataka districts have complained that the train reaches Bengaluru late mainly because it has to cross the additional distance from Miraj junction to Kolhapur.Shivnath Biyani, railway activist from Kolhapur said, “Every day, around 200 passengers travel to Miraj by this train. The number of passengers travelling to south India for tourism and trade from Kolhapur is also significant. “The railway claims that only a few passengers board the train to Bengaluru so they want to terminate it at Miraj. Then the passengers from Kolhapur will have difficulty in travelling to the south,” he addedMany people from south Karnataka works in Kolhapur and the train is beneficial for them, said Biyani, who is also a member of the consultant committee of railways’ Pune division.Kolhapur has been directly connected to Bengaluru by this train for around two decades. Kolhapur MP Sanjay Mandlik has written to the railway ministry to cancel the plan as it will affect the trade and tourism of Kolhapur and Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/activists-oppose-plan-to-terminate-train-linking-bengaluru-at-miraj/articleshow/78608081.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||AP woman undergoes rare cancer surgery after a relapse||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old woman who was suffering from nasopharyngeal carcinoma a relatively rare cancer that occurs in the nasopharynx located behind the nose or above the back of the throat underwent a surgery in the city recently. The woman, Venkata Subbamma, who works as a cook in Kuwait and is a native of Kadapa district, was diagnosed with the cancer two years ago. She underwent biopsy and a few sessions of radiation in Kurnool but before completing the chemotherapy cycle, she had to go back to Kuwait. “The disease would have been completely cured if she had undergone four more chemotherapy sessions. But the cancer reversed as she did not receive proper treatment at the right time. The hot weather, fumes from the oil, smell of spices from the food added to the complications,” said Dr Subrahmanyam, ENT surgeon at KIMS Secunderabad. A team of surgeons led by Dr Subrahmanyam performed the surgery and Subbamma was discharged two days after the procedure. Post-surgery, the woman was referred to palliative radiation and chemotherapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-woman-undergoes-rare-cancer-surgery-after-a-relapse/articleshow/78609884.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain & strong winds lash Kolhapur on Sunday||Kolhapur: Heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds, continued to lash Kolhapur district all afternoon Sunday. The district had recorded 185 mm of rainfall in three hours on Saturday.  The India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai has predicted heavy rain till October 15 mainly due to the cloud belt over the region caused by the low-pressure belt in the Bay of Bengal. By the late afternoon on Sunday, the roads in the city were empty due to the rain. Meanwhile. the agriculture department has asked the revenue circles to assess the damage caused to the kharif crops in the district. Dyandeo Wakure, the district agriculture superintendent said, “There is no damage to soyabean. We have reported the minor damage to paddy crops which are in the harvesting period. Such damages do not cause major revenue losses to the farmers. However, we have advised the farmers to harvest the full-grown crops immediately as more spells of heavy rain is expected in the coming days.” Karveer, Panhala and Gadhinglaj tehsil have received maximum rainfall on Saturday. Kasba Bawda of Kolhapur city received 55m of rain. Most dams in the district are almost 100% filled. Ichalkaranji barrage along Panchganga river has been submerged underwater. If it continues to rain for some more days, then water will be discharged from the dams. Last year, by this time, Kolhapur district reported 1,762 mm of rainfall while this year the district has recorded 1,203 mm rain so far. In Sangli district, the farm activities, especially of the grape cultivation, have stopped. In most of the grape and sugar cane farms, there was waterlogging. For better harvesting and good sugar generation in the canes, the farms need to be dry. The flooding slows the work of root systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-strong-winds-lash-kolhapur-on-sunday/articleshow/78608090.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Congress victory in Baroda is foregone conclusion’||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda claims that Congress party’s victory in Baroda assembly bypoll is a ‘foregone conclusion’. On the chances of BJP-JJP alliance, which got significant votes in October 2019 polls separately, Hooda tells TOI’s Ajay Sura, that two and two is not always four. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar has appealed to the people of Baroda to elect their candidate, one who can execute development, and not from opposition. How do you react to this?Will the chief minister explain why an MLA from the opposition cannot do anything for his constituency? What about his slogan of ‘Haryana Ek, Haryanvi Ek’? It is totally political humbug, to say so. The people cannot be befooled anymore and they have already decided to vote for the Congress. Any party’s victory or loss in the Baroda bypoll will not have an impact on the coalition government. How would you view the victory of the BJP-JJP candidate or of your own party candidate?Congress victory in Baroda bypoll is a forgone conclusion, or an open secret. It will definitely impact the future course of state politics in Haryana. Your own support base is strong in the Jat community, which is mostly involved with agriculture. What measures do you want the Khattar government to introduce for the farmers? Do you have anything in mind, which you would want to implement when voted to power?I am averse to caste politics. I do not view farmers in terms of caste and creed. All farmers have the same problems and similar economic handicaps. The present dispensation is ideologically and temperamentally unconcerned with or distanced from the farmers’ difficulties. Even the farmers do not expect much from this government. The Congress will expose the half-truths or lies of BJP and chase them out of state politics. BJP has been alleging that the current farmers agitation is a Congress sponsored protest and that real farmers have nothing to do with this. Basically, it is farmers’ agitation against the new agriculture laws. The Congress party, as ever, is with the farmers. Actually, it is the BJP government which has nothing to do with the farmers. But they cannot stop us from supporting the agitation launched by farmers. How would byelection in Baroda be different from that of Jind held in 2019?Every election is different, because of change of time, space and the issues involved. Both elections cannot be compared as in Baroda, BJP is going to lose the election. If we add the votes received by BJP and JJP candidates’ separately in October 2019 assembly polls, it indicates victory of alliance candidate. Do you think the BJP-JJP alliance would be disadvantageous to Congress this time?In politics, two and two is not always equal to four. It may vary with the context. In October 2019, the JJP votes were against the BJP. How can you unite opposite poles? How can you add all of them because of the betrayal of a few who have joined hands with the BJP? This is an erroneous and preposterous proposition. Their unholy alliance is inconsequential. Rather, it is advantageous for Congress. Congress is opposing new agriculture sector laws. Do you think the farmers concern regarding MSP is genuine?The new laws aim to benefit capitalists at the cost of farmers. The government, in sheer arrogance, did not bother to talk to farmers to address their apprehensions. MSP, though not remunerative price of the farmers’ produce, has provided them security and stability of income over the last six decades. The government is trying to project these laws as ‘historic’ and ‘reforms’ which will liberate the farmers from the clutches of APMC Act and mandis. Then, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. The timing, the undemocratic way and the unwarranted haste with which these laws have been passed give rise to valid apprehensions in the minds of farmers about the abolition of mandis and the MSP in due course. In 2007, the Congress government in Haryana had framed laws on contract farming, which clearly stipulated that no agreement with the farmers will be below MSP. Election Commission of India has decided to issue postal ballot papers for physically challenged voters and those above 80 years of age for the Baroda bypoll. It appears to be a reasonable measure to facilitate the physically challenged and the aged persons to cast their votes. The EC, however, has to ensure that there are no manipulations and misuse of postal ballet papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-victory-in-baroda-is-foregone-conclusion/articleshow/78609881.cms||Ajay Sura
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||3 missing children reunited with parents||Chandigarh: Haryana police managed to reunite three missing children with their families. A Haryana Police spokesperson said in the first case, Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) succeeded in reuniting a boy who had been missing for the last two years with his family. The 10-year-old child was living in the Jhajjar Children’s Home. Incidentally, the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) had completed the process of his adoption and the adoptive parents wanted to take him to Australia with them. Based on the information provided by the child, the AHTU team located his father in Lakhimpur Kheri near Hardoi. When contact was made with the child’s family, they said the child went missing from Delhi two years ago and there was no clue about his whereabouts. The boy was handed over to his family on October 5 through CWC, Jhajjar. In another case, the AHTU team succeeded in reuniting a mentally retarded child missing for seven months and living in Ashiana, Panchkula. Based on the language being spoken by the child, the Uttar Pradesh Police, Saharanpur was contacted. It was found that the child has been missing from Sheikhpura for the last seven months. The family identified the child on video call and the boy was handed over to the parents. In another case, a child missing for the last 3 days was reunited with his parents. Rajasthan Police received information that a child was found at the railway station and Bahadurgarh Railway Police was contacted. He was traced as the child’s mother came to the police station to register a missing report. Police took orders from Bikaner CWC and handed the child over to the parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-missing-children-reunited-with-parents/articleshow/78609883.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Educational institutes gamble on AI proctors to ensure ‘cheat-free’ online exams||Ahmedabad: As the first semester of the academic year has already gone or set to go online for premier academic institutes in and around Ahmedabad, the major issue the institutions are facing is of evaluation. Several of the institutes have already procured the digital artificial-intelligence (AI)-enabled proctors – roughly translated to invigilator or supervisor – to ensure that the exams conducted online are cheating free and have credence.Majority of the institutes mentioned that they are not going to reduce the syllabus even as the school syllabus is recently slashed at both central and state levels given the nature of virtual learning.Prof S Shanthakumar, director of Gujarat National Law University (GNLU), said that the institute has procured AI-based proctored online examination software for online assessment. “We are not considering any reduction in the syllabus. Doing so will dilute the programme quality and the same will not be in the long-term interest of students,” he said.DAIICT is also one of the institutions to put in place the AI-based proctor system to carry out online tests and examinations. “There will also be one mid-term and an end-semester examination for majority of the courses,” said Soman Nair, executive registrar of the institute.Prof Shailesh Gandhi, dean (programs) at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A), said that the B-school has upgraded technology for online examination and proctoring. Dedicated servers for online exams are also set up. “We will complete the entire coursework by reducing term-breaks and extending the term dates,” he said.Prof Chirayu Bhatt, deputy provost (academics) at CEPT University, said that there is no reduction in the syllabus, but academic calendar is modified for the undergraduate students to ensure minimal impact on learning outcomes. “We have reduced the total credits required for the fieldwork this year. Our rural immersion and MI-Impact programme are online this year,” said Prof Ashutosh Dutt, chair of PGP programme at MICA. “The entire evaluation is online with electronic invigilation.”Prof Kabeer Jasuja, dean (academic affairs) at IIT Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn), said that while no changes are made in curriculum, pedagogy is changed as the lectures are recorded and sent to the students – the virtual discussion on topics follow.“The teaching and learning mechanism was started on time for the ongoing semesters,” said Prof T P Singh, director (academics). “At present, practical sessions are conducted virtually. When the campus opens, the students will be exposed to critical components even from the previous semesters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/educational-institutes-gamble-on-ai-proctors-to-ensure-cheat-free-online-exams/articleshow/78623312.cms||Parth Shastri
October 12, 2020||Nashik||CP requests citizens to follow safety guidelines||Nashik: Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey took to Twitter to appeal to citizens to follow the safety protocols issued by the state government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “In these times of Pandemic, we need to understand that saving human lives is of paramount importance and social distancing, use of mask and personal hygiene are our strong weapons,” said Pandey in the social networking platform. He said that in order to ensure that every citizen followed the rules, he has issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. The police have started taking strict action against those not following social distancing norms, not wearing face masks, crowding near shops and spitting in public places. He also appealed to the political and social organisations not to organise rallies, morchas, etc as social distancing got compromised in such situations. “Police is determined to safeguard the well-being of Nashikites and anti-social elements,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-requests-citizens-to-follow-safety-guidelines/articleshow/78610669.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Truck driver live-streams suicide on FB, sarpanch among 4 booked||Hisar: A 26-year-old truck driver of the Khedar thermal power plant live-streamed his suicide on Facebook on Saturday night in Uklana town in Hisar district. He was upset over not getting his wages for three years from the contractors. The deceased has been identified as Pawan Kumar, a resident of Budha Khera village living in Triveni Vihar Colony in Uklana town. His cousin Chandra Mohan, who registered an FIR, said when he saw the Facebook feed, he came home and stopped him, but Pawan committed suicide late in the night. The family of the deceased and the people of Triveni Vihar Colony blocked the Uklana-Bhuna road for some time on Sunday evening to demand an investigation from higher authorities. Hisar police said Uklana police station has registered a case against Purushottam, a resident of Hansi, Anil, a resident of Balak village, Kuldeep, sarpanch of Balak village and Sunil, resident of Badhavar village under sections 306 (abetmemt to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. In a complaint to the police, Chandra Mohan said his cousin Pawan had been working as a driver for nearly four years at the Khedar thermal power plant, in the company of Purushottam and his partner. The cousin said Pawan told his mother that the accused have not been paying him for three years and harassing him physically and mentally. He said he was also threatened that his owed salary will not be paid at all if he left the job. Chandra Mohan said Pawan was at home for the last one week and was mentally disturbed. Pawan came live on Facebook at around 11pm on Saturday and was trying to hang himself. When Chandra Mohan saw this, he went inside Pawan’s house with his family and brought down Pawan and left only after he went to sleep. Chandra Mohan said on Sunday morning, he saw on Facebook again that Pawan had made a rope by tearing the bedsheet and hung himself on the fan. He was also narrating his ordeal and accused Purushottam, Anil, Kuldeep and Sunil, said Chandra Mohan. Pawan is survived by his wife, two daughters and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/truck-driver-live-streams-suicide-on-fb-sarpanch-among-4-booked/articleshow/78609904.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Bareilly||Govt sets guidelines for sugar mills to prevent electric breakdowns, accidents||Pilibhit: With cane crushing season due to begin on November 1, all sugar mills of the UP Cooperative Sugar Factories Federation and UP State Sugar Corporation have been issued guidelines to prevent electrical problems like breakdowns and accidents that disrupt operations. Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, UP government, said major electrical problems like breakdowns and accidents take place due to the lack of proper earthing system in mills, moisturized conditions around the electrical boards, improper jointing of the cables and lack of pest control measures. “The mills have been instructed to set up earthing system using chemical electrode as per the specifications of Indian Standard (IS) code 3043. They have been asked to tighten all terminal connections of motors and panels to stop sparking and to compulsorily box all electrical compartments and top of the main panel to prevent entry of rats, snakes, lizards or the deposition of ash -- that can cause short circuits,” he said. The mills have been directed to use hot air blowers at frequent intervals to keep the walls of the main electrical panel dry and ensure leak-proof conditions of the steam and the water pipe lines, Bhoosreddy said. Emphasis was also laid on regular monitoring of electric motors’ temperature, their installation and the operational conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/govt-sets-guidelines-for-sugar-mills-to-prevent-electric-breakdowns-accidents/articleshow/78605834.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||NIT Hamirpur director terminated for alleged irregularities||Shimla: The Union ministry of education, department of higher education terminated the services of director of National Institute of Technology (NIT) in Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh with immediate effect, after complaints of irregularities. Professor Vinod Yadava had joined NIT Hamirpur as its director on March 22, 2018 on deputation from Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh (UP) where he was professor in the department of mechanical engineering. In his place professor Lalit Awasthi, d[irector of Dr B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar has been given additional charge of NIT Hamirpur till further orders. Notification issued by the Union ministry of education on Saturday stated that a committee was constituted on July 13 this year to inquire into the state of affairs of the NIT Hamirpur and to hold inquiries in various complaints received against the functioning of the institute. “The report of the said committee, which found that there is certainly prima facie case against the director of the Institute, has been accepted by the competent authority in accordance with the provisions of the NITSER Act, 2007,” it added. Notification said in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 17(1) of the NITSER Act, 2007, the Visitor (President of India), also being the appointing authority, has approved for termination of services of professor Yadava. Issue of alleged irregularities especially in the appointments of teaching staff at NIT Hamirpur was first raised by the Congress MLA from Sujapur Rajender Rana last year. It was Rana who had made a written complaint to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and professor C Shekhar, chairman of board of governors, NIT Hamirpur in July. While speaking to TOI, Rana said on August 8, 2018 contractual appointment of assistant professor was advertised, however, professor Yadava issued the regular appointments to all 31 selected candidates with probation period of one year whereas according to rules, probation period is only to be mentioned in the appointment letter of regular faculty. He said in the mathematics and scientific computing departments, five candidates were appointed of which four belonged to UP and OBC category and out of those four, two belonged to Yadav community. He said in the recruitment process through advertisement for regular position issued on August 23, 2018, many non performers (having almost zero research since last promotion) internal candidates were promoted. Rana said, “FIR should be registered against him for misusing the official position and recoveries should also be made from him for causing financial losses to the institution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nit-hamirpur-director-terminated-for-alleged-irregularities/articleshow/78609906.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s Covid doubling rate rises from 25 to 36 days||Nashik: The rate at which the number of Covid-19 cases is doubling in Nashik city has improved from 25 days about a month ago to 36 days now. With the drop in the number of new patients over the fortnight, the civic body expects the doubling rate to get better.The recovery rate has also increased to 91% and the city currently has 4,177 active patients. The city had only 49 Covid-19 patients till May 19, but the number spiked thereafter due to a relaxation in the lockdown norms. In June, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases in Nashik city was just 7.5 days. By June-end, the city had recorded 2,182 patients and 105 Covid-related fatalities. The recovery rate was 43% and the Covid mortality rate was 4.8%.The doubling rate improved to 13.5 days in July. By June 31, the city had 9,441 cases with 276 Covid deaths. The number of Covid positive patients doubled to 19,083 in the next 21 days by August 21. The city had recorded 28,561 Covid-19 positive cases by September 4, and it took 36 days to double the number of cases to 56,894 cases on October 10.After the spike in cases in June and July, we had increased the tracing of high and low-risk contacts up from 15 to 23 for each positive patient. We increased the tracing of contacts to 35 contacts by September, said NMC officials.“We launched ‘Mission Zero Nashik’ in the second half of July with the help of an NGO and public representatives. We also conducted rapid antigen tests for early detection of cases and timely treatment,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-covid-doubling-rate-rises-from-25-to-36-days/articleshow/78610672.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 12, 2020||Chennai||Bugle sounded for 2021 TN polls: Cadres’ leader vs leader’s son||CHENNAI: On September 28, when the DMK organised protests against the Centre’s farm bills, DMK president M K Stalin, in white shirt and veshti, a green towel around his shoulder with a matching coloured mask was photographed walking in the paddy fields in Keelambi village in Kancheepuram. He chatted with farm workers and struck a pose for the media. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/tn-polls-its-cadres-leader-vs-leaders-son/articleshow/78614252.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bugle-sounded-for-2021-tn-polls-cadres-leader-vs-leaders-son/articleshow/78610990.cms||Jaya Menon
October 12, 2020||Mangaluru||Woman kills 10-month-old daughter, hangs herself in Shaktinagar||MANGALURU: A woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself, after killing her 10-month-old daughter by giving her sleeping pills. Luckily, her 14-year-old son and 60-year-old mother survived, even though they had been drugged. The incident took place near Rajarajeshwari Temple in Shaktinagar on Saturday. The woman is Pramila, 38. She left behind a suicide note which stated that she took the extreme step due to mental illness. According to the police, the victim’s husband, who runs a garage in Kottara, had gone to work on Saturday morning as usual. Around 11am, Pramila gave everyone in the house tea laced with sleeping pills. As a result, they all fell into a deep sleep, during which she hanged herself. Shashikala, the victim’s mother, woke up around 5pm and found that Pramila had ended her life, and that the infant was dead. Shashikala immediately alerted her neighbour, who took her and the victim’s son to a private hospital. A case has been registered in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woman-kills-10-month-old-daughter-hangs-herself/articleshow/78610307.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Govt withdraws DDSSY cover for Covid-19, will revise rates||PANAJI: The state government has cancelled a notification it issued three days go that covered Covid-19 treatment under the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY) as it has decided to revise the rates. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the cancellation came after consulting chief minister Pramod Sawant. “This notification doesn’t make sense and it has to be cancelled.... a fresh notification will be issued in consultation with the CM,” Rane said. On Friday, TOI reported that Sawant said “the government will look into the matter” with regards to the discrepancies in the rates for Covid treatment notified under the DDSSY — the state’s cashless medical cover — and the fees charged by private hospitals for Covid treatment. The notification covered treatment for Covid patients in empanelled private hospitals under DDSSY. The rates fixed were much lower than those capped by the government for Covid treatment in private hospitals. Asked why the government intends to revise the rates under DDSSY for Covid patients in private hospitals, Rane said that the file was moved around seven months ago, and the situation has since changed. “The file was moved somewhere in February, and there has been a drastic change from February till now,” he told TOI. “I took up the matter with the chief minister, and both of us have come to a consensus that this needs to be relooked.” Rane said the file will be resubmitted to the chief minister for further discussion and advice. “This notification has to be cancelled because we have already got prefixed rates... the government has given separate packages for private hospitals, and as far as patients in government setups are concerned, we’re offering full treatment for free,” he said. “Now that we have taken Covid care and treatment to the doorsteps of the people by giving them home isolation kits with medication, we have gone one step ahead of many states in the country,” Rane said. “This notification doesn’t make sense and it has to be cancelled.” Last month, the government had capped the rates private hospitals could charge for Covid treatment. Following a public outcry, the rates were marginally reduced, but the minimum was still more than Rs 10,000 per bed per day in a general ward. Only four private hospitals in the state have reserved some beds for Covid patients. As per the now cancelled notification, for a moderate Covid patient, fees had been fixed at Rs 4,400 per day. while for Covid patients in severe condition, charges were fixed at Rs 6,600 per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-withdraws-ddssy-cover-for-covid-19-will-revise-rates/articleshow/78610674.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Shimla||Himachal to start land-based fish farming using RAS tech||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh will start land-based fish farming using Recirculating Aquaculture Systems (RAS) technology to raise different varieties of fish throughout the year. The initiative forms part of the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) for sustainable development of the fisheries sector in the country. Under the RAS technology, fish is reared in indoor tanks with limited use of water in a controlled environment instead of the traditional method of fish rearing in water reservoirs, open tanks, ponds and rivers. Regular supply of limited quantity of clean water at a controlled temperature is ensured and the dissolved oxygen content is optimum for the growth of fish in a closed and contained system. The method is ideal for fish farming during summers when there is shortage of water in the state. The state plans to set up 15 RAS tech-based fish ponds in the next five years starting 2020-21. Out of the total 15, five normal water fish farms will be set up in Una, Mandi, Kangra (Palampur and Pong dam) and Sirmaur districts and 10 cold water fisheries in Kinnaur, Sirmaur, Shimla, Mandi, Chamba and Kullu districts. The government will send the first batch of fish farmers to the National Fisheries Development Board, Hyderabad for training in the latest aquaculture techniques for cold water fisheries. It is estimated that 40 tonne per unit per annum fish production will be achieved in normal RAS units, while in cold water RAS units, 4 tonne and 10 tonne production is expected from the units of two different capacities. This will help meet the growing demand of trout fish in metropolitan cities, generate additional employment and boost economic activities in the state. Fisheries minister Virender Kanwar said when all the 15 RAS technology fish farms are operationalised, approximately 270 tonne fish would be produced annually in the state. He said Rainbow Trout variety would be reared in cold water farms, while in normal water Pangasius, Tilapia and Common Carp would be reared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-to-start-land-based-fish-farming-using-ras-tech/articleshow/78609908.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||‘Stay strong and be prepared to face whatever it takes’||My delivery date was September 14. But due to some complications, on August 26, my gynaecologist advised me for C-section within 2-3 days and to get the Covid-19 test done as early as possible. Unfortunately, my Covid-19 test was positive. In a single day, we did three antigen tests from three different labs as per my gynaecologist’s advice. At the end of the day, we had two positive and one negative test result. We waited for the RT-PCR result, which was also positive. We started to search for private hospitals which were operating Covid-19 positive pregnancies, as we didn’t want to take any further risks with government hospitals as I was asymptomatic. Finally, we found a private hospital where I was the first Covid-19 positive patient who would be undergoing C-section. Now, there was a whole new team of doctors, who were unaware of what all complications could happen with a Covid-19 patient during surgery, and I really had no clue how it will work. I was just praying to god for my baby’s safety. I gave birth to a baby boy on August 29. It was the most precious moment we both had waited for and everything just went for a toss. I was the one who called Saurabh (my husband) and my mother-in-law just after shifting to the Covid-19 ward in semi-conscious state, that it’s a baby boy. The hospital staff didn’t even bother to inform my family members. My son was kept in NICU under observation. By god’s grace, he tested negative. I was kept in Covid-19 ward. The hospital was terribly understaffed with worst management. And I was all alone, lying helplessly after the delivery with no family members around. Those were the most difficult days as I had to manage everything on my own with the stitches. I hadn’t even seen my baby for 4 days. It was the most difficult time for all of us, especially Saurabh, as he couldn’t meet or see both of us; me and our baby. He would spend the whole day just sitting in the waiting area. We were both discharged on the 5th day. I was home quarantined for 10 more days. I could only see my baby from a distance. To all the would-be mothers out there, in this difficult time we all are taking necessary precautions, but considering the worst, stay strong and be prepared to face whatever it takes. Motherhood is a pure blessing and it gives all the strength to you. I feel really fortunate to have such a wonderful family who stood strong by my side and gave me courage to face everything.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stay-strong-and-be-prepared-to-face-whatever-it-takes/articleshow/78609919.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Calangute panchayat gets Rs 28L to tackle ‘aggressive’ stray dogs||Calangute: The state government has sanctioned Rs 28 lakh to the Calangute panchayat, via the animal husbandry department, to tackle its stray dog menace, minister for waste management and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo said. The panchayat has roped in a Calangute-based NGO, Noah’s Animal Shelter, which will sterilise around 250 dogs a month, he said. “Earlier we had tied up with the Gomantak Goshala in Mayem to tackle the problem of stray cattle. People love stray dogs. Foreign tourists even adopt stray dogs on the beach and give money to shack owners to feed them, due to which the number of dogs is increasing,” he said. Agostinho Proenca, head of the animal shelter, said they aim to sterilise 2,500 dogs in six months with the sanctioned money. Lobo further said that similar financial assistance would be provided to Candolim, Arpora-Nagoa and Parra panchayats to tackle the strays in their villages It may be recalled that following the Covid-19 lockdown, locals in the Calangute-Candolim belt had begun complaining that stray dogs in the area are turning aggressive. With the lockdown bringing tourism to a standstill, food was hard to come by for these strays, thus adversely affecting their behavior. According to the Calangute panchayat, a government census of the stray dogs in the area has estimated that there are around 3,000 of them in the tourism hub. “They turn aggressive when they don’t get food, and even attack people,” one pancha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-panchayat-gets-rs-28l-to-tackle-aggressive-stray-dogs/articleshow/78610683.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nashik||56 PG interns sought for civic hosps||Nashik: Reeling under scarcity of physicians to treat Covid-19 patients, the civic administration has written to the state government to provide post-graduate medical students, who have passed out, to civic hospitals in the city for a one-year internship. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sent a letter to the state government after the latter decided to make internships mandatory for pass out students for a year in government and civic hospitals across the state. Of the 103 posts of medical officers approved by the state for Nashik city, only 47 posts are occupied. Moreover, there are no MD doctors with the NMC. “We have 56 vacant posts of medical officers where we want MD and MBBS doctors. Although these are the government approved posts in the civic body, recruitment drives did not take place for the many years due to technical reasons,” an NMC official said. The PG students will be replaced by a fesh batch of pass outs once their one-year intership is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/56-pg-interns-sought-for-civic-hosps/articleshow/78610677.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 12, 2020||Goa||GMC’s pulmonary department sees 2-5 cases of post-Covid issues a day||PANAJI: Goa Medical College’s department of pulmonary medicine is seeing up to five cases every day of post-Covid pulmonary complications in those who survived the severe pneumonia brought on by the virus. Some are referred to the department from Covid hospitals after they continue to experience breathlessness, with their oxygen saturation levels still low despite weeks of treatment and even after testing negative. Last month, TOI had reported that the battle is not over for some ‘cured’ Covid patients, who are returning with exertional breathlessness, Covid fibrosis and various other complications. “They are treated in the general, non-Covid ward for 8-10 days until they stabilise,” said head of pulmonary medicine Dr Durga Lawande. “When they feel better, they’re discharged and advised supplemental oxygen at home, which they may require for around one month. Those who are better are being treated at the OPD.” ‘Some initially need oxygen for around 10 hours a day’ Most of these cases are elderly persons with diabetes. “Their diabetes gets worse with the type of treatment given to Covid patients,” Lawande said. “For moderate to severe Covid infection, steroids are the mainstay, but although these are lifesaving drugs, they can raise their sugar levels and result in post-Covid fibrosis. We have to extend steroid treatment for such patients. Most are doing well after two months of treatment.” Oxygen is advised intermittently. “Some initially require it for around ten hours a day,” she said. “Fibrosis lowers the oxygen saturation and patients feel exertion even while carrying out daily activities at home.” Some post-Covid cases are also at an increased risk of heart attack, brain stroke and pulmonary embolism. So far, the department has seen fewer than 50 patients with post-Covid complications. “We expect there may be more people out there who are not reaching the department,” Lawande said. “Some may consider it a part of Covid weakness and not seek treatment. Patients should not ignore a sudden increase in breathlessness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmcs-pulmonary-dept-sees-2-5-cases-of-post-covid-complications-a-day/articleshow/78610678.cms||Lisa Monteiro
October 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Rural Kolhapur accounts for almost half of cases||Kolhapur: Villages in the Kolhapur district have felt the brunt of the Covid-19 pandemic almost as much as (if not more than) the towns and cities. Nearly half of all Covid cases and more than half of all related deaths in the district took place in rural areas. So far, the rural areas have reported 23,000 cases and 748 deaths. The officials are worried as the numbers are so high despite there being no community transmission in rural areas. The number of cases and deaths in the villages have exceeded the numbers in urban areas, where community transmission was evident. The health authorities said the number of Covid cases is high in the rural areas mainly because of the large number of people who returned from the cities during the lockdown. A senior health official, requesting anonymity, said: “Many cases in the rural areas are due to the arrival of people who were already infected. In the early days, most of the fatalities involved those who had returned to the villages but could not get treatment or approached the hospitals late. On the other hand, the cases in urban areas, such as Ichalkaranji and Kolhapur city, are largely due to the transmission caused due to movement of people after the unlock phase. The citizens there had the benefits of accessible treatment facilities, unlike in the rural hinterlands where only primary Covid centres were initially set up.” The death count in the urban areas has dropped in recent weeks. Recently, on most days, more than 95% of fatalities, and on some days, even 100% of all Covid-related deaths have been taking place in rural areas. For instance, all six patients who died in the district on Saturday were living in villages. The administration has often been criticised for concentrating on the Covid hospitals in urban centres like Kolhapur, Ichalkaranji and Gandhinglaj, and completely neglecting the rural centres. “Now the highest number of Covid centres are in rural areas. We have equipped all of them with oxygen facilities and testing units,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rural-kolhapur-accounts-for-almost-half-of-cases/articleshow/78608124.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Sightings of rare butterflies, moths after over a century in Uttarakhand hills||NAINITAL: A junior research fellow (JRF), Ambika Agnihotri, working with the Uttarakhand forest department spotted papilio alcmenor — a species of swallowtail butterfly, commonly known as the redbreast — in July this year in Mukteshwar area of Nainital district.  The butterfly, which is generally found in the eastern-Himalayan region, was discovered in the western Himalayas for the first time after 110 years. At almost the same time, Arun Gour, resident of Devalsari near Mussoorie, spotted a day-flying moth — achelura bifasciata — in the Devalsari area. The moth, too, was spotted for the first time after 1893. These sightings have excited butterfly watchers and experts in Uttarakhand. Peter Smetacek, a veteran entomologist and founder of Butterfly Research Centre in Bhimtal, told TOI that he has not seen such a high number of butterflies at low altitudes for the past several years, the likes of which are being seen this year. “The redbreast wasn’t only discovered in Mukteshwar but even in Bhowali. According to our research, this butterfly extends its distribution to this area only in favourable years and is absent in others. This surely is one of the most favourable years,” he added. When asked about the reason for such a high number of butterflies this year, Smetacek credited the significantly low number of forest fires that took place this year largely due to the Covid-induced lockdown. “There is a direct correlation between the forest fires and the population of butterflies. I have documented instances when fires wiped out the entire population of butterflies from a region and it was only several years later that they returned. In 2020, there have been very few instances of forest fires in Uttarakhand, and therefore, this could be the major reason why so many rare butterflies and moths are finally being sighted across the state,” Smetacek said. According to the Uttarakhand forest department, till June this year, 134 forest fire incidents were reported in the state. This was significantly low compared to the figures last year when over 2,150 incidents were reported and around 3,000 hectares of forest was gutted Meanwhile, the Doon-based Titli Trust which works on butterfly research in the Devalsari area said that since the start of October, “a mass emergence of the day-flying moth, achelura bifasciata, has been seen in Chiana Khud in Devalsari”. Apart from the moth, the Tawny Rajah butterfly, which is very rare in Garhwal and has been sighted only a few times in the last several decades, was also seen in the same area. Sanjay Sondhi of the Titli Trust told TOI that these moths were also seen flying in large numbers at treetops during the day. “Though this mass emergence is not unusual, it is a once-in-a-lifetime treat,” Sondhi said. He however added that the subject needs more research. since “we lack plausible data to assess the number of butterflies sighted this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sightings-of-rare-butterflies-moths-after-over-a-century-in-ukhand-hills/articleshow/78608110.cms||Prashant Jha
October 12, 2020||Rajkot||Five history-sheeters booked under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities||RAJKOT: Five history-sheeters were booked under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act by Rajkot police on Saturday. They were identified as Siraz Ghanchi (33), Mayur Baraiya (20), Ajay Nag (40), Pabitra Nag (30) and Goverdhan Patra (25). Of the accused Ghanchi and Baraiya had cases of bootlegging against them in Bhaktinagar police station and Aji Dam police station. While Ajay, Pabitra and Patra had cases under sections 454 (house break-in), and 380 (theft) registered by Pradyuman Nagar police station. Ghanchi, Baraiya and Pabitra are scheduled to be sent to Sabarmati Central Jail in Ahmedabad. While, Ajay and Patra will be sent to Bhuj Central Jail and Vadodara Central Jail respectively. “Considering the fact that the accused had committed more than one crime, respective police stations, in whose jurisdiction the accused had committed crimes, sent PASA proposals to Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal, who ordered the accused to be sent to jail under PASA,” said an official from Rajkot police commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-history-sheeters-booked-under-pasa/articleshow/78608136.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Doctors press for death audit, sero-survey as Covid fatalities spiral||MARGAO: Even as the state’s Covid-19 death toll crossed the 500 mark, with its deaths per million being India’s highest, a demand for making an audit of Covid deaths public is now gaining ground in the medical fraternity. Doctors have also now stressed the need for an antibody sero-survey in the state, to determine the extent of prevalence of the infection in the population. These two exercises, doctors say, will help improvise the treatment regimen and thereby strategise a roadmap for better Covid-19 management. Former IMA-Goa president Dr Anil Mehndiratta, said that a Covid death audit would help doctors treating and managing cases “to learn from our mistakes and save more lives.” “At least the medical fraternity should be informed about the details of each of such cases — the age of the deceased, the co-morbid conditions they had, the results of his diagnostic tests, the viral markers, the line of treatment he was put on before he died, etc,” Mehndiratta told TOI. “If people like us — who are treating Covid-positive patients — are able to get all these details, perhaps we will be able to know if we are missing something and thereby help us put together a better Covid management model,” he said. The South Goa-based chest physician has treated over 140 Covid patients, ranging from moderate to severe. ‘Make audit report public as done by states like Kerala’Although senior officials of the health department said that an audit of Covid deaths does take place, the report is apparently kept under wraps, with the doctors engaged in private practice of Covid management seemingly oblivious to it. “The audit report has to be made public as is done in some states like Kerala,” said a private doctor, preferring anonymity. “As this is a new disease, new facts about the behavioural pattern of the virus keep emerging. This is a learning process for doctors too, and an audit report carried out as per statutory guidelines, adequately publicised, would aid the process.” Doctors TOI spoke to said that the audit report would help determine if the patient died of his co-morbid condition or Covid-19. “Did the patient die because of the severity of his condition after having been admitted late in the hospital, or did a co-morbid patient die because of inadequacies in patient care management? The audit report should help lay the facts bare,” a doctor said. “The bottomline is saving lives,” Mehndiratta said. “And for that, we need to know if we are missing anything significant. The audit report will help us find that out.” Coupled with the findings of the audit, medical experts feel that an antibody sero-survey in selected pockets of the state which are badly hit by the pandemic will slow down the disease. A combination of largescale antigen testing for symptomatic patients and antibody sero-testing for asymptomatic ones will also help the state determine how close or far it is from herd immunity, they said. “It’s time the government strengthens its contact tracing and testing exercise,” one doctor said. “It’s foolhardy for the health department to go lax on contact-tracing and shift its focus on what they call preventing fatalities. In order to prevent the spread of the virus, tracing and testing contacts is imperative” However, Dr Jorson Fernandes, an ENT surgeon, said that a behavioural change in society with respect to “respiratory etiquette” was an equally powerful weapon to battle the pandemic. Proper wearing of masks, social distancing and thorough and frequent washing of hands should be religiously followed, he said. “The pandemic is a matter of lives and livelihoods,” Fernandes said. “During the lockdown, we cared for lives, but livelihoods suffered. Now, during Unlock, we cared for livelihoods, but lives are being lost. So balance is the key. People’s participation with an enhanced level of consciousness with regards to precautionary measures is important.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-fatalities-spiral-docs-press-for-covid-death-audit-sero-survey/articleshow/78610679.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Children could be pushed into labour, marriage, experts warn||Mysuru: With the Vidayagama programme suspended, the big challenge for parents is to keep children engaged in learning activity. There already have been complaints that children are being pushed into menial jobs to boost families’ livelihoods. Experts warn that if the government does not launch an alternative programme, it could affect the learning process of these children. E Dhananjaya, Mysuru Child Welfare Committee (CWC) member, suggested the decision will cause immense problems for students. “I visited schools and interacted with teachers and students,” Dhananjaya said. “There is no proof that Vidyagama caused Covid-19 infections among children and teachers. Unnecessary controversy has been created. Already child labour and child marriages are on the rise. In such a scenario, the decision will affect children from disadvantaged sections of society.” Nagasimha G Rao, director, Child Rights Trust, said private schools forced the government to cancel Vidyagama through misinformation campaigns. “The government must take parents into confidence and keep children engaged in various activities. Or else, students will discontinue learning activities,” Rao warned. Meanwhile, a section of parents allege the government caved into pressure from teachers’ association, for which election will be held in November. The association denied the allegations. “It is true elections for posts of office bearers are scheduled in November, but the cancellation of Vidyagama programme has nothing to do with it,” said Chandrasekhar Nuggi, general secretary, teachers’ association. “We are ready to reopen school and work in two shifts after Dasara holidays. Let the government prescribe SoPs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/children-could-be-pushed-into-labour-marriage-experts-warn/articleshow/78608635.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt’s new energy policy to promote efficient tech||Vijayawada: The state government is planning to introduce an energy conservation policy to promote the use of new energy conservation and energy-efficiency technologies in various sectors. The move is to help achieve energy security, cost-effective power and strengthen the power sector. The energy department plans to take the views of experts, state-level universities and central government agencies like Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) and prominent institutes such as The Energy Resources Institute (TERI), Central Board of Irrigation and Power (CBIP) and Alliance for Energy Efficient Economy (AEEE) to formulate the policy. An official statement here on Sunday said the government is considering energy efficiency as a cost-effective way to reduce energy costs, moderate growth of energy demand and eliminate energy wastage. Industries, realty, municipal, agriculture, transport, power utilities, commercial and residential sectors will be the major areas of implementation. According to a BEE report 2018-19, India ranks highest in terms of growth rate of energy consumption in the world. The country’s energy consumption is expected to grow fastest among global economies and account for 11% of global energy demand by 2040.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govts-new-energy-policy-to-promote-efficient-tech/articleshow/78608128.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Activists decry move to end prohibition in Gadchiroli, Chanda||Nagpur: Padma Shri awardees Dr Abhay and Rani Bang and Dr Prakash Amte in Maoist-affected and tribal district of Gadchiroli and activist Paromita Goswami from Chandrapur have lambasted the move to life liquor ban by Congress leader Vijay Wadettiwar. Wadettiwar, MLA from Brahmapuri and minister for disaster management, relief and rehabilitation, had been trying to get the liquor ban lifted from Gadchiroli and Chandrapur citing flourishing illicit trade of liquor due to poor enforcement. “A revenue loss of around Rs 1,200-1,300 crore in two districts is being incurred due to prohibition. Then illegal liquor is available freely,” he said. “A committee has been formed to look into the matter whose report will be presented before the cabinet,” he said. Liquor was banned in Gadchiroli in 1993 while it was done in Chandrapur in 2015. While Wadettiwar felt the activists were ignorant about ground reality, a gamut of social workers has written to the state leadership to refrain from lifting the ban which would aggravate the socio-economic scenario and lead to health hazards. Dr Abhay Bang said, ‘Excise policy for tribal areas’ approved by the central and state government in Gadchiroli prohibits sale of liquor here. “It was after six years of people’s movement that the ban was won. 600 villages had passed resolution supporting it. Out of 1,500, around 1,100 villages are notified as ‘scheduled areas’ where alcohol sale and trading are prohibited,” he said. He further said around 900 villages in Gadchiroli have passed resolutions discouraging liquor in their localities. “A collaborative campaign of ‘Muktipath’ was launched against social ills like illicit liquor consumption led by a task force headed by state chief minister,” he said. “Global researches have shown devastating effect of alcohol on health. It also makes the society more vulnerable to atrocities against women,” he said. “Economically weaker sections save substantial amount that otherwise would have spent on alcohol,” said Dr Bang. Dr Amte, who had won Ramon Magsaysay award in 2008, said if poor enforcement was the cause then politicians should ensure government focus on it and not find a solution in lifting the ban. “Alcohol is a known health hazard and trigger for victimization of women. The government is fining people for not wearing mask but contemplating allowing liquor,” he said. Chandrapur’s anti-liquor activist Goswami said she had had already submitted her representation against lifting the ban to the government. “The ban is a clear constitutional mandate and lifting it would be a counter-productive move,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/activists-decry-move-to-end-prohibition-in-gadchiroli-chanda/articleshow/78609925.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Jeweller’s employee found dead, ornaments missing from shop||Yamunanagar: An employee of a jeweller has been found dead in his shop and allegedly some miscreants looted jewellery from the shop in Tirth Nagar Colony on late Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Praveen Verma (32), from Ghasauti village in Saharanpur district of Uttar Pradesh (UP), but he was living in Vijay Colony, Yamunanagar with his in-laws. The police said Parveen has been found dead with strangulation marks on his neck. Yamunanagar superintendent of police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal reached the spot for inspection on Sunday. On the complaint of jeweller, Gaurav Verma of Nakud town of Saharanpur district of UP, a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 460 (all persons jointly concerned in lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night punishable where death or grievous hurt caused by one of them) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Yamunanagar Sadar police station on Sunday. Gaurav said he owns two jewellery shops — one in Nakud town and the other in Tirth Nagar Colony of Yamunanagar. “My shop at Tirth Nagar was being run by my employee-cum-relative Praveen alias Mohan. I got information at about 11pm on Saturday that the shutter of my jewellery shop was half open. I went there with a few people and we saw Praveen lying dead there,” said Gaurav. He further alleged that the door of the jewellery locker was open and gold and silver jewellery was missing from the shop. Yamunanagar Sadar police station house officer (SHO) inspector Subhash Chander said, “A case has been registered in this matter and the dead body of the deceased has been handed over to the family members after postmortem on Sunday. It appears that the crime has been committed between 10pm and 11pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jewellers-employee-found-dead-ornaments-missing-from-shop/articleshow/78609920.cms||Jaskaran Singh
October 12, 2020||Agra||Mathura police sends teams to Kerala, 3 UP districts to probe antecedents of journo, 3 other accused||Agra: Several police teams from Mathura have been dispatched to Malappuram in Kerala and three districts of Uttar Pradesh to investigate the antecedents of a journalist and three others booked under UAPA and sedition charges for allegedly conspiring to trigger caste riots in the wake of the Hathras gang rape. Police have claimed that the accused are associated with the Popular Front of India, an Islamic organisation, and its student wing — Campus Front of India. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said, “A three-member team has been formed to investigate the matter and many police personnel are associated with them.” The four accused — Siddiqui Kappan, a journalist with a Malayalam-language news site in Delhi, Atikur Rahman of Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmad from Bahraich and Aalam from Rampur — were taken into police custody during a check near the Maant toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway on October 5 while they were heading to Hathras. The FIR registered against them on Wednesday morning at Maant police station states that a close examination of the “evidence” recovered from them — six smartphones, a laptop and pamphlets of ‘Justice for Hathras Victim’ — has “revealed that the men were going to Hathras to disrupt peace”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-police-sends-teams-to-kerala-3-up-districts-to-probe-antecedents-of-journo-3-other-accused/articleshow/78609103.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||Goa||Mars at its brightest in 17 years to be visible on Oct 14||Panaji: Shining like a bright red disc, planet Mars will come to ‘opposition’ in the pre-dawn sky for the first time since July 27, 2018. This will take place on October 14 and will not repeat until 2035. In mid-October, planet Earth whose orbit is smaller and between Sun and Mars passes directly between these two objects. Since the Sun and Mars are in opposite directions of Earth, the phenomenon is called an opposition. “As seen by us, Mars will appear diagonally opposite the Sun meaning when the Sun is at its lowest point away from us at 12 midnight, the planet will appear directly at the zenith or highest point in the sky,” Satish Nayak, president of the association of the friends of astronomy (AFA) said. Here, Mars will shine like a bright red disc and will be easily visible without telescopes. The opposition precisely happens at 4:50 am on October 14th and at this precise time Mars will be at perihelion, meaning its closest approach to the Sun in its two-year revolution period around the Sun. “Fortunately, the closest approach of Mars to the Sun coincides with the closest approach of Earth to Mars this year making the appearance of Mars brighter than usual. This event is very special and not to be missed,” Nayak said. Since public observation with telescopes is not allowed due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation, all the nine public astronomical observatories and centres in Goa under the Department of Science and Technology, will not be open for the public. However, interested astronomy enthusiasts can view the Red Planet clearly in the sky at 4:50 am without any devices on October 14. In the evening of 13th October, people can also join the special program on Mars opposition and how to observe the event, which is organised by AFA from 7 to 8pm on Google Meet, the link for which is available on www.afagoa.org.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mars-at-its-brightest-in-17-years-to-be-visible-on-oct-14/articleshow/78610681.cms||Nida Sayed
October 12, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon’s daily case count falls||Nashik: Health officials of Malegaon Municipal Corporation had a reason to rejoice on Sunday as the municipal limits of the textile town recorded single-digit cases (7) for the first time since August 2. “The number of active patients had shot up to 610 on September 10 compared to 305 a month ago. The active case count has fallen to 332. For the first time in many days, only seven new cases have been registered from the municipal limits. The last time single-digit cases were reported was on August 2 when nine patients had been identified,” said health officials from Malegaon. According to health officials from Malegaon Municipal Corporation and those from the rural areas, the survey of cormorbid patients that was undertaken as part of the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ programme has started yielding results. Besides undertaking massive testing in the rural areas, increasing the number of oxygenated beds has also contributed in speedy treatment to patients. “The facilities coming up in Baglan and Yeola talukas contributed in detecting and treating patients at the local level as a result of which the Covid case count in Nashik rural has dropped drastically,” said officials from the district health office. The active case count in the district has dropped from 8,396 to 7740 on Sunday. The tally of active patients had touched 10,169 on September 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaons-daily-case-count-falls/articleshow/78610687.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Vidyagama gave undue advantage to govt schools, say private institutions||BENGALURU: The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) on Sunday claimed pressure exerted by the association, whose members comprise private schools, played a big role in the government suspending the Vidyagama programme. “I would not say that it was our pressure alone, but we were the first to oppose it and we continued to vehemently do so until the end,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary, KAMS. He went on to say, “We are not against the concept, but rather against the way it was implemented. Government schools used unfair means to attract children in private school. They lied to them saying there will be no regular classes in private schools this year and only Vidyagama will function. They lured them saying they would give free rice and books. They said there would be no Bhagyalakshmi scheme for children in private schools. Parents panicked and many transferred their wards to government schools. Many left private schools without paying pending fees.” KAMS said government statistics show 1.7 lakh students moved to government schools from private schools. The association said it collected evidence — photos and videos — of Vidyagama being conducted inside classrooms like regular classes and with no social distancing. “Parents began asking us that if government schools can work, why not private schools,” the association said. “We sent letters to the chief secretary, home secretary and garnered media support and support of MLCs to oppose the way Vidyagama was conducted. Government can implement Vidyagama, but it should be in the right spirit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vidyagama-gave-undue-advantage-to-govt-schools-say-pvt-institutions/articleshow/78608818.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal inaugurates private oxygen mfg plant in Nashik||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday inaugurated a private oxygen manufacturing plant that is expected to meet the oxygen supply of the industries.“The new oxygen plant will increase the oxygen production and ensure adequate supply for medical oxygen. Moreover, we also need to have additional production considering the possible spike in Covid-19 patients,” Bhujbal said.The District Industries Centre (DIC) and the district administration had facilitated the company in getting all the permissions required to start the operations.On September 12, the DIC had stopped the oxygen supply to industries as per the directive of district collector Suraj Mandhare. The oxygen cylinders were not supplied to the industries for almost 22 days, till October 4, due to rise in demand for medical oxygen following spike in Covid-19 cases. This move had badly severely affected over 200 industries.But the supply of oxygen was partially started to industries from October 5 and around 900 oxygen cylinders have been supplied to industries who had placed their demand with the DIC.Meanwhile, Bhujbal also visited Bytco Hospital to review the infrastructure available for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-inaugurates-private-oxygen-mfg-plant-in-nashik/articleshow/78610682.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Tribal man killed over witchcraft suspicion, body burnt||VISAKHAPATNAM: A tribal man was murdered and his body set on fire Saturday night at Pulaguda village under Kotturu police station limits in Srikakulam district. The incident took place after some villagers suspected him of practising witchcraft. The deceased was identified as V Nayakamma alias Nayak (44), a small farmer from the village. The police said the accused suspected Nayakamma was responsible for the death of one K Ramesh, who died around three weeks ago following an illness. Though Ramesh’s wife claimed that her husband died of illness and did not hold anyone responsible for his death, relatives of the deceased and some villagers believed rumours that pointed to Nayakamma practising witchcraft and allegedly casting spells on Ramesh that made him sick and led to his death. Taking matters into their own hands, 15 people on Saturday night went to Nayakamma’s house and dragged him out of his residence and beat him to death. Later, they took the body to an isolated place and burnt it to destroy the evidence. Based upon information, police on Sunday visited the tribal village and registered cases against 15 persons for Nayakamma’s death. The police said the accused have managed to flee the village and raids will be conducted at their hideouts. In tribal pockets along the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB), belief in black magic and witchcraft among locals continues to be a strong force. Police said all accused persons will be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribal-man-killed-over-witchcraft-suspicion-body-burnt/articleshow/78608144.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Rajkot||One more complaint lodged against Razak Sopari||RAJKOT: One more complaint was lodged against Razak Chavda alias Razak Sopari, a key member of the notorious Jayesh Patel gang, on Saturday night.In this case, Sopari allegedly forcibly wrested 16 trucks of a finance company, leading to the closure of the firm in Jamnagar. Also booked were Sopari’s younger brother Hussein Chavda and Sopari’s nephew Amin Nautiyar for the crime. Sopari was caught from Bopal area of Ahmedabad in a joint operation by the Jamnagar special operations group SOG) and Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on October 8 in the firing case of builder Girish Der. On Sunday, he was formally arrested after the Covid-19 test. “Sopari illegally took possession of 16 trucks worth Rs 4.56 crore from Hinduja Finance Company between 2012 and 2020. He had taken the trucks from 16 persons who had purchased these vehicles on loan from the finance company,” said Y A Rana, sub-inspector with Jamnagar B division police station. “Whenever the company staffers went to seize the trucks, Sopari’s men would beat them up. They had also ransacked the company’s office. Tired of this, the company eventually downed the shutters of its Jamnagar branch in August 2020,” said Rana. Sopari had allegedly given orders to open fire on Der about two-and-a half months ago. Der had selected a plot of land for construction work to which Patel had staked his claim. Gangster Jayesh Patel, who has been charged with several criminal cases, mostly land grabbing and extortion, had fled to Dubai before his name figured in advocate Kirit Joshi murder case. Joshi, who was fighting several cases against Patel, was stabbed to death on April 28, 2018, allegedly on the orders of Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-more-complaint-lodged-against-razak-sopari/articleshow/78608169.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Will try to pass ‘Disha Act’ in winter assembly: HM Anil Deshmukh||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Sunday he is keen to table the stringent anti-sexual violence law in the form of ‘Disha Act’ in the forthcoming winter assembly session in city. Sounding upbeat, Deshmukh said there is already a significant fall in crime, especially against women, in Maharashtra as per the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data of 2019. Issuing a press release, Deshmukh said Maharashtra stood 22nd in the country in rape cases with a rate of 3.09 cases per lakh in such offences. Out of 2,299 rape cases, the perpetrators were known to the victim in 2,274 cases. The number of rape cases in Maharashtra was lesser than states like Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The state home minister also said the current conviction rate of Maharashtra (49%) is better than Karnataka (36.6%), Madhya Pradesh (47%), Gujarat (45.6%) and Telangana (42.5%). The proposed Disha Act would be formed on the lines of Andhra Pradesh, which has already brought in provision to award capital punishment for rapists after fast track investigation and trial. The AP government had enacted the law after nationwide uproar against the gang rape and murder at Hyderabad. Deshmukh had formed a panel of senior police officials under IGP Ashwathi Dorje, director of Maharashtra Police Academy to formulate the law. He had also led a team of senior police officials to study the law in Andhra Pradesh in February this year. Deshmukh said the bill would be placed before the cabinet for approval. “We are trying our best to ensure the Act is passed in the coming winter assembly. At present, our cabinet colleagues are working on it,” he said. “The meeting is getting delayed due to the corona-related emergencies,’ he said. Deshmukh said NCRB data underlined the fact that Maharashtra has managed to keep crime rate under control especially in serious offences like murder and rape. “Going by the crime rate per lakh, the improvement is significant in most of the crucial heads, whether murder or rape,” he said. “We are working on a number of issues and would soon come up with some strategies to push up conviction rates further,” said Deshmukh without divulging more details. Deshmukh also said Maharashtra stood 25th in the country in murder rate (1.7, as against national rate of 2.2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-try-to-pass-disha-act-in-winter-assembly-hm-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/78609948.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 12, 2020||Nashik||10.5L citizens benefit from RTS in Nashik||Nashik: More than 10.5 lakh citizens from Nashik district have so far benefited from right to service (RTS) that was launched on January 26 this year.The RTS was adopted by the state so that people do not have to keep waiting for permission certificates or as the case may be. District collector Suraj Mandhare added 81 services more than that have been included by the state government, making Nashik the only district in the state to be offering 101 services.Mandhare said this was a robust figure in any district as far as RTS was concerned. “It clearly underlines the commitment of the district administration to deliver what it has promised to the citizens in time, through its various offices,” he said. It may be noted that since launch of additional 81 services on January 26, the administration has received 10.5 lakh applications and it has resolved 10.4 lakh applications in time while there were seven thousand applications that were delayed for several reasons and others were in the process requiring furnishing of more information from the applicants.Mandhare had added several services under ‘RTS’ when he was the CEO of zilla parishad, Pune. “We are delivering at the rate of 99% in time service and trying to improvise on the short-comings. Due its success the RTS, the commissioner has expressed his idea of replicating the same across the state in the near future,” claimed Mandhare.The highest number of applications processed were by Niphad taluka with1.80 lakh applications out of which almost all were cleared. The Malegaon taluka received 1.77 lakh applications that were cleared in time and followed by Dindori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-5l-citizens-benefit-from-rts-in-nashik/articleshow/78608183.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 12, 2020||Nashik||IG devises model to stop traders duping farmers||A grape grower’s account of being duped of Rs 8 lakh by a merchant prompted Nashik range inspector general of police Pratap Dighavkar to devise a model for tracing traders cheating the gullible farmers of north Maharashtra. In an interview with TOI’s Ranjan Dasgupta and Santosh Sonawane, the 2001 batch IPS officer speaks about his initiative that has forced traders to return over Rs2 crore dues to farmers in less than a month.Excerpts Tell us about the initiative you have launched for the farmers of Nashik region. I have told the police in Nashik, Jalgaon, Dhule, Ahmednagar and Nandurbar to make it mandatory for all traders buying produce from farmers of these five districts to inform the local police about the deals. It will be mandatory for the traders to furnish their address proof, PAN card details and names and contact numbers of four local guarantors (two from the region and two from the traders’ place of origin. If any trader fails to pay a farmer, the guarantor will have to ensure full payment for the deals. Traders from across the state and other parts of the country visit Nashik region to buy onions, green vegetables, grapes, pomegranates and bananas from the farmers. How will the model work? The police of the five districts will track the traders failing to clear the dues and register cases against them. Since I started the initiative about 28 days ago, many aggrieved farmers have approached me for help. I have told them to get in touch with local police. If the police do not help, the farmers should contact me on my cellphone from the police station itself. We are not interested about the amount of deals finalized between a merchant and a farmer. Our only interest is that the farmers must get their dues. What prompted you to start the initiative and how’s the response? A couple of days after I took charge of the Nashik range on September 5, a farmer (from Nashik district) told me how he was cheated by a trader, who had bought grapes worth Rs8 lakh from him in 2018. The cheque the trader had given the farmer bounced in the bank as the former had just Rs300 in his account. The grape grower told me that there are hundreds of farmers like him with similar experiences to share. On enquiring, I found the grape grower’s feedback was correct. Many such farmers had tried to register police complaints. But there were complaints about local police stations not registering their complaints. I could immediately relate to the farmers’ agony, as I am from an agricultural family. I had worked as a farmer at Nitene village in Nashik district’s Baglan taluka before pursuing my higher education. Since we launched the initiative, 87 traders have returned Rs2.07 crore dues to about 286 farmers. Besides, 117 merchants have given written undertakings to clear the dues at the earliest. For how long the famers from the region are being targeted? The feedback that I got from a section of the farmers that this malpractice is on since 2015. I guess around 8,000 farmers must have been cheated of crores of rupees by the dishonest traders. They account for not more than 10% the total number of traders, both from the state and outside. How will you track the traders outside Maharashtra? We have formed 10 teams from these five districts. Members of these teams will soon visit states such as Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat to trace the traders at fault. The process of registering FIRs against such traders is on at the local police stations. We have collected details of such traders. If we get to know that some traders could not pay the farmers because of genuine financial problems, we will provide them an amnesty scheme. But we will attach properties of all the merchants who have deliberately duped the farmers. We will not hesitate to register offence against them under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act. Some members of the Nashik Bar Association have pledged support to take up the farmers’ causes free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ig-devises-model-to-stop-traders-duping-farmers/articleshow/78610690.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 12, 2020||Goa||Aldona panchayat members demand full-time secretary||Saligao: Five members of the 11-member Aldona panchayat, including deputy sarpanch Sukhardini Polle, held a token protest outside the panchayat office demanding that a full-time secretary be appointed at the earliest. Panchayat members Priyanka Pinto, Teja Vaigankar, Pranesh Naik, Deepak Naik and Polle, who squatted on the steps outside the panchayat office, said the irregular attendance of the present secretary was affecting the smooth functioning of the panchayat. The panchs said that an inspection had to be cancelled since the secretary did not turn up. Speaking to TOI, panch member Deepak Naik said, “The secretary is always irregular in his duties, which is causing inconvenience to the public. We are not indulging in any politics, but are only demanding that the panchayat should get a full-time secretary.” Meanwhile, Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo said that most secretaries are looking after more than one panchayats, as the recruitment process has not been completed due to the pandemic. “This secretary is very efficient and is also holding additional charge. I don’t know what is the issue of the five panchayat members, and I have not received any complaints from the people of Aldona,” Ticlo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aldona-panchayat-members-demand-full-time-secretary/articleshow/78610692.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Rajkot||Tuition classes’ owners carry out protest rally in Rajkot||RAJKOT: Owners of tuition classes carried out a silent protest rally on Sunday, demanding that they be allowed to function in Rajkot. The rally was taken out from Trikon Baugh to the collectorate with 50-odd participants. However, before they could reach Trikon Baugh, they were detained by the police. “There are more than one lakh tuition classes being run in Gujarat which provides livelihood to 10 to 15 lakh teachers. Please don’t compare tuition classes with schools as a tuition class has only 10 to 15 students, while a school class has about 50 to 60 students,” said Prakash Karamchandani, president of Rajkot Coaching Classes’ Owners’ Association. Karamchandani said that the preparations for the SSC, HSC, JEE and NEET exams can not be done through online classes, as students are unable to understand. “They have to be taught in person in a class,” he reasoned. “While restaurants, gyms and swimming pools are being allowed to open, what is the problem in granting permission to the tuition classes to start functioning?” he questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tuition-classes-owners-carry-out-protest-rally-in-rajkot/articleshow/78608193.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Amritsar||Centre extends 2nd invitation to farm groups for talks on 3 new laws||BATHINDA/AMRITSAR: Three days after 30 farm organisations of Punjab rejected the Centre’s offer of talks, the Union agriculture ministry has again invited 29 farm organisations for talks on the three contentious agriculture laws on October 14. This time, the Union agriculture secretary, Sanjay Aggarwal, has sent an invite on the ministry’s letterhead to representatives of all farm organizations, barring Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Lakhowal. The invite reads, "The farmers are on protest for the last few days in Punjab pertaining to agri-related issues. The government of India has always been serious about agriculture, so it is willing to hold talks with the farmers.” Earlier, the government had sent an invite on October 6 calling farm organisation representatives for talks on October 8, but the farm groups had turned down the offer for being "sent selectively" and its "language not being conducive". Farm organisation representative and Krantikari kisan union president Darshan Pal Singh said, "The groups will decide on whether to go for talks after a meeting of various farm groups at Jalandhar on October 13. The organisations are concerned about the prevailing situation, but any decision will be taken collectively.” Farm organisation BKU Sidhupur state president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said almost all organisations have received the invite. We will decide and announce our course of action after a joint meeting on October 13. While leaders of farmers’ bodies are yet to take any decision on it, a few of them have raised some crucial points. "The invitation is from a secretary-level official who doesn’t have any decision-making power, and the invitation has not been extended to the rest of the farmers bodies in India, especially those in Haryana," said state general secretary of Kisan Mazdur Sangarash Committee (KMSC) Sarwan Singh Pandher while talking to TOI on Sunday. KMSC was of the view that the invite should have come from the prime minister himself since he was the only person who could give orders to quash the three farm laws. Besides, the agenda of the meeting is not clear," said Pandher, adding that the KMSC would hold a meeting on Monday to take a decision on the invitation. State president of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha Satnam Singh Ajnala said they would react to the invite only after convening a meeting to discuss the letter’s content. Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta (Dakunda) president Boota Singh Burjgill said, "This time the invitation is from the central government, but it’s not clear who will hold the meeting with us and on which issue." He said leaders of farmers’ organizations would meet on October 13 to decide on the invite." In the meanwhile, farmer protests continued for the 11th day on railway tracks and toll plazas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/centre-extends-2nd-invitation-to-farm-groups-for-talks-on-3-new-laws/articleshow/78609939.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha reports lowest Covid-19 cases in last 60 days||Nagpur: Sunday brought more promise for Vidarbha as new Covid-19 cases dropped further while recoveries increased. The region reported 1,202 new cases during the day, which is the lowest count in the last 60 days. Earlier, less than 1,200 cases were reported on August 10. Highest new cases came from Nagpur (482), followed by Chandrapur (187), Amravati (121), Gadchiroli (116), Bhandara (92), Wardha (40), Gondia (40), Washim (38), Yavatmal (36), Buldhana (34), and Akola (16). Nagpur reported less than 500 cases for the first time after August 4. For the first time in last 53 days, six out of 11 districts in Vidarbha did not report Covid-19 death on Sunday. Nagpur reported 23 deaths, Bhandara (6), Chandrapur (3), Amravati (3), and Akola (1). Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim districts reported no deaths. Total 1,947 patients recovered in a day. Now, out of total 1,67,527 patients registered in Vidarbha, 1,42,937 have recovered and got discharge. Vidarbha’s recovery rate remained at 85.3%, just a few decimal points less than the national average. Recoveries included 927 from Nagpur, Amravati (267), Bhandara (125), Gadchiroli (122), Wardha (116), Buldhana (86), Akola (77), Chandrapur (74), Gondia (73), Washim (47), and Yavatmal (33). AMRAVATI: Three deaths and a spike of 120 cases took the districts Covid toll to 330 and the caseload to 14,945 on Sunday. With 267 patients getting discharge on Sunday, the number of recoveries reached 13,023 for a recovery rate of 87.1%. A civil surgeon office report said that the three deceased included two men (47 and 67) from Shivrani Nagar and Sai Nagar respectively and a 50-year-old woman from Santoshi Nagar. Now, there are 1,592 patients under treatment, including 707 admitted to hospitals in Amravati, nine in Nagpur and 876 in home isolation. WARDHA: The district on Sunday recorded no deaths after a gap of nearly three weeks. The death toll remains constant at 161. The recoveries touched 3,386 after 166 patients were discharged on Sunday. The caseload increased to 5,411 with addition of 40 new patients. Due to good recovery active positive are also reducing. Now, 1,864 patients are under treatment, New cases came from Wardha (26), Hinganghat (5), Arvi (3), Ashti and Samudrapur (2 each) while Deoli and Karanja (one each). CHANDRAPUR: The Covid count of district surpassed the 12,000-mark after registering 187 new cases on Sunday to take the caseload to 12,077. Chandrapur had crossed 11,000 cases on October 4, but pace of infection appears to have slowed down and it took seven days for cases to rise by 1,000. A 69-year-old woman from Bhanapeth ward, a 59-year-old man from Tukum in Chandrapur city, and a 52-year-old person from Saoli died, taking the toll to 184. The day also registered discharge to 74 patients, taking the recoveries to 8,843. Now, there are 3,050 patients under treatment. YAVATMAL: The district reported no death due to Covid-19 for the third consecutive day. The caseload increased to 9,089 with addition of 36 new patients while recoveries touched 8,137 with discharge to 33 patients on Sunday. According to ZP health department sources, now there are 588 patients under treatment. BHANDARA: Six Covid-19 deaths were reported in Bhandara on Sunday which took the toll to 165. Against 92 new cases in a day, 125 patients recovered which took total number of cases in district to 6,777 and recoveries to 5,164. Bhandara’s recovery rate is above 76%. Total 1,448 patients are under treatment here. GONDIA: The district posted 40 new cases while 73 patients recovered on Sunday. No death was reported. District’s recovery rate has reached 90.4% for the first time after 106 days. Doubling rate has gone up to 120 days and case fatality rate has dropped to 1.36%. Gondia now has total 7,856 cases, including 7,105 recoveries and 107 deaths. Now, 644 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Number of recovered patients (122) was more in Gadchiroli than number of new cases (116) reported on Sunday. Now, the district has 3,968 cases, with 2,962 recoveries and 32 deaths. Recovery rate in Gadchiroli is nearing 75% while the case fatality rate is 0.8%, which is lowest in the state. Total 964 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: A 75-year-old man who was admitted on October 5 died during treatment in Akola on Sunday taking the toll of district to 255. New cases continue to reduce in the district. Caseload increased to 7,808 with addition of 16 new cases while 77 patients recovered, taking the recovery count to 7,047. Recovery rate in Akola is above 90%. The district has just over 500 patients under treatment which is lowest in Vidarbha. BULDHANA: Of the 300 reports received on Sunday, 34 tested positive, taking the district’s caseload to 8,059. Recoveries reached 7,395 with 86 patients getting discharge on Sunday. No death was reported. Buldhana now has 558 patients under treatment, which is lowest in the last 30 days for the district. WASHIM: The district reported 38 new patients while 47 were discharged on Sunday. No death was reported. Total 652 patients are under treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-reports-lowest-covid-19-cases-in-last-60-days/articleshow/78609935.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||Forget 100%, fly-ash utilization of Koradi & Khaparkheda below 30%||Nagpur: On one hand ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) has allowed use of high ash coal and on the other, the power plants near Nagpur are unable to achieve 100% fly-ash utilization. The fly-ash is being dumped in ash bunds and during heavy rains, it flows into rivers poisoning Nagpur’s water supply. Data analysed by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) reveals that the fly-ash utilization of Koradi power plant in 2017-18 was only 13.14%, 2018-19 — 29.12% and first half of 2019-20 — 22.89%. The corresponding figures for Khaparkheda plant are: 2017-18 — 35.56%, 2018-19 — 14.24% and first half of 2019-20 — 20.81%. According to Sunil Dahiya, analyst at CREA, such less utilization of ash at power plants despite multiple timelines for 100% utilization shows how these big polluters are multiple offenders of all rules and regulations, impacting health of citizens. “Recent multiple accidents and ash pond breaches alongside huge water pollution, air pollution, livelihood displacement and stranded asset problems show how this highly fossil fuel-based power generation choice is a detriment to our society at large and how it is a must for us to clean operation of these coal based power plants and shift aggressively to sustainable renewable energy options,” he said. On August 6, fly-ash from Waregaon ash bund of Khaparkheda plant got discharged into Kanhan river forcing Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to stop pumping for four hours. At that time Khaparkheda CE Prakash Khandare had stoutly denied that there was any leakage of fly-ash from Waregaon. A few days ago, Pratap Goswami, district organization secretary of Aam Admi Party (AAP), went to Waregaon ash bund and found fly-ash flowing out of it after rains. He clicked photographs and provided them to TOI. A Mahagenco spokesperson claimed that while ash bund overflow the ash did not get discharged into Kanhan river. “Downstream there is a sump and pump house and the fly-ash laden water was pumped back into the bund,” he told TOI. Goswami disputes this fact. “Fly-ash may not have got discharged on that particular day but city’s water supply was hit due to fly-ash in Kanhan river in August,” he said. Goswami further said that fly-ash was carcinogenic and caused many ailments among humans. “NMC should lodge a police complaint against Mahagenco for discharging fly-ash into Kanhan and contaminating the city’s water supply. It should realize its responsibility and stop protecting Mahagenco officials,” he added. Former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had tried to ensure utilization of Mahagenco’s fly-ash by setting up a fly-ash industrial cluster near Koradi. The plan was to invite brick manufacturers to set up their kilns in the cluster and make them use fly-ash in bricks. However, the plan failed to take off as brick kiln owners refused to move into the cluster complaining that plot sizes allotted to them were not adequate. The local authorities — Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) — were expected to evict them from their locations near residential areas but this activity did not progress beyond notice stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forget-100-fly-ash-utilization-of-koradi-khaparkheda-below-30/articleshow/78609161.cms||Ashish Roy
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||5 years on, Behbal, Kotkapura back in spotlight||BATHINDA: With former Punjab Police chief Sumedh Singh Saini being nominated as an accused in Kotkapura police firing case just five days ahead of the case completing five, sacrilege cases in Punjab are back in the spotlight. On September 27, ex-DGP Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal were named in the Behbal Kalan police firing case at Bajakhana police station, which was registered on October 21, 2015, for murder and attempt to murder charges. Saini was named in the Kotkapura case on Saturday whereas Umranangal is facing charges since February 2019. A number of Sikh organisations had been demanding naming of Saini in the cases for a long time. Two protesters, Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh, were killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan village on Bathinda-Faridkot road on October 14, 2015. They were part of protests, which included a number of religious preachers, at Kotkapura light point chowk. Many others sustained serious injuries in police action. Saini was DGP and Umranangal was Ludhiana police commissioner at the time. Umranangal was present in Kotkapura on the night of October 13, and was in regular touch with the DGP on the phone, the police report said. Cases in Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan incidents were registered against protesters on October 14, 2015. After public outcry, FIR number 130 regarding Behbal Kalan police firing was registered against unknown policemen at Bajakhana police station on October 21, 2015, and FIR number 129 was registered at Kotkapura police station against unknown policemen on August 7, 2018, on the complaint of one Ajit Singh of Barnala district, who received a bullet injury in his thighs. Apart from senior cops, politicians also faced the heat. Former CM Parkash Singh Badal appeared before SIT on November 16, 2018, former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal appeared before SIT on November 19, whereas actor Akshay Kumar appeared before SIT on November 21, 2018 to record statements. Former MLA Mantar Singh Brar is facing the Kotkapura case. Both cases are presently in Faridkot courts. Chargesheets have been filed in both apart from two supplementary chargesheets in Kotkapura, and one supplementary chargesheet in the Behbal Kalan case. Former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma was arrested from his Hoshiarpur home on January 26, 2019, in the Behbal Kalan case. Then IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal was arrested from police headquarters in Chandigarh on February 18, 2019, in the Kotkapura case. Brar was named as accused in the Kotkapura case on March 6, 2019. He was in touch with then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, then DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, various senior officials and cops all through the night. He made or received 157 calls from the evening of October 13 till the early hours of October 14. The chargesheet in Kotkapura case was filed on May 27, 2019 against six accused — Mantar Singh Brar, suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal, retired SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, SPs Paramjit Singh and Baljit Singh, and then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh. Supplementary chargesheets were filed in the case on June 6 and November 15. Another chargesheet in the initial case under FIR number 192 was filed on September 13, 2020, against then DSP Baljit Singh and then SHO Gurdeep Singh. The chargesheet in the Behbal Kalan case was filed on April 24, 2019, against former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma and a supplementary chargesheet was filed on October 9, 2020 against SP Bikramjit Singh and then Bajakhana SHO Amarjit Singh, advocate Suhail Singh Brar and Pankaj Bansal. Two commissions headed by Justice Zora Singh (retd) and Justice Ranjit Singh (retd) have also conducted investigations, besides a “peoples’ commission” headed by Justice Markandey Katju (retd). The SIT is on track and cases will be taken to their logical conclusion soon, a senior Congress leader said. Five years exactly Monday would mark exactly five years since the Bargari sacrilege, which pushed the state into turmoil, happened. Since, the decision to hand over these cases to the CBI has been questioned and attempts have been made to withdraw the cases from the central agency for investigation by a special investigation team (SIT). Amid the controversy, SIT, headed by DIG Ranbir Singh Khattra, filed a chargesheet on July 6, 2020, against 11 persons, including Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, and three of his close confidants, Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kaler, who are at large. The cases were handed over to CBI for investigation on November 2, 2015. On July 4, 2015, CBI filed a closure report through investigations officer, additional SP P Chakraborty in the court of CBI special judicial magistrate G S Sekhon in Mohali. Later, CBI withdrew the closure report and asked for a re-investigation. A CBI team visited Burj Jawahar Singh village, Bargari on December 3 and 4, 2019 to record the statements of Granthi Gora Singh, Ranjit Singh and others. The state government passed a resolution in the state assembly regarding withdrawal of the cases from CBI. The special leave petition (SLP) filed by CBI was dismissed on February 20, 2020 and after that, there has been no clarity on who is to conduct investigations. The SIT has done nothing much after filing the chargesheet in July, a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-years-on-behbal-kotkapura-back-in-spotlight/articleshow/78609954.cms||Neel Kamal
October 12, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 peak will be in November; one-third of country likely to be eventually infected, says study||Dehradun: A recent study, published online in IEEE Access journal, a peer-reviewed, open-access scientific journal, suggests that the pandemic is likely to peak in India during the first week of November, 2020. The study, co-authored by 11 fellows from eight institutions in both India and abroad, including department of natural resources, TERI School of Advanced Studies , New Delhi, department of technology, University of Denmark and GIS Centre, Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University Jhansi, Forest Research Institute (FRI-Dehradun) among others, also says that one-third of the Indian population could eventually be infected by Covid-19 and that a complete recovery from the pandemic will happen “only after an estimated 450 days from January 2020.” The study has been conducted using the ‘Holt-Winters forecasting method’. Pavan Kumar, faculty member of the College of Horticulture and Forestry in Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University at Jhansi, who is a member of IEEE and the corresponding author of the study, told TOI that the project was funded by the Spanish Government. “We have used the data of Covid-19 cases, deaths, recoveries, infection rate etc from the Johns Hopkins University that collects official data on Covid-19 from all over the world. The data pertaining to India was also tallied with the official website of the health ministry in India,” he said, adding that the study is already published online and is pending to be published in the journal. Talking about the Holt-Winters method used to forecast the Covid peak in India, Manoj Kumar, senior scientist from Dehradun-based FRI, said, “Holt-Winters forecasting method predicts possible trajectory of certain epidemics that is based on understanding the behaviour of sequence of observed data over a period. It is one of the most popular forecasting techniques for time series and does exponential smoothing to encode values from past and then uses them to predict future values.” Commenting on the objective of the study, Martin Drews from department of technology, University of Denmark, said, “What we have done in our paper is to first make an ‘experiment’, wherein we produce a statistical forecast (based on Holt-Winters theory) of the people infected in India from July to mid-September based on the observed number of infections up to that.” He added that “our statistical forecast is found to agree surprisingly well with the number of actual infections in that 48-day period.” “Using these results alongside a complementary SIR model (an epidemiological model that computes the theoretical number of people infected with a contagious illness in a closed population over time), we found that one-third of the Indian population could eventually be infected by Covid-19, and that a complete recovery from the disease will happen only after an estimated 450 days from January 2020. Further, our SIR model suggests that the pandemic is likely to peak in India during the first week of November 2020,” he said. The conclusion of the study is that towards the end of November this year, the cumulative confirmed Covid-19 cases in India is expected to rise to an estimated 12,132,049. Similarly, cumulative deaths are expected to toll just above 1,50,639, whereas the numbers of active cases are predicted to increase to more than 10,25,035 Speaking to TOI, another researcher, SS Singh from Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, said that the findings of the study were only applicable if the situation remained the same and there was no major change like availability of a vaccine or maybe another lockdown. “By evaluating the data, we have found that the lockdown was impactful and the unlock process is leading to rise in cases. So if there is another lockdown or a vaccine is made available, the statistics and conclusion would change,” he said. The study was also co-authored by Ram Kumar Singh from Department of Natural Resources, TERI School of Advanced Studies, Manuel De Sen from Institute of Research and Development of Processes IIDP, University of the Basque Country Campus of Leioa Spain, Ajai Kumar and Manmohan Dobriyal from College of Forestry and Horticulture, Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi, Prashant Kumar from Institute for Environment and Sustainable Development, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, Meenu Rani from Department of Geography, Kumaun University, Nainital and Preeti Kumari from Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Dhanbad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-peak-will-be-in-november-one-third-of-country-likely-to-be-eventually-infected-says-study/articleshow/78608187.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 12, 2020||Nashik||Deolali Camp’s weekly Sunday mkt restarts||Nashik: The weekly Sunday market of the Deolali Camp, which has been closed for the past six months because of the Covid pandemic, has restarted. Farmers come in large numbers to sell their agricultural produce at the Sunday market, which sees a rush of people not only from the Deolali Camp area but also from the Lam Road, Nashik Road, Bhagur and other places. Meanwhile, the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has appointed a special officer to ensure there is adequate distance between the kiosks, and the vegetable vendors and customers wear masks and maintain social distance. The officer will also ensure that there is no spitting. Further, the CBD has also relaxed the timings of the shops in the Deolali Camp area by two more hours. Earlier, the shops were allowed to operate between 9am and 7pm. Sunday onwards, the shops have been allowed to operate from 8am to 8pm. Thus, it has also brought a general sense of satisfaction among traders in the Deolali Camp area ahead of the festive season. To ensure that people abide by the government’s Covid safety guidelines, the CBD officials, as well as the personnel at the Deolali Camp police station, have started taking action against people who are found without face mask in public places and those not maintaining social distance, said CBD officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deolali-camps-weekly-sunday-mkt-restarts/articleshow/78610691.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Mann to lead AAP protest against farm laws at Jantar Mantar||CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders led by its Punjab president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann will stage a protest at Jantar Mantar against farm laws on Monday. AAP Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh said the party’s Punjab cadre will protest at Jantar Mantar from 11am to 4pm in solidarity with farmers agitating in Punjab and Haryana against the agri laws. He said Mann would be accompanied by AAP MLAs from Punjab and Delhi, Delhi government cabinet ministers, AAP Rajya Sabha MPs and the party’s Punjab and Delhi cadre. He said this is the time to stand against forces who want to sell farmers’ livelihood to corporates. Mann also appealed to people of Punjab to participate in AAP’s protest as the farm laws have forced people in Punjab to take to the roads. He also slammed the Union government for not heeding farmers’ protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mann-to-lead-aap-protest-against-farm-laws-at-jantar-mantar/articleshow/78609968.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Jagan’s battle with judiciary unprecedented||Hyderabad: YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s open fight with the judiciary is perhaps the first instance in the country where a chief minister has openly attacked a Supreme Court judge and those in the high court. Though this is not the first instance of a politician casting aspersions on the judiciary, no senior leader in the past had openly taken on so many judges at a time — six in all. Jagan in his complaint to Supreme Court chief justice SA Bobde, not only alleged interference by a Supreme Court judge in the affairs of AP High Court, but also named five HC judges, finding fault with their observations or verdicts. Sources said no chief minister in the past has so elaborately spoken of the “politicisation of institutions” as Jagan did in his complaint, running into 16 pages. He went to the extent of alleging that there was a conspiracy to “destabilise and topple” his government. A little dig into the past reveals that it was Indira Gandhi, who had openly challenged the judiciary in 1967, a year after she took over as the third prime minister of India. This was the first ever open attack on the judiciary by a politician. Indira wanted to amend the Constitution and dilute some of the fundamental rights. The decision was challenged in Supreme Court. Justice Kota Subba Rao, who was the CJI then, gave a verdict stating that the Constitution cannot be amended. The verdict invited Indira Gandhi’s wrath and she openly spoke against the CJI stating that the judgement was an attack on “sovereignty of people”. Things went to such a pass that Justice Subba Rao resigned to unsuccessfully contest the Presidential election as a united opposition candidate in 1967. The second time Indira took on the judiciary openly was when her decision to nationalise private banks and abolish privy purses and titles of heads of erstwhile princely states in 1971 was challenged in Supreme Court. Indira’s open criticism of the judiciary was general in nature and not judge-specific and she framed her challenge to judiciary as an attempt to establishment parliament's supremacy over an unelected judiciary. it is for the first time that a chief minister of a state has named as many as half a dozen judges in his complaint to the CJI. Facts would clearly demonstrate that the august institution of the high court is being used to destabilize and topple the democratically elected government of the state of AP with indelible trail leading back to the overt and covert actions of N Chandrababu Naidu through… (SC judge),” Jagan alleged in the annexure attached to the letter submitted to the CJI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagans-battle-with-judiciary-unprecedented/articleshow/78610007.cms||Syed Akbar
October 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik tribals can now get land to build homes near their padas||Nashik: More than 600 tribal families across Nashik district can now get land to construct houses in forest areas surrounding their padas/hamlets if they do not have space in their existing padas. This has been made possible following a notification issued by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on September 23, that recognises the right to the families’ dwelling near their existing padas.The tribals living in remote padas/hamlets had been facing problems while trying to build new houses for their growing families. When the 2005 Forest Rights Act came into force, people living on the lands from before 2005 were allowed dwellings at the same place. But those with growing families had failed to build new houses as there was no land available. “This is a very big problem for tribals who are dependant on the farms in their respective padas. They cannot afford to leave for bigger villages or cities. If we construct houses just outside our padas, the forest department considers it as encroachment. The officials register criminal cases or demolishe the structures,” said Sharad Zhirwal of Dindori taluka.The requests for dwellings with the district authorities are also turned down. This is in stark contrast to villages or city areas where there is a space for construction of new residential quarters either in the form of gaothan or yellow zones.“We have no option, other than to stay in small houses or ultimately leave our pada to find a dwelling elsewhere,” said Satish Gavit, another member of the tribal community who has been facing problems since he and his brother got married in 2010 and 2014, respectively.Wayam, an NGO working in the travel sector, took up the issue with the state government and with the governor. “This notification says that if the residents of respective padas do not have any space to build new houses for growing family needs, the forest department should provide one hectare of forest land within or adjacent to the pada for the construction of dwellings as part of community forest rights. The pada can then accommodate the new houses. But this is not for those coming from outside the pada,” said Milind Thatte of Wayam. Government officials said that this would provide a major solution to the tribals’ dwelling problems and reduce migration. There are nine tribal talukas in Nashik district with 938 revenue villages and 839 padas, housing 9.20 lakh tribals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-tribals-can-now-get-land-to-build-homes-near-their-padas/articleshow/78608231.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 12, 2020||Nashik||6 cut birthday cake with sword, arrested||Nashik: As many as six people have been arrested by the Ambad police under the Arms Act along with various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Bombay Police Act for gathering at a public place for celebrating birthday and cutting the cake with a sword. The suspects were produced before a local court that remanded them in 14-day judicial custody. According to police, the suspects, who are petty goons, had gathered near the Indira Gandhi residential area and were celebrating the birthday of one of their friends. “At 10pm, they brought a cake and the same was cut using a sword. Soon after police got information about the incident, a team rushed to the spot and arrested the suspects for not abiding by the guidelines issued by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” the officer said.While the police could not find the sword on the spot, during the course of investigation, they checked the residence of one of the suspects and recovered the weapon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-cut-birthday-cake-with-sword-arrested/articleshow/78610694.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nagpur||15 minutes early start to stagger load in NU online exams||Nagpur: The Nagpur University (NU) on Sunday decided to make the question paper available in its ‘Pariksha App’ 15 minutes before scheduled start of each exam to. This will stagger the student load on servers and prevent glitches which have been encountered in the last three days. Whatever time the exam starts, students will get only an hour to solve the paper. On Monday, the first exam of Master in Industrial Research is scheduled to start at 9.30am but as per the new move, the question paper will be available at 9.15am. This will prevent the sudden rush at one time and slowing down of the app. A timer will ensure the exam ends as per given duration of one hour. Likewise, papers for 11.30am, 1.30pm and 3.30pm would also be available early. Over 10,000 students — highest since October 8 — are expected to appear in 49 online exams on Monday. Of these, 8,000 are from Bachelor of Engineering, which is the biggest faculty in NU. The 17 BE subjects exam, scheduled at 3.30pm, would be a big test for NU officials too. Number of examinees will touch 22,000 per day as the delayed Summer 2020 exam advances. English language exam will alone see 10,000 students in the coming days. On the first day of online exams, one time password (OTP) had posed major problems in logging into the app and forced the university to get rid of it. There was a server crash the next day leading to cancellation of all exams of the day. Students are still confused if they still need OTP. Board of Examinations and Evaluation director Prafulla Sabale told TOI that students need to update the App daily. “We are still getting calls for OTP and we are counselling students to update the app,” he said. The exam director was hopeful the server will function well now. “We observed maximum students logging at the scheduled time of exam. Slow internet speed at their end complicates the issue. Hence, we have decided to make the paper available 15 minutes early, so that there is no jamming and exam starts in small batches,” he said. Still, if any student is unable to attempt the online exam, offline exam will be held after completion of all online exams. Sabale said issues regarding selection of medium too have been resolved. He also said that of the 1,661 total examinees in Saturday’s exam, 1,460 entered in first three minutes taking the server usage to 24%. The remaining students logged in next 10 minutes of scheduled time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-minutes-early-start-to-stagger-load-in-nu-online-exams/articleshow/78609168.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 12, 2020||Goa||Put interest of state before anything else, Kavlekar tells Goencho Ekvott||Panaji: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar met with a delegation from Goencho Ekvott and assured them that their concerns would be looked into. He also appealed to the NGO to put the interest of the state and well-being of its residents ahead of everything else. Goencho Ekvott, along with local elected representatives, submitted a memorandum to Kavlekar regarding coal transportation, South Western Railway’s double tracking project, the infrastructure projects passing through Mollem, the Major Ports Authority Bill and the Sagarmala project. The delegation said that Kavlekar was cordial and assured them of his support against infrastructure projects that are detrimental to the state. He assured them that he would speak to chief minister Pramod Sawant about their concerns. Goencho Ekvott joint secretary Olencio Simoes briefed the deputy CM about the ill-effects of the coal issue, with particular reference to the satellite port proposed at Betul as part of the Sagarmala project. Royla Fernandes spoke about the harmful effects of coal dust which has given rise to coronary, cancer and respiratory diseases. Naqueri panchayat members, local fishermen and former zilla panchayat member Khushali Velip accompanied the delegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/put-interest-of-state-before-anything-else-kavlekar-tells-goencho-ekvott/articleshow/78610719.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets over Rs 1,055 crore GST collection in September, 8.23% more than Sept 2019||CHANDIGARH: Punjab was able to collect the gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue of Rs 1,055.24 crore in September. This collection was Rs 974.96 crore, 8.23% less, in September last year. According to the Punjab taxation commissioner’s office, the gross GST revenue collection for Punjab for April to September stands at Rs 4,685.72 crore in comparison with Rs 6,790.34 crore for the similar period last year. This denotes a fall of 31% in collection of GST this year. Whereas, the national gross GST revenue collection during September is 4% higher than what was collected in the same month last year. Also, the national gross GST revenue collection from import of goods as well as from domestic transactions (including import of services) stands at 102% and 105% respectively of the figures for the same month last year. The national gross GST revenue collection for April to September is Rs 4,54,591 crore in comparison with Rs 6,06,293 crore for the similar period last year. This denotes a decline of 25%. For September, the total value added tax (VAT) and central sales tax (CST) collection is Rs 462.98 crore in Punjab, whereas it was Rs 332.32 crore for September last year. This indicates an increase of 39.32%. The VAT and CST revenue collection for Punjab for April to September is Rs 2,499.77 crore in comparison with Rs 2,729.47 crore for the similar period last year. This denotes a decrease of 8.42%. The protected revenue for September is Rs 2,403 crore for Punjab against which the state government has collected Rs 1,055.24 crore that corresponds to approximately 43.91% of the protected revenue. Thus, for September, the amount of compensation due is Rs 1,347.76 crore. Whereas, the cumulative amount of compensation due for April to August, is Rs 10,338 crore. Out of this Rs 838 crore is received in the first week of October and Rs 9,500 crore is still awaited. The department spokesperson said the national gross GST revenue collection during September is Rs 95,480 crore of which CGST is Rs 17,741 crore, SGST is Rs 23,131 crore, IGST is Rs 47,484 crore (including Rs 22,442 crore collected on import of goods) and cess is Rs 7,124 crore (including Rs 788 crore collected on import of goods). But the national gross GST revenue collection during September 2019 stood at Rs 91,916 crore of which CGST was Rs 16,630 crore, SGST was Rs 22,598 crore, IGST was Rs 45,069 crore (including Rs 22,097 crore collected on imports) and cess was Rs 7,620 crore (including Rs 728 crore collected on imports).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-gets-over-rs-1055cr-gst-collection-in-sept-8-23-more-than-sept-2019/articleshow/78609996.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No helmets: Rs 5 crore paid in fines till September||AHMEDABAD: Even after hefty fines introduced by the new Motor Vehicles Act, Amdavadis seem ready to pay fines and flout rules, rather than wear helmets. From January 1 to September 16, 2020, the city traffic police registered as many as 1.02 lakh cases for which Rs 5.13 crore fine was collected. This means on an average one Amdavadi is caught for not wearing a helmet at every fourth minute, and nearly Rs 134 has been spent every minute by two-wheeler riders to flout the helmet rule. Till September 16, 2020, city police registered 4.29 lakh traffic offences of 33 different categories among which 24% of cases were for not wearing a helmet while driving. Like any other offence, cases of not wearing a helmet while driving reduced during lockdown for around two months, and later when non-essential movement were still restricted in the pandemic. The city traffic police collected Rs 18.73 crore in traffic fines, nearly 27% of which, Rs 5.13 crore, was from those caught driving two-wheelers without wearing helmets. City traffic police said that the city had in 2019 registered 6.29 lakh cases of not wearing a helmet for which Rs 7.24 crore was collected from the offenders. This was around 31% of the total fine of Rs 23.15 crore levied on traffic offenders in 2019. Police officers claimed that compared to 2018, the number of offences decreased in 2019 due to the introduction of the amended Motor Vehicles Act. After this, the fine for not wearing a helmet was increased from Rs 100 to Rs 500. In 2018, the city traffic police registered 6.55 lakh cases of not wearing a helmet, for which Rs 6.55 crore was collected by them. A traffic police officer said that people still give the excuse that they feel suffocated wearing masks or they suffer from headache or neck pain, but they should understand that if they meet with an accident, then a helmet will save them from death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-helmets-rs-5cr-paid-in-fines-till-sept/articleshow/78609175.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nashik||Action taken against PS head, 6 more for negligence of duty||Nashik: The in-charge of Yeola taluka police station along with six other policemen have been transferred to police control room by superintendent of police (Nashik rural) Sachin Patil over negligence of duty. Two other police personnel were also suspended over similar charges. A statement issued by the rural police said that Patil had received a phone call from a farmer and his wife of Yeola taluka, informing how the illegal liquor den in their area has ruined the life of their son. Acting on the information, the SP sent his squad and raided the illegal liquor den and seized the stock. Soon after taking charge, the SP had instructed all the in-charge officials and personnel of the rural police to ensure that there are no illegal businesses or activities operating in their respective jurisdictions. Considering that the in-charge officer of the Yeola taluka police station did not take the instructions by the SP seriously, the officer has been attached to the police control room. Meanwhile, the beat in-charge of the concerned place, an assistant police inspector and a police naik, have been suspended for not taking action against the illegal liquor den operator, while four other personnel of the Local Crime Branch (LCB) have also been attached to the control room. Two constables attached with Yeola taluka police station have also been suspended. “Strict action would be taken in the future if police officers let illegal business and activities operate in their respective jurisdictions,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/action-taken-against-ps-head-6-more-for-negligence-of-duty/articleshow/78610697.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Minister Suresh Kumar hospitalised||BENGALURU: S Suresh Kumar, Minister for primary and secondary education, was admitted to hospital for Covid-19 treatment late on Saturday. Kumar had tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. “I was in home isolation from Monday as I contracted Covid-19. Now, I am in a small hospital belonging to a friend, as per doctor’s advice. I am under doctor’s supervision and my health is improving. There is no cause of concern,” Kumar tweeted. With Kumar’s absence, there has been none in the government to defend the Vidyagama scheme. On Sunday, it was chief minister BS Yediyurappa who issued orders declaring the three week mid-term vacation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/minister-suresh-kumar-hospitalised/articleshow/78608547.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Hyderabad||'He prayed for his recovery': Telangana man who made Trump temple dies of cardiac arrest||HYDERABAD: US president Donald Trump’s diehard fan, 32-year-old Bussa Krishna of Jangaon district, who had constructed a temple for him in his house, died of a heart attack on Sunday. Krishna died in Toopran in Siddipet district, just a week after he made a video in which he was profusely weeping because Trump had contracted Covid-19. In the video on October 4, Bussa Krishna said he was praying that his ‘god’ would recover. At Bussa Krishna’s house in Konne village in Bachannapet mandal, Krishna installed a six-foot tall statue of Trump and regularly performed puja since. The farmer also used to put up photographs of Trump in his field and carried a photograph of Trump in his pocket for past four years. A cricket fan that he was, Krishna said he had a dream in which Trump assured him that India would beat Pakistan in the cricket world cup in June last year. That came true. “I am feeling sad because Trump has been infected with Covid. I have been in love with my ‘god’ for the past four years,” he had said in the video. Locals of Konne village said since the US president tested positive for Covid, Krishna was in agony. “He was not even taking food properly and not sleeping,” a local person said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worried-trump-worshipper-dies-in-jangaon/articleshow/78610011.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Nashik||More women enrol as voters in Nashik district in 1 year||NASHIK: The Nashik district has witnessed a rise in the number of women voters during the voter registration exercise being carried out by the district election office since October 1, 2019. The data released by district election office before the upcoming electors’ summary revision drive shows that the total number of voters has increased by 53,404 in Nashik district, and a majority of the new voters were women, who outnumbered men by 2,072. During the continuous enrollment drive, 27,734 women have got themselves registered with the election office either for the first time — on being eligible after turning 18 — or because they had missed out during the past exercises. During the same periods, the number of men who have registered their names with the department was 25,662. There also were 8 voters enrolled in the transgender or third gender category. First-time voters, in fact, make up a very high percentage of those who have enrolled their names, officials of the district election office said. According to the officials, the district has 24 lakh men voters and 21.9 lakh women voters. Together with 35 transgender voters, the number of electors in the district now stands at 45.9 lakh. The highest number of voters are in the Nashik West assembly constituency (4.06 lakh), followed by Nashik East (3.5 lakh) and Malegaon Outer (3.5 lakh).Nashik West leads with the highest number of women voters (1.8 lakh) followed by Nashik East (1.7 lakh) and Malegaon Outer (1.6 lakh). Nashik West also has the highest number of men as voters (2.2 lakh). Next in line are Malegaon Outer and then Nashik East, with men accounting for around 1.8 lakh voters in each assembly constituency. According to the government district election officials, the summary electors revision programme was carried out in October 2019 and was extended till March 2020. The Covid-19 pandemic broke out when the list was being finalised. The list has been published recently. Special summary revision programme for 2020 is likely to be announced in November, the officials said. They said people can apply for new enrollment or corrections through the online process even now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-women-enrol-as-voters-in-nashik-dist-in-1-yr/articleshow/78610699.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 12, 2020||Rajkot||Two named in medical store owner’s suicide note arrested||Rajkot: Two builders named as the accused in the suicide note of medical store owner Hitesh Parmar who hanged self from the ceiling of his house on Friday were detained in Jamnagar on Sunday. Police said they rounded up Kanu Nandania (47) and Raman Morjariya (35) when they came to the office of Jamnagar superintendent of police. Nandania and Morjariya had called media at the SP office. Before they were detained, they addressed the press, pleading innocence. “They demanded that the call record details of their conversation with Parmar be checked, CCTV footages be checked and suicide note be sent for forensic examination. They said that they were wrongly portrayed as land mafias,” said an official from the SP office. “Nandania and Morjariya had come to the SP office to plead their innocence in the case. However, they could not meet the SP. While they were addressing the press, we detained them. We will be formally arresting them after they undergo Covid-19 test,” said M R Gondalia, inspector with Jamnagar C division police station. Parmar (41), the owner of a medical store, had hanged himself from the ceiling of his house in Royal Enclave NRI Bunglows in Khodiyar Colony of Jamnagar on Friday evening. Parmar had left a suicide note in which he accused Nandania and Morjariya of trying to grab his ancestral land. Parmar’s wife, Nayna in her complaint alleged that Nandania and Morjariya had the intention of grabbing their 3.5 bigha agriculture land in Juna Nagna village. Nayna told the cops in her statement: “My husband was under tremendous pressure due to the harassment by the accused. He also talked about this harassment to my son two days back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-named-in-medical-store-owners-suicide-note-arrested/articleshow/78608255.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Coronavirus fear keeps admission seekers away||LUCKNOW: A number of candidates, who had skipped the Lucknow University’s postgraduate entrance test, said they would either opt to prepare for competitive examinations or pursue higher education in their home town as staying in hostels at the time of Covid-19 pandemic is unsafe. On the first day of the entrance test held for six post-graduate subjects on Saturday as many as 46% of candidates didn't turn up. “I am a hosteller, earlier I had thought of pursuing post-graduation from LU itself, but now I will prefer my home district. I had applied at the varsity thinking that the pandemic might subside by the time of admission, but I see no such possibility,” said Ayushi Singh, who had to appear for the MSc in Zoology. She said instead of staying in the hostel in such tough circumstances I will prefer going back, it will not only save my hostel fees but I will be safe back home. A number of candidates preparing for civil services and various other competitive examinations in which graduation is the eligibility said they considering the present circumstances there is no point in pursuing post-graduation but cracking competitive examination is their preference. “I had filled the form thinking that I would study and prepare for a competitive examination. But, now I have changed my plan as getting a job by cracking competitive examinations is more important,” said Ajay Kumar, who has applied for admission in MA (anthropology). He said that “classes are affected due to Covid-19 so I decided to prepare for civil services.” The other candidates who had missed the examination shared similar views. “I have filled the application for two subjects, chemistry and zoology, but after my graduation results were declared I scored low in zoology hence decided to skip the examination,” said Abhinay Mathur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronavirus-fear-keeps-admission-seekers-away/articleshow/78610701.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Vidyagama row: False fears as 54% government schools have 50 pupils or less||BELAGAVI: While the state government claims the decision to scrap its Vidyagama programme — holding classes for government school students in public places with adequate social distancing — was triggered by a surge in Covid-19 infections among students and teachers, government data shows these fears are unfounded. Data shows the government runs 43,279 lower and higher primary schools, which largely cater to socio-economically backward children who have little or no access to the internet or television to pursue education. In North Karnataka alone 5,51,227 (13%) children do not have access to television sets and cannot participate in classes aired on Chandana TV. Vidyagama was their only hope of learning. The data shows 23,629 schools (about 54%) have less than 50 students across all classes. Syed Hafizullah, education activist from Hyderabad-Karnataka, who himself recovered from Covid-19, says forget Vidyagama, the government can even restart regular classes in these schools with room to spare for social distancing. And since most children live within a kilometre or two of schools, travels woes are negligible. “For example, there are about 50 children in a school in Kalaburagi city,” Hafizullah said. “These children hail from nearby areas. Conducting tenement schooling is hardly a challenge. There are two or three teachers in such schools and the number of students can be easily split into three, taking every precautionary measure.” In fact, 4,216 schools have less than 10 students on their rolls, while 10,341 have less than 25. A shade over 9,050 schools has a student-strength of between 26 and 51 and the total number of schools with 100 children or less is 8,199. Only 11,451 schools (26%) have more than 100 children. The biggest fear urban parents harbour is that children contract Covid-19 at school, but many children now spend their time playing outside their home with neither masks nor social distancing or they are touring with parents, said Niranjan Aradhya, an education expert. “When the government has opened every single business establishment including restaurants, pubs, bars, malls and even parks and swimming pools, what stops authorities from reopening schools where children appear to be far safer against Covid-19 compared to dengue and malaria,” Aradhya wondered. The decision appears to have been prompted following reports that 35 children attending Vidyagama in Belagavi and Kalaburagi tested positive. Dr Shashikanth Muniyal, Belagavi district health officer, said the children from Timmapur in Ramdurg taluk are all asymptomatic. “There are perfectly fine,” he said. State War Room data shows the mortality rate among children from 0-10 years is a meagre 0.09% with 12 deaths. The figure for the 11-20 years group is 0.11% with 30 deaths. And 3.5% (12,633) and 7.6% (27,555) respectively of the entire population in this age group so far has been infected. Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, general physician, said the risk of children contracting dengue or malaria is far higher than Covid. “The government has to analyse deaths and must allay fears of parents which are largely unfounded.” On the other hand, while Covid-19 may pose no threat to children, the risk of them passing on an infection to elders and seniors at home is a distinct possibility, and the consequences of this happening may have been a factor in the government’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vidyagama-false-fears-as-54-govt-schools-have-50-pupils-or-less/articleshow/78608593.cms||Shreyas HS
October 12, 2020||Lucknow||1,000 parks in Lucknow to be revamped in Arogyam campaign: Minister||LUCKNOW: Around 1,000 parks in the city are all set for a healthy and highly useful makeover with plantation of medicinal and aromatic plants, said urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon during the ongoing ‘Arogyam’ campaign of ‘Navbharat Times’ at a park in Napier road on Sunday morning. The second Vatika was set up at Mayur Residency Vistar, Kukrail picnic spot. The ‘Arogyam’ campaign is a step towards creating awareness about the health benefits of plants in our surroundings. An ‘Arogya Vatika’ was set up at a park in Napier Colony as plants with high medicinal value were planted. “Plants help to keep the pollution level down and keeping us healthy. Many plants are worshiped in our culture because they have great significance in helping us lead a healthy life,” the minister said. Lauding the campaign, Tandon said, “Arogyam is a noble initiative by Navbharat Times, under which a campaign will be started in the city under which medicinal and aromatic plants will be planted 1,000 parks.” Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plant director P K Trivedi said, “CIMAP will extend full support to the Arogya Vatika campaign. Ayurveda has helped in healing and cure for ages. Medicinal and aromatic plants come with numerous health benefits and such vatikas will of great help to people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1000-parks-to-be-revamped-in-arogyam-campaign-min/articleshow/78610709.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman gives ‘hate bite’ to husband, booked||AHMEDABAD: Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned. A 34-year-old woman in Naranpura proved this biblical proverb right when she allegedly bit into the biceps of her husband after a domestic quarrel on Saturday. The woman did not stop at this. While the man and his parents locked themselves inside the room of their house, she allegedly vandalized the furniture. The man (40), an HR manager with a leading insurance firm in Prahladnagar and a resident of Naranpura, said in his complaint with Naranpura police station on Sunday that his wife had been allegedly harassing him over petty issues for around two years. He alleged that fed up with his wife’s tantrums, his parents had left his house to live separately. When she was blamed for this, she began fighting with his parents. According to the police, on Sunday afternoon, the accused allegedly entered into an altercation with her in-laws and abused them. When the complainant tried to intervene, she first abused him and then allegedly dragged his mother by pulling her hair and took her to another room to thrash her. “When the man tried to save his mother from the accused, she turned to him, held his hand and allegedly bit into his biceps. His father tried to rescue him, but the accused allegedly thrashed him too,” said an official from Naranpura police station. The victims, somehow, managed locked themselves inside a room to save themselves. Then the complainant’s father called up police. A team from Naranpura police station officials rushed to the spot and rescued the man and his parents from the accused. “When the victims had locked themselves inside the room, the accused had allegedly vandalized the house and damaged the furniture of the drawing room,” said a police official. The complainant and his mother had to take medical treatment for their injuries. The complainant alleged that a year ago, his wife had filed a false complaint of domestic violence against him and his parents. In this case, Naranpura police registered a case against the woman for causing hurt and damaging property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-gives-hate-bite-to-husband-booked/articleshow/78609200.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man seeks wife’s custody; she turns up with new hubby||AHMEDABAD: It was a shock of his life for the man who approached the Gujarat high court (HC) for his wife’s custody, but the latter appeared before the court with another husband. The man was more perturbed mainly because his marriage registration with the 20-year-old had taken place just three months ago, on July 3 with the registrar’s office in Shahpur. He was under the impression that his wife’s family was against the marriage and not allowing her to join him. After a wait of over a month, he approached the city police and requested to free his wife from her parents. When the police did not act, he filed a habeas corpus petition in the HC alleging that his wife was under “illegal confinement”. The woman appeared before the court on Thursday. Upon the court’s inquiry, she told the judges that she and the petitioner had their marriage registered at Shahpur. But she fell in love with another man after coming in contact with him through social media. She converted to Islam and married the second man because he is a Muslim. Now she was not ready to live with the petitioner, though he too was her legally wedded husband. The woman also told the court that she had studied up to the second year of her graduation and that she understood the consequences of marriage registration involving her first husband. The judges attempted to explain to her that without taking divorce from her first husband legally, any further involvement of hers would not render the legal validity to her new relationship. The HC also noticed that the real victim in this episode was the woman’s father. He was unaware of any of his daughter’s marriages. The judges tried to explain to the woman that she would have to put an end to this problem, which she herself had created, in a legal manner. The court asked the woman if she wanted to meet her father because he was keen on meeting her. She initially resisted but agreed to meet him so that she could introduce her new husband to him. She told the HC that she would not fulfil her matrimonial obligations to her first husband because she had already married another man after changing her religion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-seeks-wifes-custody-she-turns-up-with-new-hubby/articleshow/78609208.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand reports 574 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported less than 600 new Covid-19 infections while the state’s recovery rate remained above the national average. Two deaths were also reported from Dhanbad and East Singhbhum, taking the toll to 787. The state health department said 574 fresh cases were reported from across 23 districts of the state while 766 people have recovered. With the new cases, the state’s cumulative caseload stood at 92,525 as on Sunday night. Of them, 8,167 are active while 83,571 have recovered. Among the new cases, Ranchi reported 286 while Bokaro reported 47, East Singhbhum 45 and Dhanbad 42. As many as 12 districts reported fresh cases in single digits while Pakur reported none. Most of recoveries were reported in Ranchi (242) followed by East Singhbhum (112), Gumla (109) and Hazaribag (51). On Sunday, the state’s recovery rate stood at 90.32%, higher than the national average of 86.2%. The state’s mortality rate (0.85%) dropped below the national average of 1.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-reports-574-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/78618227.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 12, 2020||Ranchi||Residents start repairing Bariatu Road, admin asks to stop work||Ranchi: Close to a dozen potholes were repaired on the crater-ridden Bariatu Road in Ranchi on Sunday by members of a civil society group who crowd-sourced funds for the purpose after repeated requests to the authorities could not reap dividend. However, the group — Jharkhand Civil Society (JCS) — was stopped from continuing the work and informed that they have to get permission from the district administration before proceeding. The work to repair the road started around 6am and hours later an embarrassed district administration swung into action and sent police teams from Bariatu and Bargain to stop the work. Rajesh Das, a civilian, who is an active member of JCS, said, “To begin with, we repaired two big and over half a dozen small potholes on a stretch of about 60 feet near Rims chowk. We had procured about 40 packets (25kg each) of cold asphalt from Bangalore.” Around two dozen people, from different walks of life, turned up for the cause, aimed at waking up the government out of slumber for upkeep of the road, which hosts several hospitals. Das said, “This road is important not just because of the hospitals, but also because it serves as one of the key gateways to Ranchi city form NH-33. A good road without accidents is right of every citizen.” R P Sahi, another member of the outfit, said, “We were told that since it’s a public (government) property, we were bound to take permission from the district administration before doing anything here. We were only repairing it and not damaging it, which we communicated to the officials over phone who asked us to stop the work. None, however, misbehaved with us. So, we wrapped up our work soon after we were asked to.” Sahi said the outfit will find other ways to continue the campaign. Ranchi SDO Sameera S said, “As per protocols, permission is required for any such thing. Moreover, we were informed by the state urban development department that the government has already taken cognizance of the condition of the road and tenders for its repair will be floated tomorrow (Monday). Since government is already working on it, we humbly asked the civil society members to stop their work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/residents-start-repairing-bariatu-road-admin-asks-to-stop-work/articleshow/78608895.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 12, 2020||Ranchi||Nod to devotees from outside Jharkhand at Deoghar’s Babadham||Dumka: The district administration on Sunday permitted the entry of devotees from outside the state at the Baidyanathdham temple in Deoghar. The famed temple of Lord Shiva was closed to public since the imposition of lockdown in March and it reopened on August 27, but since then only residents of Jharkhand were allowed to visit it. Deoghar deputy commissioner Kamleshwar Prasad said that a total of 1,000 devotees can enter the temple now on a daily basis as opposed to 200 earlier. He said, “We have increased darshan timings from four to eight hours from Sunday.” The devotees, however, will be required to procure online permits like earlier. A few days ago, the district administration faced the wrath of local priests and the business community over the restrictions leading to loss of income. On Saturday, BJP’s youth wing, too, held a protest outside the temple over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nod-to-devotees-from-outside-jharkhand-at-deoghars-babadham/articleshow/78608994.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 574 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Sunday reported less than 600 new Covid-19 infections while the state’s recovery rate remained above the national average. Two deaths were also reported from Dhanbad and East Singhbhum, taking the toll to 787. The state health department said 574 fresh cases were reported from across 23 districts of the state while 766 people have recovered. With the new cases, the state’s cumulative caseload stood at 92,525 as on Sunday night. Of them, 8,167 are active while 83,571 have recovered. Among the new cases, Ranchi reported 286 while Bokaro reported 47, East Singhbhum 45 and Dhanbad 42. As many as 12 districts reported fresh cases in single digits while Pakur reported none. Most of recoveries were reported in Ranchi (242) followed by East Singhbhum (112), Gumla (109) and Hazaribag (51). On Sunday, the state’s recovery rate stood at 90.32%, higher than the national average of 86.2%. The state’s mortality rate (0.85%) dropped below the national average of 1.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-reports-574-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/78609363.cms||Dhritiman Ray
October 12, 2020||Ranchi||Defeated in 2019, BJP pitches Lois and Yogeshwar again for bypolls||Ranchi: Opposition BJP on Sunday named party veterans Lois Marandi and Yogeshwar Mahto Batul as their candidates for the November 3 bypolls to Dumka and Bermo constituencies respectively. BJP is banking on their veterans who had both lost their seats to the JMM-Congress-RJD mahagathbandhan in the last assembly polls in 2019. In Dumka, a Scheduled Tribe reserved seat, Lois, who was then social welfare minister in the Raghurbar Das government, had lost to JMM working president and chief minister Hemant Soren by a margin of 13,188 votes. Hemant, who also won from Barhait by a margin of 25,740 votes, vacated Dumka after taking charge as chief minister paving way for a bypoll there. In Bermo, BJP’s sitting MLA Yogeshwar faced defeat in the hands of Congress’s Rajendra Prasad Singh by 25,172 votes. In May this year, Singh died of ailments necessitating a bypoll. Talking to TOI, BJP state general secretary Aditya Sahu, “The party high command has notified Lois Marandi and Yogeshwar Mahto Batul for Dumka and Bermo seats on the basis of the recommendation by the state leadership. Both are veteran leaders in their areas.” Dumka is considered JMM’s stronghold and a prestige seat for the party. Lois clinched it for BJP after a gap of many years in 2014 by defeating Hemant by a slender margin of over 4,000 votes. On her nomination, Marandi said, “I am thankful to party leadership for putting faith in me. This election will be about seven months of lawlessness in the current regime vis-à-vis past regime when our government truly worked on the motto of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’. In the past five years of BJP government, several pro-tribal policies were launched to uplift the lives of the marginalized but soon after coming to power, the Hemant government has exposed itself by stalling them.” She added, “Moreover, the biggest turnoff for the people with the current dispensation is the way crimes and Naxal incidents have shot up creating a sense of fear everywhere.” Batul, too, thanked the party for giving him the party ticket. “Congress will face a rout this time,” Batul, who had won this seat in 2005, and 2014, said. BJP was initially considering an option to field Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi, who had earlier merged his party JVM-P with the saffron unit. Marandi is currently appointed by BJP as its leader of the legislative party and is the biggest tribal face of BJP. He had also defeated JMM president Shibu Soren in Dumka in the 90s. “Marandi, however, didn’t wish to fight from Dumka by leaving Dhanwar at this stage apprehending that it might shift the balance within the party,” a BJP source said. Meanwhile, BJP has begun a soft campaign in Dumka with CM Das. The former chief minister held ‘mahila jan choupals’ on Saturday and Sunday to woo tribal women. During the programme, Das cited how the Centre and his government had rolled out several schemes in the last five, ranging from giving benefits of LPG gas to registration of properties at Re 1 among others for women empowerment. Under Das’s leadership in last assembly polls, BJP faced a major loss in the ST seats of the state. Out of total 28 ST seats, BJP could only win two compared to 11 which it had bagged in 2014. This time, the party is confident to increase its tally after the Sudesh Mahto led Ajsu-P has announced to extend support on both the seats, unlike the last time. The ruling mahagatbandhan had already announced their candidates for both the seats. While Hemant’s brother Basant has been named in Dumka, Congress has named Rajendra Prasad’s son Kumar Jaimangal in Bermo. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said the coalition government will retain both seats. “JMM and Congress are united to repeat their 2019 performance on the twin seats riding on several good works which our government did in just seven months despite challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic and lack of assistance from the BJP-led government in the Centre,” Dubey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/defeated-in-2019-bjp-pitches-lois-and-yogeshwar-again-for-bypolls/articleshow/78608917.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Three friends die as car hits trolley with protruding iron rods in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In the third accident involving heavy vehicles in the past four days in the city, a car rammed a trolley full of protruding iron rods and attached to a tractor on Shadipur flyover in west Delhi's Moti Nagar early on Sunday, killing three of the four occupants of the car. The four, all friends, were catching up after a long time and were driving back from a restaurant at Punjabi Bagh when tragedy struck at 1.30am. While police said the tractor was moving slowly, the families of the deceased alleged it was parked in the middle of the "dimly lit" flyover with a punctured tyre. Police are looking for the driver of the tractor. Impromptu treat turns out to be last oneThe incident took place in front of the Kirti Nagar Metro station when the group of friends was going back to their respective homes in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar and Jhilmil area. While the deceased have been identified as Charandeep Singh (38), Rajesh Sharma (32) and Tarun Gupta (42), the sole survivor is Parveen Singh (38), also the owner of the Swift Dzire car, one that a friend of his was driving. Kamaljeet Singh, father of Charandeep, recalled how everyone was ready for dinner when Charandeep got a call from Parveen who then asked him to quickly get ready as he had planned an impromptu treat for his friends. “My son was hesitant at first because his favourite meal was ready to be served at home, but when his friends insisted, he got ready and within minutes, his friends turned up at our house. They stayed with us for a few moments and then went away, saying they would be back in a couple of hours. Since they were meeting after quite some time, none of us even insisted that he stayed back home. My son waved and went. That was the last time we saw him,” recalled the teary eyed father. “There’s a great restaurant in Punjabi Bagh that I want all of you to try,” Parveen had said while making the plan. At 10.30pm, these friends left for the restaurant to try Parveen’s favourite dish and after a couple of hours, took off to head back home. While on the way to the restaurant, Parveen drove his car, but since he was too tired, he asked Sharma to drive while returning. They were barely half way through when Sharma rammed the tractor-trolley. The impact was such that the front portion of the car was entirely crushed, killing the trio at the spot and leaving Parveen unconscious. He was sitting behind the driver (Rajesh) while Tarun sat with him on the rear seat. Charandeep sat on the passenger seat. DCP (west) Deepak Purohit said that the tractor was moving slowly when the car hit it. “We have registered a case and are investigating into the matter. The truck driver escaped from the spot. Our teams are looking for him,” he said. Police say they have seized the tractor and have registered an FIR in the case. The inconsolable family members said the four were very happy to be catching up after many days but they’d never thought this would be the last time they’re seeing them. Charanjeet, they say, had cancelled the plan but his family says that his friends convinced him at the last moment and took him along. This is when the nightmare began. Family members say when they got a call from the PCR informing them about the accident, they rushed to the spot. “We couldn’t believe what had happened. When we went there we saw that the stretch was not lit at all and the heavy vehicle was parked in the middle of the road. One of the tyres was punctured as well,” said Kamaljeet. Rajesh Sharma worked in a courier company at Mahipalpur and is survived by his wife and two daughters. Charandeep is survived by his wife, daughter and son. Tarun Gupta ran a computer shop at his residence in Pandav Nagar and leaves nehind his wife and daughter. Watch Delhi: Three friends killed, one critical after car rams into parked trolley||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-friends-die-as-car-hits-trolley-with-protruding-iron-rods-in-delhi/articleshow/78611101.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 12, 2020||India||Open schools only after vaccine is available: Parents||NEW DELHI: As re-opening of schools is debated across the country, parents in many states are not willing to send their wards to school yet. While parents in Goa have conveyed that they would feel safe sending their children to school only when cases begin to drop, those in Himachal Pradesh said they are scared as cases continue to rise. A report compiled by the Chandigarh administration said parents will agree to schools re-opening only after a vaccine is available. The feeling is similar in Uttarakhand. Telangana schools have seen lukewarm response to even guidance classes while similar response was received in Jharkhand and Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/open-schools-only-after-vaccine-is-available-parents/articleshow/78611103.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Desks etched with memories on sale as coaching classes down shutters||MUMBAI: The Diwali sale season has a new entrant this year. With thousands of coaching classes in the city forced to fold up, sale street is flooded with desks and benches. With formulae and love stories etched on them, many of these pieces have witnessed more than just the academic journeys of students. But, much like beloved characters being bumped off in films, the pandemic has spelt an end to their role. About 30% or 9,500 coaching classes across the city have shut down and several have downsized. Desperate for financial liquidity, coaching class owners are putting up their furniture for sale. Some are even selling their entire set-up. Classrooms with whiteboards, seating for faculty and students, and notes with the copyright are on sale. Despite prices being marked down, there are few takers. Bench vendors, the only buyers, are bargaining hard. The going rate in the market is between Rs 400-Rs 1,000 for a three-seater. “Many coaching classes have not been able to survive the economic impact of the pandemic and they have been pushed to liquidate their assets,” said Maharashtra Coaching Classes Owners’ Association Sachin Karnavat. He is among the casualties, too. Just before the lockdown, he had rented premises with four classrooms to expand his footprint. “I have now moved to a new place which has three classrooms. So, I am selling the benches of one class,” he said. Coaching classes operating out of slums are the worst hit. “Parents don’t pay fees for online classes and many don’t have internet access. Hence, many classes have closed down,” said another member of the association. There is also the feeling that the pandemic will forever alter the manner in which tutorials are run. In a future that could see either a tidal shift to online or a blended mode of education, owners of tutorials want to cut the flab. Old timers blame their downed shutters on hefty rents. “The tutorials that worked out of rented premises had thin margins. Class owners had no option but to close down,” said Narendra Bhambwani of Reliable Coaching Classes. His benches are in the market too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/desks-etched-with-memories-on-sale-as-coaching-classes-down-shutters/articleshow/78611111.cms||Hemali Chhapia
October 12, 2020||Goa||Govt planning to e-auction 2.5mn tonne ore for revenue||Panaji: The state government has decided to e-auction around 2.5 million tonne iron ore lying at jetties and plots in a bid to generate revenue for the state. During the last e-auction in May hardly any ore was sold. A senior government officer said that the directorate of mines and geology will move a file for government approval for the e-auction. The officer said that due to the pandemic revenue collection has gone down to around 40% and the state government has to borrow money from the market. The officer said that if the e-auction gets good response then the government will get substantial revenue. Recently chief minister Pramod Sawant had gone to Delhi and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restart mining in Goa due to the state’s bad financial condition. Thirteen mining companies had participated in the last e-auction of the ore lying at jetties and plots. There was poor response for e-auction because no mining company wanted to invest in the ore during the monsoon. In 2012, a Supreme Court judgment had declared mining after 2007 illegal. Ore lying at jetties and plots was subsequently declared state property. The government then identified 15 million tonne ore lying at jetties and plots, of which around 12 million tonne has been e-auctioned. In March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a Supreme Court order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. In January 2020, the apex court permitted export of royalty paid iron ore extracted before March 15, 2018. In March, after a two-year hiatus, mining companies resumed transportation of royalty-paid iron ore in the state. There is around 1.5 million tonne of royalty-paid ore which the companies have started transporting and there is also another 7.7 million tonne on which royalty has not been paid, an official said. One mining company had approached the Supreme Court seeking more time to transport iron ore ore stating factors beyond their control had affected or transportation. Recently, the court reserved its judgment in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-planning-to-e-auction-2-5mn-tonne-ore-for-revenue/articleshow/78610316.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Hathras family to be in Allahabad high court today||AGRA: The Allahabad high court will on Monday hold its first hearing after taking suo motu cognisance of the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras. Apart from senior police and administrative officials, including UP’s director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, the parents of the slain girl and three other family members will also be present in the court. The Lucknow bench of the court has also directed the Hathras DM and SP to be present during the hearing. The family members of the girl will leave for Lucknow on early Monday morning amid tight security. They were expected to reach Lucknow on Sunday night, but refused to travel in the dark citing “fear”. The girl’s brother said, “We were supposed to reach Lucknow on Sunday. But we refused to travel at night. Now, we have been asked to get ready by 5am on Monday.” Taking a stern view of the matter, the division bench comprising justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh had on October 1 said, “We are inclined to examine as to whether there has been gross violation of the fundamental rights of the deceased victim and the family members of the victim. Whether the state authorities have acted oppressively highhandedly and illegally to violate such rights as if it is found to be so, then, this would be a case where accountability will not only have to be fixed but for future guidance also stern action would be required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-family-to-be-in-allahabad-high-court-today/articleshow/78611123.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||Goa||Can’t tell govt officials how to do duty: NGT||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) said that it cannot pass any order directing Goa government officials to do their duty in a particular manner. The tribunal stated this in an order disposing an application filed by Goa Paryavaran Savrakshan Sangharsh Samiti over a matter of alleged tree cutting in an area demarcated as private forest. “So far as cutting of trees is concerned, the state authorities can proceed in accordance with the law and this tribunal cannot pass any order directing the respondent to do their duty in a particular manner,” the NGT stated. In its application before the tribunal, the association had sought for an order stating that no development The association had filed an application before the NGT seeking an order disallowing development on a plot of land in North Goa measuring around 7,900sqm. The petitioner asked that the NGT direct the additional collector North Goa not to issue a land conversion certificate for the plot. The association’s claim was that the land was part of a private forest. However, the NGT found that the matter was already finalised in a case filed before the high court in 2013. A committee formed by the high court found that the area was not part of any private forest. “It was examined and is not found to by the forest committee or the committee constituted by the tribunal or committee constituted by the state government as forest and no appeal has been filed against the order dated December 4, 2013, passed by the high court of Bombay, thus, the order passed by the court is final and the matter is barred by the principal of res judicata. Accordingly, this tribunal cannot intervene in the matter,” the NGT said in its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cant-tell-govt-officials-how-to-do-duty-ngt/articleshow/78610345.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Doctor who went to Hathras faces college probe||JABALPUR: Dr Rajkumari Bansal, the 40-year-old forensic specialist from MP’s Jabalpur, who has been accused by some media outlets of being a Naxalite and living with the Hathras victim’s family “posing as a relative”, will now face an inquiry by the administration of Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, where she works as an assistant professor. “She went on leave without intimation. So, we will send her a show-cause notice on Monday. We are not concerned with where she went and why. Our concern is that she went on leave without information. The rest is police matter,” college dean Dr PK Kasar told TOI. Dr Bansal, however, maintained that she had followed due procedure before going on leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doctor-who-went-to-hathras-faces-college-probe/articleshow/78611125.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||NCP likely to contest municipal polls||Vasco: NCP’s state president Jose Philip D’Souza inducted 70 new members into the party from various parts of Mormugao taluka. “There are many people, including MLAs and ex MLAs, who want to come back to the NCP. We shall organise constituency-wise programmes and welcome them. People have realised that in such times the NCP is the sole party which can be trusted,” D’Souza said. The former Vasco MLA also said that at the upcoming municipal polls, “the NCP has the strength of fielding candidates individually in all wards”. “If the elections are fought on party lines then we will not lag behind,” D’Souza said. NCP’s state Goa NCP Minority Committee president Nazir Khan said, “We will expand the party in a way that NCP will rise as the most powerful party in the state and the country. Our party’s supremo Sharad Pawar is capable of running the country. In the future, one will see many more joining us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-likely-to-contest-municipal-polls/articleshow/78610358.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Man shot dead near bar in Vijayawada, hunt on for assailants||VIJAYAWADA: A 32-year-old man was shot dead by unknown assailants near a bar on Vijayawada bypass road on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The deceased was identified as G Mahesh, a clerk at the pay and accounts department of the Vijayawada police commissioner’s office. According to the police, four people— Mahesh, Dinesh, Anudeep and Geethik— went to Nunna bypass road on Saturday night to drink. Later, a person named Hari Krishna joined the party. After a while, Anudeep and Geethik went to the bar to buy more liquor. Mahesh, Dinesh and Hari Krishna were sitting on the roadside drinking when two people arrived on a scooter. The duo on the scooter first did a recce of the area, and came back within minutes and fired at Mahesh with a pistol from point blank range. The bullets pierced through Mahesh’s chest and neck killing him on the spot. Police said that the assailants fired nine rounds. One of the bullets injured Hari Krishna. The assailants immediately fled the spot. Mahesh, who had collapsed, was taken to a hospital by his friends, where he was declared ‘brought dead’. Vijayawada police commissioner Bathina Srinivasulu rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. He has formed 10 special teams to nab the assailants. Cops suspect that the assailants were aware of Mahesh’s whereabouts and planned the murder. Police said that they are looking at the case from all angles, analysing CCTV footage and other technical details. DCP Vikrant Patil said that the police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the murder. Rumours are doing the rounds about the deceased’s involvement in real estate deals, however family members have denied such reports and said that Mahesh did not have any business interests. Mahesh got married in 2015, but had a rough marital life leading to a divorce only a year after.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-shot-dead-near-bar-in-vij-hunt-on-for-assailants/articleshow/78609402.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Cops bust IPL betting racket at Baga||Calangute: Five persons were arrested by the Calangute police on Saturday night for allegedly operating an IPL betting racket from Baga. This is the third IPL betting racket to be busted in Calangute in the last 15 days. Police said they received a tip-off about the betting racket being operated from a resort room in Baga, Calangute. Police also seized Rs 25,440 cash, 15 cellphones and three laptops, all worth Rs 2,50,000. Investigations are being conducted by PSI Vikas Deykar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-bust-ipl-betting-racket-at-baga/articleshow/78610363.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Partially blind, homeless man gets new lease of life at Street Providence home||Panaji: Homeless and partially blind due to cataract in both eyes, Bernard Carvalho would spend his days loitering and sleeping on the road or at bus stops. In November 2019, he was rescued and now, less than a year later, he is emotionally and physically in a much better state following a cataract surgery on one eye. When he was admitted to the Street Providence Goa home, he was highly stubborn and difficult to manage. He just could not control his bowel movements and would mutter and abuse the caretakers. “Bernard’s motivation level was very low. He understood and believed that nothing good can come from him. To compound this belief of his, the caregivers were getting stressed, bathing and cleaning him daily,” said social worker, Donald Fernandes who also runs a food bank for the homeless. It was after a month that they realised that he was unable to see due to cataract, thus giving them an insight into his agitated mind. “Thanks to one of our food bank volunteers who took Bernard to a doctor in Margao to check his eyes and be prepared for the operation, we managed to get one eye operated free of cost,” Fernandes said. After a few weeks Bernard was at ease. He started responding to the caregivers’ request to use the toilet and started having bath by himself. He now spends his time listening to music on the radio. In a video shared by Fernandes, Bernard is seen singing an Alfred Rose song. “I love listening to Alfred’s cantaram,” he says, smiling at the camera, as he is seen requesting the Street Providence volunteers for a percussion instrument to tap along while singing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/partially-blind-homeless-man-gets-new-lease-of-life-at-street-providence-home/articleshow/78610365.cms||Nida Sayed
October 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rushikonda Beach gets international Blue Flag certification||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag’s Rushikonda Beach, as well as seven beaches from other states, has received the coveted Blue Flag certification. The state tourism department confirmed the news on Sunday. Blue Flag is an international eco-label accorded to particular beaches of qualifying countries by the Denmark-based Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). In order to receive the label, beaches have to fulfill 33 criteria in four categories (water quality, safety measures, beach and waste management). Expressing satisfaction over the certification, state tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao (Avanthi) said Rushikonda has been developed as an international beach following an eco-tourism model to attract foreigners and place the city on the global tourism map. The symbol of the certification—a blue flag—will soon be hoisted at Rushikonda Beach. Rushikonda Beach had received a grant of Rs 7.35 crore from the Centre for undertaking Blue Flag certification works. Development works were carried out for over two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rushikonda-beach-gets-intl-blue-flag-certification/articleshow/78609411.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Eight succumb to virus on Sunday, 432 new infections||PANAJI: With eight more Covid deaths reported on Sunday, the state’s October death toll has reached 78 and the cumulative total to 508. The mortalities included three women aged 80, 70 and 58 years old, from Camurlim, Boca de Vaca and Mapusa. Two died at GMC after days of treatment while one died at Asilo hospital, Mapusa, after an hour of admission. All three were reported to have hypertension besides other underlying conditions. Others, who died at GMC, were men aged 74, 58, 80, 49 and 71 years and were from Ponda, Pernem, Agasaim and Sakhali. All were reported to have comorbid conditions. A 49-year-old, youngest mortality on Sunday, with renal calculus disease, died within 10 minutes of admission to GMC. Another 432 new infections were reported on Sunday, taking the cumulative cases to 38,366. With 33,203 recoveries, 426 recovering on Sunday, Goa’s recovery rate stands at 86.5 %. Active cases presently stand at 4,655. Meanwhile, mayor Uday Madkaikar and his wife were discharged from Manipal hospital on Sunday. Both had moderate Covid infection and were put on oxygen therapy in the hospital, Dr Shekhar Salkar head of clinical management at Manipal Hospitals said. The mayor will continue home isolation till October 17, while his wife will have to be in home isolation till Tuesday he added. Doctors have advised the public to not ignore Covid-like symptoms and get themselves tested as soon as possible. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday advised against congregating in large numbers to prove one’s faith or religion. The health ministry also said those with persistent or prolonged sadness, tiredness, changes in sleeping and eating patterns, negative thoughts, lack of interest in talks enjoyed previously and suicidal thoughts could be under depression and advised them to seek professional help if the symptoms persist for more than two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eight-succumb-to-virus-on-sunday-432-new-infections/articleshow/78610370.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Sought Supreme Court-monitored probe for transparency: Yogi on Hathras||LUCKNOW: “Every person has the right to seek justice and my government will ensure that no injustice be committed to anyone,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath here on Sunday. “And for guaranteeing justice to all in Hathras case, we have sought a Supreme Court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation,” he told TOI in an exclusive interview. “Sach Janata ke saamne aana chahihye aur Nyay paane ka adhikar harek vyakti ko hai,” he said. “That’s why we submitted our request before the Supreme court in an affidavit to request that CBI probe or any probe should happen under its supervision. We wanted everything to be transparent,” he said, speaking on the issue for the first time to a newspaper, about this unusual taken by his government. For a general rule, state governments show reluctance to accept a CBI probe and go for it only after SC or HC issue notices. “All the named accused had been arrested in the case but opposition was indulging in petty politics and conspiracies while the people of the state are well aware that my government had adopted a series of measures for women safety and for the conviction of the accused in the cases of crime against women and young girls,” he added. “There was a law and order situation in the state on September 30 (the girl died at a Delhi hospital on September 29) because of the impending court verdict on Babri maasjid demolition case, and then there were intelligence reports of vested interests all set to trigger caste riots in the shadow of the unfortunate Hathras case,” he further said, adding “anyone going through those reports won’t question the steps taken by us at the ground level.” Enumerating the steps taken by his government, he said: “Besides the arrest of all four accused, action has been taken against the officers prima facie found responsible for lapses in the report submitted by the SIT. Now, a CBI inquiry would further probe the cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sought-supreme-court-monitored-probe-for-transparency-yogi-on-hathras/articleshow/78611129.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 12, 2020||Goa||Theatres can open at 50% capacity, SOPs soon: Goa CM||PANAJI: In keeping with the provisions of Unlock 5.0, chief minister Pramod Sawant said that theatres in the state will be allowed to open from October 15. He also clarified that casinos will not open yet. As per the guidelines of Unlock 5.0, cinemas/theatres/multiplexes will be permitted to open at 50% seating capacity for which the SOP will be issued by the Union ministry for information and broadcasting. The All Goa Theatre Owners Association (AGTOA), however, has a new worry, that of there being no new films to screen. “Unless Maharashtra and Delhi are open, there is no way movies will be released,” AGTOA president and Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye said. Stating that it is not just a matter of opening of theatres, but that of business being conducted, Zantye said, “If one sees the SOP, releasing of movies is not even affordable for distributors. And unless distributors release new movies, people will not come to theatres. Also, in the current situation, I don’t think anyone has the guts to go to theatres.” Zantye said that Maharashtra will not open, at least till November-end and that around 20 percent of business comes from there. He also said that theatres in other states can open as they have their regional movies, but here, there are no Konkani movies either to be screened. Meanwhile, on the topic of schools restarting, Sawant said the director and secretary of education have been instructed to consult with stakeholders of the education section on opening of schools for classes X and XII, and submit a report to the government. Sawant said that the state has already permitted social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations. As per unlock 5.0, state/UT governments outside containment zones may permit such gatherings beyond the earlier limit of 100 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/theatres-can-open-at-50-capacity-sops-soon-cm/articleshow/78610375.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Private bus owners seek tax waiver for one year||Panaji: The private bus owners’ association has demanded that the government waive passenger tax and road tax for one year. “We had not deliberately kept our vehicles non-operational. The decision to shut transport and RTOs was of the central government. Even though we resumed operations after restrictions were eased, buses were not running to full capacity and we were losing income. With such circumstances in place, how are we to pay tax?” president of the association, Sudeep Tamanhkar said. He pointed out that assistant directors of transport (ADTs) have been given the responsibility to collect tax but they also have the power to waive taxes. He said that they must hold a meeting and waive the tax for the buses running in the state. “If the Punjab and Orissa governments can do it, why can’t Goa government?” he said. He also said that Michael Lobo, “doesn’t appear to have the best interests of taxi drivers” and pointed out that the “Lokayukta called him unfit” for a reason. Ports minister Michael Lobo had recently met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday and demanded to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1974 so that no fines should be imposed on taxi owners and public transport owners when they pay road tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-bus-owners-seek-tax-waiver-for-one-year/articleshow/78610379.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Nellore: Suspecting infidelity, 48-yr-old man murders wife and relative||VIJAYAWADA: A 48-year-old man allegedly killed his wife and a distant relative at GN Gardens in Nellore rural mandal of Nellore district. While the incident happened on Friday, it came to light only on Sunday morning after cops broke open the doors of the house. Police found two women — K Nirmalamma (43) and R Venkata Ramanamma (42) — lying dead with severe injuries. DSP Nellore (rural), Y Harinath Reddy said that the accused, K Nageswara Rao, suspected his wife Nirmalamma of having an extra-marital affair and Venkata Ramanamma of helping his wife in pursuing the affair. On Friday morning, Nageswara Rao hacked the two women with a sharp object and fled the scene after locking the door from the outside, the DSP said.He added that Nageswara Rao married Nirmalamma after his first wife passed away. The couple lived at Ramateerthan of Vidavaluru mandal and had shifted to Nellore a year ago. The accused was involved in the earthmover business, said the DSP. The double murder came to light only after Venkata Ramanamma’s son lodged a missing complaint. Police reached Nageswara Rao’s house where they found the two women lying dead. On the basis of the scene of crime and the time since when Ramanamma had gone missing, cops concluded that the murders took place on Friday morning. DSP Harinath Reddy said that the police have strong leads on the accused’s whereabouts and will nab him soon. A case was registered under Section 302 of IPC (murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/suspecting-infidelity-48-yr-old-man-murders-wife-and-relative/articleshow/78609431.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Poor response sees KTC suspend buses to Malvan||Panaji: Within weeks of resuming interstate transport after a six-month hiatus, Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTCL) bus service from Goa to Malvan has been suspended due to poor response. “There are no passengers for the Goa to Malvan trip. After gauging the response for a while, we decided to temporarily discontinue service on this route,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. KTC’s interstate bus service was resumed from September 5. Service was restored after a hiatus of 170 days on two Karnataka routes– Belagavi and Karwar. A few days later, buses to three destinations in Maharashtra were also restored. Nine buses left for Sawantwadi, Vengurla and Malvan on September 14 with a 30% passenger load. These routes were finalised by the KTC because of the short distances to these destinations. Despite the poor response, KTC is optimistic that interstate bus transport will pick up by the end of the year. They are hopeful of resuming services to distant destinations like Bengaluru, Mumbai and Pune by December. “Currently, we have 18 buses operating in Karwar, Belagavi, Sawantwadi and Vengurla. We may resume buses to Malvan in December, depending on the demand. In addition to that we are also planning to resume all long-distance bus trips in December,” Ghate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poor-response-sees-ktc-suspend-buses-to-malvan/articleshow/78610382.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Truck suffers brake fail, kills 2 bikers||Visakhapatnam: Two youngsters died on the spot and four others were injured after a truck went out of control as its breaks failed and slammed a number of vehicles at Hanumanthuwaka Junction in Vizag on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as 29-year-old P Ramu from Vizianagaram and 28-year-old Ramakrishna Raju from East Godavari. According to the police, the incident took place around 11am on Sunday when the plastic sheets-laden truck was heading towards Vizag from Kolkata. The driver lost control of the vehicle as its brakes failed following a tire puncture and the truck went on to hit two bikes, two cars and an auto-rickshaw from behind. The two people on bikes suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. Four people who were in the auto-rickshaw, including the driver, sustained injuries.The accident led to a 40-minute-long traffic jam on one of the busiest junctions of the NH-16 stretch in Vizag. Police hospitalised the injured and sent the dead bodies for post mortem. A case was registered against the truck driver. The transport department will examine the condition of the truck to ascertain what led to the brake fail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/truck-suffers-brake-fail-kills-2-bikers/articleshow/78609436.cms||---
October 12, 2020||India||Woman protests UP Congress ticket to ‘rapist’, gets thrashed by netas||DEORIA: Four UP Congress functionaries, including a district president, were booked on Sunday for allegedly assaulting a woman colleague in public when she protested against the party giving “a rapist” the party ticket to contest the November 3 Deoria bypoll. Swinging into damagecontrol mode after videos of the assault on Tara Yadav during a party meeting at Deoria on Saturday went viral, Congress set up an internal inquiry and expelled two members for indiscipline. Yadav, Congress’s state in-charge for the unorganised sector, had been allegedly heckled and thrashed after she spoke out about the irony of fighting for justice to the Hathras girl and giving the bypoll ticket to someone accused of rape. She lodged a police complaint naming four Congress office-bearers, including the Deoria district president Dharmendra Singh, for alleged assault and molestation. The Congress candidate at the epicentre of the intraparty scrap contested the rape charge, saying no case was pending against him. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu said the party had suspended Sainthwar and another party member, Deen Dayal Yadav. In Delhi, National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma said she had written to the UP police chief, demanding strict action against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/woman-protests-up-congress-ticket-to-rapist-gets-thrashed-by-netas/articleshow/78611130.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 12, 2020||Goa||EC revises norms for polls during pandemic||Panaji: The  Commission of India has revised the guidelines for elections that may be conducted during the pandemic. According to the guidelines, every person must wear a face mark during election-related activities and ensure social distancing at polling booths Covid-19 patients who are quarantined will be allowed to cast their vote in the last hour of the poll day at their respective polling stations under the supervision of health authorities. Gloves must be made available to each official handling EVM and VVPATs, state the guidelines. Election officials must be trained through online mode or in a decentralised manner in large halls, and polling stations must be arranged in such a manner that each one has a maximum of 1,000 electors instead of 1,500 electors. Face masks must also be kept in reserve for those who turn up at the polling booth without a mask and voters will have to lower the face mask for identification when required, state the EC’s guidelines. Voter will be given gloves for signing on the voter register and pressing the EVM button for voting, the guidelines state. The guidelines also state that sufficient polling staff be kept in reserve to replace any in case any polling personnel displays Covid symptoms. Only two persons will be permitted to accompany a candidate for submission of nomination. The ECI has also revised norms of star campaigners during the pandemic for all ongoing and future elections during the pandemic. Last month, the commission had issued broad guidelines for the conduct of elections during Covid after taking inputs from political parties and chief electoral officers of the states/UTs. The commission had put a limit of 30 star campaigners for recognised national and state political parties and 15 for unrecognised political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ec-revises-norms-for-polls-during-pandemic/articleshow/78610388.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Goa||Arecanut production shows steady climb over decade||Ponda: Arecanut cultivation in the state has witnessed substantial growth over the past decade owing to an increase in kulagar plantations, despite erratic climatic conditions and other factors. In 2009, Goa had a total area of 1,641ha under arecanut cultivation, with an average yield of 1,571kg per hectare and average total production of 2,578 tonne per year. Ten years later, the state now has 1,836ha under arecanut cultivation, with an average yield of 1,600kg per hectare, while the annual average production ranges between 2,800 and 3,000 tonne, statistics maintained by the Goa State Agricultural and Live Stock Marketing Board revealed. Kulagars are a main source of cash crops such as spices, flowers, fruits and medicinal plants. Like rice farming, kulagars are a primary source of income to many horticulturists, with some entirely dependent on it for their survival. Betel nut or arecanut (locally known as supari) is a main crop of kulagars. Its ethno-religious importance, particularly in India, is unique. While arecanut is chewed with betel leaf as a mouth freshener, it is also used in many rituals across the state. Due to its medicinal value, arecanut finds use in tooth powders, and is also effective against malaria and intestinal worms. Its bark and palms are used for building makeshift huts. Ponda has the largest area under arecanut cultivation in the state. Of the total area of 1,310ha under arecanut cultivation in South Goa, or 1,836ha in the entire state, Ponda alone comprises 994ha. Besides Ponda, arecanut is also widely cultivated in Sattari, Sanguem and Dharbandora talukas. After cashew, arecanut is considered the most important cash crop in the state. Madhav Sahakari, owner of Sahakari Spice plantation, said the negligence and ignorance by farmers lead to business losses. Inadequate knowledge and ignorance of recommended practices could be some of the reasons behind the failure of arecanut production, he said, while adding that if properly looked after, an areacut palm will constantly give good produce throughout its 40-year life span. “Regular watering and spraying of pesticides can increase the productivity of the palms, while use of minimum labour could lessen production costs,” Sahakari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arecanut-production-shows-steady-climb-over-decade/articleshow/78610394.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
October 12, 2020||Goa||Nerul deputy sarpanch poll postponed||Saligao: The elections for the deputy sarpanch’s post of the Nerul panchyat, which were scheduled on October 12 have been postponed after a panch member tested positive for Covid-19. The fresh date of elections will to be decided by the Bardez BDO’s office. The deputy sarpanch’s post fell vacant after Abhijeet Benaulikar tendered his resignation to make way for a new panchayat member, as per a mutual understanding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nerul-deputy-sarpanch-poll-postponed/articleshow/78610396.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 12, 2020||India||Trafficked, girl walks 200km to Hathras||AGRA: A 17 year-old- girl, who escaped from human traffickers in Delhi, walked blindly to UP for three days, walking and taking lifts for 200 km to Hathras — about 794km short of her home in MP’s Mandla district — before she was spotted by passersby and cops. According to the girl, who was dazed and fatigued when police rescued late Saturday night, she was confined with at least 12 other girls her age in a tiny room in Delhi. Superintendent of police (SP) of Hathras, Vineet Jaiswal, said, “The girl is unable to tell us the exact location in Delhi where she was confined. She says there were 12 other girls and they all escaped. This is serious. The girl was distraught and hungry. She was on the road for the last three days.” He added, “The matter is being investigated.” The girl was handed over to the child helpline, the SP said. “My family is very poor and in need of money. Some villagers advised them to send me along with a few other girls to Delhi in lieu of some money,” the girl said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trafficked-girl-walks-200km-to-hathras/articleshow/78611138.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||7 years after approval, Yettinahole project remains stuck in the pipeline||BENGALURU: The Yettinahole lift irrigation scheme, which was approved more than seven years ago, is likely to face more delays as the state government doesn’t have enough funds to fulfil project requirements such as buying land for a balancing reservoir. The project was planned to mechanically divert excess rainwater from the Western Ghats to the parched districts of Kolar and Chikkaballapur, which are 265km away. Some senior officials say the work requires a huge investment and it’s unlikely to begin in the next few years as the government is grappling with a financial crisis triggered by the pandemic. The project cost estimate has increased from Rs 13,000 crore in 2013 to Rs 20,000 crore this year. Acquiring land to build a balancing reservoir at Byragondlu in Koratagere, Tumakuru district, is a major component. “Successive governments have announced a number of irrigation schemes. We end up spending resources on executing smaller projects and as a result, major ones get delayed,” said a senior official. “We will always be short of funds for irrigation projects.” Land becomes expensive every year and this adds to the project cost. The biggest spike has been seen in Bengaluru Rural district. “The proposed balancing reservoir requires 5,000 acres of land spread across Koratagere and Doddaballapur (Bengaluru Rural). The land rate in Koratagere is Rs 8,000 per acre, whereas in Doddaballapur, it is Rs 32,000 per acre. Now, farmers in Koratagere are demanding Rs 32,000 per acre,” the official said. Water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is confident that land acquisition problems would be resolved. “I am certain that this issue, which has delayed the Yettinahole project, will be resolved at the earliest. I will call a meeting of my department officials to hammer out a solution,” he said. Officials say the issue is complex as agreeing to farmers’ demand that they be paid higher compensation for their land will trigger similar calls in the Upper Krishna Project (UKP) III. “If we accept a certain rate, then it will have a cascading effect on the UKP III land acquisition pricing. Financially, we are not in a position to pay more,” said an official. Jarkiholi maintains that the Yettinahole project is progressing. “By the next monsoon, we will see water drawn from the Western Ghats travelling 31km to the Vedavathi River. I will personally see to it that the project gets a push,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/7-years-after-approval-yettinahole-project-remains-stuck-in-the-pipeline/articleshow/78610971.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
October 12, 2020||Business||Government to leverage public offers, buybacks for divestment plan||NEW DELHI: Encouraged by the response to the Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders IPO, the government will prioritise public offers — at an “attractive price” — and buybacks as it seeks to mop up resources from disinvestment during the second half of the fiscal. While suspending the use of exchange-traded funds (ETFs) for disinvestment, sources said the government will also reduce the reliance on public sector banks and financial institutions such as Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) as an attractive price will not just generate investor appetite but also leave room for an upside at the time of listing. “Post-listing gains also show that we care for investors. In the past, there have been instances where public sector stocks have lost value after listing. We are engaging with investors and bankers on this issue,” said a senior government official. RailTel IPO, along with followon issues of IRCTC, Kudremukh Iron Ore Company and TCIL, are among those in the pipeline that will be pursued by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam). Sources said that the growing view in the government was that ETFs have a serious impact on stock prices and have resulted in value erosion in case of future IPOs and follow-on issues. The strategy to get LIC and other large institutions to stay away from bailing out PSU issues is part of a plan for better governance of these entities ahead of their own listing and public offers. “A market-based system also lifts other stocks,” the source said. While the Rs 2.1-lakh-crore disinvestment target for the year appears elusive, given the significant impact of the coronavirus, Dipam has identified 6-8 PSUs, including Rites, which are sitting on cash for a possible buyback of shares. “We are trying to strike a balance with capex because we do not want them to surrender money that can be used for asset creation in these times,” explained an official. The finance ministry has been pushing public sector companies to step up capital expenditure at a time when overall investment climate is hit by Covid-19 and a fall in demand. Infrastructure and energy sectors have come into special focus as their expansion and new asset-creation will generate demand for steel, cement and other inputs, apart from creating jobs. At the same time, officials said that strategic sale remains at the core of the strategy with some of the asset-monetisation plans, especially those related to the sale of steel plants owned by SAIL expected to go through. Although bids for the BPCL disinvestment have been deferred, sources said all strategic sale decisions may not be put off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-to-leverage-public-offers-buybacks-for-divestment-plan/articleshow/78611170.cms||siddharta
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Plan to hike property tax in Bengaluru stirs political backlash||BENGALURU: A proposal to hike property tax in the city and shore up fund-starved BBMP’s revenue has become a political issue. BJP legislators are railing against the plan, saying it will hurt the party’s chances in the civic elections next year, while the opposition has already seized upon it to slam the government. A delegation of BJP functionaries recently met chief minister BS Yediyurappa and reportedly urged him to nix the proposal. A joint select House committee for restructuring the civic body has also objected to the plan. It will meet on Tuesday. “This is not the time to consider hiking property tax. People are reeling under the Covid-19 crisis. Commercial establishments have lost business and thousands of residents have lost jobs. This is the time to extend financial assistance, not increase their tax burden,” said Udaya Garudachar, a BJP MLA from Chickept, voicing the concerns of fellow legislators. Dwindling revenues have prompted BBMP to start the process of revising property tax rates and reworking the method to calculate it. On Friday, BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad constituted a seven-member property tax committee, which will come up with recommendations for periodic increase in tax revenue. The civic body has a legal obligation to revise the tax rate every three years, but it has not done so since 2016. Now, an increase of 15 to 30 per cent is being discussed. Currently, it follows the self-assessment scheme, in which the rental value or unit value of a property is used to calculate the amount of tax the owner must pay. A drawback of the system is that the amount will be the same for all types of properties in a particular locality, irrespective of their capital value. As the rental value was updated in 2004, BBMP earns less money than it should. It generally collects nearly Rs 2,700 crore as property tax a year as against the potential of Rs 5,000 crore. BBMP’s property tax panel and the joint select House committee are now studying a proposal to switch to guidance value-linked assessment. In this system, which will lead to more tax revenue, a property’s capital value will be considered. Prasad said BBMP was looking at various options to improve tax compliance, including drone surveys and laser mapping of properties. “Ramping up revenues through all possible means is a priority. Hiking property tax will be considered only at the end after exhausting all these means,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/plan-to-hike-property-tax-in-bengaluru-stirs-political-backlash/articleshow/78610986.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Hindu Rao doctors on strike as pay dues not cleared||NEW DELHI: With the 48-hour deadline given by the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Hindu Rao Hospital for releasing their pending salaries getting over by 9am on Monday, a strike to stop Covid-related operations was started at the hospital by the healthcare workers on Sunday itself. However, most infected patients had been transferred from the facility to hospitals run by Delhi government a day earlier. North Delhi Municipal Corporation has started intensive sanitisation of the premises to restart non-Covid normal operations in the coming days. The RDA announced that they wouldn’t cooperate with the administration until their pending salaries were paid and not resume even normal operations. Barring three critical patients, 12 others were shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital and three to Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital in Civil Lines on Saturday. Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, who heads the RDA, said they would continue with their week-long protest. “The administration tried to negotiate with us by giving verbal assurances. We have only one simple demand that our salaries should be paid. How is anyone expected to live a normal life without salaries for 3-4 months? Verbal assurances have never been fulfilled in the past. We withdrew our services today. We will continue to be on strike even if non-Covid services resume,” he added. RDA vice-president Dr Sagardeep Bawa said, “Our issue hasn’t been resolved. On Monday, we are planning to meet the commissioner and additional commissioner. Our daily protest at the hospital gates will continue.” The 980-bed Hindu Rao Hospital is the biggest facility run by north corporation. It used to cater to 2,000-3,000 OPD patients before the pandemic. Jai Prakash, mayor of north corporation, said, “Normal operations will resume this week. Earlier, the entire system, including emergency services, testing and ICU, were modelled for Covid-19. The duty roster will have to be rearranged and healthcare workers diverted to other hospitals will be recalled. We are negotiating with the doctors and the situation will be resolved soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-hindu-rao-doctors-on-strike-as-pay-dues-not-cleared/articleshow/78611173.cms||Paras Singh
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Four held for killing 24-year-old during snatching attempt in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A week after armed robbers killed a man during a snatching bid in central Delhi's GB Road, four men have been arrested for the crime. Two of the accused - who were allegedly the main suspects - were arrested by the central district police. "They have been identified as Fardeen (21) and Rahat Ali (19)," DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said. Their associates, meanwhile, were arrested in a separate operation by the Crime Branch. "The other two accused have been identified as Salman (22) and Suhaib (19)," DCP (Crime) Rakesh Paweria claimed. The incident had taken place on October 5, when one Anirudh Yadav, and his friend Aman (24), were on their way back home from a relative house. The duo had stopped at GB Road to buy cigarettes. While Aman was standing on the road, Yadav went to a corner to relieve himself. As Yadav returned, he saw Aman screaming and found him chasing a man who had snatched his phone. Aman managed to catch the snatcher and got into a scuffle with him. In the meantime, the accused's associate came from behind and stabbed the victim. Yadav tried to intervene, but the snatchers stabbed him too. The accused fled with the mobile phone, while the two were rushed to a hospital. Doctors declared Aman dead on arrival while Yadav was treated for his injuries. DCP Bhatia formed a team led by ACP Anil Kumar and SHO Lekhraj to nab the killers. Local intelligence was gathered and footage from CCTV cameras analysed. Cops identified one of the accused from his scooter and raided his house in New Seelampur. One of the suspects, Fardeen, was nabbed after the cops received a tip-off about his whereabouts. He turned out to be the one who had stabbed Aman. Fardeen also revealed the identity of his associates, which led the officers to arrest the co-accused, Rahat. Meanwhile, a team from Crime Branch apprehended the other two accused, Salman and Suhaib, on a tip off. Two phones, including the one stolen from the deceased, were recovered from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-held-for-killing-24-year-old-during-snatching-attempt-in-delhi/articleshow/78611175.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Business||Centre, most states to press for fund-raising at GST meet today||NEW DELHI: The Union government is unlikely to allow voting on fund-raising by states at Monday’s GST Council meeting. It will insist that those who want to go ahead with the options put forward by it should not be affected by Opposition-ruled states that want the Centre to borrow funds from the market and transfer it to them. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said she has the support of 20-21 states with even those such as Opposition-ruled Maharashtra asking the Centre to borrow funds, while simultaneously suggesting that states could raise Rs1.1lakh crore (revised from Rs 97,000 crore earlier) through the special window in case the Union government could not borrow. Even Tamil Nadu, which had originally opposed the proposal, suggested something similar at last week’s GST Council meeting. In its letter to the states suggesting the options, the Centre had also proposed to bear the margin in case the cost of funds was higher than the yield on government securities through a subsidy. A fresh duel is likely on Monday after last week’s discussions did not see a vote, as was demanded by some of the states, with officers at the Centre later saying the GST Council is not empowered to decide the modalities for borrowing. They have argued that the all-powerful ministerial panel’s mandate was limited to extending the levy of compensation cess beyond June 2022 and the details of the borrowing programme needed to be discussed with the Union expenditure department. “This is very surprising,” said Chhattisgarh minister T S Singh Deo. The dispute is over agenda item 9A from last week’s meeting, with officials at the Centre suggesting that the issue was only meant for discussion and not for voting. They are arguing that even the legal opinion has suggested that borrowing has to be decided between the states and the expenditure department. Officials said communication over email with regard to borrowing options was between the expenditure department and the states. The finance minister of an Opposition-ruled state questioned the latest stand taken by the Centre, arguing that an officer of the GST Council had circulated the note on borrowing to the states. “What has been reported by the media has come as a shock since we spent five and a half hours in the first meeting and another seven and a half hours last week discussing this… I am only hoping this is the figment of imagination of some officer or the other,” added West Bengal FM Amit Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-most-states-to-press-for-fund-raising-at-gst-meet-today/articleshow/78611178.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru women reimagining tokens of every celebration||BENGALURU: A walk down the aisle, a warm farewell, a milestone birthday — flowers can enliven any occasion with their multifarious hues and scents. Through diverse offerings, women in the business of blooms are ensuring Bengalureans don’t run out of their floral favourites. From Europe’s stunning Keukenhof gardens to the verdurous Nilgiris, Nidhi Gupta’s love for flowers has taken her to various places. But it was multiple visits to Bengaluru’s flower markets that sowed the seeds of entrepreneurship in her. “I observed that people had ornamental vases at home, but they decorated them with artificial flowers. An understanding of the wholesale prices made me realise that there were inefficiencies in the supply chain. I studied the farmer-distributor-retailer model and thought I could offer something more in terms of affordability and freshness,” says the e-commerce professional-turned-florist. The idea germinated into Shades of Spring, a venture she launched in 2017. From scrappy bouquets to personalised boxes, much has changed in the presentation of flowers. Many floral designers have brought greater sophistication to the sphere, spreading joy among a diverse client base. Shruti Kapur Malhan, who earlier worked with her husband in the construction industry, forayed into floristry after her kids started schooling. “Roses, lilies, tulips, peonies, orchids — flowers remain the same; the packaging is what’s different. Wraps for handheld bouquets and customised baskets give flowers a completely new avatar. While rose boxes are a sought-after corporate gifting option, throw in some chocolates and candles, and you’ve got a festive hamper,” says Shruti, co-partner at OneRoze. Meghaa Modi believes the industry has evolved, but still has miles to go. Her fascination with flowers blossomed into a love affair in 2005 when she launched Flowerbox to fill the gap in the market. “It was a disorganised industry run primarily by unskilled workers with no knowledge of aesthetics. Though customer awareness has grown and design has undergone a transformation in the luxury segment, many small-time vendors are still using the same plastic wrapping/ribbons and making the same bouquets they did 15 years ago,” says Meghaa. A master in the Japanese flower-arrangement art of ikebana, she has studied commercial floristry in Tokyo, Singapore and Europe. “I still see people spending lakhs and crores on weddings, where planners use 70 per cent artificial flowers. They need to realise fresh flowers will bring more positive energy to the venue,” says the designer, whose luxury brand, Meghaa Flowerbox, caters to a niche clientele. Like Shruti, Shweta Sudhir took the plunge to explore her creative side. “Flowers have always been an intrinsic part of our culture, be it in the form of offerings to deities or wedding adornments. I wanted to make the switch from traditional to contemporary,” says Shweta, who started Pink Luxury Flower Studio from her backyard in 2017 while she was studying law. “The concept of luxury roses in a box was not as popular in India back then. But a generous response from patrons kept me going,” adds the Bengalurean, who hasn’t had any formal training and has learned on the job. Her goal now is to achieve complete sustainability in packaging. While flowers have traditionally been associated with birthdays, weddings and anniversaries, a shift in consumer behaviour has seen the list of occasions multiply — baby announcements, bridal showers, get-togethers and the likes. They are becoming a home artform and fixture as well. “Arranging flowers is therapeutic and is catching up as a hobby among women and the elderly,” says Nidhi, whose subscription model finds takers among home décor enthusiasts. Technology-enabled delivery services and DIY videos have made it easier for people to access and arrange flowers, spurring interest in the subject, says Shweta. In a job which requires a fine balance of artistic finesse and technical expertise, upskilling is vital to stay ahead of the game. “There are various aspects that one must work on to evolve as an artist — personal growth through meditation and awareness, exposure through travel and knowledge enhancement by keeping track of trends,” says Meghaa, who has learned from teachers across the globe and has trained many florists. While Shruti looks up to design pros like Jeff Leatham, Preston Bailey and Vandana Mohan, Nidhi tutored herself online before turning to some renowned names to learn the craft. Shweta believes entrepreneurship comes from within and draws inspiration from everything around her. The women bank on a large network of growers across the country and even abroad. The pandemic has dealt a blow to the event and floriculture industries, and they are learning to adapt. With the festive season around the corner, they are keeping their fingers crossed, hoping to spot green shoots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blossoming-art-bengaluru-women-reimagining-tokens-of-every-celebration/articleshow/78610968.cms||Shubhi Mehrotra
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 66-year-old doctor dies after 3-week Covid battle||MUMBAI: A 66-year-old orthopaedic surgeon succumbed to Covid on Sunday after battling with the viral disease for the past 22 days. Dr Narendra Rege, who was an alumnus of Sion Hospital, died of Covid with multiorgan dysfunction. The doctor was admitted to Nanavati Hospital on September 19. Doctors there said that he was on a non-invasive ventilator initialy for a few days before being put on a mechanical ventilator. The doctors said he had received tocilizumab and plasma therapy, but his condition did not improve. Surgeon Dr JG Lalmalani said, “Almost all doctors have opened their clinics and are practising now. The Covid risk is here to stay,” he said. Meanwhile, the Association of Medical Consultants has written to the chief minister, demanding that private doctors too be given the cover of Rs 50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-66-year-old-doctor-dies-after-3-week-covid-battle/articleshow/78611184.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Business||Realtors seek fresh loan relief ahead of Supreme Court hearing||NEW DELHI: Builders’ lobby group Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) has demanded an extension of the loan moratorium with interest waiver. They have also sought a sweetened loan-restructuring deal, arguing that 95% of the developers would default as the terms of the debt recast to tackle the pandemic impact on the sector were not “meaningful”. The statement comes just ahead of the Supreme Court hearing on the issue of interest waiver during the moratorium period, a suggestion that has not found favour with either the government or the RBI. Credai-Maharashtra has filed a petition urging the apex court to direct the government to consider their demand of loan restructuring and interest waiver for the moratorium period. It has demanded the loan moratorium be extended up to March 2021. Credai termed the present announced norms for loan restructuring as “illusory” and said that it would benefit at the most 5% developers. A large number of realtors, including some marquee names, were defaulters even before the pandemic and are ineligible for the special loan-restructuring scheme announced by the RBI to tackle the distress. Only entities that did not have loan overdues of over 30 days are eligible for the one-time benefit under the scheme. With demand picking up and cash flow resuming, a fresh moratorium will help the real estate sector, Rustomjee Group CMD and Credai vice-president Boman Irani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/realtors-seek-fresh-loan-relief-ahead-of-supreme-court-hearing/articleshow/78611191.cms||Prabhakar Sinha
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 claims first woman cop from Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 43-year-old constable died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Kalyan on Sunday. Constable Surekha Unverkar was the first woman in the Mumbai police force to succumb tio the virus. Just last month, Unverkar had completed 20 years of service in the Mumbai police force. With her death, the state police force toll touched 261, and city police force toll rose to 86. Unverkar, a native of Raigad, lived in Kalyan with her husband. She did not have any co-morbidities. She was admitted to Vaidya Hospital in Kalyan on September 28, with breathing problems. She passed away at the same hospital. Unverkar was the fourth policewoman to die of Covid in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-claims-first-woman-cop-from-mumbai/articleshow/78611192.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-rain diseases coinfection claimed 37 lives across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Coinfection with Covid-19 and mosquito-borne diseases, like malaria and dengue, has claimed 28 lives in the state. Covid-19 has also presented with the bacterial disease leptospirosis in seven victims in the state. There have also been two deaths where the patients suffered from both Covid-19 and typhoid. According to state data, in these 37 deaths, there have been instances of Covid coinfections with monsoon diseases. The number could be underreported as district collectors have been asked to collate details of more such cases and report them. Among coinfections, the highest deaths have been seen with malaria—17—followed by dengue (11). Doctors said Covid symptoms, including fever, cough, breathlessness, can overlap with many infectious diseases that are caused by other pathogens. “We are still analysing these deaths and trying to understand how the diseases interacted and how they contributed to the deaths. We have asked districts that have reported these cases to provide more information,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer. He, however, said that the deaths in such cases were not overwhelmingly high. Maharashtra has seen over 40,000 Covid deaths so far. Mumbai was among the first in the state to report Covid-malaria and Covid-dengue coinfection cases. In August, a 27-yearold from G-North ward, which covers Dadar, Mahim and Shivaji Park, and a 40-year-old from M-East ward, which comprises Deonar, Govandi and Mankhurd areas, had succumbed to Covid-malaria, making them the first two victims of coinfection. Thereafter, cases were found in Gadchiroli too, another malaria-endemic area. Dr Abdul Ansari, critical care expert at Nanavati Hospital, said they have treated a 20-yearold man with serious malaria and Covid coinfection. “The patient had come to us with high creatinine and low platelet levels, but none of the usual respiratory signs. When he was detected with malaria, we thought the diagnosis was done. But he tested positive for Covid before dialysis,” he said. Dr Ansari said that coinfections do complicate treatment in serious cases. “One also has to be mindful of giving too many immunomodulators as the other infection may flare up,” he said, adding that detecting the dominant disease becomes important here. Consultant Dr Pratit Samdani said he has seen five cases of Covid with malaria and Covid with dengue. “The key is early identification of coinfections with Covid for appropriate and timely management,” he said. Dr Milind Nadkar, professor and head of medicine, KEM Hospital, said they have treated quite a few patients of vivax malaria and even leptospirosis developing breathing difficulty and taking a severe turn. “But they tested negative for Covid,” he said in a live chat show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-rain-diseases-coinfection-claimed-37-lives-across-maharashtra/articleshow/78611203.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 12, 2020||Pune||Covid-rain diseases coinfection claimed 37 lives across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Coinfection with Covid-19 and mosquito-borne diseases, like malaria and dengue, has claimed 28 lives in the state. Covid-19 has also presented with the bacterial disease leptospirosis in seven victims in the state. There have also been two deaths where the patients suffered from both Covid-19 and typhoid. According to state data, in these 37 deaths, there have been instances of Covid coinfections with monsoon diseases. The number could be underreported as district collectors have been asked to collate details of more such cases and report them. Among coinfections, the highest deaths have been seen with malaria—17—followed by dengue (11). Doctors said Covid symptoms, including fever, cough, breathlessness, can overlap with many infectious diseases that are caused by other pathogens. “We are still analysing these deaths and trying to understand how the diseases interacted and how they contributed to the deaths. We have asked districts that have reported these cases to provide more information,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer. He, however, said that the deaths in such cases were not overwhelmingly high. Maharashtra has seen over 40,000 Covid deaths so far. Mumbai was among the first in the state to report Covid-malaria and Covid-dengue coinfection cases. In August, a 27-yearold from G-North ward, which covers Dadar, Mahim and Shivaji Park, and a 40-year-old from M-East ward, which comprises Deonar, Govandi and Mankhurd areas, had succumbed to Covid-malaria, making them the first two victims of coinfection. Thereafter, cases were found in Gadchiroli too, another malaria-endemic area. Dr Abdul Ansari, critical care expert at Nanavati Hospital, said they have treated a 20-yearold man with serious malaria and Covid coinfection. “The patient had come to us with high creatinine and low platelet levels, but none of the usual respiratory signs. When he was detected with malaria, we thought the diagnosis was done. But he tested positive for Covid before dialysis,” he said. Dr Ansari said that coinfections do complicate treatment in serious cases. “One also has to be mindful of giving too many immunomodulators as the other infection may flare up,” he said, adding that detecting the dominant disease becomes important here. Consultant Dr Pratit Samdani said he has seen five cases of Covid with malaria and Covid with dengue. “The key is early identification of coinfections with Covid for appropriate and timely management,” he said. Dr Milind Nadkar, professor and head of medicine, KEM Hospital, said they have treated quite a few patients of vivax malaria and even leptospirosis developing breathing difficulty and taking a severe turn. “But they tested negative for Covid,” he said in a live chat show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-rain-diseases-coinfection-claimed-37-lives-across-maharashtra/articleshow/78611359.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 12, 2020||Thane||Covid-rain diseases coinfection claimed 37 lives across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Coinfection with Covid-19 and mosquito-borne diseases, like malaria and dengue, has claimed 28 lives in the state. Covid-19 has also presented with the bacterial disease leptospirosis in seven victims in the state. There have also been two deaths where the patients suffered from both Covid-19 and typhoid. According to state data, in these 37 deaths, there have been instances of Covid coinfections with monsoon diseases. The number could be underreported as district collectors have been asked to collate details of more such cases and report them. Among coinfections, the highest deaths have been seen with malaria—17—followed by dengue (11). Doctors said Covid symptoms, including fever, cough, breathlessness, can overlap with many infectious diseases that are caused by other pathogens. “We are still analysing these deaths and trying to understand how the diseases interacted and how they contributed to the deaths. We have asked districts that have reported these cases to provide more information,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer. He, however, said that the deaths in such cases were not overwhelmingly high. Maharashtra has seen over 40,000 Covid deaths so far. Mumbai was among the first in the state to report Covid-malaria and Covid-dengue coinfection cases. In August, a 27-yearold from G-North ward, which covers Dadar, Mahim and Shivaji Park, and a 40-year-old from M-East ward, which comprises Deonar, Govandi and Mankhurd areas, had succumbed to Covid-malaria, making them the first two victims of coinfection. Thereafter, cases were found in Gadchiroli too, another malaria-endemic area. Dr Abdul Ansari, critical care expert at Nanavati Hospital, said they have treated a 20-yearold man with serious malaria and Covid coinfection. “The patient had come to us with high creatinine and low platelet levels, but none of the usual respiratory signs. When he was detected with malaria, we thought the diagnosis was done. But he tested positive for Covid before dialysis,” he said. Dr Ansari said that coinfections do complicate treatment in serious cases. “One also has to be mindful of giving too many immunomodulators as the other infection may flare up,” he said, adding that detecting the dominant disease becomes important here. Consultant Dr Pratit Samdani said he has seen five cases of Covid with malaria and Covid with dengue. “The key is early identification of coinfections with Covid for appropriate and timely management,” he said. Dr Milind Nadkar, professor and head of medicine, KEM Hospital, said they have treated quite a few patients of vivax malaria and even leptospirosis developing breathing difficulty and taking a severe turn. “But they tested negative for Covid,” he said in a live chat show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-rain-diseases-coinfection-claimed-37-lives-across-maharashtra/articleshow/78611202.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 12, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-rain diseases coinfection claimed 37 lives across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Coinfection with Covid-19 and mosquito-borne diseases, like malaria and dengue, has claimed 28 lives in the state. Covid-19 has also presented with the bacterial disease leptospirosis in seven victims in the state. There have also been two deaths where the patients suffered from both Covid-19 and typhoid. According to state data, in these 37 deaths, there have been instances of Covid coinfections with monsoon diseases. The number could be underreported as district collectors have been asked to collate details of more such cases and report them. Among coinfections, the highest deaths have been seen with malaria—17—followed by dengue (11). Doctors said Covid symptoms, including fever, cough, breathlessness, can overlap with many infectious diseases that are caused by other pathogens. “We are still analysing these deaths and trying to understand how the diseases interacted and how they contributed to the deaths. We have asked districts that have reported these cases to provide more information,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer. He, however, said that the deaths in such cases were not overwhelmingly high. Maharashtra has seen over 40,000 Covid deaths so far. Mumbai was among the first in the state to report Covid-malaria and Covid-dengue coinfection cases. In August, a 27-yearold from G-North ward, which covers Dadar, Mahim and Shivaji Park, and a 40-year-old from M-East ward, which comprises Deonar, Govandi and Mankhurd areas, had succumbed to Covid-malaria, making them the first two victims of coinfection. Thereafter, cases were found in Gadchiroli too, another malaria-endemic area. Dr Abdul Ansari, critical care expert at Nanavati Hospital, said they have treated a 20-yearold man with serious malaria and Covid coinfection. “The patient had come to us with high creatinine and low platelet levels, but none of the usual respiratory signs. When he was detected with malaria, we thought the diagnosis was done. But he tested positive for Covid before dialysis,” he said. Dr Ansari said that coinfections do complicate treatment in serious cases. “One also has to be mindful of giving too many immunomodulators as the other infection may flare up,” he said, adding that detecting the dominant disease becomes important here. Consultant Dr Pratit Samdani said he has seen five cases of Covid with malaria and Covid with dengue. “The key is early identification of coinfections with Covid for appropriate and timely management,” he said. Dr Milind Nadkar, professor and head of medicine, KEM Hospital, said they have treated quite a few patients of vivax malaria and even leptospirosis developing breathing difficulty and taking a severe turn. “But they tested negative for Covid,” he said in a live chat show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-rain-diseases-coinfection-claimed-37-lives-across-maharashtra/articleshow/78611200.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 50 lakh fine for flouting dust norms at Vikas Sadan site||NEW DELHI: Environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said Delhi government had imposed a fine of Rs 50 lakh on National Capital Region Transport Corporation for flouting antipollution directives at a construction site in Vikas Sadan. During his inspection, Rai didn’t find any anti-smog gun at the site in INA Colony and said the work could resume only after installing one and following other norms. “Massive dust pollution is happening here. I have penalised NCRTC Rs 50 lakh and if they again violate rules, the work will be banned,” Rai said. NCRTC is violating rules of pollution control despite being aware that anti-dust operations are being carried out across Delhi, he added. On Saturday, Delhi Pollution Control Committee imposed a fine of Rs 20 lakh on the demolition site of FICCI for flouting dust norms. “Our teams are visiting hotspots and the places where demolition work is under way. This is a time of emergency and Delhi government is focusing on reducing the pollution level by imposing certain rules and regulations to tackle the local sources of pollution,” the minister said. If the situation worsens, the government will introduce further restrictions, Rai pointed out. “A call on more measures, including odd-even, will be taken depending on the situation. We will take strict action against violators.” The minister also said the fermented solution prepared by Indian Institute of Agricultural Research to turn stubble into compost was ready and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal would launch the spraying operations at Galibpur village in the Matiala assembly constituency on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the capital’s air quality index on Sunday was 216 in “poor” category. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), a central forecasting body, said air quality was likely to improve to “moderate” by Tuesday. “A shift in Delhi surface wind direction, northwesterly to southeasterly by Monday, is predicted. This could influence air quality positively in the coming week,” SAFAR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-rs-50-lakh-fine-for-flouting-dust-norms-at-vikas-sadan-site/articleshow/78611206.cms||---
October 12, 2020||Ranchi||Hope of raking in during Puja dashed: Decorators, pandal workers||Jamshedpur/Ranchi: With the Puja organisers cutting corners and doing away with larger-than-life themed pandals, lighting and other decorative items in view of the government-issued guidelines, the decorators and workmen in Jharkhand are a worried lot. “Big-sized decorative pandals and elaborate lighting used to bring in good business for the tent-house proprietors. But now with the government allowing only small pandals this year, our hopes of reviving business are lost,” All Decorators Sangarsh Samiti (ADSS) president Dinesh Sah said. There are around 200 tent house decorators and 150 light and sound system service providers in Steel City who are staring at tough times ahead. Some decorators even took out a foot march to the DC’s office earlier this month (October 7) to press for a financial relief package as the absence of large gatherings has ‘cost them dearly’. “Since the government has not allowed more than 50 people at gatherings, there’s no scope for us to earn,” Sah said. As many as 250 Pujas are organised every year in Steel City and adjoining Seraikela and most of them spend on average Rs 4 lakh on pandals. The tent-house proprietors often bring in artisans from Bengal for constructing lavish pandals every year. “The pandals, decorative lights and installation of other crowd-pullers earned us huge profits every Ppuja,” decorator Rohit Kumar said. But this year moderation is the buzzword. Chandan Bhattacharjee, who owns Anand Tent Lights and Caterers, said he has received an order from a Puja committee in Burma mines that only wants a small canopy sans the lighting and other decorative items. “Small pandals without the decoration and lighting require limited human resource and so I cannot engage all our labourers in that work. And without any work, I cannot pay them,” Bhattacharjee said. The decorators said at least 10 labourers are required for building a tent. “I have lost all hope,” Shree Krishna tent house owner Sudarshan Kumar said. “Unless the government relaxes the guidelines before the wedding season commences from November, I don’t know what we can do,” he said. He added that the labourers are the worst-hit by the government curbs since with no business, the proprietors cannot pay them. In Ranchi, there is little work for workmen who make way from various parts of West Bengal to work on the 400-odd pandals every year. Sudhir Mandal, a pandal worker from Purulia’s Raghunathpur, said: “Every year, we work on the pandals for four-five months and earn handsomely. This year, the size of pandals has been reduced and construction has begun just a few days ago. I have lost a lot of money and Puja organizers have taken in just a handful of men to work on their pandals.” Munchun Rai, the president of the Ranchi Railway Station Puja Committee, said: “Every year, we hire around 40-50 workers, craftsmen and artists to work on the pandal. This year, the area of pandal has been restricted to 400 square feet in comparison to the 10,000 square feet of 2019 and only five workers are at work. The budget has also been pruned to Rs 6 lakh this year from Rs 42 lakh in 2019.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hope-of-raking-in-during-puja-dashed-decorators-pandal-workers/articleshow/78608802.cms||B Sridhar
October 12, 2020||Ranchi||JMM leader, wife killed in Dhanbad||Sindri: JMM Dhanbad Mahanagar vice-president Shankar Rawani (50) and his wife Balika Devi (45) were gunned down on Saturday night and their blood-soaked bodies were found in the courtyard of their Gaurkhunti village home near Bhoura under Sudamdih police station on Sunday morning. Police suspected the killers to be family members of one Dhiren Rawani of the locality and identified two of them. Police said the murders took place when the couple’s son, Karan, was away at the home of a relative in Chakradharpur. A formal FIR would be lodged once Karan reaches Gaurkhunti, the cops added. The police have found three cartridges and a blood-stained knife from the crime scene. They suspected a long-running rivalry with the Rawani family as the motive behind the murders. Officer in-charge of Sudamdih police station, B K Dixit, “When Shankar did not come out of his house in the morning, the neighbours went to enquire and found the bodies in the courtyard. They then informed the police.” The manner in which the blood stains were found from the room to the courtyard, it seemed that the criminals first shot them but when the husband and wife started running towards the courtyard, the criminals chased them and after a scuffle, slashed their necks with a knife. Police also brought a sniffer dog from CISF, Dhanbad, which went up to the house of Bishun Rawani and Dileshwar Rawani, the two accused in the murder of Kunal Rawani, another son of Shankar Rawani. While Dileshwar was present at the house, Bishun Rawani is absconding. It can be mentioned here that Shankar Rawani used to operate a non-banking financial company. When he was sent to jail on charges of financial embezzlement, his son Kunal suspected Dhiren Rawani, founder of another non-banking financial company, to be behind the case and shot him on August 18, 2017. The same day, family members and supporters of Dhiren Rawani caught hold of Kunal and beat him to death. Cases related to those murders are still being heard in the court. Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, JMM district president Ramesh Tudu, BJP leader Ragini Singh, Ajsu-Party leader Awdhesh Yadav visited the village after the murders. Sindri DSP A K Sinha said they were investigating the case from all angles and the criminals would be nabbed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-leader-wife-killed-in-dhanbad/articleshow/78608852.cms||Anil Ashutosh
October 12, 2020||Kolkata||Pandemic signals change in school examination pattern in Kolkata||KOLKATA: One of the longer-lasting effects of the global pandemic may be how Kolkata’s schoolchildren study texts and answer questions, and it may not be all that bad for them, say educationists. Most schools that have set question papers for higher classes have kept in mind that online, from-home examinations may — for all practical purposes — end up as open-book tests. So, the pattern of questions has changed from text- to application-based, going beyond the only-MCQ format and making it essential for students to write long-form answers and essential for them to study texts more thoroughly, say teachers and experts. Teachers and principals TOI spoke to said while the first two school assessments have been MCQ-based, in the just-concluded half-yearly examinations in most schools, the questions for the unproctored, sit-from-home online tests were framed in a manner that students could not find answers easily in books or even online. They were forced to apply themselves by either going through the text thoroughly or by using their analytical and cognitive skills to come up with a comprehensive answer. For example, Irene Lamba, a geography teacher in a CBSE school in south Kolkata, asked Class VI students in their half-yearly exams in September to pick a state not located in the northeast of the country from four options. “To answer this question, the students must know the states in the northeast. Even if they had a book open in front of them, they would have had to thoroughly go through the text first. In closed-book examinations, students commit the text to memory and then copy it in the answer script from memory. But we tweaked the questions, compelling students to think differently,” said Lamba. An essay in the half-yearly English examination for Class X was only a bar graph on reading habits, social media and watching OTT content. A civics paper of Class IX only had a picture of a child outside a restaurant, with the students asked to comment whether the child was being discriminated against and how. The answers were based on how students perceived the photograph. Some argued the discrimination was due to the child’s skin tone, some said his parents were poor, while others argued he was not appropriately dressed. “Our marking was based on the logical reasoning on why children felt he was being discriminated against. There were no right or wrong answers,” said teacher Jonaki Mukherjee, an expert on child and adolescent counselling. Mukherjee feels cognitive learning is critical but a child must also be taught to think, introspect, reason and deduce. “At South Point, students have been asked to do analytical projects which, besides being multi-disciplinary, are research-based,” said Rupa Sanyal Bhattacharjee, principal, South Point High School. “They have also appeared for oral tests, where their understanding of the topics taught were tested, rather than facts and formulae. Timed quizzes were set to test the students’ analytical skills. At the same time, in order to keep them in practice with board requirements, parent-proctored tests were administered.” Indira Roy Mandal, a child psychologist associated with a school, said: “Unless the children are nudged to think on their own, they will not be able to logically reason or explain. While MCQ is the standard format in all post-school entrance examinations and hence very important, school syllabus for children must go beyond that.” Schools have been shut due to strict social distancing rules in place due to the pandemic. As a result, students are taking classes at home, where there is a possibility of all exams turning into open-book exams. Many principals from schools affiliated to ICSE have instructed teachers to at least set 50% of the total questions in an exam in a manner that will test a student’s analytical and decision-making skills, along with cognitive expertise. “As teachers, our aim is to test a student’s ability in solving problems by understanding what is to be done, where to look for the resources to solve it, and how to use them. In fact, that is what education is all about — to enable students to face real-life problems with whatever resources they have at their disposal,” said Nabarun De, secretary of the association of ICSE Schools in West Bengal, and principal of Central Modern School, Baranagar. An ICSE school in south Kolkata had a 10-mark “true and false” section on the pandemic for students of middle school taking their half-yearly GK exam. “A lot of misinformation about the pandemic was doing the rounds on social media. It was very relevant. We asked students whether the virus spread through pets, and whether it was fine to visit friends during the pandemic. When we received answer scripts, we were pleased to see students were aware of the safety guidelines,” said the teacher who corrected the scripts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-signals-change-in-school-examination-pattern/articleshow/78610779.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt exempts electric vehicles from road tax||NEW DELHI: The state government has exempted battery-operated vehicles from road tax under its ambitious Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy. Delhi government's transport department issued a gazette notification, stating full waiver on road tax on battery-operated vehicles. Suggestions have also been sought from the public on the exemption of registration fee. The order to waive off the fee is expected to be issued in the next three days. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had, last month, announced the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy 2020, which aims to increase the adoption of EVs in Delhi by incentivising the purchase and use of EVs. The policy aims to register five lakh electric vehicles in the capital by 2024. "Another crucial step towards ensuring a pollution-free Delhi. This incentive-based policy will encourage large-scale adoption of electric vehicles, and bring us closer to fulfilling our dream of making Delhi the EV capital of India (sic)," Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday. "Congrats Delhi! As promised by CM @ArvindKejriwal when announcing landmark EV Policy, Delhi govt has exempted road tax on battery-operated Vehicles. With right incentives & supporting infra, we are determined to ensure Delhi leads the country in rapid transition to electric vehicles (sic)," transport minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted. The notification provides tax exemption on all battery electric vehicles. This policy has come into force from the date of issue of this notification, which means road tax will not be paid on electric vehicles starting October 10. The rules issued in the EV policy for the exemption of registration fee have been opened for public opinion. The new policy aims to have 25% of total vehicles as electric by 2024. It also focuses on the creation of employment in sectors such as driving, selling, financing, and charging of EVs, and heavy incentives for the rapid adoption of electric vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-exempts-electric-vehicles-from-road-tax/articleshow/78611220.cms||---
